 Too often, people buy shoes that don't fit their feet. They opt for fashion rather than fit or comfort. A good-fitting pair of shoes will improve virtually any foot problem. Look for shoes that:


Have plenty of room in the toe area (toe box).
Don't slip. The foot should not slide around in the shoe.
Are wide enough. Your foot shouldn't bulge over the edges of the shoe.
Fit in the store. Don't buy too-small shoes believing you'll "stretch them out" in time.
Also remember to do your shoe-shopping in the afternoon or evening, when your feet tend to be slightly larger.;
, Different types of feet require different kinds of shoes.


For instance, if you have high arches, your feet tend to be rigid. Shoes with lots of cushioning will help absorb shock. Flat-bottomed feet are less rigid, but less stable, too, so they require shoes that control excess motion.
To find out what kind of foot you have, wet your bare feet and stand on a concrete floor or piece of paper. If you have high arches, the outline of your foot will appear very narrow and curved like a half-moon. If the outline looks like a slab, you're probably flat-footed.
 Wear the right shoes for the activity. Wearing the wrong type of shoes can cause a long list of problems, including knee tendinitis, chronic foot pain, heel spurs, and stress fractures. Choosing the right shoes is especially important when it comes to fitness footwear.


Different sports and exercises have unique repetitive movements that require special support and cushioning. You wouldn't play basketball in a pair of heels. Likewise, don't rely on that old pair of sneakers if you're going climbing or hiking.
Spend the extra money on buying shoes that are specific for the activity you're doing. The investment could save you and your feet a lot of pain.
 If you have to stand a great deal, take frequent breaks to take the weight off your feet.


Whenever you can, elevate your feet at a 45 degree angle to your body, and relax for 10 to 15 minutes.
Elevating your feet will move blood away from the feet and help reduce swelling.
Taking off your shoes and socks will soothe your feet even further because they will be getting air.
 Rest will allow the tissues to heal by preventing any further stress to the affected area.


Crutches should be used if you have difficulty putting weight on the foot.
Appropriate use of commercially available ankle and foot supports may provide rest, comfort, and support to the affected area.
 Take over-the-counter medication to reduce pain, such as ibuprofen 200mg every 6 hours. Painkillers will help to alleviate the pain that you are experiencing.
 Ingrown toenails may be inherited, but improper nail trimming can make the problem worse. Trim the nails straight across and only to the end of the toe, then file the corners to remove sharp edges that might cut the skin.
 A cool way to refresh your feet after a long, hard day is to ice them down with a washcloth filled with ice. It'll make them feel wonderful and decrease swelling and inflammation. Apply ice for 15 minutes 3 times daily.

