 Frames come in all colors and styles. Some are practically invisible; others draw attention. Try on lots of different frames until you find the ones for you.;
, They should fit you comfortably and not pinch, droop, or lean.
 Clean, healthy skin looks great on any face, especially on those who choose to (or have to) wear the stunning eye-accessory of glasses. Make sure both skin and hair stay clean and fresh. Clear up blemishes and keep hair smelling fresh and looking healthy.
 Clean your glasses every month or so. Keep a lookout for smudges or gunk on the lenses. Remove any such spots with a soft cloth, like a t-shirt or a piece of felt. Make sure the cloth is clean, and be careful not to wipe too firmly or you may scratch your glasses.
 For a more clean brow shape, tweeze only the stray hairs. Be sure not to over-pluck. Making the tiniest mistake plucking brows can leave you brow-less. If that ever happens, try rubbing on a bit of olive oil to coax eyebrows to grow quicker. In the meantime, see a professional make-up artist, they can help you pencil your eyebrows in, giving the illusion of a normal shape and thickness. Don't worry about shape and colors and such, since they are professionals they'll be able to help you find temporary brow shape and color you like.


Don't pluck your eyebrows every day. Even if you see more stray hairs peeking in, plucking and removing hair every day damages your skin. Try doing it every other week.

Define brows with eyeshadow, an eyebrow pencil, or even mascara that matches your eyebrow color or is somewhat lighter.
The best way to leave brows shaped and groomed is to apply a tiny bit of Vaseline to tame them, or use a brow gel. A creamy formula fills in eyebrow color, controls, and shapes.
Take to the air. Aviator frames have made their way back into fashion. They're now described as timeless, and vintage. See if they work for you.
 A nice natural smooth lip plays up giving your eyes the attention it needs. For a smooth, kissable look apply Vaseline to your lips after you brush your teeth, and before you go to bed. Try using a gloss with shimmer during the day to give your lips that sweet hint of color and a lovable minty flavor. Apply the product sparingly, a light, sheer coat goes a long way. Also try colored lip glosses; apply over lips for that nice smooth kissable shine.
 Be careful, however, if applied incorrectly eyeliner can look tacky and can make the eyes appear smaller.


If your eye shape is naturally small, consider white pencil (applied to the inner rim of your lower lid). This will enhance the shape and the color of your eyes.
For a natural look (recommended) apply a soft shade of dark brown or black liner to your top lid as close to the lash-line as possible, Apply a matching shade of mascara sparingly, or simply go with a clear mascara.
For a funkier look, experiment with light-handed, thin lines of blue, jade or gold liner on the top lash line and a bit on the outside bottom lash line. Match this with a clear (or shimmering, if you're feeling bold) mascara, or simply go with a natural color.
Choose a cute hairstyle! You could decide your new look according to the frame of your glasses.
 This is perhaps the most important step. The best thing you can do to look great in glasses is to feel you look great in glasses. A sweet smile will bring out the best in your features and confidence makes anyone look instantly more attractive!

