 In a professional environment, sometimes you can’t run and find an adult. You are the adult! Likewise, you might not people able to confront a coworker like you would someone you share a home with, or your office environment might be so large that you can’t identify a specific culprit.


Talk to someone face-to-face when possible and appropriate, and use labels when not.
If someone routinely grabs your belongings for their own use, label your stuff. Have a personal desk fan? Grab a sharpie and write your name on its base. Try to make the label permanent when you can, so it’s not easily peeled off.
This practice also works great to avoid confusion between an item you supplied and one the company provided. Make a clear distinction between communal property and what’s for your use only. Sometimes there is an honest confusion.
 Everyone who brings a lunch to work has had a nibbler break into their goods. Leaving a note can seem futile, but it’s often worth the small effort. What’s more, when you combine it with some strategic friendliness, it can really pay off.


Clearly mark food items left in a communal fridge or kitchen cupboard. Leave a note asking people to kindly keep from eating your food. Use nice, positive language.
Every now and then, bring in an item for everyone. Leave it out with a note saying, “This is for the whole team!” When you do clearly mark what’s yours and yours alone, people will remember your generosity and respect your boundaries.
 Sometimes people outright steal property willingly and repeatedly, or even take credit for work they didn’t do. Don’t overburden your boss with little things, but if a valuable has been stolen and you have evidence showing who the thief is, you might want to bring it to his or her attention.


If that happens, or someone takes credit for your work and you feel you need to talk to a supervisor, do your best not to just complain and badmouth.
Use the opportunity to show how you want to contribute to a safe, cooperative work environment.