 Low-calorie desserts often contain a streamlined ingredients list. The limited list also makes it easier to calculate the calories per portion. Look for a recipe that has a limited amount of butter, sugar, salt, and other refined starches as well.For example, try out a pumpkin pie with only four ingredients: pumpkin puree, egg whites, a sweetener of choice, and cinnamon., Butter can quickly add to the number of calories that you consume. It is also not that good for the body. Look for baked goods that contain butter alternatives, such as apple sauce, prune puree, or flax meal.If you are cooking, try to cut the amount of butter in half at least., Full-fat milk, heavy whipping cream, half-and-half, and buttermilk can add a number of calories to your dessert dishes. Try to choose desserts that use non-dairy alternatives, such as coconut milk mixed with vinegar or lemon.You may be able to replace cream or half-and-half with whole or 2% milk instead. This will cut down on the number of calories in the recipe.
 Greek yogurt is a great low-calorie dessert ingredient. Chocolate desserts, in particular, can benefit from both the taste and texture of added yogurt. When you are baking, see if you can use yogurt as a sweetener. You can also ask restaurants if they offer a yogurt-based dessert, as it will often be lower in calories., Some recipes that you make at home may actually contain vegetables as an ingredient. This is generally a good sign that it will be low in calories and high in healthy fiber. You usually cannot taste the veggies and the may not affect the texture either.For example, you can mix avocado or zucchini into chocolate chip cookies. Some bakers also use carrot or beetroot juice for extra sweetness., Chili powder is often an unexpected, but flavorful addition to low-calorie desserts. You may also see the more traditional cinnamon, cocoa powder, or vanilla. A well-spiced dessert can make-up for the absent calories by elevating the level of taste. For example, ancho chili and chocolate goat cheesecake popsicles are unusual and flavorful., Whipped cream and other sugary toppings add on tons of calories. If you are eating out, choose a low-calorie dessert and ask that the server leave off any toppings and sauces. If you are making the dessert, skip the toppings and instead make a fruit syrup or sprinkle a little bit of shredded coconut on top.For example, a peach-rhubarb crisp often comes with a whipped topping, but you can opt to place a dollop of Greek yogurt on top instead for fewer calories.