 Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the most effective way to treat avoidant personality disorder. Over time, therapy can help people with this disorder feel less self-conscious.An experienced therapist can help your loved one find ways to cope with their condition and live a fuller life.


Broach this topic gently and tactfully to avoid making your loved one feel defensive. For instance, you might say, “I’m a little worried about you. You seem lonely and isolated lately. Do you think seeing a therapist would help you have an easier time talking to people?”
Seeking help early is important because it can help your loved one avoid the negative side effects of untreated avoidant personality disorder, such as depression.If the relationship is a romantic one, you might offer to go to couples therapy with your beloved. If the relationship is a sibling or other relative, you might suggest going to family therapy.;
, No matter how much you want to help someone, when dealing with a condition such as avoidant personality disorder, the person affected has to decide to help themselves first.


Make sure the person knows they have your support and acceptance, but don’t put pressure on yourself to solve your loved one’s problems for them.Say something like "I want you to know that I love you and I support your choice to get help. If there's something I can do, you need only ask."

, People with avoidant personality disorder are at an increased risk for developing problems with addiction or substance abuse. They are also prone to depression.Be available for your loved one if they need someone to talk to or a shoulder to lean on, and encourage them to adopt healthy stress relief strategies such as exercise.
"Hey, why don't we go for a hike this weekend," or "Would you like to join me in Zumba class?" are great ways to help a best friend, sibling, or partner stay physically active and fight stress.
Yoga is also a great way to help enrich the person both mentally and physically. Yoga is an exercise that combines meditation and stretching.
 Much of the time, people with avoidant personality disorder struggle with feeling inadequate or inferior. Instead of arguing with someone’s irrational belief that there is something wrong with them, focus on the person’s positive characteristics. Make sure your loved one knows you appreciate their personality just the way it is.You might say "I know you're going through a difficult time right now, but I want you to know how much I admire your strength and perseverance. You are such an inspiration to me."
Depending on your relationship with this person, it may also help to ask others to join in. Tell your girlfriend's best friend that she's been having a hard time and to try to keep it extra positive. Suggest to your parents that they take a break from stressing your brother about college and, instead, you all could go on a fun family outing. Eliminating a little of the stress and replacing it with positives could help a great deal.

