 Even if you're taking medication to relieve symptoms, your body needs to rest and remain strong to fight the infection.
 Note that you should not do this if you are experiencing chills. Cooling your body will promote shivering, and this actually increases your body temperature.


Do not take a bath in cool or cold water. This could drop your body temperature too fast. Take a bath in lukewarm water.
 When you have a high body temperature from fever, your body loses water more quickly.Dehydration can get even worse if fever is combined with vomiting or diarrhea. The body relies heavily on water to complete its basic functions, so staying hydrated will promote faster healing. Drink cool fluids to both hydrate and cool down your body.


Sports drinks like Gatorade and Power Aid are good drinks to consume if you are having GI distress. These drinks can help to replenish electrolyte losses.Clear Liquids such as broths or soups are also good to drink when you are having vomiting and diarrhea. Remember that you are losing fluid with these conditions, so you should try to replenish and hydrate yourself as much as possible.
Drinking green tea will help boost your immune system. It may make diarrhea worse, so if you have diarrhea with fever and body ache, don't use green tea., Foods that contain antioxidants can help boost your immune system and make it easier for your body to fight the infection that is causing your symptoms. Foods to eat include:Blueberries, cherries, tomatoes, and other deep-colored fruits (yes, tomatoes are fruits!)
Vegetables such as squash and bell peppers
Avoid junk and highly processed foods, such as doughnuts, white bread, fries, and sweets.
 This technique will help reduce your body temperature. Wet a pair of thin cotton socks with lukewarm water and wring them out. Put them on your feet and cover them with a pair of thick socks. (This will help your feet stay warm.) Wear these when you go to bed.Your body will send blood and lymphatic fluid circulating in your body as you sleep and will stimulate your immune system.
You can do this for 5-6 nights at a time. Then, take a break of 2 nights before continuing.
 Smoking makes the symptoms of viral infections such as cold and flu worse.It also hampers your immune system, which makes it harder for your body to recover.

