 Where you live will impact which perennial herbs you can grow. By researching local growing conditions and matching them with herbs that grow best in your local growing conditions, you can make the entire process easier for yourself.


Refer to a USDA Hardiness Zone Map. The Map covers North America, dividing the entire continent into 11 different zones based on how cold it gets in those areas. Find out which zone you live in.






Research the perennial herbs you plan on growing. At your local gardening store, look at the seed packets for perennial herbs. On the back of those packets, there will be information about that herb's ideal growing conditions. If you know your zone, you can easily pick out herbs that will grow well in your area.
Some common perennial herbs that are grown in home gardens are mint, oregano, rosemary, sage, tarragon, and thyme. Not only are they some of the easier herbs to grow, but they have a number of culinary uses--great for adding a boost of flavor if you cook. If you don't cook, fresh herbs can be a great gift for friends or family members who do cook.;
, Most seeds for perennial herbs are not very expensive, although the heirloom varieties will have a bit of price markup. Heirloom plants are plant types that were grown commonly in the past but aren't used in modern large-scale agriculture.
 Each individual variety of perennial herb will have specific growing conditions and instructions. Often, the instructions will be located on the back of the seed packets. It is important to adhere to the individual herb growing conditions.


Begin the potting process in late autumn or early winter. Perennial herbs have internal sensors that signify the coming of spring and will not grow until those internal sensors are triggered. Before you can move the plant outside, the seed must grow accustomed to being in soil in order to sense the passing of winter when it is moved outside. This preparation process can take up to 12 weeks depending on the type of perennial herb.
 When winter is coming to a close, pick a spot in your garden where you will be planting and growing herbs. Perennial herbs tend to grow best in well-drained areas that receive at least 5 to 6 hours of sunshine every day.


Using a spade, cultivate the area where you will be planting your herb. As you cultivate, mix in some compost into the soil in order to boost the nutrient levels. If you don't have compost, you can research the nutrient requirements for your specific herb and buy a fertilizer pack that meets those requirements.
 Check the back of your seed packets for specific instructions and information regarding your exact herb type--e.g., soil depth.
 Watering a plant deeply means to soak the soil all the way through, at least 8 inches (20 cm) down into the soil. Shallow watering--sprinkling water so that only the surface soil gets wet--will produce weak plant growth. It is better to water deeply once a week than to water shallowly every day.
 To prevent your herbs from growing too big for your garden, you should trim and prune them to size at least once a year. Pruning consists of picking or cutting the outer leaves off.

