 You will be making a separate bun to put on top of the wig, so make sure that the colors match on both. Look for a short bob or pixie-cut wig with long bangs, and loose wig fibers or extensions.You can find both in well-stocked wig shops. The exact shade of blond does not matter; pick something that looks good on you.

If you can't find matching colors, buy a long wig, then cut it. Save the fibers you cut off for making the bun.
Avoid buying cheap wigs from the Halloween or party-supply shop.
Make sure that the fibers on both the wig and extensions are the same type. If they are different, they may not match up in terms of shine.
 Pull all of the loose fibers together and tie them off at one end with a hair tie or rubber band. Trim the ends down above the hair tie so that they are even., Apply a liberal amount of caulk, tacky glue, or fabric glue onto the stub of hair above the hair tie. Really get it into the fibers and onto the hair tie. Don't worry about it not looking pretty--you will be covering this up later on. Allow the caulk or glue to dry completely before moving on.Sealing the top part of the ponytail is important. It will prevent the fibers from coming loose while you style them.
 If you can't find a bun maker, you can make your own by rolling up a piece of fleece, then folding it into a doughnut shape and stitching it together.Use a bun maker that closely matches the ponytail's color.
Bun makers are also called "hair doughnuts." They are made from spongy material and shaped like doughnuts.
 Use a curved needle and thread that matches the wig color. You only need to sew through the underside of the bun maker and the base of the ponytail.Leave the loose hairs sticking out of the top of the bun alone for now.

You can also secure the ponytail to the bun maker with fabric glue.
 Take a small section of hair sticking out of the top of the bun maker. Wrap it around the side of the bun maker and hold it in place against the bottom, right by the stub. Stitch it in place using a needle and thread., Keep going until you have used up all of the hairs from the ponytail and the bun maker is completely covered. You may have to go around the bun maker a few times., Unless your ponytail was the perfect length, you will likely have some excess hair extending beyond your stitching. Use a sharp pair of scissors to trim these off., This time, apply the caulk or glue over the stitching and the cut ends of the hair. This will seal the ends of the hair against the bottom of the bun and keep them from coming undone. Avoid getting any glue up the sides of the bun, however, or it will be visible in the end. Let the caulk or glue dry before moving on., If you need to, finish styling the base wig first. You can secure the bun to the wig by carefully stitching it in place. Keep the stitches small, and make sure that you pull the needle through the bottom part of the bun doughnut inside the hair. For a less-permanent option, you can use safety pin or bobby pins., Secure it around the hair line with sewing pins. This will make styling it in the next steps easier., You can use a cloth ribbon or a satin ribbon, whichever matches your Tinkerbell cosplay the base. You can sew the ribbon in place, like a band, or you can tie it into a bow at the back of the bun., Smooth down any stray hairs, then lightly mist the bun with hair spray. If you want to, you can add a light dusting of mica or super-fine body glitter to the wig for extra sparkle.