 Your parents are more likely to believe you when you wake up and claim to be sick if you lay the groundwork the night before.The sooner you can start your act, the more time you have to allow it to progress. Show a little fatigue the afternoon before you plan to fake your illness. For instance, instead of running around outside when you get home from school, choose to stay inside and laze around your room instead.
Act lethargic around your parents. They should get the impression that you are tired or "feeling out of it." In the evening, don’t follow your normal routine. If you watch T.V. at all, lay down and look disinterested and mopey. You should also go to bed early and make sure your parents notice.
Consider kicking things up a notch by eating a little less at dinner or pretending to attempt to eat, then clutching your stomach and looking pained. Claim that you don’t feel well. Definitely skip dessert. You also might ask your parent for some hot tea to “soothe your stomach.”
Tell your parents that a kid at school projectile vomited or that a friend wasn’t at school. Be sure this is a friend that your parents don’t know. This information will suggest that something is “going around.”;
, Outwardly visible symptoms, such as a rash, can be hard to fake convincingly, so for the most part, you should focus on displaying external signs of internal aches and pains.


Frequent trips to the bathroom can give the impression that you have a stomach bug. Jumping up quickly, running into the bathroom periodically, and flushing the toilet a lot will suggest to your parents that you have diarrhea or food poisoning.
If you decide to fake a migraine, you should act sensitive to light and sound, indicate that your head feels like it is throbbing, and claim to be nauseous.You should avoid watching T.V. or listening to music.
To fake a sore throat, act like it hurts to swallow and ask your parents for warm tea or cold foods.Suck on a few cough drops and avoid talking as much as possible, insisting that it hurts to do so when asked why you are being so quiet. Consider faking a few coughing fits, as well.
Indicate that your symptoms developed throughout the night. You should start your coughing fits or trips to the bathroom sometime between midnight and 6:00 AM.
 One of the biggest mistakes you can make is to put a little too much into your acting. If you are too dramatic about your pretend illness, your parents are actually more likely to see through your act.


It is generally a better idea to fake a simple illness rather than faking an illness that requires evidence. Mimicking the sound or appearance of vomit, for instance, is a risky move since your parents might catch you in the act of planting your fake evidence. Likewise, faking a high temperature by sticking the thermometer in something hot can backfire in the same way.
Do not protest too much if your parents suggest that you should stay home from school. You might think that acting concerned about missing class will make your act more convincing since being too eager about staying home can cause suspicion, but if you truly felt as awful as you are pretending to feel, your parents would probably not need to convince you to stay home. Hesitate before agreeing, but do not act like you are suddenly concerned about missing school, especially if that concern would be out of character.
 Never forget that your parents can drag you into school late if they think you have suddenly recovered or find out that you faked your illness. If you plan to stay home from school with a fake illness, you need to have that fake illness throughout the entire school day.


You should recover gradually throughout the day. Rest and take things easy. By the afternoon, you should say that you are starting to feel better but have not completely recovered. By the late evening, your recovery should be just about complete.
 If you lie about being sick too often, your parents might not believe you when you really do feel sick and legitimately need to stay home from school.

