 Nothing shows you love your country more than showing it through clothing or accessories! Each country has their own identifying image that defines who they are, and how they are perceived internationally. Make sure in the US you are aware that wearing an image of the US flag is a violation of the flag code.


Some national colors are indeterminable from one another. A unique flag shape like Nepal’s flag, however, is undoubtedly unique. Two pennants on top of one another, with a sun and moon inside, is different from all other rectangular and square flags.The bear has been associated with Russia since the late 1500s. It represents a variety of things, like guardian status. A fierce bear on a red shirt, perhaps superimposed on top of a hammer and sickle, is unmistakably Russian.There are a wide variety of flags with red, white, and blue, and those with stars, but there are none other than the United States flag, with that grouping of colors and prominent 50 stars.An article of U.S. flag apparel is very recognizable.;
, You can purchase flags, bumper stickers, or any other emblems at a local store. Hang them on your car, your front lawn, or anywhere that can outwardly show you respect your country. Remember to treat the flag with the utmost respect.


Learn the flag etiquette. Generally, a flag should not touch the ground, be used in severe disrepair, or disposed of improperly. In the US, the flag should not be a part of a uniform, costume, or outfit. Fold the flag properly when it’s being stored. There is a precise way to fold each flag, and researching your specific flag should provide you with specific instructions on the proper folding techniques., Many countries have parades displaying the pride they have for their country, or country of origin. It could be on the day of independence, or some other historic date, but the important part is to celebrate with your countrymen.Participate by getting up and dancing to traditional music.
Cheer on the participants who are beaming with national pride.
 What happened in your country on this day in history? Did they win a war? Did they gain independence? Recognize that holidays are much more than just occasions for parties or, in some countries, sales at department stores. Acknowledge the solemnity inherent to certain holidays, especially those that commemorate a victory that involved bloodshed.

