 Running up hills is far more challenging than running on a flat surface because you're fighting gravity. Doing hill sprints builds strength in your legs and will help you increase your acceleration as well as making you faster.Sprint as quickly as you can, then walk back down the hill slowly, using the walk down as your rest time. Do this drill as many times as you can and still get complete rest on the walk down. The longer and steeper the hill is, the more challenging this drill is.;
, Wall drills force you to drive your knees high, which over time will not only increase your acceleration but also improve your overall speed. These drills are easy to do and require no equipment (apart from a wall).Get in position for a wall drill by placing your hands against the wall so your arms are straight and parallel to the floor. Your body should be a straight line from your head to your ankles, angled at about 45 degrees.
Raise your right knee to hip level, flexing your foot, then lower and repeat the motion with your left knee. Alternate this movement as quickly as you can for 10 seconds, keeping your core active and your lower back tight.
Do from one to three sets of this exercise.
 Sled pushes develop strength in your legs, giving you more power that will help increase your acceleration. You should load the sled with approximately 10 percent of your bodyweight.Place your hands on the sled so that your body is at a 45-degree angle and start sprinting, pushing the sled as fast as you can for 10 to 20 yards to equal a set. Do anywhere from three to six sets of this exercise.
 Building strength in your muscles will enable you to increase your acceleration and sprint speed, particularly if you lift them as quickly as possible. When lifting weights to increase your acceleration, choose the largest weight you can lift with proper form.Time your lifts, and focus on doing as many reps as you possibly can while maintaining proper form. Lifting quickly will help build fast-twitch muscle fiber, which will make you faster off the mark.
 Take advantage of your local high school stadium and run the stairs to build strength and help increase your acceleration. Run the stairs as quickly as possible, aiming to hit every other step instead of every step.Running every other step puts your body at the 45-degree angle that is crucial for maximum acceleration.
 If you already do exercises such as push-ups or mountain climbers, you can use them as an introduction to a short sprint. Getting in and out of these positions improves your functional mobility.With better functional mobility, you'll increase your strength as well as your acceleration.
These exercises are particularly helpful if you play a sport such as soccer or tennis where you need speed as well as good reaction time.

