 While the USPS has many different kinds of positions available, all employees must meet the same base set of requirements.All USPS employees must be:


At least 18 years old, or at least 16 years old with a high school diploma
A citizen or permanent resident of the United States
Able to pass a criminal background check, drug screening, and medical assessment
Have a safe driving record (if applicable)
Be registered with the Selective Service (if applicable)
The USPS does not have any general education requirements - you can apply for many positions, including postal carrier, without a high school diploma.However, some corporate positions require a four-year degree.The USPS is particularly interested in employees with a stable, continuous employment history. The postal service is also unlikely to consider applicants who have been fired for misconduct or excessive lateness or absence.;
, While all USPS employees must meet the same basic requirements, different positions have specific requirements. Corporate positions are generally office-based positions, while delivery and operations positions tend to involve physical labor, including letter delivery.


Corporate careers at the USPS include accounting, business, finance, logistics, marketing, sales, and human resources.Delivery and operations positions include automotive mechanic and technician, postal carrier, custodian, engineer, mail handler assistant, and tractor trailer operator., All USPS jobs are made available on the online database so this is the only place you need to look to discover vacant USPS positions. For example, you could look for any jobs in Alabama, any jobs in administrative support, or jobs in administrative support in Alabama.You can also search by keywords if you have a specific job title in mind.
Many of the positions listed on the USPS website do not include job descriptions. However, these descriptions are available on the American Postal Workers’ Union’s website., You must begin your application for all USPS positions online. To register you only need to supply your name and email address, a username, and a password.
Once you have created your account, you will be able to update your candidate profile with your demographic information, education, skills, and work experience. The application requires you to provide the last 7 years of work history. If you have any gaps in employment during this time, you will have to indicate that you were unemployed.
 Applicants for many positions with the USPS must take a civil service exam. You must achieve a qualifying score on the exam to be offered a position, but scoring well on the exam does not guarantee that you will receive an offer.The majority of USPS workers - city carriers, mail processing clerks, mail handlers, and sales, service, and distribution associates - must take Test 473, which tests your ability to check addresses, complete forms, use and assign codes, and remember information.Test 473 takes about 2 hours to complete. The USPS provides sample questions on its website.Printed study guides are also available at a bookstore or library.Veterans are granted preferential treatment for this exam, including an automatic 5 or 10 point addition to any test score and priority access to exams not open to the general public., When you are completing the application, make sure that you have adequately indicated how your skills, education and experience meet the specific criteria for the position you are applying for.


The USPS also recommends that, when you complete the section marked "Summary of Accomplishments," you include a separate document describing how your skills specifically match the position for which you are applying.
You should upload a resume along with your application.
 Once you have successfully completed the necessary exam and applied for a position, you may be invited to a group interview, followed by a personal interview.If the USPS chooses to offer you a position, you will be contacted to complete a drug screening and criminal background check.For the final step in the hiring process, you may be called in for a final interview before being offered a position.
 The USPS treats military service as prior employment. To receive credit, you must submit official documentation showing the details of your discharge from a branch of the Armed Forces.The USPS employs 85,000 current and former members of the military.
Veterans are also given preferential treatment on the postal civil service exam.
 The USPS offers an 18-month long, full-time internship program for recent graduates.This program is designed for graduates with 4-year degrees in an applicable discipline, which includes Engineering, Human Resources, Accounting/Finance, Supply, Sales/Marketing, and Information Technology.
Applications must be submitted by the late winter deadline, which varies from year to year. Interviews take place in April, positions are offered in May, and new interns begin in July. Check the USPS website for details., The USPS offers a 10-week summer program for current high school and undergraduate students.Internship positions may be converted to permanent positions once the student completes his education.The intern must meet all of the requirements for employment before he is hired permanently.

