 When children lose a parent, the sadness runs deep. On holidays like Father’s Day, that loss is even more evident because other children do have their fathers present. Reassure the child that you know they will have a hard time with the day, but that it’s okay to be sad sometimes.Say things like, “I know today is going to be challenging, but we should try to have a good day and remember your father.”
Many people who lose their parents at a young age express having lost their childhood, or bearing a burden too large for a child. It is important to realize that young children do not even realize how much their loss is affecting them.;
, Even if your child does not talk about losing their father, that does not mean they are not still thinking about it. Your child might still be feeling the pain of the loss, but feel unsure about how to communicate these feelings. Therefore, you might want to raise the topic to let your child know that you are thinking about it too and to open up a conversation about it.


Try saying something like , "I was thinking of Daddy earlier today because it's Father's Day. Have you been thinking of him too?"
This will give your child a chance to express how they have been feeling.
 Sometimes, children are sheltered from the details surrounding the death of a parent. This is usually done to protect the child from emotional harm, but can have devastating results. Children will be naturally curious about their lost father, and about how he died. Answer those questions as best you can to help the child work through the grieving process and come to terms with their situation.The way that you talk to your child about death will depend on their developmental age. For example, if your child is very young, then they might not have a concept of permanence yet, so using brief, simple examples can help. For example, you might explain to a preschool age child that when someone dies, it means they cannot see, breathe, eat, or think.However, an older child may already understand what death means, so you might not need to explain what it is.
You might not want to share gory details, but to say something like “Your father died in a car accident” gives some closure.
 The child may have lost an active father recently, or not remember their father at all. Either way, it helps to talk about him. Tell stories of how you knew their father, what games he liked to play, what things he liked to eat, and how loved his children.A comment as small as “This was your father’s favorite meal,” will let the child know that you are thinking of their father.
 Everyone has good and bad traits. In general, and on Father’s Day especially, encourage your children to remember the good things about their deceased father. Not only does it give them something positive to cling to about their dad, but it reaffirms their own positive self image.Be sure to say things like “Your father really loved you.”

