 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the fudge, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, grease an 8-inch by 8-inch (20-cm by 20-cm) glass baking dish with nonstick cooking spray and set aside for the moment.You can grease the dish with butter or coconut oil if you prefer.
 Add ½ cup (59 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder and ¼ cup (31 g) of all-purpose flour to a small bowl. Whisk them together until they’re completely blended.You can substitute another flour, such as coconut or almond flour, for the all-purpose if you prefer.
 Add 1 ripe banana, 2 eggs, ½ cup (161 g) of maple syrup, and 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of vanilla extract to a separate medium bowl. Mix the ingredients together until they’re fully combined.If you prefer, you can substitute banana extract for the vanilla.
 Add ⅓ cup (72 g) of coconut oil and ⅓ cup (60 g) of chocolate chips to a small saucepan. Heat the mixture on low heat until the coconut oil and chocolate chips are fully melted and combined, which should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes.To keep the fudge as healthy as possible, it’s best to use semisweet or bittersweet chips.
 Once the chocolate mixture is melted, pour it into the banana mixture. Stir the ingredients together until they are fully combined., When the chocolate and banana mixtures are combined, mix the cocoa and flour into the bowl. Mix until the dry ingredients are fully incorporated and the mixture is smooth.It’s best to add the flour and cocoa to the wet ingredients a little at a time and mix well after each addition.
 When the fudge mixture is completely blended, pour it into the prepared baking dish. Use a spatula to smooth it in place to form an even layer., Once the fudge mixture is in the baking dish, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the fudge to bake until it is set, which should take approximately 25 to 28 minutes.To test the fudge for doneness, stick a toothpick or cake tester in it. If the test emerges clean, the fudge is done.
 When the fudge is finished baking, remove it from the oven. Let it cool in the pan for 20 to 30 minutes before using a sharp knife to cut it into pieces and serving.You may need a spatula or pie server to remove the fudge pieces from the pan.
Store any leftover fudge in an airtight container in the refrigerator. It should stay fresh for about a week.

