 If “do as I say, not as I do” ever actually works as a parenting technique, it’s certainly not when dealing with dental care. If you don’t set a good example when it comes to taking care of your teeth, you will have a far more difficult time convincing your kids how important it is for them.Beyond simply being a good role model by brushing regularly and visiting the dentist, a parent with poor dental health is more likely to transmit tooth-harming bacteria when sharing food, drinks, utensils, or even kisses.Also, if you need yet another reason to quit smoking, research indicates that secondhand smoke may contribute to tooth decay and other mouth problems, which can even lead to oral or throat cancer.;
, The term “dental home” refers to a home setting where good dental care is prioritized and practiced by the entire family, with the assistance of a dental professional. It’s never too late to make your home a “dental home,” but the sooner, the better.Creating a "dental home" starts with a baby's first visit, ideally by his or her first birthday. Make regular checkups for the entire family a standard practice, and following the dentist's care recommendations a common procedure. Everyone in the home should embrace and encourage good dental habits, and set good examples for each other. Oral hygiene should be implemented just as regularly and enthusiastically as bodily hygiene is.
If a child only ever knows a home in which good dental habits are practised, it will seem like second nature. Compare it to how readily most people born in the last thirty years or so wear seatbelts, as opposed to the ongoing resistance by some of those who grew up before seatbelt use became the norm.
 Eating healthy is good for every part of your body, including your teeth. Excessive consumption of sugary and/ or sticky foods like cookies, candy, sodas, and juices are among the most common causes of childhood tooth decay.When preparing meals at home or school lunches, prioritize tooth-healthy foods like raw vegetables and fruits, lowfat but high-calcium dairy products, and water.While fruit juice seems like a healthy drink option, it can contribute to tooth decay by depositing sugars on the teeth. Try to limit overall daily intake of acidic juices (like orange or grapefruit) in particular, and avoid constant sips from a juice cup or box throughout the day., Kids are more likely to accept something and keep up with it if they feel like active participants in the process. While good childhood dental care requires close adult supervision and guidance, there are ways in which you can give a child a greater sense of control.Take your child to the store and let him or her choose a toothbrush and toothpaste (from the age-appropriate categories). Manufacturers love to put popular cartoon characters on kids’ dental care items.
Create a weekly "tooth care" chart and post it in a conspicuous location. Use stickers or checkmarks with colorful markers to denote a successful brushing or flossing. Let the child mark off each success, tally up the week's results, and help determine an appropriate reward or prize.
Some toothbrush manufacturers even provide you with timers that can help kids see how long they should be brushing their teeth.
 Even if they won’t be visible for several months, babies have teeth hidden beneath the surface even before they are born. It’s really never too early to set the habit (for the child and yourself) of regularly cleaning the gums and the teeth that will eventually emerge.You can gently wipe an infant’s gums with a soft washcloth dampened by water, or try gum- and toothbrushes designed for infants.
If you are fortunate enough to have a small child that sleeps through the night, don’t put him or her to bed with a bottle of formula (or, later on, juice or milk — breast milk is fine, however). As with older children, allowing sugars to sit on the teeth and gums overnight supports tooth decay. Clean the teeth and gums after the last feeding and before bedtime whenever possible., The old advice still holds true — everyone, including children, should brush their teeth twice a day, in the morning and in the evening. For children especially, make brushing a set part of the daily schedule — right after breakfast and before getting dressed for school, or right after bathtime and before story time. Make it so that they will remind you when it is time to brush teeth.While it is ideal to brush your teeth last thing before bedtime, with kids it may be better to move the process a bit earlier, before they get tired and cranky. Brush after the last serving of food or drink (other than water), though.
 Growing kids want to do everything for themselves, and it is good to give them some autonomy when it comes to dental care. However, young children require proper instruction, direct assistance, and close supervision when brushing or flossing. This ensures both safety and good technique.


Children should start using a rice-grain sized amount of toothpaste around age two, and move up to a pea-size amount at three or four. A three year old may be ready to start brushing him or herself, but only under close supervision. Kids shouldn’t brush without supervision until at least age six.Demonstrate proper brushing technique on your own teeth and your child’s. Use a soft bristle brush, a small amount of toothpaste, angle the brush slightly, and use gentle back and forth strokes.Start flossing a child’s teeth as soon as there are two teeth next to each other. Supervise flossing the same as with brushing. Kid-friendly flossing sticks may be preferable to traditional string floss.
 Good oral health care is serious business, but that doesn’t mean you can’t have a good time with it. Use games, songs, stories, or whatever else makes brushing time fun for your kids.A tooth-brushing session should last two minutes. Use a clock, a timer, an hourglass, or one of many digital apps that play songs or provide some other form of entertainment for the 120 seconds. Or, just see how many times you can sing “Row, Row, Row Your Boat” in two minutes while your child brushes.
Always offer praise when your child remembers to brush and completes the task. Offer simple rewards like stickers or even just big checkmarks on a weekly brushing chart. But don’t offer candy!, It may not seem like your highest priority when you can barely get your teen out of bed in time for school, but proper dental care for teens is at least as important as it is for smaller children. Remember (and remind them) that the permanent teeth that have replaced their baby teeth are the last ones they get. Not properly caring for these teeth at the start will greatly reduce the likelihood of their remaining strong and healthy for decades to come.Appeal to their vanity. Few teens want to walk around with yellow teeth or bad breath. Try not to lecture or preach, but provide subtle reminders about the importance of a healthy, good-looking, good-smelling mouth.
Consider enlisting the dentist to help. Often teens will listen to an impartial authority figure far more readily than to a parent.
Teens are too old for "kids' stuff" dental products and may find adult versions too boring or old-fashioned. Not surprisingly, manufacturers have noticed this and have begun to market dental products geared toward teens. Let them choose the products that appeal to them.
 Some parents may assume that children do not need to see a dentist until most if not all of their baby teeth have emerged. In truth, professionals recommend that children see a dentist as early as the eruption of the first tooth and no later than the first birthday. From that initial visit, the standard recommendation is to return every six months.Beyond the oral health benefits of visiting a dentist early in a child’s life, the likelihood of developing a fear of going to the dentist will be reduced. As with brushing and flossing, if regular visits to the dentist are the norm from the beginning of a child’s life, there is likely to be less trepidation or defiance., Any qualified dentist can care for a child’s teeth, but some dentists are particularly skilled at working with kids. Some specifically practice pediatric dentistry, while others offer a general practice with a kid-friendly atmosphere. It can pay to do a little research — make some calls, ask some friends, etc. — before choosing a dentist for your child.“Kid-friendly” doesn’t necessarily have to mean toys in the waiting room, posters of cartoon teeth on the walls, and prizes at the end of a visit (although these can help). Look for a dentist with the experience and demeanor suited to dealing with the distinctive elements of childhood dental care and to interacting with kids in general.
Don’t be afraid to change dentists if you feel like you can find a better-suited alternative for your child. A good dentist needs to have patience and maintain a calm demeanor during the procedures.
 Especially as they get a little older, some children may question why they need to go to the dentist when their teeth don’t hurt. Try to explain in simple terms what happens at a dental exam and cleaning, and why it is important. Seek out assistance from the dentist when possible — he or she may have kid-friendly videos, booklets, etc.An older child may have questions about the use of fluoride, and so may you. Some people advocate against the the widespread use of fluoride (especially its addition to public water supplies), but dental professionals by and large strongly support the use of fluoride in drinking water, toothpaste, applications done at the office, and sometimes supplements. Don’t hesitate to ask the dentist about the importance of adequate fluoride usage.
 The days of teens going through years with a mouth full of conspicuous metal braces are almost entirely in the past. Modern orthodontic devices are much less obtrusive and usually more targeted in application. They also tend to be applied earlier in a child’s life.Don’t let bad memories from you own childhood, or uninformed assumptions made by your child, prevent him or her from getting an orthodontic device that might save years of pain and embarrassment down the road. Once again, lean on the dentist for support in explaining the lasting importance of these short-term devices.

