 Make sure that the baking rack is in the center of the oven., You can use any type dried herbs you want, as long as they go well with beef. Oregano, thyme, and parsley go especially well together. You can mix the ingredients together using a wooden spoon or rubber spatula, or you can use your hands. If you decide to use your hands, be sure to put on a pair of plastic gloves. This will keep your hands clean.For a chicken meatza, try: 1 pound (454 grams) ground chicken, 1 minced garlic glove, and 1 teaspoon Italian herb.For a Greek meatza, try: 1 pound (454 g) of ground lamb, 1 egg, ½ to 1 tablespoons of fresh thyme, 1 teaspoon of dried oregano, ¼ teaspoon of dried onion powder, 1 teaspoon of salt, and 1 finely chopped garlic clove., Separate the meat into two parts, then roll each part into a ball. Press one of the balls into your first pan, then flatten it out, making sure to cover just the bottom of the pan. Wet your hands with water, then smooth the meat down until it is the same thickness throughout. Repeat the process for the other pan with the remaining meat ball.If you don't have pie pans, you can use other baking dishes instead. You can also make one big pizza in a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02-centimeter) baking pan., It is ready when the meat is browned around the edges., There will likely be lots of fat gathered in the pan, so pour it into a can and discard it (or reserve it for cooking).Set the meatzas aside to cool while you prepare the sauce and toppings.

Do not pour the fat down the sink, or it will clog the drains once it hardens.
 If you already have a sauce that you'd like to use, then you can skip this step and click here to continue. In a small bowl, combine 4 teaspoons of each of the following: dried oregano, dried basil, and dried parsley. Add 2 teaspoons of coarse garlic powder, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of onion salt, and ½ teaspoon of crushed red pepper flaked. Stir everything together.Measure out 1 teaspoon, then store the rest in a glass jar., Start by heating a small saucepan over low heat. Once it is hot, add 1 teaspoon of olive oil, 1 minced garlic clove, and 1 teaspoon of your prepared pizza seasoning; do not use all of the seasoning. Stir everything together, then let it cook for about 20 seconds., Stir in 3 ounces (85 grams) of tomato paste. Once it is evenly mixed in with the oil, stir in ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of water. Bring the sauce to a boil over medium to medium-high heat, then immediately reduce the heat to low. Let the sauce simmer for 5 minutes, or until it turns thick.
 You will need about ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of sauce for each meatza. If you made one big meatza, you can use all of the sauce. Spread the sauce in an even layer across the meatza, leaving a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) boarder., Most chefs choose to forgo the cheese to make the meatza healthier, but you can add a sprinkle of it, if you'd like. Choose cheese that goes well with your choice of meat and toppings. Here are some ideas to get to you started:

For a marinara meatza, use shredded mozzarella cheese.For a chicken meatza, consider Parmesan cheese and/or mozzarella cheese.For a Greek meatza, try: ¼ cup (25 grams) of crumbled feta cheese., You can add just about anything you want on top of your pizza. You can use everything from the list included in the recipe, or just a few items, or you can experiment with your own toppings. Plan on using up to ½ cup (50 to 100 grams) of each topping.Save delicate toppings, such as arugula leaves and basil, for last.
For a marinara meatza, use 2 diced, small Roma tomatoes and ¼ cup (5 grams) of thinly sliced fresh basil.For a Greek meatza, consider: ½ cup (50 grams) of pitted kalamata olives, ½ small, thinly-sliced red onion. chopped green bell pepper, sliced cherry tomatoes, and arugula leaves.Give it a veggie spin. Use ½ cup (100 grams) of chopped tomatoes, ⅓ cup (35 grams) of chopped mushrooms, ¼ cup (40 grams) each of chopped onion and chopped bell pepper. Top it off with ½ teaspoon each of following: Italian seasoning, onion powder, garlic powder.,, If you made your pizza in a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02-centimeter) baking pan, cut it into 8 or 9 rectangles instead.