 As you begin the process of brainstorming, and throughout the outlining and writing stages, be sure to jot down any ideas which spring to mind, be they story elements like characters, settings, and scenes, or simply images you'd like to include in your story. You may not use all of the ideas you jot down, but the more ideas you generate, the more material you'll have to draw on later.

You needn't worry about fleshing out the ideas you jot down while brainstorming. A simple word or phrase to remind you of what the idea is later on is enough.;
, Reading the work of other adventure authors is a great way to stimulate your imagination. Think about the kinds of settings, characters, and situations which you find compelling, and would like to include in your own story.

You needn't limit yourself to books and short stories for inspiration: movies, comic books, video games, music and other types of storytelling media can also be great sources for inspiration.
 Exposing yourself to new information can be a great source of inspiration. Take a look at your list of ideas, and choose a few related topics to delve into. Aspiring authors of fantasy adventures might consider researching ancient and medieval mythology, religion, culture and warfare.
If you're thinking of writing a futuristic sci-fi adventure, do some reading on modern scientific discoveries, or look at the work of futurists (thinkers who speculate about the future of technology, science and culture) for inspiration.
 Discussing your story with a friend can provide a unique, new perspective on your ideas. Explaining these ideas will also force you to put them into words, which will help you clarify and expand them.
 Adventure stories are often set in unusual, dangerous, or exciting locations. Some are set in a real historical period, such as the European Middle Ages, or the 19th Century American West. Others are set in entirely fictional settings, like many science fiction and fantasy stories. Based on your brainstorming and research, you should already have a good idea where and when the story will be set.
 Many basic elements define the setting in which your story takes place. Ask yourself: What is it like to live in this setting at the time the story is taking place? Is the setting realistic and historical, or are there supernatural or magical elements to the world? What forms of government are in charge in the setting? What is the culture like? What is the climate and geography like? You should think about whether your story will take place in a single location, or in several. Many adventure stories begin in a peaceful or idyllic location, and then follow the story's hero as they travel elsewhere in search of a solution to the story's central conflict. , Most adventure stories have a main character, called the hero, who must try to solve the story's central problem. Often the hero has no choice but to go off on his adventure, but is driven by the importance of the problem they need to solve. , Ask yourself: What is the hero's personality like? Does the hero have a family, or close friends in his community? What is the hero's job? Does the hero have any special skills, abilities or knowledge that will help them in their adventure? What are the hero's flaws and weaknesses? Are they brave, or cowardly? Compassionate, or unfeeling? Wise, or naive? The more detail you put into your hero, the more compelling they will be in the story.
 An adventure story revolves around a problem that needs to be solved. This central conflict is what drives the hero of the story to go off on their adventure. Usually the central problem of an adventure story will require the hero to leave their home behind, and overcome challenging or dangerous obstacles. The problem you imagine should be something the hero of your story cares about, and might be able to solve; otherwise they would have no reason to set out on a dangerous adventure to solve it! .Many adventure stories focus on a powerful or important object, such as a magical artifact, or valuable piece of technology that the hero of the story must acquire. Perhaps the hero needs to recover the object to help their community. Perhaps they want to acquire the object because it has been stolen from them, or because acquiring it will make them rich or powerful.
Other stories focus on an undesirable force or entity which threatens the hero, their family or community, or even the entire world or universe! Perhaps a plague or an evil overlord is threatening to overrun the hero's home. Perhaps a rival of the hero has kidnapped the hero's loved one. Perhaps the hero has been cursed and needs to go on an adventure to lift the curse.
 Now that you have a rough map of the most important aspects of your adventure story, you should decide how the story will begin. In many adventure stories, the story begins with the hero being pulled, often unwillingly, from their ordinary life, and being forced to take on a dangerous adventure.Ask yourself: How does the hero learn about the central problem of the story? How will the hero prepare for their adventure? What is their plan for solving the story's central problem? What will they bring with them? Will they go alone, or will they bring friends or companions to help them?
Heroes in adventure stories are often reluctant or poorly prepared for their adventure. You should decide how the decision to pursue their adventure affects them. Are they frightened? Determined? Excited? Does their family or community approve? Must they quit their job to go on the adventure?

, Few things go as planned for the heroes in most adventure stories, and unexpected complications or problems are often what make an adventure story so exciting!You should decide what sort of challenges your hero will face on their adventure, how they overcome (or fail to overcome) these challenges, and who they will meet along the way.


In many adventure stories, an adversary or rival is working against the hero. Think about who these adversaries are, what their motivation for antagonizing the hero is, and how the hero will deal with their attempts to foil their plans.
If you want your hero to meet allies in their adventure, think about why these allies are motivated to help the hero on their dangerous mission, and what skills or knowledge they have which will help the hero. Are they really out to help the hero, or will they betray the hero's trust?

, After the hero navigates through the complications and challenges standing between them and their goal, they will either solve, or fail to solve, the problem which led them on their adventure. This should be the climax of the story, and a moment of great challenge for the hero. You should decide how, and whether, the hero is able to accomplish their goal, and what this outcome means for the hero and the other characters in the story.


Think about what the outcome of the story means for the future of the hero, and their world. How do the hero and their companions feel now that the adventure is over? Has the problem been solved for good? If not, will the hero of your story need to go on further adventures to solve it?

