 Acid reflux can be quite common. Typical symptoms of acid reflux include heartburn, or a burning sensation in the chest. This can occur after eating or while you sleep. You may also experience a sour taste in the mouth, bloating, dark or black stools, burping or hiccups that won’t stop, nausea, dry coughs, or pain that gets worse when you bend over or lie down.


You may also experience dysphagia, which is a narrowed esophagus that feels as if there is food stuck in your throat., There are a number of possible triggers for acid reflux. These triggers include smoking, overeating, stress, and lack of adequate sleep. It can be triggered by certain foods and beverages that you may be sensitive to, such as citrus fruit, caffeinated beverages, chocolate, tomatoes, garlic, onions, alcohol, fatty foods, and spicy foods.


Certain medications including aspirin, NSAIDs, muscle relaxants, and blood pressure medications can make acid reflux worse. Also, antibiotics, tetracycline, bisphosphonates, and some iron and potassium supplements can be a problem and make acid reflux worse., The actual cause of acid reflux is complicated and often includes many different causes. The cause, despite its name, is not the production of too much acid. Factors that can contribute to acid reflux are pressure on your stomach or esophagus. This can be caused by pregnancy, constipation, being overweight or obese, or a hiatal hernias, which is when the upper part of the stomach moves above the diaphragm.


It can also be caused by LES abnormalities, abnormal contractions in the esophagus, and slowed or prolonged emptying of the stomach., The diagnosis of acid reflux, or GERD if the symptoms are more severe or have been longer term, depends on the symptoms you report. You will likely have an endoscopy, a test where a thin tube with a mini-camera on the end is fed into your esophagus. You may also have other imaging procedures like X-rays and tests to measure the acid levels in your esophagus. It is possible that you may be given an esophageal motility testing to measure and determine movement and pressure in your esophagus.


If you are experiencing any symptoms more than twice a week, if the symptoms continue after trying over-the-counter remedies like TUMS or other antacids, or if you have difficulty swallowing and are nauseous or cannot eat, call your doctor for an appointment right away.