 You can add layers to your image to create modifications or you can modify the current layer. Layers can be anything from filters to new objects placed on the image.


Some finished projects will have hundreds of layers, each only accounting for a small portion of the total image.
If you are only making basic changes, you can probably just modify the image as a single layer.
Masks can be added to layers to determine the transparency of a layer. A completely black mask means the layer will not be at all transparent, while a white mask will make the layer almost entirely transparent.
 After opening the Photoshop program, decide what photo you want to mess with. You can open up an image on your computer or on an external drive by clicking on "Open" under the File drop-down menu in the upper left of the screen.


On a Mac, you can simply open a photo by dragging the photo to the Photoshop icon, and it should open.
Navigate to your photo in the appropriate folder, select it, and then click "Open". Photoshop can take a variety of document types, including .jpg, but the photo will be converted to a .psd once saved.
Once "Open" is clicked, the photo will appear in a new window. This will be your workspace for the project.When you are creating a new image, specify the image's size, resolution and background.
 Only do this if you are working with an existing image. The Image menu is located in the Menu bar.


Uncheck "Resample Image." Resampling changes the amount of data in an image and can negatively impact image quality.
Resize your image by adjusting either the width or height in either pixels or inches. To adjust the size of your image proportionally, select "Constrain Proportions."
Adjust image resolution, if you think it is necessary. A higher resolution will be needed if you intend to zoom in and make small changes to the photo. If the photo will be printed out and displayed on paper, a higher resolution is not as necessary.
300 dpi is the standard minimum of high resolution used for print.
 Use a new file name by selecting "Save As" from the File menu. Avoid modifying the original image's file.


Adobe Photoshop CS3 offers several file format options. For print, .tif format is best, while .jpg files are best for web use.
 A great tool if you are creating images for the internet, either on your personal website or Facebook. The "save for web & devices" option allows you to compress your image size down in file size. This function can also be used to create some interesting creations by modifying what colors are being used and how many colors are allowed.

