 Remember to pack things such as t-shirts and sunglasses if it is a warm place; hats, jumpers and jackets if it is a cold place. Basically, teddy needs all the things you need.


Make sure to pack clothes, medicine(what types you should pack in tips), emergency kit, hair/fur brush, toothbrush and toothpaste, little pieces of food (crackers, etc.), water, a blanket, and any type of entertainment your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal might want.;
, A couple days before the vacation, tell your teddy bear where you are going, what you will be doing and how long you will be there for.
 On the big day eat breakfast when you wake up and give your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal some too!

, A couple of minutes before you load up the car, take your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal's suitcase to the car and find a place for your teddy bear, doll, or stuffed animal to sit.


Here are some places for your teddy bear, doll or stuffed animal: The seat next to you, under your seat, cup holder, on the arm rest, your lap.
 While you're in the car keep your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal entertained. Let him/her in on anything you're doing, or he or she will feel left out.
 Every couple of hours, feed your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal a little snack and give him/her some water. Take the chance when you stop at a rest stop and use the bathroom. Ask your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal if he/she needs to go to. If he/she does take him/her with you and point him/her in the opposite direction so he/she won't see you on the toilet.
 If your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal starts to feel carsick, set up a little bed next to you, give him/her a piece of ginger or bread with his/her medicine and tell him/her to take a nap.(in tip box)

, If you're driving in the dark your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal might get scared. To prevent this, cuddle and kiss him/her and keep him/her on your lap while you show him/her a favorite video or video game.
 When you arrive, If your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal is not already awake, gently pat him/her and say "Time to wake up". When you get inside your home/hotel, Find your room and set up your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal's things to make him/her feel more at home, then put your PJ's on.
 After Your PJ's are on, show your teddy their room and the house/motel room. After your teddy bear, doll, or stuffed animal knows where you go to bed. Never let your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal sleep in a different room/bed other than yours, because he/she doesn't know where he/she is and might get very scared. Always let him/her sleep next to/with you and cuddle him/her.
 The next day show your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal around your town. After he/she understands where he/she is than you and your teddy, doll, or stuffed animal can have some fun!

