 Boys who are players aren’t going to be nervous, stammering types around a girl. They will seem almost too practiced, and they will flirt with you with ease: Because it’s a game to them, and they’ve done this before.For example, they will always have a perfect opening line or conversation starter, probably including a flirty joke that sounds like something they’ve used before. You will think he’s “prince charming” and like you can do no wrong in his eyes.
They are brimming with confidence around you, and they act a bit glib. That means that they talk with ease and say everything that a girl would want to hear. However, they speak in generalities rather than including details that are meaningful to you.
And they do this before they have a chance to really get to know you. They say these things very early on in their efforts to make you a quick conquest (the key word is "quick"). It sounds a little artificial, but some girls overlook that because it also feels good to be the object of the boy’s attention. These boys go over the top to impress.;
, A guy who is a player will seem more interested in you than anyone has before. At first. However, he will then cheat or just leave you once he gets what he wants, which is physical intimacy and/or your affirmation.


To increase his chances of scoring, he will try to get you to fall for him by making you feel extremely important. He is a master at this. It’s hard not to fall for when a guy you’re interested in showers you with flattery. A player may also read poetry to you. He will become a chameleon, figuring out what interests you and pretending it interests him too so you are amazed how much you have in common.
It’s nice if a boy says positive things to you. To spot a player, you need to pay attention to how soon he does it, how much he does it, and to what degree. A player will be almost over-the-top in his flattery toward you at first.
There is a word for this. It’s called “love bombing.” He bombs you with terms of endearment, praise, listens attentively to everything you say, pampers you, and basically acts like you’re on a pedestal. And he does it right away. His flattery will focus primarily on your looks, such as your pretty eyes or great body., There are certain words that a player is likely to never say to you. Although the player is very talkative, he’s not going to sacrifice being in control.


A player is unlikely to say “I love you.” There are a few players who will say this just to get what they want and not mean it, but generally speaking, a player won’t utter those words because he doesn’t want you to think this is long term.A player won’t say that it’s up to you to decide what to do when it comes to going out. That’s because he’s not really interested in your life, hobbies, desires or activities. A player stays in control of the timing and venue. He might even require that you only meet inside his or your home so others don’t see you.
If he tries to have sex with you and doesn’t have a condom, it’s less likely he’s a player. A player will always come prepared because he does this a lot. You may discover you don’t know much about him or what you thought you knew was wrong., If a guy is a player, he’s probably hurt a lot of women or girls before. In order to throw you off the scent, he will project his behavior on them. He will act like he was victimized by them.


That means that he will trash talk his exes, by calling them “psycho” or “crazy” and basically trying to make you think that he was the victim and the breakup was all their fault.
If he does this repeatedly or about more than one person, you should start questioning whether the person engaging in bad behavior was actually him.
Are there girls who suddenly show up in the scene and act with hostility toward you? Maybe it’s because he recently led them on. Pay attention to how girls treat you, and pay attention to how many girls are in his orbit. Players always seem to have a lot of girls around them, especially desperate-seeming girls who seem angry at them.

