 Sit behind her with enough space between you so you have room to work. Start from the bottom of her hair and work your way up to gently loosen any tangles. Go slowly, being careful not to pull. Smooth her hair with your palms a few times once you’ve finished.


Use your fingers if there isn’t a comb handy, or if you’d just rather have a more hands-on experience.
 Your main goal here is only to have an intimate moment with your lady, so don’t worry about doing anything too complex. First, separate her hair, or a section of her hair, into three even strands. Let’s call them 1, 2, and 3, from left to right. From there, you can start with either the leftmost strand (1) or the rightmost (3), but let’s say you start with the right strand:Take the rightmost strand (3) in one hand, then cross it over the middle strand (2). Now the strands are arranged like this: 1-3-2, with the original right strand ending up in the middle.
Now cross the left strand (1) over the new middle strand (3). Now the original left strand is in between the others, so they appear as 3-1-2.
Continue crossing the strands in this pattern (right over middle, then left over middle) until you reach the end of her hair.
Always use one hand to handle the strand that you're moving, and your other hand to keep the other two strands separated from it. This way hairs from one strand won't become tangled with another’s.
This may be hard to visualize, so watch a video tutorial if needed to better see how to use your fingers and arrange each strand.
Practicing with three different colors of yarn or similar material is an easy way to master braiding.
 Remember: you’re simply trying to give your lady a pleasurable time, not rush a customer in and out so you can move on to the next. Take your time. Be careful not to pull too hard or tightly on her hair. Work slowly and methodically.


Watch her neck and shoulders to make sure she’s relaxed.
If they tense up, this might mean she’s not enjoying this, or she may be nervous.
 As long as she’s enjoying herself, follow the spirit of the moment. This is about playing around, not hairdressing, so keep it light and playful. Draw it out by taking your time, braiding several sections of hair, and/or undoing your work and starting all over.


If she’s talkative, keep chatting to show off your skill and confidence by doing two things at once.
If she’s relaxed and falls silent, let your fingers do the talking so she can focus on the sensation.
 Leave her hair braided if she wants. If not, undo it by reversing the technique. Then use your fingers to comb her hair out. To keep the physical intimacy going, try:


Moving on to a shoulder or neck massage.
Planting a kiss or two on her head, neck, or shoulders.
Stroking or grazing her fingers over her back or arms.

