 English Bulldogs thrive in temperate climates and are sensitive to extreme heat or cold. In hot weather, they are likely to have trouble breathing and overheat, while in cold weather they can chill easily. Dress your dog for walks outside in cold temperatures (e.g. purchase a dog coat or sweater at a pet store or online) and make sure to bring water along for walks in the heat.In hot weather, schedule walks for the early evening, when the weather is moderate and cool.
 Overheating is a common problem with English Bulldogs, who should be monitored carefully during exercise. Signs of heat exhaustion include heavy, labored breathing and panting; a swollen airway; a buildup of white foam in the throat (due to heavy breathing); vomiting; and a general look of distress. Heat exhaustion can cause death for this breed, so act fast and do the following:Remove your dog from the heat — bring them to a shady area or preferably inside, and turn on a fan.
Keep your dog calm by reassuring them with a soft, soothing voice.

Cool your dog down however possible — pour cool water on their extremities (head, paws, tail); rub ice around their head or under their tail or armpits; or place them in a cool bath (do not use cold water — you risk hypothermia if your dog gets too cold).

Take your dog's temperature rectally. A dog's normal temperature is about 101.5°F (38.6°). If their temperature is over 105°F (40.6°C), then your dog likely has heat stroke. You want to reduce their temperature to 103°F (39.4°C) but no lower, as this may put the dog at risk for hypothermia. Once you have reduced their temperature, take the dog to the vet.If you can't cool your dog down, bring them to a vet immediately.
 English Bulldogs are more susceptible to weak joints and injuries than other breeds due to their heavy weight and short limbs. They also have a high threshold for pain, which means that they may continue to run and play after suffering an injury, further damaging their joints or muscles. If you see your dog limping or exhibiting any other signs of injury, bring them inside to rest immediately or bring them to a vet if the injury seems severe., If your English Bulldog starts to look distressed or exhausted while exercising, stop immediately and have them rest. The breed is known for having irregular energy levels so sudden fatigue is not uncommon. Be sure to give your dog plenty of water and keep them calm during a bout of tiredness., As a breed, English Bulldogs have a comprised anatomy and are more susceptible to a long list of health ailments (including dermatitis, hip and elbow dysplasia, heart disease, and degenerative spine disease) than other breeds. Schedule regular appointments with your veterinarian and ask for specific advice on diet and exercise to keep your dog at a healthy weight. Your vet can also help you monitor your pet's joint and muscle health, and diagnose conditions like arthritis.