 Diets for the majority of people should have 40-60% of their calories from carbohydrates. This may be lower in people with diabetes, PCOS, and other medical conditions.Carbohydrates can be found in fruits, vegetables, dairy products and grains, but not meat. One gram of carbs is, on average, equal to 4 calories.Regardless of what carb counting method or calculation you use, remember that carbs are not the only item you need to count and calculate as part of your diet. You also need to include fat and protein to ensure you’re eating a balanced diet. And it sure doesn’t hurt to watch your sodium intake.
 One way to determine how many carbs you can eat is to turn the fruits, vegetables, dairy products and grains into servings per day. The number of servings per day will depend on your age and gender. You can view a table of serving amounts here - http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/fn-an/food-guide-aliment/basics-base/quantit-eng.php. On average, adults of both genders should consume the following ranges of servings per day:


Grains = 5-8 servings per day. A grain serving can include things like: 1 slice of bread, 1 cup of cereal, ½ cup of rice, or ⅓ cup of cooked pasta. At least half your grain servings should be whole grains.
Fruits & Vegetables = 4-10 servings day.A fruit or vegetable serving can include things like: ½ cup of 100% fruit or vegetable juice, 1 large carrot, 1 cup of leafy greens, 1 medium apple, ½ cup of berries, or 20 grapes.Dairy Products = 2-3 servings per day.A dairy product serving can include things like: 1 cup of skim milk, 50 grams of hard cheese, or ¾ cup of yogurt.Don’t forget that you also need to consume 1-3 servings of meats or meat alternatives every day, which is where you’ll get the majority of your protein.One serving can include things like: 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons of peanut butter, ½ cup of lean meats or ¾ cups of tofu.While not listed exclusively as part of the food guide, a healthy diet should also include a small amount of unsaturated fats every day. For the average person this amount should be 2-3 tablespoons. Unsaturated fats would include vegetable oils, oil-based salad dressings, and soft non-hydrogenated margarine., Another way to calculate how many carbs are in a particular item, or to determine the proper serving size of an item, is to use its weight. Kitchen scales can be found in a large variety of stores, and are relatively inexpensive.


To calculate the grams of carbs in your food based on the weight, you need to know two things: the weight of the food item; and the “factor” for that food item. There is a different factor for each type of food (e.g. bread has a factor of 15, which means there are 15 grams of carbs for every ounce of bread).You can find a list of food factors on the University of California’s Diabetes Education Online - http://dtc.ucsf.edu/pdfs/CalculatingCHObyWeight.pdf. (Note - the website is designed for diabetics, but the food factors are applicable to anyone.)
Example, let’s say you want to know how many carbs are in the bowl of strawberries you want to have for a snack. First, weigh the strawberries. Let’s say you determine that you have 10 ounces of strawberries. Second, look up the food factor for strawberries, which is 2.17. Third, multiply the weight and the food factor = 10 ounces x 2.17 = 21.7 grams of carbs.
You can also use weight to determine how many servings are in an item of food. For example, one serving of lean meat or poultry is considered to be ½ a cup. This is equivalent to 2.5 ounces or 75 grams. If you have a 4 ounce piece of cooked chicken, divide by 2.5 and you’ll find that piece of chicken counts as 1.6 servings., Visual estimations for things like apples, oranges, bananas, eggs, or slices of bread or bagels, are easy to determine. But measuring things like cheese, meat or loose items can be more difficult to estimate. There are several visualizations that can be used to help you measure your food servings, especially when you’re not at home, or not making the food yourself.


Dry cereal - a 1 cup serving looks like the size of a baseball.
Cooked cereal, rice or pasta - a ½ cup serving looks like the size of half a baseball.
Orange, apple or pear - 1 “small” fruit looks like the size of a tennis ball.
Raisins - a ¼ cup serving looks like the size of a golf ball.
Baked potato - 1 “medium” potato looks like the size of a mouse you’d use for your computer.
Chopped vegetables or salad mix - a 1 cup serving would look like the size of a baseball, or a handful.
Hard cheese - a 50 gram serving is almost equivalent to a 1.5 ounce serving which looks like the size of a 9 volt battery (the rectangle ones).
Lean beef or poultry - a ½ cup serving will look the size of a deck of cards.
Grilled or baked fish - a ½ cup serving will look like the size of a chequebook.
Margarine - a 1 teaspoon serving looks like the size of a postage stamp, and there are 3 teaspoons in a tablespoon.
Salad dressing or oil - a 1 teaspoon serving look like it would fill the cap of a normal-sized water bottle.
 A nutritional label on a package of food will list the number of carbs it contains. But there are a couple of things you need to remember when using these numbers to calculate how many carbs you’re eating.The nutritional information is based on a serving size that is determined by the manufacturer. In some cases, like a individual carton of yogurt, the serving size equals the actual amount you’re likely to consume. In other cases, like cold cereal, the serving size may equal a much smaller amount, maybe ½ or ⅓, of what you would normally eat.
You will need to multiply the number of carbohydrates per serving on the nutrition label by the number of servings you actually consume. For example, if the label for a cold cereal says there are 10 grams of carbs per ½ cup of cereal, but you’re going to eat 1 ½ cups of cereal, you will need to multiply 10 grams by 3 to determine the actual carbs you’ll be consuming. In this example, it would be 30 grams.
 Nutritional labels will list Total Carbohydrates, Dietary Fibre, and Sugars. Dietary fibre and sugar are both carbs, but your body doesn’t use them the same way. Fibre is not digested by your body, rather, your body simply passes fibre all the way through. Fibre can help with constipation and overall bowel health, lower your cholesterol, control your blood sugar levels, and help you lose weight.Men 50 or younger should eat 38 grams of fibre per day. Men over 50 should eat 30 grams per day.
Women 50 or younger should eat 25 grams of fibre per day. Women over 50 should eat 21 grams per day.
Remember that fibre is a carbohydrate, so the fibre grams count as part of your carbohydrate intake.
 Depending on what you are attempting to do with your diet, calculating the amount of carbs you’re currently consuming can be helpful. If you are planning to lose or gain weight in the future, knowing how many calories you are currently consuming will help to determine how many calories you have to reduce or add per day. If you aren’t planning to alter your weight, you can use this opportunity to develop a healthier eating plan that includes healthier carbs.


Start by getting yourself a journal, or creating a tracking spreadsheet on your computer.
On a daily basis (or even throughout the day) keep track of exactly what you eat and drink, including the amounts or weights.
Track yourself for one week, assuming the week you’re tracking is an average week for you. Don’t forget to include things like sauces, butter or margarine, dressings, etc.
If you eat any packaged food, keep track of the information from the nutritional label in your journal.
If you eat at a restaurant, try to locate their nutritional breakdowns via their websites. Or ask your server for a brochure.
For other types of food, use the USDA’s Super Tracker to look up the nutritional values (https://www.supertracker.usda.gov/default.aspx).
Add up the number of calories, total carbs, and dietary fibre for each day. It is probably also a good idea to include fat and protein in your calculations since your overall diet plan will need to take these into account.
Use your calculations as a starting point for making a future plan. There are useful apps available now for phones that allow people to track their daily intake of all nutrients; carbohydrates included.

