 For many people, it can be difficult to take a time out from life when feeling under the weather. But trying to carry on with your daily routine when you are sick can have many negative impacts. Not only will you risk passing your illness to others, but you may end up feeling even more stressed. When you are sick, you need to take a break from your responsibilities as much as possible.Call in sick. Even though you may have a lot of responsibilities at your job, you are not doing anyone any favors by showing up to work when you have a cold or the flu. You won't be able to function at full capacity, and this could make you frustrated and emotional.
If you have a fever, your thought process will slow down. When you can't work at your normal rate, you'll just be trying to play catch up all day.
Give yourself permission to have a day off. Remind yourself that your body (and mind) will function much better after you give it time to heal.
Allow yourself to take some time off from other commitments, too. For example, maybe you've agreed to go see a movie with a friend. Instead of forcing yourself to go, reschedule for when you feel better.;
, Being sick can cause you to feel cranky. It's understandable that whether you are suffering from an upset stomach or a sore throat, you're not going to be at your most cheerful. When you're under the weather, you can also feel increased levels of stress if you're worried about falling behind at work or not feeling up to making a healthy dinner for your family. Part of the healing process is feeling better mentally, so make a conscious effort to relax and lower your stress levels.Try progressive muscle relaxation. In a comfortable position, take some time to tense and then relax each muscle group in your body. For example, clench your hand for five seconds, then release for thirty seconds. Do this until you've hit every spot. This relaxation technique can help ease muscle tension.
Deep breathing is another useful technique. Focus on your breath, and allow your mind to wander. Draw deep breaths in for about 6-8 counts, then exhale for the same count.
Visualization is an excellent way to reduce tension. Focus on something you find pleasant, such as sitting in the park on a nice day. Use all of your senses. Picture the bright blue sky and imagine feeling the warmth of the sun on your skin.
Relaxation techniques have many benefits, such as relieving pain and boosting energy.
 When you're sick, it can be overwhelming to complete even the simplest tasks. Try to let your friends and family help you out and ease some of your stress. If you have a partner, ask him to cook you a healthy dinner. If you live alone, ask a friend if they would mind dropping a care package by your house.Don't be afraid to ask for help. Often, we feel uncomfortable asking for assistance. But if you're sick, others will be happy to help. Be specific in your requests, so that you get what you need. For example, ask your friend, "Would you mind going to the pharmacy on 35th Street and picking up the prescription that is in my name?"
Try not to isolate yourself completely. When you're sick, you don't want to spread germs. But that doesn't mean you need to withdraw completely. E-mail or text a good friend and ask for some virtual company. Knowing you're not alone can help lift your spirits.
 Doctors report that people who practice positive thinking are generally in better health. Studies also show that positive thinking lowers stress levels and helps you to cope during difficult times. Being sick can certainly be stressful, so it makes sense that positive thinking can help you to feel better.Let yourself laugh. It's easy to feel grouchy when you're sick, but if something strikes you as funny, don't be afraid to show it. Even if it is as simple as seeing a silly commercial on tv, laughing can help your frame of mind.
Filter negative thoughts out. If you find yourself lying in bed and thinking about the pile of dirty laundry nearby, shift your focus. Instead, glance out the window and be glad that you're inside on a gloomy day.
Instead of worrying about what you're missing, try to focus on what is good about your day. For example, if you're stressed about falling behind at work, think about how great it was that you didn't get stuck in the horrible traffic jam you saw on the morning news.
 Being sick is an excellent time to indulge in some of your guilty pleasures. Maybe you have a favorite tv show that you've been missing because of a hectic schedule. Or perhaps you have a stack of magazines by your bed waiting to be read. Now's the time! Just choose wisely--you want something that will improve your mood.You might feel overly emotional when you are ill. This means that it is probably not the best time to binge watch that documentary about crime in your city. A depressing or serious show can add to your anxiety.
Choose a lighthearted show, movie, or book to help take your mind off of your queasy stomach. A good comedy can help the world seem a lot brighter.

