 In order to obtain more than the most basic of licenses, you'll need to hold a first or second-class medical certificate from the FAA.Vision is the main concern here; in order to work your way up the totem pole of pilot-hood, you'll need to have vision that can be corrected to 20/20. And if you're colorblind, well, it depends. Since there are different variations and degrees of severity when it comes to being colorblind, you may or may not be a candidate.You can be as young as 16 to hold a student license, 18 to hold a commercial license, and 23 to hold an ATP (Airline Transport Pilot) license.You will be going through routine assessment as you progress. When you hit the big time, you'll also be examined to make sure you're of sound mind, both personality-wise and intellectually.;
, If you ever want to work for a major corporation or airline, there will be background checks, and that includes a credit check. In addition to this little factoid, becoming a pilot is expensive. While assistance does exist (from schools or the military), it's still not cheap.


It all depends on the route you go. If you do learn to fly through a private flight club, you're paying for every hour you're in the air. Getting your CPL may cost you $10,000. Getting other certifications (like IR and ground school) can also cost thousands of dollars too.Pilots can make very good money, but it may not be for a while.
 While some employers will hire licensed pilots with only a high school degree, most prefer at least two years of college. And if you ever dream of working for a major company, a degree is necessary. Since more and more people are getting them, they're becoming par for the course.At the minimum, complete general education requirements. We'll talk more on the what-you-need-to-know stuff later, but college starts you on the math, the English, and the physics skills. It also shows employers that you can commit to a strict regimen and succeed.
Some schools offer aviation degrees and even offer training as part of the degree. When you graduate, you'll have your Commercial Pilot License and a degree. This can be done through a four-year university or a technical program., The brunt of the obstacle when it comes to becoming a pilot is money and having to learn how to fly. A surefire way to solve that problem is to join the military. Not only is it financially easier, but major airlines definitely hold military pilots in high regard. If this is something you can see yourself doing, it's a good idea.


Now comes the reality check: Joining the military is no small decision. It's a commitment of a decade or so (depending on your branch), you have to be physically fit, have the right mindset, and be willing to risk your life. While it's a good route to becoming a pilot, it's not the only one.
 Woohoo, the fun part! If you decided to go the civilian route, you have two different options. And for the record, the FAA doesn't care how you go about it; a certificate is a certificate. Here's what you need to know:


You can go to a flight school (that's recognized by the FAA -- they've certified approximately 600 flight schools.). You'll need 190 hours of time logged to get your CPL. That's a little less than doing it privately. Another upside is that they'll help you get your Instrument Rating (IR), too.
You can learn to fly through a personal instructor (also needs to be certified through the FAA). This route takes 250 hours and can be a bit expensive (an hour of flying lessons is $80 or so dollars an hour).However, it's done on your own time. Your instructor may be part of a "flight club."

, The fact of the matter is that flying an airplane is awesome. Most everyone would consider it a great job. However, that's only a piece of the pie. In order to know if you'll succeed as a pilot, you have to know if you can make it through the academics of it all. So take a ground school course -- you'll be able to feel out if becoming a pilot is right for you.


In order to be a successful pilot (and have people's lives in your hands), you need to know what's going on around you. That means knowing the physics of flight, the intricacies of weather and geography, and the ins and outs of air traffic control. Ground school will get you started on all of this.
 Once you've started private flying lessons or training at your flight school, slowly but surely you'll move up in the ranks. There are many degrees of licenses and you'll be eligible for your first one almost off the bat. There's student, sport, recreational, and private license levels before you finally hit the CPL -- commercial pilot license. Each requires a specific number of hours in the air.Student pilot. There's actually no experience requirement; you just have to pass a test and hold the appropriate medical certificate. The restrictions for flying solo are quite heavy.

Sport Pilot. You can then fly with no more than one passenger (with limitations). You must log 20 hours of experience in addition to taking a test and holding a driver's license.

Recreational Pilot. This has largely been replaced by the Sport Pilot License.

Private Pilot. This is the license held by most pilots. You can take passengers, fly most aircraft, and operate charity flights -- you just can't receive compensation. This requires at least 40 hours of flying in a variety of circumstances.


Commercial Pilot. What this article is all about. You can fly pretty much anything (more complex machines may require certification), take others, and get paid. You need 250 hours in a variety of circumstances.
 Now that you've grown acquainted with the ropes, it's time to get your commercial license! Wahoo! This is when you can start getting paid to fly. You'll need 250 hours of flight time in various conditions and to pass a series of tests. Here are the basic requirements:


You must be at least 18 years old with a photo ID.
You need an endorsement or certificate from a certified flight instructor stating that you've completed ground training.
You need to score at least 70 percent on written and multiple choice tests.
You need to pass the flight exam (given by an instructor).
You need to pass a physical exam that shows you have 20/20 corrected vision and there are no impairments that would interfere with your ability to pilot a plane. To fly for hire, you'll need at least a second-class medical certificate.
You'll need to pass a multi-engine check ride if you want to fly more complex planes., Without being IR certified, you are not allowed to fly in poor weather, even with your Commercial Pilot License. You do not have to wait to have your CPL to do this, but once you have your CPL, you should definite have the IR!


For example, altimeters, which measure your height above the ground, are just one of the many instruments that pilots must use. You'll need to demonstrate that you can depend on instruments in periods of low visibility. It is a written and tactile exam., Most starting-out pilots first become instructors. It's a good way to keep flying, increase your hours, and still get paid. With a bit of experience under your belt, you could get into flying corporate planes. Salaries range from $20,000 to $80,000 a year.However, you could also look into banner towing, agricultural applications, charter planes, helicopters, and aerial photography.There are many routes to making money with this license -- especially since you put so much money into it!

, The next step up after getting your CPL is getting your Airline Transport Pilot License. Then you can work in any plane and get real paid. You'll need to bank 1,500 hours of flying (in multiple conditions), have an IR, be 23, and pass all the tests.But it will be worth it!


As stated in the intro, co-pilots used to be able to only hold CPLs. Now they too must have their ATP licenses. If you want to be flying for an airline, major or not, this is the only way to do it.
 In addition to all the written tests and the hands-on exams, you'll need to pass a pretty thorough background check. They'll do drug tests and credit checks, in addition to personality and intellect exams. If you have any bad habits, well, kick 'em now.


You cannot have any felonies on your record. DUIs and misdemeanors are...okay (for lack of a better word), but a significant amount of time needs to pass between the mishap and the hiring for your employer to turn the other way (at least in most circumstances)., Working for an airline is all about seniority. Most people start as flight engineers, become co-pilots, and then finally captains. Even if you've had years of experience, with a new company, you'll need to start from the bottom.


This happens within the company. That is, once you're a captain for United, switching to Delta puts you back down at engineer level. It's impossible to able to predict the future of an airline company (even veritable behemoths like Pan Am and Eastern have fallen), but if you can get into a stable one, well, that's the most you can do.
 Because working for an airline is all about seniority, it's all about timing. You could start as an engineer and find an opening in 3 years, or you could start as an engineer and be stuck there for 7. There's not much you can do, but it is good to know now so you have time to accept it!


Today's economy isn't helping future pilots any. There's little in the realm of job security what with cutbacks, government shut downs, bankruptcies, and the like. While the BLS does say the market is growing at an average rate, jobs at major airlines will be hard to come by due to fierce competition., Knowing how to fly a plane is very little of what you're actually doing -- you need to be able to assess everything around you, including yourself! The difference between a decent pilot and a great pilot really becomes evident when trouble arises. It's in your best interest to read up on all you can and to search out resources and connections.


Just because you can use the internet doesn't mean you know how it works. It's the same with a plane. Being able to fly it doesn't mean you get it. In order to keep the lives of others as safe as possible, you should be able to understand the theory of flight, navigation, aircraft systems, meteorology, geography, and the laws by which you must abide by. There's always more to learn!

, Being a pilot may seem glamorous, but it's a hard job. There are a number of things to take into consideration, apart from the stuff we've already covered about job security and seniority.


You'll be away from home for about half your life. If you have a family (or want one), this can take a serious toll. It also takes a serious toll on you! You'll be living out of a suitcase more often than not.
If your physical or mental health ever starts failing you (for the record, there's mandatory retirement at 65), you may be out of a job. Pilots have to be in good mental and physical shape to be trusted with all that responsibility.
If you're ever laid off, you're back at the bottom of the pilot food chain.
 Piloting a plane requires the ability to respond quickly to a problem, to assess a situation responsibly, and to accurately assess what's going in the first place. It's a job that requires being able to handle stress and weird sleep schedules if you're flying for an airline. Can you do it?


Did we mention depth perception? That's (hopefully) an obvious one. But there's also teamwork and communication skills (your co-pilot, the air traffic controllers) in addition to an attention to detail. If this sounds like you, great! You've found your calling!

