 Squats are a great way to build lean muscle and tone your inner thighs. Keeping your feet shoulder width apart bend your knees to a 90 degree angle. You can do this up against a wall or not, and keep your shoulder blades and lower back pressed up against the wall. Stay in this position for one minute, take a 30-second break, and repeat. Do about ten reps a day. , Squat down, keeping your back as straight as possible and your eyes straight ahead. Touch the ground with your fingers. The lower you get the better, but don’t let your knees come in front of your feet. Now jump straight up, keeping your core centered beneath you. Do as many as you can, then take a one-minute break, then do three quarters of whatever number you just did. Do exercises like this three or four times a week if you can. , Lunges are great for your thighs and target the muscles directly. Step one leg back behind and across your backside, bending the front leg 90 degrees to lower yourself closer to the floor. Keep as much weight as possible on the front leg. Return to an upright position with your feet side by side. Repeat. Do this exercise on both sides., Lunges are a great way to build muscle and burn fat. Begin by standing with your feet shoulder width apart, with a 5-10 pound dumbbell in each hand. Step forward with one foot and make sure the front thigh is parallel with the ground. Hold this position for 10 seconds. Repeat with the other leg. Do about 20 lunges a day. This is an exercise that you can do at home if you have dumbbells available, or try it without dumbbells, which is still a really good body-weight exercise.


If lunging with dumbbells is too difficult, try doing them without weights.
 You can use resistance bands to tone your thighs as well. Try using resistance bands to make certain exercises hard, such as by doing leg extensions while sitting in a chair. You can loop the resistance band around the chair legs, and then loop the ends of the bands around your ankles and alternate extending your legs.

Try doing squats with a resistance band.
 You probably don’t have a leg press machine available at home, but you can usually find these at a gym. This machine is great for working on your thighs and butt. Sit in the chair and choose a comfortable weight. Starting with half your body weight isn’t too ambitious, and you can move the weight up if it feels too easy. Place your legs on the rack and start with your knees at a 90 degree angle, and your ankles lined up with your knees. Now push! This exercise will lead to great results. 