 Dip-dyeing is a process whereby you dip the ends of your hair into your dye mixture. This is easier than dyeing your entire head with Kool-Aid, which is harder to control than regular hair dye (because it is a liquid instead of a cream). It can get messy quickly and easily stain your skin.
 Choose an unsweetened flavor of Kool-Aid that will give you your desired color. Tropical punch will give you a brighter red, Cherry gives a deeper red, and Black Cherry mixed with Strawberry achieves a bright red.Take into consideration the color of your bleached hair. This will act as an additional color in your overall color mixture. Fill a bowl with 1 cup warm or hot water. Mix in 3 packages of Kool-Aid crystals, along with 2 tablespoons of white vinegar, and stir, making sure all the crystals fully dissolve., Gather up a small hunk of hair from the nape of your neck. Dip a strand of hair into the Kool-Aid dye. Set your timer for 20 minutes and check the color. Add more time if it seems like the color is not quite where you’d like it to be. Rinse out or wipe off the dye and check the color against a white towel. This will enable you to check if you like the color before dousing your entire head in it. It will also help you gauge how much time to leave your hair in the Kool-Aid mixture.
 Put your hair in a ponytail and dip the entire ponytail into the Kool-Aid. You will need to stay stationary for approximately 30 minutes for the Kool-Aid to soak into your hair, so be prepared with a book or movie to keep you busy while you’re waiting. Set your timer to help you keep track of the time.
 Gently rinse your hair with warm water until the water runs clear.
 Use a towel or blow dryer to dry your hair. Alternatively, you can let it dry naturally. Because you haven’t used chemical-based color to dye your hair, your hair won’t be as dry and brittle and can therefore handle blow drying immediately after dyeing it.
 Water, soap and heat can lessen the dye’s hold on your hair and cause it to escape. Leaving your hair alone for three days will enable the dye to sink into the cuticles of your hair.You may experience an unwanted color in your hair after the color fades. For example, if you bleach your hair and then dye it bright red, you might get orange hair after the red fades.

