 After giving your grill a thorough brushing, fire it up to a high temperature (around 350°F, or 176°C). Give the racks time to heat up as you finish seasoning and preparing the pike. The hotter the grill, the better the pike will cook and the faster you'll have dinner on the table.To keep the fish from sticking, make sure your grill is as clean as possible and cook for a shorter amount of time on a high heat.You also have the option of using a grill pan, which will offer a more evenly-heated surface to get the pike consistently done throughout.
 Sprinkle a generous dash of dried dill, garlic salt or lemon pepper over the fillets, or brush on a thin coating of molasses and ground ancho chiles. Alternatively, you can marinate the pike beforehand for 3-4 hours in your favorite seafood marinade.Experiment with making your own dry rubs from a blend of ingredients like dehydrated garlic, paprika, brown sugar, coriander and anise.Drain excess marinade from the fillets before grilling. If they’re too wet, they may fall apart when exposed to the heat of the grill.
 Drape the fillets diagonally across the metal rack, concentrating them around the edges of the grill. Turn them once at the halfway point to make sure they cook evenly on both sides. Otherwise, leave them alone—handling them too much will make them more likely to break into pieces.A good general rule of thumb is to grill fish for approximately 10 minutes for every inch of thickness.If you’re using a grill pan, spread the fillets out to keep them separated.
 Grilled pike goes well with other health-conscious items like steamed broccoli, burgundy mushrooms or rice pilaf. Or you could choose a more basic presentation with sliced ripe tomatoes and corn on the cob and let the fish do most of the work. Either way, grilling is one of the most nutritious ways to serve a lean, protein-packed fish like pike.

Wrap the pike fillets in aluminum foil along with hearty veggies like asparagus or new potatoes before grilling to steam a complete meal in one fast and easy step.Throw together a mixed green salad or slaw comprised of fresh seasonal root veggies to provide the finishing touches.

