 Sleeping in will leave you drowsy, or not up to your optimum alertness.;
, An example of a good breakfast on the day of the run/race is dry cereal, banana, muffin, and orange juice. This will provide potassium and fiber, along with carbs and vitamin C, which provides muscle strength. If you are running in the morning, the best quick breakfast is orange juice and a peanut butter only sandwich.
 Make sure you at least stretch your thighs and calves.
 This will get your blood pumping and your body warmed up.
, Breathe. Calm down. Do exactly what the instructor tells you.
 Do not sprint, you will die out if you do. Being close to the front separates you from those who can not keep up, yet allows you to analyze the race. Once analyzed, which should take seconds, find someone whom you know you can keep up with.
 This is called drafting. Drafting is a method used by many runners, which breaks the wind from hitting the runner. This lets you save more energy, while the runner(s) ahead wear out.
 If you can safely pass without wearing yourself out, do so now.
 The timekeeper will tell you your time. If you know what your time is, you are either running too fast, or you are running at a great pace for you. Adjust.
 Whether you are in first place, or you are in 10th, keep this pace until lap number five. The majority of runners in the race will slow down, for they most likely went too fast and will eventually wear out. You will eventually catch up, and you will stay ahead if you are in first.
 This is the fifth lap. If you're in first, try to separate yourself even more. If you are behind, pick up the pace and ignore the pain. Your body will not want to speed up, but you will have to fight back. This is where the vitamin C and vitamin D kick in. Try to catch up to the person in front. After obtaining this objective, move on to the next person, and so on.
 Pick up your pace to threshold. This is where your body will want to slow down, and your thighs feel like lead. Threshold is a bit faster than race pace. If you are shooting for a record, or you are behind and need to catch up ASAP, then go to a pace just below sprinting.
 On the last 100-250 meters, depending on your capability, sprint with your heart. Keep your head facing forward, and move your legs rapidly, do not go for long strides.
 Whether or not you finish in first, keep sprinting past the line. Most runners tend to slow down in the last ten meters, hence a runner passes them.
 Keep moving. Don't stop. Cool down. Stretch. Assess. Pat yourself on the back, you did great. Talk to your coach. Head to every single player you raced and shake hands with them. Adding a "good race" wouldn't hurt.
 You will feel much better when you wake up, and you will have improved due to racing, eating, and sleeping.
 After one day of rest, begin to practice again. Repeat process from step one.

