 Choose a rubbing alcohol that contains at least 60% alcohol, so the alcohol will adhere to the lock and prevent moisture from freezing over it. Rub it onto the key and the door lock with a paper towel once per week to prevent ice from forming. This can also work to melt existing ice, but is typically slower than the methods below.Petroleum jelly is another option, but may leave a messy residue on your equipment.
 If rubbing alcohol is not enough to keep your lock usable, select a lock lubricant. Even experts tend to have differing opinions about lubricant choices, but some options are recommended more often than others. Use only one of the following options per lock, since a mix could easily gum it up:A graphite lubricant typically comes in a squeeze bottle of air that can be pressed directly into the keyhole. Some people find this can absorb moisture over time and leave gunk on the key.
Teflon-based lubricant is often recommended, but some people consider the products that contain silicone messy and ineffective.
Greaseless lubricants are supposed to attract less dust and debris.
 Keep a de-icer product in your garage or winter jacket, in case you are frozen out of your car. These are typically sprayed directly onto the lock, and are the most effective option in severe ice conditions. Choose the lock with the least amount of ice buildup, spray, and insert the key., Hold the key with an oven mitt or tongs, with the toothed tip over a lighter or match, then insert it in the lock. If the key is completely metal, with no plastic handle or computerized fob, you can safely heat the key while it is inserted in the lock.This is not common a practice in cold climates; and there are other, safer alternatives for you and your vehicle. This should only be attempted if no other alternatives are available.
Do not do this with a key with a computerized chip. This may easily damage the electronics, and replacements can costs hundreds of dollars.
 This method is less effective, but worth a try if no other options are available. A cardboard tube (such as an empty toilet paper tube) placed over the frozen lock will help direct the warm air.Keep trying for several minutes, especially if you do not have a tube or if conditions are windy.


If your car is outside, use a battery-operated hair dryer, or an extension cord rated for outdoor use.

