


Ask for maps or a tour of the hospital,
Have each professional explain the part they play in providing care,
Determine exactly where treatment will take place,
Make hospital rooms as homey as possible, bringing things like blankets from home make the environment much more comfortable,
Have activities on hand for time spent in clinic (such as art, a certain subject, etc.), puzzles, and board games are always good,
Clarify the role of the child's referring doctor,
Review the written materials provided by the team or available through your American Cancer Society,
Ask team members to describe how the "system" works, ask other parents who have dealt with cancer in their child. Cancer support groups are very helpful because you meet people in similar situations,;
,, Your child, now more than ever, will be totally dependent upon you and will place a trust in you to keep he/she aware of everything that is happening to them (and to each of you). Should your child ask difficult questions (and they will), it is important you be honest with them. Be prepared to discuss death whether this is the prognosis or not. Children fear death until you gently allow them to accept the term (death). DO NOT deceive your child. You will soon discover your little bundle of joy has the heart, stamina and fortitude of a lion! Their concern becomes not of their fears or pain, but how mommy and daddy are weathering this battle.
 A child will be less fearful if you are with them each step of the process in making them well. You, as the parent, have the right to accompany your child. You are paying the costs. There will be times when you inform a physician, surgeon, whomever, you intend to be at your child's side unless surgery is involved and even then, up until the time of being wheeled to the O.R.. Should you be divorced, do not attempt to shut the stepparents out of the support group. Regardless of how you may feel toward one another, your child may not feel the same and will need all of you now.
 Children, from infants to young adults, will attempt to hide their pain in the presence of loving parents. Learn to listen to what they are not saying and learn to observe their mannerism's when you suspect they are not feeling up to par. Regardless of what you may think, should your child say they are in pain, they are in pain!

, All persons from teenagers through adults should complete a will. Teenagers should specify who will receive radios, stereo equipment, clothing, sentimental items and any other real property. The contents of the will should be discussed with each person who will receive items. Each recipient will know, and will not be able to dispute, the content and wishes of the will.
 Believe it or not, the most important thing to do is believe they will be okay. If you show hope, your daughter/son will too. A positive attitude truly reflects and cleanses your body. Take this information from a past child cancer survivor.

