 Fold the sarong in half, lengthwise. With the folded edge facing upward, hold it behind your waist, and wrap it around your waist. Tie the top corners into a knot, or a double knot for extra security. You can keep the knot in front of you, or rotate the sarong until the knot lays above your hip.This look goes well with swimsuits and tank tops.
To use it as a longer skirt, don't fold it in half.
 Hold the sarong behind your waist, lengthwise. Wrap one of the narrow ends around your waist until it lays flat. Wrap the other narrow end across it. Tuck the top corner behind the waist band of your skirt.


For a short skirt, fold the sarong in half lengthwise first.
This look goes well with swimsuits and tank tops.
 Hold the sarong lengthwise behind your back, just underneath your armpits. Hold the two top corners out in front of you, and then cross them over. Tie them together behind your neck. For extra security, use a double knot.


This look goes well with swimsuits.
For a fancier twist, tie the ends into a knot across your chest first, then tie them behind your neck.Fold it in half lengthwise first, and use it as a halter top instead.
 Hold the sarong lengthwise behind your back, just underneath your armpits. Wrap the top corners around your chest, and tie them into a knot above your bust. Loosely twist the excess fabric into two ropes, and position each one under your bust. Tie the ends of the ropes together behind your back., Hold the sarong lengthwise behind your back, with one of the long edges just underneath your armpits. Wrap the narrow ends around your chest, towards your front. Tie the top corners into a tight knot just above your breast. For extra security, use a double knot.


This look goes well with swimsuits.
Fold it in half lengthwise first, and use it as a tube top instead.
 Hold the sarong vertically against your body, with the narrow top edge under one of your armpits. Bring the top corners around your back and chest towards the opposite shoulder. Tie the corners into a tight, double knot above your shoulder.


To secure and shorten your dress: pinch two of the edges at your waist, and tie them together into a tight, double knot. This secures your dress, and helps shorten it.To secure the dress and cinch your waist: wear a belt around your waist, the wider the better.
 Hold a sarong vertically in front of you. Bring the top corners around to your back, just beneath your armpits, and tie them into a double knot.Take the bottom edge of the sarong, and pull it back between your legs, towards your back.Bring the corners towards your hips, and wrap them around your waist. Tie them into a tight knot at your belly button., Hold the sarong lengthwise and lay it across your chest. Drape the narrow ends across your shoulders and towards your back.


This look goes well with longer dresses, and is perfect for evenings.
Try pairing it with a pearl or diamond choker necklace.
 Fold the sarong in half widthwise, and match the narrow ends up. Tie the top corners into a tight knot. Bring your knot towards the top of the fold, and tie it again. To wear the sarong vest, slip your arms through the holes/loops with the knotted part at your back.