 Communicating in an honest, straightforward manner will help your confidence in any given situation. Assertive communication helps ensure that everyone’s rights (the speaker and listener) are protected. It also ensures that everyone enters into the conversation with an understanding of cooperation. This also means that everyone’s opinions are considered when working out a solution.


For example, if you want to act confident during an interview, you could take the interview as an opportunity to see how your work experience and knowledge is going to contribute to fulfilling the company’s needs. You could say, “From what you’ve told me, one of the skills you are looking for is in helping to expand upon existing client’s usage of intermodal rail services. In my position at ABC Transport, I was able to help three major national clients expand their use of intermodal rail services, bringing in an extra one million dollars for the company. I would love to do the same, if not more, for XYZ Intermodal.”
You will seem confident to your future employer because you have conveyed your past accomplishments in a way that is factual rather than boastful. Moreover, you are conveying your enthusiasm for becoming one of the team.
 When you need to make a decision, don’t waffle over the options. Be decisive and firm, and stand by your decision.This can be something minor, such as deciding which restaurant you’ll go to for dinner. Don’t overthink this decision. Decide on a restaurant and have fun.
If the decision is a large one, such as accepting a new job, you can take more time to weigh the pros and cons of the decision’s outcomes. Just make sure that you are not hemming and hawing too much.
 Channel any nervous energy you’ve got into something productive. Shift your focus onto working hard. Confident people are not afraid to look towards improvement, because what they do does not affect their own self-opinion. They know that they are always going to do their best in any given situation, so they will act confident even if mistakes happen.
 Confident people don’t give up easily in situations. Rather, they keep going until they have found a solution or a way to succeed. If you want to act with confidence, don’t cave in when you are confronted with a challenge.