 When cleaning your car, you should always save your windows to last to prevent yourself from having to do more work. You can prevent contaminating your windows with smudges and grime by cleaning the rest of your car before you clean your windows., Car bodies absorb heat quickly, and sitting in the sun, your car might feel hot to the touch. If this is the case for your car, you'll need to park it in an area with shade and wait until the outside of your car feels cool.


If your car is too hot, it can cause cleaner or water that you use to evaporate too quickly for you to clean the window., Ammonia based window cleaner, like most household window cleaners, can be damaging to tinting and can dry out the rubber seals of your car.You should go to your local hardware or automotive store to purchase glass cleaner formulated for automotive purposes. If you buy the concentrated formula, you should dilute it with distilled water for best results. Including your cleaner you'll also need:


Automotive glass cleaner
Bucket (if using concentrated cleaner)
Cloth (microfiber recommended; clean cotton OK)
Distilled water (if diluting cleaner)
Sponge (optional)
Wiper treatment (optional)

, Due to size and angle, these windows can be the hardest on your car to clean well. Mix your cleaner, if necessary, and spray a good amount of it onto your window, or apply it from a bucket with a sponge. Then use your clean cloth to wipe your front windshield and rear window clean.


Clean in different directions to make it easier to see smudges or missed spots. For example, you might wipe up and down for the exterior of the car, and left to right for the interior., When your cleaning solution and cloth don't seem to be strong enough to eliminate the dried on protein of bug guts, you might need to take drastic measures. There are specially formulated products for removing difficult bug stains from the windows of your car, but you might be able to loosen the splotch by leaving a rag wet with cleaning product atop the bug blemish. Then simply wipe the splatter away with your microfiber cloth.


Some auto experts recommend sprinkling a little big of baking soda atop trouble areas that just won't wipe clean. Allow the solution a few moments to set on the stain, and try to buff it out with your microfiber cloth again., A common area that is missed when cleaning car windows is the very top, where the window usually slides into place inside a rubber seal. To prevent unsightly lines, roll your window down a little bit and use your cloth to wipe the area clean.If this portion of the window is especially dirty, you might need to spritz a little more cleaner onto the dirty portion of your window first.
 You may want to take your cloth and run it along the outside edges of the window first, to clean any buildup that has occurred along the seams of the window. After cleaning edges and corners, wet or re-wet the main surface of your side window and wipe it with opposite direction strokes from how you wipe on the inside.


For example, you might wipe your exterior widows dry with an up and down motion and the interior widows side to side. This will help you spot areas you've missed.
Cleaning your windows from the top down prevents drips from ruining your fresh-cleaned windows.
While cleaning your side windows you should also spray and wipe clean your side mirrors., Use a little bit of your cleaner to break up buildup on your windshield wipers and then wipe both wipers dry with your cloth. Buildup on your wiper blades can be harmful to your windshield and can cause your blades to wear out quickly if not maintained. To prevent this, you can apply a wiper treatment to your car after you have wiped clean the blades.