 Meanwhile, prepare a 9-by-13-inch (23-by-33-cm) baking dish by coating it with nonstick cooking spray.If you don't have cooking spray, you can grease the dish with 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of olive oil or another vegetable-based cooking oil. Lining the dish with parchment paper or nonstick aluminum foil would be another option.;
, Place the ground turkey, egg, bread crumbs, parsley, onion powder, salt, and pepper into a large bowl. Use your hands to thoroughly mix the ingredients together.


You can customize these meatballs to match your own tastes. Consider using an Italian seasoning blend instead of parsley, or freshly minced onion instead of onion powder.
The meat mixture should hold together when gently pressed.
 Divide the turkey mixture into small portions, rolling each one into 1-inch (2.5-cm) balls. Place the meatballs onto your prepared baking sheet.


Use your hands to roll the turkey mixture into meatballs. Alternatively, you can portion out the turkey mixture using a melon baller or small rounded ice cream scoop.
After placing the meatballs onto the prepared baking dish, gently press down on each one to flatten the very bottom. Only flatten the bottoms enough to prevent the meatballs from rolling around as you handle the dish., Place the dish of meatballs into the preheated oven and cook them until the insides are no longer pink.


The exact amount of time may vary depending on how large the meatballs are. You may also wish to bake them up to 5 minutes longer to help them turn brown and crispy on top.
 Remove the finished meatballs from the oven. Enjoy them immediately or save them for another time.


Turkey meatballs can be served in pasta dishes, with rice, on meatball subs, or on their own. Consider pairing them with your favorite tomato sauce.
If desired, allow the meatballs to cool to room temperature, then transfer them to a resealable plastic bag for storage. You can keep them fresh in your refrigerator for 3 to 4 days, or in your freezer for up to 3 months. Defrost as needed and microwave them before enjoying.

