 You'll receive the Eon Flute from Steven automatically during the story after you defeat Primal Groudon (OR) or Primal Kyogre (AS) in the Cave of Origin in Sootopolis City. This chain of events will start after your defeat the leader of the Mossdeep Gym and earn the Mind Badge.To defeat Primal Groudon, bring high-level Ground-type Pokémon.
To defeat Primal Kyogre, bring high-level Grass- and Electric-type Pokémon.;
, This part will likely take the longest, since by the end of the game you probably don't have any Pokémon over Level 80 or so.

Pick the Pokémon that is already the highest level to try to raise to 100. It doesn't matter if it's not your most powerful Pokémon, since you'll only be using it to gain access to the special area where Reshiram/Zekrom can be found. These Legendary Pokémon are only Level 50.
Training to Level 100 may take a while, but you can speed things up with a few tricks. See Get Your Pokémon to Level 100 for details.
 These are the only two types of Poké Balls that you'll need to catch Reshiram/Zekrom. Ultra Balls will give you the best chance of catching it until you get to Turn 30, when Timer Balls become more effective., You'll want certain types of Pokémon in your party depending on whether you're fighting Reshiram or Zekrom.

Reshiram - Bring Pokémon with Ground-, Rock-, and Dragon-type attacks. You'll also want a Pokémon that can inflict Paralyze, which will increase your chances of capturing it.
Zekrom - Bring Pokémon with Ground-, Ice-, Dragon-, or Fairy-type attacks. Zekrom cannot be paralyzed, so bring a Pokémon that can put it to sleep instead.
 this move is very useful for getting the Legendary Pokémon down to 1 HP without knocking it out., The Fabled Cave will not appear on the map unless you have your Level 100 Pokémon in your active party., This will allow you to Soar above Hoenn. You can freely roam while on the back of Latios/Latias., This Route connects Mauville City and Slateport City. You can find it on the western side of the Hoenn landmass., You'll find this island just to the east of Route 110 in the water, south of Mauville City., This star will only appear if you have your Level 100 Pokémon in your active party., When you land on the island, you'll be dropped off right in front of a cave entrance., Before you enter the Fabled Cave, save your game. This will make it easy to reset if you accidentally knock out the Legendary Pokémon, or you get defeated., Walk through the cave entrance and then walk to the back of the cave., Confirm that you want to reach into the portal and the battle with the Legendary Pokémon will begin., Use your Pokémon that have effective attacks against the Legendary Pokémon (Ground-, Rock-, and Dragon-type for Reshiram, Ground-, Ice-, Dragon-, or Fairy-type for Zekrom). Use these attacks to take a significant portion of the Legendary Pokémon's health down., The False Swipe attack can be used to drop the Pokémon's health down to 1 HP without knocking it out, making it easier to capture., Once the Reshiram or Zekrom's health is lowered to 1 HP, use the move that gives Paralyze (Reshiram) or Sleep (Zekrom).

If at any time during the battle the Pokémon breaks free or wakes up, use the status effect again to keep it trapped.
 Continue to throw Ultra Balls until you've either caught the Pokémon or you've reached approximately turn 30., This late in the battle, the Timer Balls are more effective than the Ultra Balls. Keep at it, and you'll soon have the Legendary Pokémon captured., If you've knocked out Reshiram or Zekrom and forgot to save right before the battle, you can get another chance by facing off against the Elite Four again, If you have Alpha Sapphire, you can't capture Reshiram. If you have Omega Ruby, you can't capture Zekrom. The only way to get the Legendary Pokémon you can't catch is to trade someone for it. This means coming up with a trade offer that someone would accept.

See GTS Barter for What You Want for tips on getting the best trade deals in online trading.
There are no cheats available for Omega Ruby or Alpha Sapphire that will allow you to get the other Legendary Pokémon.

