 The infringing copyrighted material appears at a website operated by you at . I own all rights and interest in and to this material and have reserved all rights to this work, which was first published on <<date>> on <<your website="" url="">>.Permission was neither asked for nor granted to reproduce my Work, which constitutes infringement of my rights. #* Because you do not have permission to use my copyright protected material, I believe you have willfully infringed my rights under 17 USC §101, et seq. and you could be held liable for substantial statutory damages as high as $150,000, as set forth in Section 504(c)(2) therein. Attorney’s fees and costs may also be sought and awarded can also be recovered. In addition, copyright infringement is a direct violation of International Copyright Law and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). I am therefore entitled to an injunction, and puts you at risk for damages incurred by me in obtaining the injunction and all related fees and costs.
I demand that you immediately cease the use and distribution of all infringing works derived from my work, and all copies of it, and that you remove any further works you may have stolen and that you desist from this or any other infringement of my rights in the future.
If you do not comply within 72 hours, I’ll have no other choice but to initiate contact with your site’s ISP or Web Hosting Provider along with each major search engine. I intend to pursue all remedies available to me in law and equity in litigation proceedings.
Yours very truly,;
, Copyright Law. I appreciate your enforcement of copyright law and the support of my rights in this matter, as the infringing material appears on the Service for which you are the designated agent.
Identification of Copyrighted Work
The copyrighted work at issue is the text that appears on www.mydomain.com and its related pages.
Identification of Infringed Material
The following , placed in quotes, were used as the search queries in <<name the="" search="" engine="" you="" are="" responding="" to="">>. Results of that search led us to a site other than ours and we determined that there was infringement by . My copyright protected material has been copied and used without my knowledge and/or permission. Te attached spreadsheet provides examples of the copied text.
The URLs of the infringing search results are as follows: (add the queries leading to each site):
http://www.xxxx.com/
Please contact me at your earliest convenience to confirm your action taken to protect my rights and interests in and to my copyright protected material. You may contact me at:
Name
Address
Phone Number
Email Address
Infringer's Information
{WHOIS DATA}
Copyright Owners Statement
I believe, in good faith, that use of the copyrighted materials described above on the allegedly infringing web pages is not authorized by the me, the owner of the copyright, my agents, or by any law.
I swear, under the penalty of perjury laws of the United States of America, that the information in the notification is accurate and that I am the copyright owner or am authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.
Yours very truly,

,