 Lap travel, while legal for children under 2 years of age, is much less safe than traveling in an approved seat.The FAA recommends that all children use a restraint on board from birth to 40 pounds. It also comes in handy because you can attach toys or pictures to the top, a mirror to the side, and a pillow to the back for comfort while sleeping.

However, in Europe, Australia, Asia, the use of a lap belt onboard is normal and approved by their safety regulations. These are provided by the airline and attach to your seatbelt.
From the FAA: Did you know the safest place for your little one during turbulence or an emergency is in a government-approved child restraint system (CRS) or device, not on your lap? http://www.faa.gov/passengers/fly_children/crs/
;
, Some (non American) airlines allow a piece of hold luggage, usually 10kg and a nappy bag. Always check with your airline their particular baggage allowances as these do vary greatly

, Many large airlines allow you to request a baby meal for infants. This must be pre-booked at least 24 hours in advance, and is usually a puréed jar

, Also consider layers in case the cabin temperature is too hot or cold. Always pack at least one spare change of clothes for baby and spare too for you - just in case of any spills or accidents.
 Include a change of clothes or two outfits, bind, diapers/nappies, toys (stickers, crayons, and paper for toddlers) changing pad, baby wipes, and utensils.


You must declare baby food, formula, medicines. Babies and toddlers ARE exempt from the 3-1-1 and 100ml liquid rule.
 Wrapping them individually helps to keep them entertained. You may choose to hold onto these toys until your child becomes antsy or angry. If the flight goes well, then save the toys for the flight home.
 Instead pack plenty of snacks incase the inflight service is delayed. Raisins, bananas, crackers, are all good ideas.
 If your child cries uncontrollably, then you can show your concern by handing your neighbors an inexpensive pair of foam earplugs with a kind smile.
 Ask the attendant for a "Gate Check Tag" for your stroller. They will stow your stroller with the luggage in the belly of the plane. You can also check in your stroller with your bags if you prefer and then use a baby carrier. You rarely will collect your stroller as you exit the plane, but will find it with the normal baggage reclaim, or in the excess baggage area. Some airports provide complimentary strollers for use when in transit or on arrival.
 He or she will likely say 'yes'. You may want to do this or not, if you get on early, you have more time to get ready. If you don't get on until the last minute, there is less time on the cramped plane spaces.
 Consider buying a cup, straw & lid from a concession stand before boarding your flight in a pinch.
 Pillows are too bulky to pack. If you don't like the idea of your child's face on the airline pillow, then cover it with your blanket from home. If your child wants to sleep in your arms, then they will need extra cushioning.
 You cannot quickly or easily reach things under your seat or in the overhead: they will go unused and be a useless burden.
 Some children fall asleep in a plane as they would while riding in a car.

