 The first step while outsourcing your project, is to analyze and research your business need. What type of web development project you need. It may vary from business to business. It helps to choose best partner company.;
, Drawing on a prior document regarding how you want the project to be done, not only helps to examine the work but also support recruiting company to go thoroughly as per your need. It’s always vital to make a roadmap of your web development project.
 It is always vital to analyze SWOT for the business organization. The main reason behind outsourcing your web development project is reduction of cost and overhead. Try to come to different alternatives before placing your project with any companies. For example: If you want to develop your ecommerce site on a CMS, which CMS will be best for you.
 You want to outsource your web development project because you want quality work while paying a cheaper price at the same time. Recruiting custom web developer and expertise always tends to have a higher cost.
 While choosing the company which is going to be your outsource partner, first analyze their portfolio critically. You need to be sure that they can fulfill your need. It is always best to choose that company who've worked on the similar portfolio before.
 After analyzing the expertise, you need to check whether they can accomplish your task before your deadline or not. Generally outsourcing your project to the country like Nepal, India will help you to reduce your cost without compromising the quality assurance.
 Before heading to outsource your project, you need to be sure about your partnering IT Company. Assigning small but tricky tasks may help you to judge their expertise. Some company also offer demos for free.
 Requesting and proposing your work proposal only through email or online submission isn't sufficient for effective outsourcing. Contact them directly through phones and Skype them regularly. Stay in contact as much as possible; however let them finish their responsibilities freely.
 After receiving your final product, examine them thoroughly. Observe their work critically and let them know the shortcoming and drawbacks.
 Web development is not one time work; you may need to update your application as per your need to cope with external changes. Partnering another offshore company to update your site isn't a wise idea, so regularly communicate your partner company and make them long term friends by fulfilling the commitment of paying and reimbursement.

