


Check with state or regional agencies such as the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Child Welfare or the Division of Child Development.
You can also find individual state child care licensing requirements on the Internet at relevant Government websites, if these apply.
Opening a preschool usually involves a license application, criminal background checks and facility inspections.;
,


Some states or regions require a degree or credits in education for a preschool director or lead teachers.



Find state and local business licensing requirements by visiting the Small Business Administration's website at here If this is applicable to your situation.
You will also need to get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) if you will be hiring teachers or a director. This can be done by going to http://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/Apply-for-an-Employer-Identification-Number-(EIN)-Online. This may not apply outside of the U.S..
The formal business entity you choose (sole proprietorship, LLC, partnership) will determine the type of additional paperwork you will need. Forms are filed with the state and federal government or other appropriate government agencies.



The most important aspect of your preschool business plan will be determining your budget and securing financing, whether through loans, grants or other means.
Other questions that should be addressed in the business and school plan are preschool location, hours of operation, the number of children, the age of children, tuition, plans for hiring employees school policies and instructional plans.



You must first determine if you will be operating from your house or another location
Some states or regions have specific requirements for the amount of space that you need and safety, fire and health inspections will be required.
You can buy or lease a facility for a preschool location.



You will need an educational supplies, furniture and safety supplies.



If you plan on hiring teachers and assistants, make sure their experience and qualifications match the regional requirements for preschool teachers.
Highly qualified teachers and staff will help you to attract more students.



You will need to have liability insurance for your preschool location, whether it is in your own house or in an outside facility. Contact your insurance provider to arrange the right type and level of insurance.



Advertise your new preschool in the community through flyers, newspaper ads, church bulletins and word of mouth.
Launch a website for your preschool to provide information to prospective preschool parents.



Work through issues as they arise.

