 Your choice of bras can affect how your breasts feel. Wearing comfortable bras that firmly support your breasts can help relieve pain and may also help protect against the effects of gravity.


Make sure you get properly fitted for a bra by a professional. A bra that doesn’t fit your breasts properly can cause pain.You can find a professional to fit you for a bra at many department stores and most lingerie stores.
Avoid wearing under-wire and push-up bras for a few days. Instead, try wearing camisoles with built-in shelf bras or sports bras to give you light support.
Don’t wear a bra while you sleep if possible. If you need some support, wear a sports bra made of a breathable fabric.;
, If you are active and exercise regularly, purchase a supportive sports bra. They are specially designed to help cushion and support your breasts against the impact of sports and may help alleviate breast discomfort.Sports bras come in different styles, sizes, and types of support. Consider asking a fitting professional to help you find the proper sports bra for your needs and breast size.Women with larger breasts should purchase a sturdier and firmer support sports bra. If you have smaller breasts, you may need less support., Use cool compresses on the areas of your breasts that are tender. This can help reduce any swelling and relieve pain.You can use an ice pack as often as necessary for 20 minutes at a time.You can freeze a plastic foam cup full of water to gently massage the affected area.You can also try a bag of frozen vegetables wrapped in a dishtowel. The frozen vegetables conform to the shape of the breast and may be more comfortable than an ice pack.
If it is too cold or your skin gets numb, remove the pack. Use a towel between the ice pack and your skin to help prevent frostbite., Using heat on tense muscles not only can relax the contracting muscle and you, but it will also help alleviate the pain. From heating pads to warm baths, there are many different types of heat treatments that can help breast tenderness.Taking a warm shower or bath will relax you and can help relieve breast pain.
Fill a hot water bottle or get a heating pad and place it on the your breasts.
Over the counter heat rubs may also help alleviate tenderness, though you should be careful putting these creams on your nipples. You should also avoid these if you are breastfeeding.
 Studies linking caffeine and breast tenderness are still inconclusive, but some doctors suggest reducing or staying away from caffeine altogether. This may help reduce tenderness in the breast.Drinks such as soda, coffee, and tea contain caffeine.Foods including chocolate and some coffee ice creams may contain caffeine.If you are taking caffeine pills to stay awake, avoid taking them during times your breasts are sore., Reduce fat in your diet and increase the number of complex carbohydrates you eat. There is some evidence that making these changes to your diet can help relieve breast pain.Eat leans meats such as chicken and fish for protein and avoid other high fat foods such as fried and junk food.You can get complex carbohydrates from fruits, vegetables, and whole grains., Some studies have shown that nutritional supplements may help with breast tenderness. Adding vitamins and minerals such as vitamin E and iodine may alleviate any pain you have.Try 600 IU per day of vitamin E, 50 mg per day of vitamin B6, and 300 mg per day of magnesium.You can get iodine though salt or take an aqueous dose of 3-6mg per day.Evening primrose oil, which contains linoleic acid, may help make the breasts less sensitive to hormonal changes. Take three grams of evening primrose oil per day.You can get nutritional supplements and vitamins at most pharmacies and health food stores.
 Gently massaging your breasts and surrounding tissues can relieve pain and may also help you relax.


Some studies show that massage can release tension and lengthen tense muscles.Make sure to be gentle when you do any kind of breast massage. You don’t want to injure your delicate breast tissue. Rubbing your face or even just massaging your ears will relieve tension., Take pain relievers for severe discomfort and/or as necessary. These medications may help alleviate breast pain and possible swelling.Take over the counter pain relievers such as aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen sodium or acetaminophen.Ibuprofen and naproxen sodium may also help alleviate some of the swelling.