 Daffodils are a beautiful flower with six petals and a trumpet. They are poisonous, so deer won’t eat them.They can be white or yellow. They are very suitable for a border or between the shrubs in your garden. They are rated excellent for deer-resistance. , A gorgeous, flowering shrub that attracts hummingbirds, angel’s trumpet will bloom with white, peach, yellow, and orange flowers. The plant is part of the Nightshade family and all parts of the plant are toxic.As a result, it is very resistant to deer., A part of the parsley family, anise is a herbaceous plant with delicate white flowers and feathery leaves. It adds a delicate touch to your garden and the flowers contain brown seeds that are a very popular herb. If you harvest the seeds, you can grind them and use them in cooking.Anise is disliked by deer, which results in an excellent rating on deer-resistance., False chamomile is also called pineapple weed for its pineapple scent. It looks a lot like chamomile looks after its’ leaves have fallen off in the fall, but is a different plant.Deer tend to ignore false chamomile, so it is a good choice for your deer-resistant garden., Flowering tobacco grows six inches to eight feet in height and is usually about two feet in width. It is a great choice for borders. It can have blue, green, pink, red, or white flowers. It can bloom in the summer and fall and attracts birds.Luckily, deer dislike it so it is an excellent choice for your deer-resistant garden. , A pretty plant with blue, pink or white colors, larkspur can grow anywhere from one to eight feet tall and is between six and twelve inches wide. In the summer, you can cut the flowers and put them in a vase in your living room.A drought tolerant and deer-resistant plant, larkspur is an excellent choice for beautifying your deer-resistant garden., Marigolds are popular for a number of reasons. They bloom all summer long, offering your garden bright copper and golden colors. Marigolds are also wonderful companion plants because they repel microscopic worms and keep harmful animals and insects off your vegetables and flowers.Deer dislike marigolds, so they are a beautiful and functional choice for your deer-resistant garden., Bright colored poppies can be blue, red or other rich colors. They are poisonous so deer avoid them.They grow in clumps and can blossom for six weeks in the summer, typically beginning in June. They are part of the papaver genus which also includes opium poppy, common poppy, and plumed varieties.Poppies are highly recommended for deer-resistant gardens.