 In a discussion book club, the whole group reads the same book between each meeting, usually one per month. There are a couple ways to decide which books to read:


Let anyone propose a book, then have the club vote on the options. Try this if the members have a similar taste in books and don't want to explore new genres.
Let one member choose each book, rotating through the list. This is a good way to explore a variety of works.
Work your way through a list of books that have received a particular reward for quality (Pulitzer Prize, National Book Award), excellence within a genre (Nebula, Walter Scott Prize), or for qualities that lead to good discussion (Firecracker Alternate Book Award, banned book lists, or various book club lists).;
, One common solution is to rotate hosting duties. If not everyone has the ability to host, rotate between those that can, or find a meeting space in a church, library, or community center.


Cafes are a fun option, but they need to have plenty of space and a carefree policy toward noise.
 For many people, socializing is just as important as the discussion. This isn't a problem if everyone's on the same page. If you'd like a more serious discussion instead, set a couple rules to make that clear:


If your group tends to derail the discussion with unrelated conversation, divide the meetings into two parts. Start with casual chats, then move on to focused discussion at a certain time.
If you really want good debate, ask members not to show up unless they've read at least part of the book. This could go over poorly among close friends.
 People attend book clubs in their spare time, and most will not want to put in extra time between meetings. If you'd like to improve the quality of discussion, appoint a facilitator (yourself, or rotating among dedicated readers) to lead the meeting. This facilitator should prepare as follows:


Read a couple reviews and brief author bios.
Come up with a few discussion prompts.
Print out handouts with key passages or extra info (optional).
 If you want an intimate meeting for close friends, ask members to keep it that way. If you're interested in broader debates or meeting new people, ask members to invite friends. If you have a large meeting space, you could even advertise in your local community.

