 Hot water is ideal for removing stains from fabric, but it can destroy a sweater. Because of this, you will need to take extra steps to remove oil stains from sweaters. Here is a list of what you will need:Cornstarch
Dish soap
Cold water
Sink or tub
Sheet of paper larger than the sweater
Pencil or pen
Large towel

, Repeat this two or three more times. Sometimes, this is all you need to remove the oil stain. If the stain persists, keep reading.
 You will be soaking the sweater in water, which could cause it to lose its shape. You will need to stretch the sweat back out to its original shape. This tracing will be your template for that step.
 For a large, bulky sweater, try using a tub or large basin instead. The sweater will need to be completely submerged, so make sure that the water is deep enough.
 Pass your hand through the water a few times to mix everything together. Do not agitate the water so much that you get frothy bubbles. The dish soap will help break up the stubborn stain, and remove it.
 Do not wring or twist the sweater, or you may ruin the shape and fibers.
 Again, resist the urge to wring or twist the sweater. Simply let the water drip out of it.
 Keep draining the old water and soaking the sweater in fresh water until all the soap is gone, and the water is clear. You may need to do this about 10 to 12 times.
 Once the water is clear and the soap is gone, lift the sweater out of the sink and let the water drip out. Lay the sweater flat on one end of a large towel. Start rolling both the towel and sweater towards the other end like a Cinnabon or burrito. The towel will help soak up the excess water. Unroll the towel and take the sweater off.
 Gently tug on the sleeves, hem, and sides, until everything matches up with the outline you drew earlier.
 If you got a woolen skirt, suit, or pants stained with oil, try using a solution made from 1 part dish soap, 1 part white vinegar, and 6 parts water. Cover the stain with the solution, and tap it gently with an old toothbrush. Wait a few minutes, then blot everything dry with a clean towel. Clean off any residue by tapping the area with a damp towel. Finish by dabbing the area dry with another dry towel.You may need to follow up with the washing instructions on the care tag. This means that you may need to take the sweater to a dry cleaner, hand wash it, or put it in the washing machine.Do not leave this solution for too long on the wool, or you may discolor the fabric.