 Mix the active dry yeast into the warm water. Allow it to sit for 10 minutes, or until you see a frothy layer develop on top.;
, In a large bowl, mix together the maida, sooji, sugar, and salt until evenly dispersed.


For best results, use clean hands or a wooden mixing spoon.
 Mix the yeast solution, oil, and yogurt into the combined flour. Stir with a mixing spoon or with clean hands until a soft dough forms.


The dough should hold together well. If the dough seems too dry or crumbly, add more water 1 Tbsp (15 ml) at a time to help hold it together.
 Cover it and place it in a warm location for 3 to 4 hours. During this time, the dough should double in volume.


Cover the bowl of dough with plastic wrap, an inverted plate, or a moist dish towel.
 Punch the dough down and knead it several times. Tear it into 8 equally portioned pieces and shape them into balls.


Note that you may need to dust your hands with a little additional flour to prevent the dough from sticking to your skin.
 Dust each ball of dough with additional flour and lay them out onto the counter. Flatten them into circles using a rolling pin.


Each circle should be about 6 inches (15 cm) in diameter or less. The circles should also be no thinner than 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).
 Pour 1.5 inches (3.75 cm) of oil into a deep frying pan with a heavy bottom. Heat it on high over the stove until the oil reaches a temperature of 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius).


You can check the temperature using a candy or oil thermometer.
If you do not have a thermometer, you can make sure that the oil is hot enough by dropping in a small piece of dough. It should immediately begin to sizzle and float to the top, taking on a light color.
The oil must be sufficiently hot before you begin. If not, the finished bread will be greasy and heavy.
 Drop one into the hot oil. Press it gently with a skimmer or slotted spoon until it puffs up like a ball. Use the spoon to turn the bhatura to the other side, and cook it until both sides turn a light golden-brown.


Monitor the temperature of the oil as you fry the bread. It will naturally drop as you add the dough and rise as the pan sits empty. Manipulate the temperature control settings on your stove to maintain as even a temperature as possible throughout the entire process.
 Remove the finished bhatura from the oil using a slotted spoon. Place the bread on a plate lined with paper towels and allow the excess oil to drain off. Serve while still hot and fresh.


Serve the bhatura with homemade chole, a dish made from chickpeas, or channa.

