 While they may make your hair look good for a few hours, hot styling tools like hair dryers, hair straighteners, and hair curlers can weaken your hair and hinder hair growth. Try to reduce your use of these tools or cut them out of your hair care routine. Do minimal hair styling, with minimal hair products, so your hair can stay healthy and grow out.If you decide to use hot styling tools, set them to a low heat setting, no higher than 325 degrees Fahrenheit, and apply a heat protectant gel or cream before you use the tool on your hair. This will help to protect your hair from drying out and breaking off.;
, Pulling your hair back into a ponytail or a tight updo can lead to breakage and damaged strands. Rather than using clips, pins, and hair ties in your hair, go for a more relaxed look. Let your hair flow long and over time, it will grow out long and healthy., Reduce your shampoo use to only two to three times a week so you do not dry out or overwash your hair. This will allow your hair to stay strong and healthy, leading to better long term growth.If your scalp gets oily or itchy due to underwashing, you can increase the amount of times you shampoo during the week. When you shampoo your hair, you should massage the shampoo into your scalp and try not to rub your hair with the shampoo.
To keep your hair healthy, you should focus on conditioning your hair every time you shower. Conditioner is great for strengthen your hair, as it replaces the lipids and proteins in your hair shafts. You can also use a conditioning treatment to give your hair an extra boost, such as a treatment that contains natural ingredients to encourage hair growth and soothe your scalp.
 Avoid wrapping your wet hair tightly in a towel as doing this can cause breakage and put stress on the strands of your hair. Instead, use a dry towel to pat your hair so you do not tear, pull, or rip at your wet hair.If you can’t break your towel wrapping habit, use thin towels and soft microfiber towels. These towels are made of material that is light on your hair and soaks up the water in your hair without damaging it.
 Though it may seem like the wrong move when you are trying to grow out your hair, getting your hair trimmed once you develop split ends can actually encourage hair growth. Split ends start as dry, brittle parts of your hair and if they are not trimmed, can work their way up the strands of your hair. If you leave your split ends for too long, when you do go to your hairdresser, she may be forced to trim a significant amount of length off you hair to get rid of the split ends.Make sure you see your hairdresser every 10 to 12 weeks for a trim. Schedule appointments ahead with your hairdresser so your hair stays healthy and free of split ends.
 Though it may seem luxurious, sleeping on silk pillowcases can actually encourage hair growth. Pillowcases made of cotton or linen can pull and tug at your hair, leading to breakage when you move around while sleeping. The soft, slick texture of silk will not create any unwanted friction, keeping your hair smooth, long, and knot-free.