 If anyone you know has experience with hiring a bounty hunter, they might be able to provide some recommendations.


People close to you likely have a general understanding of the situation you're dealing with, so they may be in a better position to help you find the right person to meet your needs.
Since your friends know you, they also have a good idea of the types of people you would trust and feel comfortable around.;
, If you know any judges, police officers, or attorneys who works with bounty hunters or private investigators, ask who they would recommend.


People in law enforcement have an understanding of a particular agent's reputation in the community, so you can be more assured that the recommended agents are respected, cooperate with police, and operate within the bounds of the law., Once you've talked to professionals and people close to you, make a list of agents you might want to hire so you can do more in-depth research.


If necessary, research for additional possibilities. It would be good to start with a handful of possibilities, although some of these may be eliminated through the course of your research.
Ideally, you want to try to interview at least three agents before hiring one, although in more rural areas this might prove difficult.
 Many states that allow bounty hunters require some level of licensing. Look up the licensing board in your state and make sure your candidates are following the rules.


Generally, states require bounty hunters to be at least 18 years old and never convicted of a felony.Some states, such as Washington, won't license a bounty hunter if he has been convicted of any crime in any jurisdiction.Florida, Illinois, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Wisconsin, and Oregon have restricted the use of bounty hunters within their borders. Keep this in mind if you live in or near one of these states.Some states have particularly rigorous licensing requirements. For example, in Connecticut, bounty hunters must complete at least 20 hours of training in criminal justice and at least eight hours of firearms training before they can even apply for a license to practice in the state.Other states impose strict residency requirements and require extensive background checks and character references.If any agent you're thinking about hiring has has any disciplinary actions or problems with the licensing board, go ahead and strike him off your list.
 Check each candidate's record as well as self-reported information on the candidate's website to learn more about the agent as a person and a professional.


Find out what kind of education each candidate has received, and how that plays into the candidate's tactics and procedures.
Get a better understanding of where each candidate grew up, the kind of person they are, whether they have a family, and whether they're respected members of their neighborhood. Read an agent's bio, if he has one on his website, to learn who he is and whether you think you'd like him in general as a person.
 The Better Business Bureau or other consumer assistance groups may have fielded complaints about a candidate, or there may be other negative statements about the agent online.


Keep in mind that the internet is a hot-bed of complaints about anything and everything, so take any complaints you find on the internet with a grain of salt, especially if they were made anonymously.
Put more weight on formal complaints, such as with the BBB or a local consumer group. Check for any additional information to find out if the complaints were resolved, and if so what happened and how quickly the agent answered the complaint.
 When you talk to each candidate, be as clear and succinct as possible in telling your story and why you need to hire him or her.


Find out if your case matches the sorts of cases the agent ordinarily takes on. You want to learn the types of fugitives each agent usually goes after and where his expertise lies.
 Bounty hunters often are accused of using excessive force, and you want to make sure that you are okay with the weapons the agent might use and how he or she intends to apprehend the fugitive.For example, if you need the agent's help to track down your ex-husband for back child support, you may prefer if the agent uses non-lethal force at all times. If an agent always carries a handgun, you might not want to hire him.
Find out what particular types of cases the agent specializes in, how long it typically takes him to recover a fugitive, and what his overall success rate is.
 Have each agent explain his or her billing process in detail, preferably in writing.


Many agents operate much like attorneys and other professionals who bill by the hour. They require an upfront retainer, then charge by the hour for anything in excess of that amount.
Get a list of the expenses you will be billed for, and how expenses are divided if the agent is working on more than one account at the same time., Before you hire an agent, you need to have confidence that he has the knowledge and skill-set necessary to bring your situation to a successful conclusion.


Even if the state doesn't require any prior law enforcement experience or education, having it is a plus. You also should find out if the agent enjoys taking additional classes or training, or only does the bare minimum required to maintain his license.If you have the opportunity, ask the candidate what motivated him to become a bounty hunter. The answer to this question can give you a lot of insight into who the candidate is as a person and how he goes about his job.
 Meet with each agent in person if you can, rather than over the phone, so you can observe their mannerisms.


The agent's demeanor should fit with your needs. For example, if you need someone who is physically imposing and aggressive, a quiet, short-statured woman might not work for you.
 Because you will be sharing potentially sensitive information with this person and working closely with him or her, it is important that you feel at ease.


Most importantly, if you don't feel you can trust an agent, don't hire him. You may be looking at a situation where you are paying this person to devote many hours to working for you, so if you can't depend on him, you don't need him.
 For each candidate you interviewed, write down good and bad points so you can compare the agents more efficiently.


While price may be a significant factor, it shouldn't be the only factor. Determine the range you can afford so you know when you have some leeway to spend a little more for someone who is more qualified.
For example, a young bounty hunter who's just starting out may have a lower hourly rate, but it also may take him 20 hours worth of work to apprehend your fugitive. However, a more experienced bounty hunter actually would be less expensive even with an hourly rate twice the other's if he could find the person in only six hours' time.
Analyze each factor according to your own personal preferences. For example, it may be most important to you that your fugitive is apprehended without use of lethal force such as a gun with live ammunition. If this is the case, you would be willing to pay more money to ensure that condition was met.
 Through the process of comparison, you may find that there is something you forgot to ask and need to know.
 Once you've made your final choice, make arrangements to meet with them as soon as possible so they can get to work.


In these situations, time often is of the essence, so although you need to be thorough, you should make your decision as quickly as possible.
Letting the others you interviewed know that you've decided to hire someone else is a good show of professional courtesy.

