 Studies show that women can endure much more pain than men and that women by nature are very tough creatures. We go through a lot of pain, both mentally and physically, simply because we are women. A lot is expected out of us in life, especially in this day and age. We go through childbirth. And look at it this way - anything that can bleed for five days and not die has to be pretty tough!;
, Think of hard things you've had to go through and how you dealt with them, how you made it through. Remind yourself that you made it through those times.
 Stay in shape. When it comes to physical toughness, well, that one can be a bit harder. If you're not already physically tough, work out! Build some muscle! Now don't go body building, but build up your strength so you will be able to take anyone who starts with you.
 Don't join a team just to mine the field for potential boyfriends. Throw yourself into the game, get in touch with your inner competitor, and don't be afraid to break a sweat. Try a really cool sport like martial arts. You get a good workout, meet great people and learn something that you can really use.
 Jeans, t-shirts, and trainers are always a good bet. High-heels, skirts, and dresses are no-nos if you plan on doing anything physical that day.
 Wear make-up, but if you want to look tough, make it look edgy.
 They say to never pair intense lipstick with intense eyes. Who says you have to follow that rule? Intense, smoky eyes and the right shade of red lipstick can look great.
 Another fashion tip for being tough: boots. A great pair of black combat boots or black knee-high boots and put a tough edge on any outfit.
 A good bathing suit is board shorts and a bikini top.
 It's more about attitude than it is the way you look. It's one thing to look tough, it's a whole different ball game to actually be tough. Remind yourself that you can take what anyone has to dish out, and be prepared for it at all times.
 Confidence is the number one factor in being both feminine and tough. Keep in mind that you're a beautiful woman, but that you can also kick ass when need be. That will get you further than anything else!

, You soon will!

, We can't stay tough for too long a time and keep all our emotions locked in.

