 You may have noticed that chokers are all the rage this season. They come in all different widths, colors, and materials, but one of the most popular is the classic velvet choker. These iconic ‘90s pieces look great out on the town at night, but they’re also doable in the daytime. Pair them with a flowy daytime dress or slouchy sweater to look easygoing but also on-trend and put-together.A narrower width will be more subtle than broader versions. You can even find chokers that mimic bolo ties or ribbons, creating a longer line that doesn’t read as such a bold choker-choice.
 Velvet ankle booties combine luxe sophistication with a retro rock n roll attitude. And, since they’re a relatively small part of your ensemble, they can be a good way to ease into the velvet trend. Pair them with some skinny jeans or boot-cut trousers to highlight the lush velvet while remaining casual and cool.You’ll find that most velvet booties have platforms or chunky heels, so you might want to look for a different velvet accessory if you’re uncomfortable with heels.
 Chokers might be the most popular velvet accessory, but they're not the only ones available. In fact, you can find a wide variety of hair accessories and jewelry in velvet, such as headbands, retro scrunchies, cuff bracelets, and baseball caps. Since these components are fairly small, you can incorporate them into almost any casual outfit without feeling like you're making a fashion statement.


Don't forget about handbags! Even though you might not wear them on your body in the same way that you wear a dress or a hat, they can constitute important and attention-grabbing elements of your ensemble. Velvet clutches and backpacks are particularly in vogue at the moment, as well as small, cross-body purses and pocketbooks.
 If you want to incorporate some velvet into your outfit without committing to a whole piece, look for jackets, belts, or bottoms with some velvet accents. A velvet trim on a dress or blouse, a velvet ribbon or stripe around the waist of a blazer, or velvet buttons on a jacket can all add flair to your ensemble while remaining subtle and casual.

