 You don’t need to splurge on a professional photograph, but posting a blurry cellphone photo or a photo of you as a child doesn’t tell the person viewing your profile much about your current appearance.Have a friend take a photo of you, preferably on a summer day. Don’t wear sunglasses, a hat or stand in the shadows.
Don’t forget to smile and look at the camera like you’re happy to see the person behind it. You want your profile picture to be appealing and show you at your best.
Action shots also work well as they show off your interests in an active, immediate way. Choose a shot of you playing ultimate frisbee in the park or dancing at a concert.
 Names like “SpunkyHunk” or “HotMinx” may have been funny back in high school, but silly or overly sexual profile names will only signal to others that you aren’t interested in a serious connection or relationship.Choose a profile name that shows off your personality but still feels grown up. You can also abbreviate your name for an easy profile name. For example: “SuperSteph13” or “BradW.”

, It can be difficult to describe yourself well in words. A close friend may know you better than you know yourself and be able to add in details about yourself that you may not be aware of or feel awkward about putting in your profile.
 Don’t just put down hobbies like “walking on the beach” or “drinking on the weekend”. These are cliches that won’t help your profile stand out. Think of interesting hobbies that could be conversation starters, like “Cards Against Humanity Champion 2015” or “Addicted to traveling in South America” or “Fan of early Battlestar Galactica”.Try to also include sociable hobbies. Hobbies like “bookworm” or “internet addict” indicate you are not a very social person and don’t go out much. Play up your love of anything sporty, outdoorsy, or public, like concerts and art exhibitions.
Focus on concrete and specific details, like your favorite books, films, celebrities, or sports. Rather than noting “hockey”, list your favorite hockey team, or rather than noting “thrillers”, list your favorite action novel.
 Honesty is the best policy in any dating situation, especially online dating. Lying in your profile will make for a very awkward face to face meeting if things end up progressing with a potential mate. So be honest and upfront about yourself.


Be bold in your profile about you’re looking for. Avoid posting a list of highly specific and inflexible demands. Instead, try to write a simple statement that begins with “I believe…” or “I’m seeking…”Instead of: “I’m looking for a tall, strong, outdoorsy, vegan and gluten free guy to sweep me off my feet and be a father of my three (not four!) future children.” Try: “I believe in love and in being respectful and honest with my partner. I’m seeking someone who shares my interests and is serious about a relationship.”
Include a playful question or statement in your profile. This will make your profile more interesting and engaging to potential dates. For example: “If you decide to message me, I want to know: What was the high point of your day today?”

, Imagine you are meeting someone in a bar and only have five minutes to tell them about yourself. Stick to the main points of your biography and your hobbies or interests. Avoid rambling on for paragraphs about yourself., While sarcasm can be great in person, the tone can get a little lost in an online profile. Avoid a negative or snide tone and try to always be positive about yourself. A profile with a bitter, resentful, I-can’t-believe-I’m-online-dating tone can be an immediate turn off. So, focus on what you do want, rather than what you don’t want.Instead of: “I am NOT looking for a casual hook-up or an option relationship, whatever THAT means. Commitment-phobes and flakes stay away.” Try: “I believe that connection can mean different things to different people, but monogamy is my type of connection. It’s the only type of connection I’m looking to make. You, too?”

, Many people find bad grammar and spelling a turn off, or an indication that you didn’t put a lot of time and effort into your profile.


Before you post your profile, copy and paste it into Word and use spell check to make sure your profile is grammatically correct.Be wary of using dating acronyms, like WLTM (Would Like To Meet) and LTR (Long Term Relationship). Not all users will know what these are. If you do want to use them in your profile, here are a list of several common ones:WLTM: Would Like to Meet
GSOH: Good Sense of Humor
LTR: Long Term Relationship
F/ship: Friendship
R/ship: Relationship
F2F: Face to face
IRL: In Real Life
ND: Non-drinker
NS: Non-smoker
SD: Social drinker
LJBF: Let's just be friends
GTSY: Glad to see you
GMTA: Great minds think alike

, Try to review your profile on a regular basis and add in new information about yourself to keep your profile current.

