 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (165 C). Get out 1 cup (111 g) of hazelnuts and put them on a rimmed baking sheet. Bake them in the preheated oven for 5 to 8 minutes. To help them toast evenly, shake the pan about halfway through the cooking time. Cool the toasted nuts for 5 minutes and then rub the skins off using a clean towel. Throw away the skins and set the nuts aside.The nuts should smell toasty once they've finished baking.
 Place all of the fudge ingredients except for the hazelnuts into a large saucepan. Stir the ingredients until they're combined and turn the heat on to low. Cook the mixture until it melts and stir the fudge mixture occasionally to keep it from sticking. You'll need:2 cups (340 g) of finely chopped vegan semi-sweet chocolate or vegan chocolate chips
1/3 cup (80 ml) of full-fat coconut milk
1/4 cup (64 g) of toasted hazelnut butter
4 teaspoons of maple syrup
1/4 teaspoon of vanilla extract
1 pinch of salt, optional

, Place a large sheet of aluminum foil into an 8-inch (20 cm) square pan. Press the foil against the bottom and sides of the pan. The foil should come up and over the edges of the pan. You'll also need to chop the toasted hazelnuts. Set them aside while you prepare the rest of the fudge.You'll use the excess foil to lift the finished fudge up and out of the pan.
 Once the the fudge mixture is completely melted, add 3/4 cups (83 g) of the chopped hazelnuts and stir the fudge well. Scoop the fudge out of the pan and into the prepared pan. Spread the fudge evenly and let it sit for 20 minutes.It's important to let the fudge rest before sprinkling the hazelnuts over it. This will keep the hazelnuts from sinking to the bottom of the fudge.
 Once the vegan chocolate hazelnut fudge has chilled briefly, sprinkle the remaining 1/4 cup (28 grams) of chopped hazelnuts evenly over the fudge. Refrigerate the finished fudge for 2 hours. The fudge should be completely firm before you cut it.To make cutting the fudge easier, occasionally dip your knife into a glass of warm water while cutting.

