 Many issues with eye health are hereditary. Talk to your family members and ask if you have a family history of things like glaucoma or cataracts. This information can be helpful going into an eye exam. Your doctor will know what warning signs and symptoms to check for.Keep in mind medical conditions, like obesity and diabetes, can affect vision. You should know your family's medical history beyond problems with vision. This can help you figure out if you're at an increased risk for any disorders that could potentially affect your eyesight.
If you do have a medical history of conditions that affect vision, talk to your regular physician and eye doctor. Ask them what steps you can take to reduce your risk of inheriting these disorders.
 You should have an eye exam each year. Even if you do not wear glasses or contacts, it's important you have your eyes checked regularly. Many common eye diseases have little warning signs. Only your eye doctor will be able to detect such conditions during an exam.Get your pupils dilated during an exam. This allows your eye doctor to do a more extensive examination of your eyes to make sure they are healthy. Your eye doctor will place a few drops of liquid in your eyes, causing your pupils to increase in size. He or she will then perform an examination.If you're having your pupils dilated, it might be best not to drive afterwards. An eye exam can cause your vision to be blurry or shaky for a few hours.
 If you're a smoker, you should take efforts to quit. Smoking can increase risk for several health conditions that affect your vision, like cataracts, macular degeneration, and inflammation of the eye's inner layer.See your regular physician to talk about a plan to quit smoking. He or she may be able to provide you with advice or guidelines on how to cut back and eventually cut out tobacco completely. Your doctor may also be able to give you to a referral to an addiction counselor or therapist who can also help you to quit.
Talk to your friends and family members about how you're trying to quit smoking. Quitting smoking is incredibly difficult and to do so successfully you'll need help from others. Ask friends and family members to talk to you when you're having cravings. If you have loved ones who smoke, ask them politely to not do so in front of you.
You can join a support group, in person or online, to reach out to others trying to quit tobacco.

