 Specifically, the superscript for your footnote should go right after the material you’re citing—not necessarily at the end of a sentence. In most cases, the material ends with a period. However, it could also be after a comma, colon, or semi-colon if the cited material doesn’t extend beyond that punctuation. For example:


Doe argues that Jack did not, in fact, jump over the candlestick.

Position the cursor after the period.


Smith describes the Big Bad Wolf as a metaphor for children’s fears, while Jones frames him as a metaphor for punishment.

Position the cursor after the comma first. After you’ve entered that footnote, place the cursor after the period and repeat the process.


Dumpty argues that Little Boy Blue should have been fired for falling asleep on the job, but this paper argues otherwise.

Place a footnote only after the comma to cite Dumpty. Don’t place a footnote after the period.

;
, You can often find a footnotes feature under the "Insert" or "Reference" menu. Look for the word “Footnotes” in the drop-down list or under the tab you selected., Choose the number your footnote will start with. Decide how the footnote will look. Then, type the footnote. This will place a superscript number in your main text and take you to the bottom of the page, where you will type the footnote next to the corresponding number., Your professor or editor may have specified a style for you to use. Otherwise, choose the style most often used by writers in your field.


MLA (Modern Language Association) style: humanities disciplines like literature and languages.
APA (American Psychological Association) style: social sciences like anthropology, psychology, and sociology.
Chicago Manual/Turabian: humanities (especially history and art history) and social sciences.
AMA (American Medical Association) style: science or medicine., Double-click the number before the citation to return to where you left off in the main text. Your word processor will automatically calculate how much room you need at the bottom of the page for footnotes.If you add or delete footnotes, the word processor will automatically renumber your remaining footnotes and make the necessary adjustments. It will also move footnotes to other pages, if necessary.
 Simply delete the superscript number in the main text of the document. This will automatically delete the footnote and renumber the remaining footnotes. Don't try to delete the footnote itself.