 Medications play a vital role in slowing the progression of RA symptoms, so it’s important that you work with a regular health care provider that you trust to create a drug therapy treatment plan. With their knowledge of your personal history and specific case, they will be able to determine the best prescriptions for you.Honest communication is imperative. You should be comfortable telling them what’s going on, especially when it comes to your medication and how it’s affecting you.
If you are in the market for a regular health care provider, it’s best to find one who has experience with RA.;
, These specialists can either be seen exclusively, or you can ask if they will work in conjunction with your regular health care provider. They should have no problem sharing your case. If they do, you might want to shop around. Universities, teaching hospitals, and doctor rating websites are good sources for locating possible specialists in your area.


Look for a rheumatologist who encourages their patients to learn all they can about RA.A good RA specialist is someone who views you as a partner in creating your personal treatment plan.
 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB) and naproxen (Aleve) are commonly used in RA to help manage pain, swelling, and inflammation. They can be obtained over-the-counter or in higher doses as a prescription.


The weaker, over-the-counter versions have few side effects and low risk compared to higher dose prescriptions, but they can only help manage the symptoms, not slow the disease.Higher dose symptoms can include upset stomach, increased blood pressure, anemia, and increased risk of heart attack and stroke., DMARDs such as Trexall, Arava or Plaquenil can alter or slow RA's progression and are meant for long-term use. They are not without possible side effects, but this is different for every person.They can be taken with other types of pain relievers.
Liver damage and increased risk of infection are the most serious possible side effects.
DMARDS are the cornerstone of treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. These medications include the following: methotrexate, hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine, leflunomide, and other agents with a more limited role.
 Your doctor will help you decide if they are right for your treatment plan. These drugs slow joint damage while reducing pain and inflammation. However, they are powerful and possibly dangerous, making them more useful against acute flare-ups.Glucocorticoids are useful and are effective in suppressing the symptoms of RA. They have also been implicated in the impact on disease progression. However, due to toxicities they are not ideal for long term management.
They can be taken as pills, liquids, or shots.
They can cause a myriad of side effects such as high blood pressure, diabetes, elevation in liver enzymes, sores in your mouth, nausea, vomiting, loose stools, CNS findings, alopecia, fever, hematological abnormalities, and weak bones., If you want to have the best chance of managing your RA symptoms and slowing or altering its progress, it is vital to adhere to the drug-therapy put in place with the help of your doctor. The success or failure of this therapy is directly reliant upon adherence.30 to 80 percent of RA patients only take their medication half of the prescribed time, adversely affecting their treatment.