 Princess Merida likes to run around outside. While you don't have to excel at every sport, go outside in your free time and exercise at least thirty minutes per day to maintain your body and health.
 Merida is a jolly and cheerful girl who has a very positive outlook on life and always has a smile on her face, and a twinkle in her eye. Maintain that cheerful attitude and always look at the glass as half full. No matter what, don't let the storms of life bring you down, and become a positive influence in other people's lives.
 Merida is a really skilled archer. This sport can be addicting and fun. You don't need to excel in it in order to enjoy it! And, if you want to, try horse back riding, as Merida has her own horse, that she know how to ride.
 Merida would be a fun person to hang out with. Have fun no matter what the situation is, but make sure you understand when to be serious. Socialize with others instead of limiting yourself to a certain group. While you don't need to be best friends with everyone, pause throughout your day to have good conversations with different people.
 Merida is very nice to her family and friends. She never wants to hurt anyone's feelings, or be self-centered or abuse people. Take a step back and look at your relationships. See what you can improve in yourself, and ask people for help if you need some.
 However, do this at the right times so that it doesn't hurt you or anyone else. Avoid being a pushover. Be strong and stand your ground. Be brave!

, That can lead to failure and big disappointment. Don't underestimate yourself, but remember that no one is good at everything.
 Merida is definitely not lazy. If she wants something she works hard for it. If she has chores, she gets them done. Try to be like her and do your best in all that you do. However, don't stress yourself out and know when you need to let some things go.
 While your appearance may not suggest a girly-girl, make sure your personality isn't one. Refrain from being a hopeless romantic and whatnot. Watch how you speak, but remember you don't need to completely change it.
 Although you may not always get along, remember that they have done so much for you,, and they love you. After all is said and done, Merida loves her mother. You should too.
 If you have a problem contemplate hard about this, and it will probably help you out of it. However, remember that you'll sometimes have to step out of her character and make the decisions you know are best, even if Merida wouldn't make those decisions.

