 You may have a rough idea of what you want to do with your relaxing day. Since it is your day to relax you will want to plan things according to your own schedule without worrying about the usual pressure to get things done. Unwind and do things at your own pace during your relaxing day.You may find not having anything planned at all is the most relaxing way to spend your day.
Consider sleeping in, waking up whenever you feel like it.
Relax and enjoy whatever activities you end up doing, taking your time and fully enjoying it.;
, It's your relaxing day. Plan on doing whatever you find most enjoyable and restful. Everyone will have different ideas on what might be relaxing so take a moment to plan a few things that you know you would find calming.You might want to lay on the couch and watch some of your favorite movies or shows.
Listening to your favorite music while you cook a delicious meal might be relaxing.
Spending the day reading a new and exciting book can be a great way to relax and enjoy your day.
 Sleep is an extremely important aspect of maintaining health and often times it is neglected. Busy schedules and feelings of stress can cause you to lose sleep, resulting in feeling tired during the day. Consider going to bed early on your relaxing day and getting a good night's rest, recovering lost hours of sleep and waking up feeling invigorated.The amount of sleep required will change over a person's life, largely based on how old they are.
Most adults need around seven to eight hours of sleep per night to feel rested.
Lack of sleep can affect health negatively, causing you to feel tired more often and even lowering your immune system's response.
 It can be easy to focus on things that aren't going our way. This will cause feelings of stress and worry to increase. Instead, use your relaxing day to focus on positive aspects or accomplishments in your life. Take some time to make a list of the things you are most grateful for in your life to diminish the stress of negative thinking.Consider taking up a journal. Everyday you can write about the things that went well or that you are happy for.
Think about your friends and family, writing down your favorite moments you've shared with them.
Try to write at least three things that made your happy during your day.

