;
, You can search by airport code or, if you know the frequency that the airport is at (if it's a more local airport that doesn't have a big tower) place that frequency into the box just below that longer textbox. Then click the tinier magnifying glass to begin the search.


You can't search by airport name at this time - it's only the three lettered identifier that you can use.
There is a section on the LiveATC webpage that lists New feeds, but that doesn't change very much, very often.
 You may come across various listings of towers at airports, or approach or departure frequencies at some and some are even frequencies for ground control, like those you might find between the pilot and the person at the flight desk. There are other more federal-affiliated frequencies at the federal desk of the area in the regional office that could be listed at some airports. You'll just need to know what you are looking for listening to, to see if it matches.
 If you'd like to listen in your web browser on your computer that has Flash (such as either Adobe Flash or Macromedia Flash) installed, locate and click the "Listen" button next to "(in browser, requires Flash)". Alternatively, you can use the Listen button next to "(launches your MP3 player)" for listening on a mobile device. The last option will launch in Windows Media Player on a Windows PC or tablet. The link below this is the link for the audio archives.


Look at the table below these links to find out which frequencies these feeds map to.
Recognize that these feeds are fee-free and don't require much thought to find the station you are looking for. Although the LiveATC mobile app costs money in the AppStore or Google Play Store, using the website is free and sometimes can even get you more choices than what is available on the app.
 Most often, these frequencies should be split-band (where you can hear the same transmission on both of your speakers at the same time), but there is the occasional frequency that plays one half of the transmission on one speaker and another separate transmission on the other speaker (much like DCA/Ronald Reagan National and some as you listen in with both speakers on and listening).

