 If you default on your payday loan and do not arrange an alternate payment plan with the lender, you can expect your credit score to take a hit. When a borrower defaults, the lender typically will sell the debt to a collection agency, which will report the unpaid loan to the three major credit bureaus.


In addition to reporting you to the credit bureaus, debt collection agencies are known for using aggressive methods to get payment for the loan, including calling you at home and work and calling your friends and family to ask for payment.
If your credit score is damaged due to not paying a payday loan, you may find it difficult to get other loans and credit cards, even if you do end up paying the loan, because in most cases, the collection action will stay on your credit report for seven years. ;
, If you default on a payday loan, the lender has the option of suing you to collect the overdue amount. Once the lender has a court judgement against you for the amount due on the loan, he or she may seize your property (with the help of a law enforcement officer) and sell it to pay the balance of the loan. Unlike a loan that is secured with specific property, a judgement for a debt can be satisfied out of any property you own at the time the judgment is received, or property that you later acquire.


In most states, judgments are good for ten years, so if a payday lender has a judgment against you, he or she could seize any property you acquire within ten years of the judgment, as long as the loan has not been paid.
Even though a payday lender can sue you civilly to collect the balance of the loan, failing to pay a payday loan is not a crime. While some collectors threaten borrowers with criminal action, you cannot be sent to jail unless you intentionally took out the loan not planning to pay it back. If you are threatened with arrest for not paying a payday loan, contact a lawyer immediately. , The longer you go without paying your payday loan, the more you will owe the lender. Because lenders often charge large interest rates (up to 600% annually) and fees for nonpayment, you could easily find yourself owing over $1,000 on a $250 loan you took out 4 months ago.


Some states have rules related to how much interest a payday lender can charge, however, other states, such as Texas, allow payday lenders to charge unlimited interest and fees for nonpayment. , In many cases, payday lenders “advance” someone a certain amount of cash, and charge a fee for doing so. In the event that the borrower cannot pay the amount and the fee when it becomes due, the lender will add another fee in order to “renew” the advance and give the borrower more time to pay. Because these advances are very short term and usually must be paid back within a week or two of borrowing, taking more time to pay can often result in the borrower being trapped in a cycle where he or she is unable to pay an increasingly large amount. For example, someone may borrow $100 from a payday lender. Typically, the lender will charge a fee, such as $25, and require the borrower to pay the $100 loan and the $25 fee back within two weeks of borrowing. If the borrower cannot come up with the $125 within two weeks, he will have the option to “renew” the loan for two more weeks for a fee of $25. This raises the total amount of fees to $50, while the loan balance remains $100. If the borrower cannot repay the loan and continues to renew for one year, he will owe the lender $600 in fees and the loan balance will remain at $100. Because many people borrow from payday lenders to cover unexpected expenses, the cycle of being unable to pay is common.
If you do not repay your payday loan, your credit score will be damaged, and you may have to deal with collection efforts by the payday lender, such as incessant phone calls and reports to collection agencies.
 However, in order to qualify for an EPP, you must meet the following requirements: The lender that you borrowed from must be a member of the “Consumer Financial Services Association of America” (CFSA).
You must apply for the EPP program at the place where you received your loan no later than the day before the loan is due.
You must sign an “amendment” to your loan that reflects the EPP.
Additionally, you can only enroll in an EPP once a year.
To find out whether your payday lender is a member of the CFSA, visit this website.
 Depending on how much you owe the payday lender, you may be able to pay off the loan by making some financial adjustments. If your financial situation allows, make paying the balance on your payday loan your top priority.


You may be able to borrow the money to payoff the loan from a friend or family member.
If your credit score is over a 600, you may be able to take out another type of loan from your bank, such as a personal loan, to payoff your payday loan. While you will still have to pay back the balance of the personal loan (with interest), a loan from a bank or credit union will have much better terms than a payday loan.
 If there is no way that you can make payments on your payday loan, you should visit a non-profit credit counseling agency to determine your options. A credit counselor can help you negotiate with your payday lender and other creditors, and can make suggestions based on your individual financial situation. For example, in some situations, the credit counselor may be able to secure you a longer payment plan, or may suggest that you file bankruptcy.
To find a reputable credit counseling agency, click here or call (800) 388-2227. , In some situations, your payday lender may be willing to negotiate with you. However, keep in mind that payday lenders are notorious for trying to scam borrowers. If you have any doubts or are unsure about the terms of any new deal the lender offers you, speak to a professional at a credit counseling agency.


Make sure any new terms you and the lender agree to are in writing.
Keep track of all of your communications with the lender, including notes about interactions in person or over the phone. You should also keep any emails or letters that you receive from the lender.
 If you are having a problem with your payday lender, or believe that your lender is acting illegally, you can file a complaint by clicking here or calling (855) 411-2372. You can submit a complaint for the following reasons:


If your lender has charged you fees or interest that you were not aware of.
If your lender has taken money from your bank account without permission, or has taken more money than you authorized them to take.
If you paid off part or all of your loan, and your lender is saying you still owe money.
If you are unable to contact the lender.
If your lender is contacting you at your place of employment after you asked them not to contact you at work.
If your lender is contacting your friends, family members or coworkers to pay off the loan.
 In many states, you can file complaints against payday lenders. To find out if your state has a mechanism for filing complaints, click here and click on your state.

