 The position of a horse's ears says a lot about his mood.If his ears are flicking back and forth, your horse is probably frightened or overly stimulated. He is flicking his ears around to pinpoint the source of his anxiety.
If his ears are perked forward, he is alert and interested in his surroundings.
If his ears are pinned back tightly, he is angry or feeling aggressive and may be preparing to lash out with a kick or bite.
If his ears are turned outward to the sides, he is relaxed and not paying attention to his surroundings. Be careful not to startle him by approaching or reaching out toward him suddenly.;
, When a horse suddenly raises his head when being ridden, he is examining something far away and is no longer paying attention to you. He may be preparing to bolt or shy away from something.If your horse raises his head high while rounding his back, swishing his tail, or pinning his ears back, he may be in pain. Stop and check his legs and around his tack to be sure nothing is hurting him.
 When your horse curls his upper lip while breathing in and out, he is examining a scent in the air. This may be a sign that something in the immediate environment is causing him stress., Your horse may be simply trying to get rid of a pesky fly, but it might be something more serious.Pawing at the ground with a raised leg usually indicates boredom or restlessness.
Excessive stomping may mean your horse is annoyed with you for some reason. If you don't resolve the situation, your horse may move on to more extreme behavior next.
 Horses communicate using body language, and the tail is a good indicator of mood. If your horse is slowly flipping his tail from side to side, he is probably just trying to swat a fly. But quick tail flips, or a clamped-down tail, indicate stress.A horse clamps its tail down by tucking it lower into its hindquarters. If your horse is pressing his tail down against his body, this is a sign that he is nervous or frightened.
If your horse is jerking his tail rapidly up and down or side to side, he is probably irritated or angry and may be about to buck or kick.

