 Depression can sometimes be a normal reaction to negative life experiences, which passes over time. However, sometimes it is a more serious and long-lasting problem which requires diagnosis and treatment.


At it's mildest, depression is considered to be an emotional disorder that can be treated with therapy and medication. At its worst, depression is considered a mental illness, which may require hospitalization.
Psychiatrists and psychologists assess depression by evaluating their patients using certain criteria: intensity (the intensity of depressive symptoms), quality (whether in addition to the standard symptoms of depression, there are psychotic and somatic symptoms of depression), duration (the duration and frequency of the depressive episodes).;
, Some of the classic symptoms of depression include the following:


Irritability, excitability.
Insulation (person becomes withdrawn).
Slowness of movement and speech.
Difficulty in concentration.
Change in appetite (overeating or starvation).
Fatigue, lack of energy.
Feelings of helplessness .
Feelings of self-loathing, guilt and worthlessness.
Loss of interest in activities that were once enjoyed.
Decreased sexual desire.
Thoughts of death or suicide
Problems sleeping or sleeping too much.
 Generally speaking, there are two different types of depression: unipolar, which manifests as depressive symptoms only and bipolar, where the depressive symptoms alternate with hypomanic or manic symptoms. However, within these two broad categories, there are many other types of depression, such as:


Psychotic depression
Reactive depression
Secondary depression
Postpartum depression
Menopausal depression
Seasonal depression

, Unipolar depression - also known as major depression or clinical depression - is when a person experiences feeling of sadness, anger, frustration, loss and/or guilt which interfere with their everyday lives. These symptoms can last for weeks or even months.
 Bipolar depression has two phases: the depressed phase and the manic phase. During the depressive phase, the symptoms are more or less the same as those experienced in unipolar depression. During the manic phase, the person experiences symptoms such as euphoric mood, racing thoughts, decreased need for sleep, agitation, acting impulsively and increase energy levels.
 This is a very serious form of depression that often requires hospitalization and the use of antipsychotic drugs. The symptoms of psychotic depression may include anxiety, agitation, insomnia, hypochondria, intellectual impairment, physical immobility, hallucinations or delusions., Reactive depression is a type of clinical depression that occurs in response to a specific psychosocial stressor ( a stressful event) such as death, divorce, loss of employment, or other major life event. Symptoms include feelings of sadness and hopelessness, fatigue, headaches, insomnia and self-destructive behaviors., Secondary depression is depression that occurs after the diagnosis of a medical condition such as Parkinson's, AIDs, stroke or cancer. It may also occur following a psychiatric problem such as bulimia, anorexia, or schizophrenia. This type of depression is often indistinguishable from clinical depression in terms of it's symptoms., Postpartum depression is a type of depression that appears in women after giving birth. It may present directly after the birth, or as long as a year later. Symptoms of post-partum depression include severe mood swings, overwhelming fatigue, feelings of shame or inadequacy and difficulty bonding with the baby., Menopausal depression is a type of depression that occurs during or after menopause, when a woman is in her mid-forties to mid-fifties. This type of depression is more likely to occur if the woman has a history of clinical depression. Symptoms include little interest or pleasure in daily activities, feeling sad or hopeless, feeling sluggish, having problems concentrating, difficulty sleeping and changes in appetite., Seasonal depression - also known as seasonal depressive disorder (SAD) - is a type of depression that flares up at particular times of the year, usually in winter when there is less sunlight. It usually changes when the season changes, and presents with symptoms such as moodiness and lack of energy. Treatment for SAD sometimes include light therapy (phototherapy).