 When there is no danger of frost outdoors and your plant meets the height requirement, they are ready to be transferred outdoors.
 About a week before you plan to transfer your plants outdoors, you need to gradually adjust them to outdoor temperatures. Gradually expose the plants to the sun, starting in a partially shaded area and slowly extend the number of hours the plants stay outside each day. Start with an hour or less per day and gradually increase from there.
 You want to use well-drained soil with a good amount of organic matter present.


Consider mixing peat moss into the soil to improve drainage. You can also mix in leaf mold or compost.
To use peat moss, remove no more than half of the soil and mix the removed soil with an equal ratio of peat moss. Mix the peat moss/soil mixture back into the planting area.
 Tomatoes grow best when planted in soil with a pH between 6 and 7.


Your local agricultural extension office should have soil testing forms, bags and instructions available. After making adjustments to the soil, test its pH level again.
If the pH level is below 6, add dolomite lime to the soil to raise the pH level.
If the soil pH is above 7, mix in granular sulfur to lower the pH level.
 It needs to be deep enough that you can plant your seedlings and only the top 1/4 of the plant will be sticking out of the ground. Place a scoop of organic matter such as compost into the bottom of the hole. This will give your plant an extra boost, and also help keep the plant from going into shock from transplanting.
 Try not to disturb the roots during the transplanting process. Set the transplants deep enough so that the soil touches the first set of new leaves when you cover the plant with soil. Pat the planted area lightly.


Be sure to remove all of the leaves that are at or below soil level. Tomatoes can catch diseases from their leaves making contact with the soil.
 You can fertilize the plants with fishmeal, chicken manure, or a premixed low-nitrogen, or a high-phosphorus organic fertilizer. Then, water the plants thoroughly. You will need to repeat the fertilizing process each month.
 This will give the plants a support to latch onto as they grow and makes it easier to pick the fruit from the vines. Be careful not to disturb the roots.

