 The longer your phone stays submerged, the more chance it has of shorting out. Quick reflexes can mean the difference between a working phone and a dead one.;
, To do so, press and hold the Power button, then slide the button at the top of the screen right when prompted. The sooner you can turn off your iPhone, the higher its chances of recovery will be.


If the screen is off but you're not sure if the phone is on, quickly press the Power button to see if the screen turns on. If it does, proceed to power the phone off. If it doesn't, leave it off.
 If your iPhone has a case, it may be holding in moisture; removing the case will allow the phone to breathe.
 To do so, insert a SIM removal tool or an unbent paperclip into the SIM tray's hole to pop the SIM tray out. Completely remove the tray so that water can escape.
 Get all of the excess moisture off with an absorbent cloth. Make sure to get the moisture out of the charging port, the volume keys, the headphone jack and any other crevices.
 Get a thin piece of cotton, like an old shirt, and wrap a single layer around the end of a toothpick. Use this to absorb any excess water from the charging port and headphone jack.
 The best way to get rid of the water inside of your iPhone is to simply let it air dry in a warm place for as long as possible.


Many guides will report that placing your iPhone in a bag of rice will help draw the water out. This has been proven false--simply letting your iPhone air dry is the most effective way to fix it.Air drying will be more effective if you are able to remove the battery from the iPhone.
 The longer you can wait, the more successful your drying process will be. If you can wait longer than 48 hours, 72 hours may be even more effective.
 Each iPhone has a small indicator that tells repair technicians that the phone has received water damage. The indicator is a piece of plastic that turns red when it comes in contact with too much water. You can check this indicator yourself to see if your phone may be damaged. Use a flashlight to help you see inside the port. This indicator usually means that you likely won't qualify for free repair, in which case you may want to consider fixing the phone yourself.iPhone 5 and up - Look for a red indicator in the SIM tray port on the screen side of the phone.
iPhone 4S - Look for a red indicator in the charging port or in the headphone jack.
 Backing up your iPhone as soon as possible will ensure that, even if your iPhone quits working a few days later, its information can be installed on a new device., A common symptom of water damage is a non-working Home button; you can bypass this issue by enabling the "AssistiveTouch" accessibility option that places shortcuts for hardware buttons on your screen.


AssistiveTouch will also allow you to lock your screen, alter your phone's volume, and take screenshots.
 If water damage has caused your iPhone's headphone jack to malfunction, you may need to use an alternative audio output device instead of traditional headphones.


Try to connect a USB dock that is compatible with your iPhone to the charging port at the bottom of your iPhone. It should be detected automatically.
If your phone's charging port won't recognize input, you won't be able to charge your phone.
 If your power button stops working, powering your iPhone on and off becomes very difficult. You’ll need to keep it charged and turned on to keep using it.


If your iPhone runs out of battery and shuts off, it will turn on again when you plug it into power.
On phones with the "Raise to Wake" feature enabled, simply picking up your iPhone will turn on the screen.
 Standard AppleCare does not always cover water damage, but you may be able to get your phone serviced if it is new enough or you get a nice representative.
 To do so, press and hold the Power button, then slide the button at the top of the screen right when prompted.
 Take the SIM card tray and the SIM card out before you begin taking apart the iPhone.
 You’ll need a pentalobe (5-prong) screwdriver to remove the screws. The screws can be found to the left and right of the charging port.
 A strong suction cup is one of the easier ways to remove the front part of the iPhone body. This will prevent scratches when trying to pry the halves apart.


Place a suction cup on the front, and hold the back of the case with your other hand.
Once the suction cup is applied, pull it apart from the back half.
 Set the battery off to the side for now.
 There are several cable connectors that will need to be removed before you can access the logic board. Some of these will be pried off while others may require a Phillips screwdriver.
 Once you’ve completely detached the logic board, you can remove it from the plastic housing.
 Let it soak until any visible residue has become loose.
 Make sure to clean all contacts and connectors. Scrub the chips on the logic board. Repeat the cleaning process if necessary.
 Make sure the logic board is completely dry. If it is still damp, you may cause more damage when you try to turn it on.
 Wiping down the LCD screen can remove any liquid residue. Avoid submerging the screen, as this can cause permanent damage to the display.
 Isopropyl alcohol will take a little while to completely dry, so leave all of your components out for at least four hours before reassembling the iPhone.
 Put your iPhone back together by replacing all of the connectors and reinserting the screws in the reverse order that you took them out in.
 If you’re sure that the iPhone is dry, you can try powering it on. If you performed a thorough cleaning and the parts weren’t too corroded, the phone may work again.