 The simplest method to try is rubbing your own neck. Massage the tense spot to relax the stressed muscles by gently kneading the sore area. Begin by applying gentle pressure to the ball.Use the tips of your fingers to rub the stress ball using a tight circular motion. Repeat this motion for a minute or two to see if it provides any relief. You may also simply rub back and forth.If the massage feels painful, you're probably rubbing too hard. Start with a gentle touch, increasing pressure as needed.
If this method helps, massage the area from one to five times a day. Each session should last for approximately five minutes, as you do not want to overdo it. You want to avoid putting extra stress on your muscles.;
, Although many people find relief just by massaging the stress ball with their fingers, it's important to play around with different massage techniques to find what works for you. Many people find using a basic tennis ball to be beneficial.To use the tennis ball technique, lie down on the floor and place the tennis ball beneath your neck, at the approximate location of the stress ball. You can also do this leaning against a wall.
Adjust your body positioning until you feel a "good" pressure at the location of the knot. The tennis ball should not cause pain.
Move your neck and body up and down and from side to side, allowing the tennis ball to roll over the stress knot. This helps to release tension from the muscle and loosen the knot.
Make sure that your neck is a natural neutral position when using a tennis ball. If you find that your head is hanging down on the ball (which may further stress your muscles), simply place a small book on the floor and the ball on top of that. This brings the ball up to your neck instead of your neck arching or extending to reach the ball on the ground.
If you find that a tennis ball is too soft, you can progress to a lacrosse ball, which is more firm and may be more beneficial to those with chronic stress balls or more muscle mass
Many stores also sell self-massage tools, such as wooden rollers or foam rollers. These can be used in the same manner as the tennis ball.
 Heat has been shown to relax tense muscles. At home, you can use a heating pad to increase blood flow to the stressed muscles. When your muscle has been tight for an extended period of time, it begins to lose blood flow. This causes further stress and pain. Applying heat will relax the muscle and relieve pain by increasing blood flow to the area.Hold the heating pad against the stress ball in your neck for a few minutes, twice per day. If you do not own a heating pad, soak a clean towel in hot water, wring it out and use it as a hot compress.
Take regular hot baths. Hot baths can be beneficial for relieving stress balls in the neck, for the same reason as hot compresses.
Give yourself neck support by placing a towel or bath pillow at the edge of the tub. This will help you avoid causing additional stress to your neck.
Adding Epsom salts to the water will make your bath even more beneficial. Epsom salts are used to relieve muscle pain and reduce inflammation. For best results, dissolve one to two cups of Epsom salts in your bath before you hop in.
 Head to your local drug store to look at over-the-counter muscle relaxers. You can find creams, gels, and solid "sticks" (like deodorant) that can help ease your tension. Make sure to ask your pharmacist if she can recommend a product.Be sure to carefully read the instructions and dosage directions before applying any products to your skin.
Over-the-counter pain relievers such as Aspirin and Tylenol can also reduce muscle soreness.

