


Interstate 80 - This highway links San Francisco with Teaneck, New Jersey. The 3,000 mile (4,800 km) highway goes through California, Nevada, Utah, Wyoming, Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. At the end of the I-80, the I-95 takes you in to New York
Lincoln Highway - The first, 100 year old, transcontinental highway that linked San Francisco to New York. Much of the highway has either been moved or follows new highways, such as the I-80.;
,


In California, you'll pass the Sierra Nevada mountains, and you will be able to stop at Donner Summit.
In Nevada, you'll go through Reno, canyons and deserts. If you plan to stop for some gambling in Reno, then book accordingly.
In Utah, you'll pass over salt flats, and through Salt Lake City, home of the Mormons.
In Wyoming, you'll reach the highest elevation of the I-80, at 8,640 feet (2,633 meters).
In Nebraska, you'll be able to follow the historic Oregon trail.
In Iowa, you'll see mostly farmland. You can stop at the 'World's Largest Truck Stop', the Iowa 80.
In Illinois, you'll cross the Mississippi River and pass the large Thornton quarry.
In Indiana, you'll follow the Indiana Toll Road and the Borman Expressway.
In Ohio, you'll follow the Ohio Turnpike.
In Pennsylvania, you'll reach the highest elevation of the I-80 east of the Mississippi River, at 2,250 feet (690 meters)
Finally, In New Jersey you'll cross the Delaware river and come to the eastern terminus in Teaneck.



There are several cheap hotels in Reno, if you want to gamble.
If you plan not to stop for sightseeing, then consider booking a hotel for the half-way point. The halfway point is around Kearney, Nebraska.
Alternately, you could book a hotel for a 1/4, 1/2 and 3/4 of the way through the trip. The 1/4 stop is Salt Lake City, Utah, the 1/2 stop is Kearney, Nebraska, and the 3/4 stop is Joliet, Illinois.



The trip is around 3,000 miles (4,800 km). How efficient is your car? There are gas stations at rest stops on the I-80, but consider the price of filling up your car.



How much do you plan to bring? Will you bring a credit card with you?
How much do you plan to spend? You can cut down on costs by bringing food and water, and by booking hotel rooms as early as possible.



You'll need to have snacks, water and other foods.






Will you bring a map, a GPS or both?
If you are bringing a GPS or a cell phone, then check if you can get a cigarette lighter adapter to charge it.

