 Children and teenagers with existing mental or psychological conditions seem more prone to drinking, as do children and teenagers who experience significant problems at home or who lack parental supervision and involvement. If your child falls into any of these categories, pay extra attention.


There is also some evidence of alcoholism “running in families.” If your child has a close family member with a drinking problem, he or she may have an increased risk.;
, Children and teenagers who have been drinking exhibit the same symptoms of intoxication that adults do: they slur their speech, become less coordinated, walk unsteadily, and show signs of impaired attention and memory. They may feel dizzy, vomit, or pass out.


Intoxication does not necessarily indicate alcoholism. Many teenagers get drunk once or twice – or even more often than that – without ever becoming dependent on alcohol. Nevertheless, it’s vital to take underage drinking seriously. Let your child know that you do not want it to happen again, and pay attention to his or her behavior in the future.
 Children and teenagers who abuse alcohol have significant problematic behaviors and psychological changes associated with drinking: mood instability, impaired judgment, poor social or occupational functioning, aggressive behavior, and inappropriate sexual behavior. If you notice these signs of alcohol abuse, take them seriously. Your child needs help.


Alcohol abuse may entail physically dangerous behaviors like driving under the influence, which can also lead to legal problems. Be aware that someone who abuses alcohol is likely to put himself or herself (and others) at risk.
 As someone becomes dependent on alcohol, he or she will need to drink more and more to get the same effects. In addition, he or she will experience withdrawal symptoms when alcohol is not available. These symptoms include aches, pains, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, restlessness, nightmares, and mood swings. Alcohol dependence (or alcoholism) is extremely serious, especially for children and teenagers. Get your child help if you notice these symptoms.
 Sometimes children and teenagers manage to develop problems with alcohol without clearly exhibiting the signs of intoxication, abuse, or dependence to their parents. In these cases, many parents don’t realize there’s a problem until a child’s grades start slipping. A rapid decline in academic performance should be taken seriously. Talk to your child, and follow up with his or her teachers to get more information about your child’s trouble at school.


Make a particular effort to talk to your child’s teachers about attendance. Alcoholic teenagers often skip classes.
 Alcoholism makes children and teenagers much more likely to get into trouble. If your usually obedient child suddenly becomes rebellious at home, or if you start receiving complaints about your child’s behavior from teachers, coaches, classmates, other parents, or law enforcement officers, view that as a warning sign.
 As they begin to drink more and more, teenagers will need money to pay for alcohol. If your child asks you repeatedly for money, seems unable to account for his or her spending, or steals from you or from siblings, this is cause for concern.
 Teenagers often begin using and abusing alcohol when they start spending time with new friends – especially if these new friends are older and lack parental supervision. If your child seems to have dropped his or her old friends in favor of new ones, pay attention – especially if this happens alongside other warning signs.
 Alcoholics tell lies, even compulsively. Your child may be dishonest with you about where he or she is spending time and who he or she is spending it with. You may find that your child stays out later than permitted or sneaks out of the house at night, then lies and makes excuses to cover this behavior.
 If your child begins careening from happiness to anger to depression to irritability, this may be a cause for concern.


Keep in mind that many perfectly normal teenagers have mood swings. Don’t jump to conclusions, but do pay attention and look for other symptoms.
 If your child seems much less interested in or enthusiastic about his or her studies, hobbies, and extra-curricular activities, this may also be a warning sign. You may notice that your child still does these things, but with less focus and dedication, or you may realize that your child is not doing these things at all anymore.
 Most of our memory formation happens during our sleep, but alcohol disrupts sleep and, as a result, causes problems with memory retention. Watch your child’s sleep patterns, and note any difficulty with memory.
 When someone is under the influence of alcohol, the brain’s ability to send warning signs is inhibited, and the person will not modify his or her behavior (as would be the case if the person were sober). If your child is consuming and abusing alcohol, you will likely see signs of diminished rational thinking and impaired judgment.


Note that alcoholics often fail to step back and make amends for mistakes they commit under the influence. They may not seem to care. This is why alcohol consumption becomes responsible for so many accidents, homicides, suicides, and acts of sexual violence – alcohol is that potent.
 Alcohol is a depressant. It may reduce tension and anxiety temporarily, but it also works as a “downer” on the nervous system. If your child is abusing alcohol, he or she may appear very depressed – tired, sad, and withdrawn.
 Alcohol has no nutritional value and, furthermore, it prevents the body from absorbing vital nutrients like thiamin, vitamin B12, and folic acid. As a result, teenagers who use alcohol often experience a decline in their general health.


If your child is using alcohol, you may notice that he or she complains of frequent headaches, stomachaches, nausea, and sleep disturbances.
Alcoholism also negatively affects eyesight, coordination, and hearing.
 Because alcohol prevents the body from getting energy by filling it with empty calories, you may notice sudden changes in your child’s weight. If these changes do not seem to have another cause, this may be a warning sign.
 If you suspect your child has been drinking, look for dilated pupils and trouble focusing. You may also notice red eyes and a reddish tinge in the face.
 If your child is abusing alcohol, he or she may stop paying attention to hygiene and appearance. You may notice that your child smells offensive, looks dirty, or appears sloppy and disheveled.

