 You may feel weird and awkward, but think about it--if you're stuck home sick it means a lot to hear somebody remind you that you were missed. If it's somebody you don't have much contact with at all, just the kind of person you nod at in the hallway, like a crush, then you don't need to call. Just make sure to say "Hey, we missed you yesterday" when they come back. But if it's somebody you eat lunch with, you probably need to call.;
, Go to a drugstore and buy some of those little tissue packs and (if you're a girl) some of those tampons in discreet wrappers. Put the tampons in a change purse. Other handy items include hand sanitizer, lotion, a watch, hair ties, pens, contact solution, first aid supplies, etc. Put all the stuff in your backpack or bag. If somebody's complaining about a cut or blister, sniffling because of a cold or allergies, or having an "emergency" in class, you can whip this stuff out and fix their problem. Also, this way if somebody's crying, you can come up to them, pat their back, and offer them tissues.
 It's hard to be considerate if you're full of anger or unhappiness. You need a way to let out your bad emotions like everyone else. Journals and exercise help release some anger and frustration. If you get depressed or are prone to doing self destructive things, like punching or cutting yourself, try to think of a replacement to that. For example, if you enjoy writing but get really negative and depressed, try writing about how you feel every time you sense that emotion coming on. For more active people, try doing star jumps or running around. If you really need help, it might be a good idea to talk to someone like a counselor.
 It's easier to be sweet if you're confident-how you can you help someone if you feel scared to approach them? Whatever makes you feel confident-dancing like a crazy person, writing, wearing your favorite clothes-whatever makes you feel happy in your own skin, do it.
 Being sweet is great, but you may be taken advantage of. An important way to avoid this is to stand your ground. Sure, give a buddy a second chance if they're really late meeting up with you, but don't smile and say it's okay when they do it a fifth time. Make sure you respect yourself.

