 You can lay the paper flat, let your child paint to her/his heart's content, and then hang the finished painting from your child's wall. Another method is to hang blank sheets from ceiling to floor like wallpaper and let your child 'body paint' right onto the wall. This can be messy and have unpredictable results, though.;
, Use a removable, non-damaging adhesive (such as Sticky Tack) to arrange clipped pictures of movie stars, favorite musicians, and coveted shoes all over the walls. The best part of fun activity for the whole family, as long as you don't mind getting a little messy yourself. Make hand prints, footprints, and splatters. It's like coloring the walls, but without the parental wrath and permanent damage.
 Turn your child's room into a mini-museum by framing your child's drawings and paintings with paper, pegboard, or wooden frames, and hanging them throughout the room. this decorating technique is that your child can add to it every day.
 Take a trip to the home goods store and pick out paper samples or remnants. Don't worry if the remnants aren't large enough to cover the whole wall - creating a collage of different patterns and colors is part of the fun.
 If your child sleeps in a bunk bed, fabrics can be hung from the sideboards to create a "tent". This can make the room feel bigger, and creates a great place for pretend!

, Fill some space in the room by fashioning a "chandelier" out of old toys, stuffed animals, or any lightweight objects. Older children might enjoy making mobiles that reflect their hobbies. Baseball cards, old ballet slippers, and sports ribbons are all good materials.
 Also try hanging picture frames (with nails through the fabric) on top of the fabric sheet to have a nice picture collage.
 Thousands are available now, you'll find one that will relate to something important in your child's life - their favorite sport, an animal they love... You can even get them really involved by letting them paint their own knobs!

, They do not damage the walls, yet add a lot of color and character. Has your son out-grown ABC's and cartoon cars? Peel them off, wash the walls, stick on the Batman borders and stickers. They are available at many places that sell wallpaper as well as on-line. They will last for a year at least. Actually, these self-stick borders are nice for adding an easy splash of color to any room. Some of these products are 'cheap-looking' (like shelf paper), but many are indistinguishable from quality wallpaper.
 Too many nicely-decorated children's rooms have the pictures, shelves, etc. all at adult height. Who cares if it looks like it came out of a magazine? Whose room is it anyway? Put that ABC poster down at toddler level so she can appreciate it.

