 Establish a routine that helps you feel good about yourself. This can be anything -- doing your hair, nails, or wearing something that compliments your body. These tasks do not have to be body related. They simply need to be tasks that help you feel better about yourself. Any task that makes you appreciate yourself is beneficial. Any grooming tasks will be helpful.
Wearing clothes that make you feel good helps to boost your confidence. If you don’t feel good in your clothes, then it will be difficult to feel good without them.
Do the routine often. In order to build confidence, repeat your routine at least once a week to establish a regular day or time that you dote on yourself.
If you want your routine to have a walk in the park or go swimming, go for it. Go anywhere that makes you feel confident and/or comfortable.;
, Nothing can make you appreciate your body and dote on yourself like eating well. Eating well makes you remember to feed your body “good fuel” so that it functions properly and looks good. It is difficult to appreciate your body if you’re thinking about the extra donuts you ate, or if you’re counting all of the wasted calories that you’ve taken in. It will make you feel insecure or guilty, which is counter to the confidence you’ll need to have fun naked.
Don’t feel guilty about what you eat. If you’re going to eat it, don’t waste time counting all of the calories or thinking about it over and over again. This too is a confidence buster.
Eat healthy foods as a reminder to appreciate the skin you’re in. The food itself is a reminder that your body deserves to be fed and treated well.
If you're already on a healthy diet or meal plan, you don't have to overdo it. Take an evening snack once every other day or so if you feel like you're stressed over eating too healthy. Even though you want to be healthy, remember there is a thing that's called, "being too healthy."

, Instead of putting yourself down constantly, compliment yourself. The confidence to have fun naked begins with not judging your body or putting yourself down. With the process of complimenting yourself comes the responsibility of not doing certain things such as criticizing yourself. Don’t stand in front of the mirror and point out everything you don’t like.
Point out a few things about yourself that you like. Write them down if necessary. Use these qualities to counter the negative judgements that you might make about yourself and your body. For instance, if you think something negative about yourself, counter it with one of the positive comments that you’ve already identified. So, counter “I hate my arms” with “I have great legs.” 