 Any podcast found on the iTunes store will show up automatically, but you'll need to move any files found elsewhere into iTunes so that you can burn them. To do so, click the "Download" link on the podcast you want. When it is finished downloading, copy and paste it into the folder "Automatically Add to iTunes," which is found in "My Music." This will place the podcast directly in iTunes, and even sort it for you, making your life much easier later.iTunes, which has the largest library of podcasts on the planet, is the easiest way to burn podcasts to discs. It can be downloaded for free online. If you prefer not to use iTunes, there are other ways to burn podcasts outlined below.
;
, CDs are burned on iTunes through playlists. Once you've created one and put on all the songs and/or podcasts you want, your computer will write the playlist to the CD as long as you have a computer with a CD burner. Your playlists page is found by clicking "Playlist" from the top of iTunes.


Almost all modern computers have a CD burner. If you do not know if your computer can burn CDs, check out "Device Manager" in the Start Menu (Windows) or Finder (Mac). Double click on "DVD/CD-ROM Drive," and look for the extension "CD-RW." This means you can burn CDs., From the Playlist page, hit + and select "New Playlist." This will then bring you back to your music, and a gray bar will open up on the side of the screen. This is where you drag the podcasts or songs into the playlist to be burned.


If you have the podcast already selected in iTunes, you can also press Shift+Control+N (Windows) or Shift+Command+N (Mac) to automatically make a playlist with all the selected (highlighted blue) songs/podcast., You are able to select multiple at once while holding the "command/ctrl" key. Remember, however, that most CD's can only hold roughly 80 minutes of high-quality audio. If your podcasts are too long, there are a few solutions:



Convert the songs to mp3 easily through iTunes. This will lower the sound quality, but that is not a big deal if you are only listening to talks.
Use multiple CD's. If the playlist is too long, iTunes will give you the option to use multiple CDs. When one is full, it will prompt you to put in a fresh disc before restarting.

Cut the songs into smaller bits. You can use a basic, free audio editing software like Audacity to open the song, cut it in half, then save it as two smaller songs., You can use the search bar in the upper right corner to find the podcast you want, then just drag it into the playlist space that opened up when you created a new playlist. Click the small "done" at the bottom of the page when you have everything.


If your playlist closes prematurely, or you want to add more episodes, find the playlist in your Playlist Menu, then click "Edit Playlist" in the top right corner.
 Navigate back to your playlist if you've left, selecting it in the Playlist menu. Click the gear in the lower left corner, then select "Burn to Disc." You'll be offered several options, such as the gaps between songs, audio quality, and if you want to download song info (artist, name of podcast, etc.).


Select "MP3 CD" to fit more podcasts onto a single disk. However, know that not all CD players can play mp3s.