 It's important to have a base to your fabric dog bed, otherwise it won't have clear boundaries and your pet might not understand the fabric bed is its place. Also, a regular base will provide a more comfortable resting place for your pet. Much like sleeping on a lumpy mattress can be uncomfortable for you, so too will it be for your pet.You might choose an old, over-sized cushion for the base of your dog bed. To prolong the life of the cushion, you may want to wrap it in a blanket, towel, curtain, and so on.
Pillows can also work well, especially for smaller dogs. Much like cushions, you can extend the life of your pet pillow/fabric bed by covering it in a blanket, towel, curtain, and so on.

Sewing together the fabric you are using for your dog bed can also help it maintain shape. You could also sew the cloth inside a larger piece of fabric, like a sheet., If you don't have any cushions or pillows to make the base of your fabric pet bed, you can always stuff a pillowcase with rags, old towels, and unwanted articles of clothing.


You might consider making a pet "beanbag" bed. Place a large quantity of unwanted cloth items (towels, rags, shirts, etc.) in the center of an old, unwanted sheet. Tie the edges of the sheet together so it forms a beanbag.To prevent your fabric stuffing from falling out, you may want to stitch closed the opening of your pillowcase or sheet.
 You may want to add several layers of cloth to create an especially soft place for your pet to rest, but in many cases, your base may be enough for your pet. You may want to watch your dog as it gets used to the bed. If you notice the animal seems uncomfortable, you may need to add some more fabric to the bed., The fabric of your bed can easily get wrinkled or uncomfortably wadded up over the course of a night. Remember, many dogs have dreams of running, which causes their paws to twitch. This can sometimes cause the fabric of the dog bed to bunch up uncomfortably for your pet.


You don't need to check your pet bed every day, especially if you've tucked the bed up tightly with a sheet/covering when making it. However, to keep the bed at the max comfort level for you dog, you may want to check it once a week, straightening and smoothing the fabric when necessary.

