 Over the counter or prescription pain relievers may be recommended by your veterinarian. If you choose to rely on a non-prescription medication, consider a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). You can find these in name brand and generic varieties, and NSAIDs are typically available from about five dollars a bottle. Your vet may also prescribe steroids, cortisones, or chondroprotectants.


Ask your vet before beginning any medicinal treatment plan.
Prescription medications are available in pill form or as direct joint injections.
For mature dogs, chondroprotectants have proved helpful in treating degenerative joint disorders., You can add natural supplements including glucosamine, chondroitin, and omega fatty acids to your dog’s food. You can purchase these supplements in a variety of forms in most health food stores and pharmacies.These supplements are all nutraceuticals; a combination of foods and pharmaceuticals that deliver essential nutrients via the dog's diet.
The research has not yet confirmed it, but anecdotal evidence to glucosamine and chondroitin indicate that these supplements decrease inflammation and promote joint health.
Omega 3's and other fatty acids offer pets advanced regenerative properties. That means when developmental issues or dysplasia damage bone or supportive tissues, omega 3's can help your dog rebuild them., You may want to ask your veterinarian before having your dog change or increase their exercise. Walking on a variety of up and down hill inclines can help keep your dog’s joints loose and reduce inflammation. Swimming is a low impact exercise that will allow your pet to keep joints moving without the undo stress caused by the impact of walking or running.Ask your vet for specific recommendations, but typically, if you increase the amount of exercise gradually, your dog will respond positively.
Start by adding five or ten minutes onto a walk, or varying incline during your walk.
Stop if your dog ever seems tired, whimpers, pants, or otherwise indicates discomfort.
 Allowing your dog to lay on a heating pad or blanket can significantly reduce inflammation and sooth joint pain. Simply making sure your dog maintains a consistent temperature will improve joint function. Significant changes from hot to cold cause the cartilage, muscles, and other tissues to expand and contract leading to discomfort.


Keep dogs with elbow dysplasia in a temperature controlled house, garage, or other area to ensure consistent body temperature day and night.
If you’re taking your dog outside in the cold, put a sweater or leg warmers on to keep their joints warm.
If your dog is panting, coughing, or drooling, it may be overheated. Bring your dog water and remove heat sources, if this happens., This can relieve pain and inflammation in the joints. Start by petting the area of the leg and elbow. Then, cross your hands one over the other and gently pump up and down similar to CPR compressions. Be careful and don’t push directly on the bones. After a few minutes of pumping, gently pet the joint. Then, switch to the other leg., These shots use your dog’s own blood plasma to help relieve the effects of elbow dysplasia including inflammation and assist the joints to develop properly. These treatments are best used in conjunction with other methods such as exercise therapy for younger dogs., If your dog has to go up and down stairs, this can stress or damage the elbow joints. You may want to consider having a ramp put in place to help your dog enter and exit the home. You can also purchase portable ramps that can be used to help dogs get in and out of cars as well as up and down short sets of stairs. Living in a home with carpeting or putting down rugs can also decrease impact of walking, standing, and other movements for your dog., The goal of your bet’s sleeping area should be to provide support for the joints, so there is no pressure or strain on the elbows while your dog sleeps. Cushions also reduce the pressure on elbows and other joints when your dog gets up and down from sleeping postures. A bed that’s low to the ground is best, so your dog does not overexert the elbow joints when getting in or out of their bed.