 If you do run into a survey scam, let the BBB know. Since the BBB is the premier organization in establishing best business practices, it is usually the first place someone will go to check into a company's reputation. Therefore, you should report to the BBB right away.Even if other people have already reported the same company, go ahead and make your own report--it makes all the other negative reports look more credible. After all, one person calling a survey a scam might be a crank. If fifty people call the same survey a scam, they're probably not all cranks.
 While the FTC doesn't act as a law enforcement agency, it does collect complaints of fraud from consumers and distribute them to law enforcement agencies. Report a scam at https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov/GettingStarted#crnt.


All you’ll need is your personal information, some details about the scam, and as much information about the company as you can get, including email, web URL, and telephone number and physical address if possible.
 Each state also has a consumer protection agency, which are run from the office of each state's attorney general. If you'd like to file a complaint with the state office of consumer protection, simply perform an internet search for "consumer complaints to attorney general" or go to http://www.naag.org/current-attorneys-general.php and find the listing for the attorney general in your state.


Although each state is going to have different rules and procedures, you’re going to want to have the same kind of information for a state consumer protection agency as you would want to have for the FTC. In addition, it’s best to try and make sure you know how much money you lost on the scam, if any. If applicable, add in the money you would have made while you were being swindled .
 The FBI has a dedicated section dealing with internet crime. If you feel the scam you dealt with rises to the level of criminal activity, as it would if the site were a veiled attempt at gathering personal details for the purposes of identity theft, then you should report it to the FBI.


File your complaint at https://www.ic3.gov/default.aspx. You should gather as much information as possible, including the details of how you were victimized, your address, telephone, an email, and any financial transaction information relating to the scam (like dates, amounts, and account numbers.)

, If you live outside of the US, you'll need to find a comparable consumer protection agency in your home country.


For instance, a Canadian might check with the Canadian Office of Consumer Affairs, at http://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/oca-bc.nsf/eng/home. A subject of the UK might look at the the UK's Consumer Rights page on the gov.uk website, located at https://www.gov.uk/consumer-protection-rights.

