 These will be our main weapons until you get a higher rank so be careful on your weapon of choice. If you have just started I suggest a gun with low recoil, accuracy and o.k. power such as the K2 (better for mid - long range but has slow rate of fire), P90 (better for close combat but has low accuracy) or the M4A1 (M16A2 has a weird spray pattern. M4A1 has pretty much average everything except for extremely fast rate of fire). For snipers, the PSG1, often regarded as the best sniper and used by most of the experts, is available. The PSG1 has 5 bullets so if u miss u can try again.;
, To kill snipers who are hiding behind objects either take cover and snipe them if you are a sniper. NEVER TRY TO SNIPE A SNIPER BEHIND COVER IN THE OPEN - IT IS SUICIDE. For sprayers, put your cross hairs on them and click about 2-3 times (called bursting) before crouching behind the object of choice again. This makes it harder for snipers to attack you and makes you more accurate because it gives a chance for the cross-hairs to go back to normal.
 If you are a sniper go to the next paragraph. For enemies who are far away, DO NOT RUSH THEM. They can here your footsteps and they will attack you. Instead try to predict where they are going to go, switch to M9(knife) and run to where they are going on a detour route and wait for them there. If there is no detour follow them by walking (press shift). Although this is slower, they cannot hear you. When you are close to them, just rush them and shoot them. For those that are close to you but haven't seen you rush them as well. For those who have seen you and are close to you, try to back away and get behind cover while jumping in zig-zag formation. This is harder for them to aim. Try to take cover but if there is no cover, shoot them while jumping around the in circles (called bunny hopping) until they die.
 And do the same for everyone else. If they are close and see you, jump and scope with PSG1 or just shoot with FRF2.If sprayers start to get close, if you are confident in your skills, u can go ahead and try to shoot them. If not, take out your secondary pistol, stay behind cover and shoot at the upper torso.#

,