 One way to get a loan without waiting the two or four years a financial institution would require is to ask friends or family if they will help you. You are not eligible for a mortgage, so the person would have to buy the house and then you would pay them the mortgage payments. After two years, or when you become eligible, you may be able to take over the mortgage.

This is not a decision which should be taken lightly. Only ask if you are completely certain that you have a steady ongoing income, and will be able to meet the costs.
Consider the fact that if you fail to pay off the loan, your friend or family member will be liable for your payments. This could affect their credit or damage their financial stability.
If you do progress with this you will need to document everything and have clear written agreements on the rates and payment schedule.You may need to complete the promissory note and mortgage agreement to ensure the deal is legal and all parties are protected.
Seek legal advice to ensure you do not run in trouble which could ruin your relationship., Several websites provide listings of rent to own homes in every area. Pay a deposit on a house you want to buy, which is still owned by someone else, and agree to an overall purchase price. Pay the owner rent every month, and all or some of that rent money can be used towards a down payment on the house you are living in. Consider seeking legal assistance to get an agreement that will protect your interests.

Build your credit, and when you are able to get a mortgage, the owner of the house can sell it to you at the price you initially agreed to.
The owner can use your rent as a down payment., Seller financing is similar to rent-to-own, but the buyer owns the house and the seller provides them financing. That is, instead of getting a mortgage from a financial institution, the seller lends the buyer money to purchase the house. Of course, the seller is subsequently repaid by the buyer with regular mortgage payments. However, many seller financed mortgages are short-term and have a balloon payment due at the end. This means that the buyer should find a way to refinance before the term is up.Seller-financed mortgages are often a good way to get a loan when traditional loans are unavailable to you. However, the risk taken by the seller in lending to you means that interest rates charged on these loans are typically high.
Refinancing within the loan term is essential. If you can't secure another mortgage within this time, you will be stuck with a very large balloon payment and no way to pay it off., One way to buy a house after bankruptcy without waiting until you are able to get a mortgage, is to buy a house without a getting mortgage at all. If you have the cash to purchase an inexpensive house outright, then you can do this. This is not particularly likely, but if you find an opportunity and have the money, you can do it.


Avoid the temptation to take loans, even small ones, from subprime and payday lenders to support a purchase.
They may be more willing to lend to you despite your credit rating, but it is a big risk.
Opt for a more patient approach to rebuild your credit and secure your financial future.
Seek assistance from a professional to understand the legal implications of making a cash purchase, including possible declarations to the IRS.

