 Meet with friends to walk, run, hike or exercise on equipment in public parks. Working out with other people is great for staying motivated and on a routine.
 Many schools have excellent recreation facilities, and since these types of gyms are typically funded by student fees, you may have an automatic membership once you enroll and pay these fees - take advantage of it!

, Some local authorities offer free classes and program to help promote health in the local community. Try one!

,, You will often get a free selection of exercises of every type at membership sites which provide online fitness guidance. You can build up a whole routine with a little searching. Also check out government advice.Though the information is generally targeted at beginners, you may find a suitable routine.
 You’ll find many exercise programs on TV these days - find a few that suit your schedule in the listings - or record for later use. If you can't find any exercise programs, learn How to Exercise While Watching TV!

, Charities often use fun activities (and sometimes really tough ones) as fund-raisers. Although it normally costs money to join, you may be able persuade a whole lot of people to sponsor you and cover your entry fee for a good cause. Plus, there's added motivation, since you don't want to let down the people or cause that you're helping.
 If you ask or keep an eye out, you may find exercise equipment or a set of weights that someone is glad to get rid of on Freecycle.org - they are the kind of things which people buy with high hopes and then the the equipment lies around gathering dust, ready for you to happily take it off their hands.
 Find opportunities for exercise throughout your day. Use the stairs instead of the elevator Park a little further away than you normally would. Stretch at your desk. Hold your tummy in when waiting in line. It all counts. Do whatever you can to be more active wherever you are. It costs nothing.


How to Exercise While Sitting at Your Computer
How to Do an In Flight Fitness Workout

