 Get the dark and edgy look.


Wear clothes that look good on you and are comfortable. Get inspiration from Avril Lavigne's and Little Mix's clothes. Look for denim, shorts and crop tops.
Wear dark make-up (if it suits you).;
, When it comes to doing stuff that scares you, just be brave and do it. Everyone gets scared but the reason we have fears is so that we can get over them. The trick is to count to three and then just do it.


Never admit to anyone that you are scared.
 Don't let people tell you what to do. This is your life. Don't let others control it and if you don't like something, then change it.


If you want to do something then do it. You don't have to follow other people, you can be the leader. If you have an opinion about something, then say it.
 If someone says "that's crazy" then you should do it, even if it is crazy. For example, do crazy dares, play weird games, have some fun, etc.
 If someone wants to know something about you, keep it a secret for a little while. Don't tell everyone what you're doing. Don't let everyone know how you feel.
 Do not let anyone read it! Write about how you feel, what you're doing, write about other people.


Write a diary 'for someone'. Write a diary telling them all your secrets and emotions. Don't tell them it's for them, but 'accidentally' leave it where they will find it.
, Gossiping makes you seem like 'all the other girls'. It will make you seem shallow and bragging makes you seem self-absorbed. Be a good listener and hear what other people are saying.
 Practice smiling while looking in the mirror. Make your smile seem like you're hiding something or make it seem that you know something that they don't.
 If you're walking home from the shops with your friends, tell them that you want to go to the library or something. If you're getting lunch with your friends then don't order what you always do. The trick is to surprise the people around you.
 Don't turn into 'the hulk' when you're angry. If you are angry at someone, then cross your arms and don't talk to them. The only thing worse than shouting at a person is not talking to them at all.
 Let yourself fall in love. Go out with guys who are not "your type". If you don't usually go out on dates, then go out with a few guys. Refuse to commit to any guy though; just say that you're happy having fun.


Don't go out with the whole school!

