 In a small bowl, mix ½ an egg white with 1 teaspoon of honey and almond oil. Egg white helps with firming the skin and helps reduce fine lines and wrinkles. Almond oil gently moisturizes your skin, and honey helps seal in the moisture. Honey has also been known to reduce the appearance of blemishes and scars.


Apply a new mixture to your face in the morning and evening after cleansing every day. Wash with lukewarm water and pat dry., Carrots have high levels of Vitamin A, C, and B6. These are natural vitamins to help your skin stay healthy and retain its natural glow. To make your own carrot moisturizer, boil 1 chopped carrot in a saucepan for five to seven minutes, then strain. Mash the carrot in a small bowl and allow it to cool.


Add 1 ½ tablespoon of yogurt to the mashed carrot for a cooling effect and mix until it is a smoother consistency. Store the cream in a cool, dry place in an air-tight jar. Apply twice daily after cleansing.
To further improve your skin’s complexion, eat carrots and drink carrot juice regularly to provide your body with essential nutrients., Cleanse your face with plain, full-fat milk. The lactic acid in milk is a mild exfoliant to help remove dead cells. It also helps even out the tone of your skin and reduces scars and blemishes. You can also use almond milk, which is high in Vitamin E, a substance that moisturizes the skin and is recommended for people with dry skin.


To use this, dip a cotton ball in a tablespoon of milk and massage it into your skin in a circular motion for at least three to five minutes. This effectively removes dirt from pores.
If you have inflamed pimples or oily skin, mix the milk with a teaspoon of rice or gram (garbanzo) flour. Gently massage it into your skin with your fingers. Rinse off the substance with cold water and then dry., Avocado has many ingredients that help stimulate the production of collagen in your face. Vitamins A and C, which are found in avocados, have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. These help protect the skin from harmful free radicals. Vitamin E, also found in avocados, helps reduce scars and moisturizes the skin.


For a natural avocado mask, peel an avocado and mash the pulp in a bowl. Apply the creamy substance to your face for 10 to 15 minutes, rinse it with cool water, then pat it dry. Apply it every day if you have dry or sensitive skin. Apply it twice a week if you have oily skin.
To help with anti-aging, mix ½ an avocado, teaspoon of lemon juice, ½ teaspoon of plain yogurt, and 1 teaspoon of coconut oil in a small bowl. Blend until the mixture is a creamy consistency that looks smooth. This is best achieved with ripe avocados.
Apply a small amount of this cream to your face. Keep the remainder of the cream in a cool, dry place in an air-tight container. Make sure you make this cream fresh every week, since the ingredients can go bad. Use this if you have dry and sensitive skin., Sea silt is a type of mud that contains sea salt. This substance is found in coastal regions and includes sulfur, unsaturated fatty acids, and algae. These ingredients give the sea-silt soothing and anti-inflammatory properties. Sea-silt also helps smooth your skin's texture by removing dead skin cells as well as bacteria. It also improves the appearance of blemishes and scars.


Sea silt can be found in numerous store bought face masks, which are generally natural. The masks generally suggest application twice a week, but also check with your dermatologist for how much you should use it based on your skin type.
If you have dry, sensitive skin or combination skin, the sulfur and salt in the mask may cause irritation. It may also make inflamed scars worse.