 The cupcake recipe makes 18 cupcakes, so you'll need two 12-count cupcake pans, or one 12-count and one six-count. Line 18 of the cups with white cupcake liners, and preheat your oven to 350 F (177 C). To make and decorate the cupcakes, you'll also need:


One large, one medium, and two small mixing bowls
Electric beaters, stand mixer, or whisk
Sifter
Rubber spatula or wooden spoon
Wire cooling rack
Frosting or butter knife
Pastry bag
Grass tip and a small round tip;
, In a small bowl, beat the egg whites with an electric beater for two to three minutes. The eggs should be fluffy and at the soft peak stage, meaning they’ll hold a peak, but only for a couple seconds. Set the egg whites aside.The reason you separate the egg yolks from the whites in this recipe is to achieve the lightest and fluffiest cupcakes possible.
 In a medium bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Sifting will remove lumps, make for a smoother batter, and create a fluffier cake.If you don’t have a sifter, simply whisk the dry ingredients together to remove lumps.
 In the bowl of a stand mixer, beat the butter on high speed for about a minute. Use the paddle attachment to cream the butter. Add in the sugar, and continue beating on high speed for another four minutes, until the two are smooth, creamy, and completely incorporated.


If you don’t have a stand mixer, use a large mixing bowl and electric beaters to cream the butter and sugar.
The creaming process is important, because it whips air into the butter and makes for a lighter cake.
 Lower the speed of the mixer to medium and beat in the egg yolks and vanilla. Beat for one to two minutes, or until the eggs are fully incorporated into the butter and sugar mixture.If too much mixture gets stuck on the sides of the bowl, stop mixing and use a rubber spatula to scrape down the sides.
 Turn the mixer speed down low. Add one-third of the dry ingredients to the bowl and mix to combine. Add half the milk and mix until combined.


Continue alternating between adding the dry ingredients and milk until they have all been beaten in.Stop mixing once all the ingredients are incorporated. Over-mixing can develop the gluten in the flour, and this will result in cupcakes that are dense, heavy, and elastic.
 Pour the egg whites into the mixture and use the rubber spatula to gently fold them in. When the batter is ready, it will be thick and smooth.


Adding the whipped egg whites to the batter at the very end will make the cupcakes nice and fluffy.
 Use a spoon to fill the 18 cupcake liners with batter. The cupcakes will rise as they bake, so don’t fill the liners more than halfway.


If your half-empty cupcake pan is prone to warping, fill the empty cups one-third full with water.
 The cupcakes will need 18 to 21 minutes in the oven. You know they're ready when you press the top with your finger gently and it springs back, or when a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.


When the cupcakes come out of the oven, allow them to cool for 10 minutes in the pan.
 After 10 minutes, remove the cupcakes from the pan and transfer them to a wire rack. Set them aside and allow them to cool to room temperature before decorating.Hot or warm cupcakes will melt the frosting, so you can’t decorate them until they’ve cooled.
 Outfit a stand mixer with a whisk attachment, and pour the butter into the bowl. Whip the butter on medium–high speed for about eight minutes, until it’s creamy, light, and pale yellow.If you don’t have a stand mixer, put the butter into a medium mixing bowl and whip it with electric beaters, or a whisk.
 When the butter is ready, reduce the speed to medium and add the sugar one spoonful at a time. Wait for the sugar to become incorporated into the butter before adding more.Adding the sugar slowly like this will work more air into the mixture, making the frosting light and creamy.
 Once all the sugar has been incorporated, add in the vanilla, salt, and 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of the milk. Increase the speed to high and beat everything for about four minutes.


If the frosting is too heavy and thick, whip in another tablespoon (15 ml) of milk, until you achieve a frosting that’s fluffy, light, and spreadable., Remove one cup of frosting from the bowl, put it in a small mixing bowl, and set it aside. Add 10 drops of red food coloring to the main batch of frosting and beat it to incorporate the color. Add more food coloring as necessary until you achieve the desired intensity of red for Elmo’s fur.


Add five drops of black food coloring to the small bowl of frosting. Whisk the color in until it’s fully incorporated, and add more food coloring as necessary to achieve a black frosting.
The black frosting will be used to create the pupils in Elmo’s eyes.
 Use the frosting knife to cover each cupcake with a thin layer of red frosting. This base layer will make the fur as intense as possible, and ensure there aren't any areas of exposed cake under the fur.The frosting recipe is good for 24 cupcakes, so don’t worry if you're generous with the frosting.
 Fill the pastry bag with red frosting, and fit it with the grass tip.To create the fur, place the tip of the bag at the center of the cupcake, squeeze the bag gently to release one-quarter to a half-inch (6 to 12 mm) of frosting, and then pull the tip up and away.Continue making fur like this, working outward in a spiral motion to the edge of the cupcake.
Cover the entire cupcake top with fur, making sure there aren't any areas where white cake is showing through from underneath.
 Once all the cupcakes have been decorated with fur, clean and dry the pastry bag. For each cupcake, position two candy melts side by side at the top center of the cupcake.When the pastry bag is dry, fill it with the black frosting, and fit it with the small round tip. Pipe a small dot of black frosting onto the center of each candy melt to create the pupils.
 To create the nose, place a single orange chocolate-covered peanut candy in the middle of each cupcake, right below the eyes. For the mouth, cut each chocolate sandwich cookie in half. Place a half cookie in the center of each cupcake, half an inch (12 mm) below the nose. Make sure the rounded edge of the cookie faces down, farthest away from the nose.


If peanut allergies are a concern, use an orange gumdrop, gumball, jelly bean, or other candy instead., To keep the icing from melting, place the cupcakes in the refrigerator if you aren't serving them immediately. Before serving, let them warm up for at least half an hour.

