 For example, black metal and death metal work well together; Alternative metal and hard rock go great together. Think about other combinations you and your band might like. If you're thinking more creatively, try to make some more unusual genre combinations. An American group called Panopticon combined bluegrass and black metal, so really extend your abilities and ideas. Spread your wings and soar into the world of metal sub-genres.;
, So decide what kind of song you want to make, think of yourself as the listener, what do you feel like listening to right now?

Make it so that it's not just you who will enjoy it, but so that many will enjoy this particular song. Think of the things that make you really dig a song: The vocal melodies, the guitar solos, the riffs or the drum patterns. try to think of new ways these can be combined to form favourable songs.
 From there, you should all think of other parts for the band that would work well with the part that you started with. If you start with a riff, try getting the guitarist to loop it and then ask the drummer to figure out the percussion for it.

This can lead to some interesting ideas, because once the two are stable, other members can jump in and add to the song. Get the lead guitarist to sit back and consider throwing a high melody in, or a solo.






Bassists should try to write something that boosts the song. This could be anything from a simplistic riff that follows the guitars, to an advanced bass riff that is completely individual from the other music, while still fitting the song. Playing a funk riff behind a blazing death metal riff will not always work. (Still give it a try though, you never know what could sound good together).
 For example, if the guitarist/s or bassist/s play a short note and stop then the drummer should also do something similar (like choking the crash/china or whatever they decide).

Also, if you want to have screaming/growling in your music, don't be afraid to let it all out. It all depends on what kind of metal you're trying to make. Especially in metal genres, it is important to work on a coherent unit sound. You don't want the drums to be inconsistent or else it may throw out the rest of the band.
However, if that is the intention for the song then by all means give it a shot, if you believe that the band can pull it off. Experiment with different sounds to find what works for your band, and what sounds good.
 Try to be creative. Instead of using another verse/chorus, add a drum breakdown, or a guitar solo. Make the song invite someone in who may not be into metal. A creative song will also make more people consider your band as a higher standard. Do not write one professional song, then back out with two weaker songs.

Try to maintain a high standard in your writing ability. Write consistently and aim high. When you write one song that people approve of, don't let the rest of your material be slackened.







