 Just pop the filter out or unclip it (depending on the make and model of your air conditioner) and use the tube extension on your vacuum cleaner to suck all the grit and dust out of the filter. Replace the filter when you’ve finished cleaning it.If you’ve taken good care of your air conditioner’s filter, you might not see a visible change in the filter when cleaning it. Rest assured, it is getting clean.
On the other hand, you might not be able to get all the dust and grit out of the filter. Just use the vacuum to suck up as much as you can.This method is best for giving your filter its regular cleaning.
 If, after you’ve vacuumed your filter, it still has a good deal of particulate attached, try washing it. To get started, remove your air conditioner filter. Mix one part vinegar and one part water. For instance, you might mix five cups of water and five cups of vinegar. Pour the mixture in a tub or a wide sink that can accommodate your filter.


Submerge your filter in the mixture for at least one hour. If it is exceptionally grimy, leave it in for two hours or more.
Drain the water and vinegar solution and dry the filter on a rack. Replace it when dry.
Instead of water and vinegar, you could mix a small amount of detergent or liquid dish soap into a volume of water that will cover your filter when it is submerged., If the weather is nice and your filter is too large to fit in your sink, take your filter outside and lean it against a wall. Spray your hose on the filter. Do not use a pressurized hose nozzle or you might risk tearing or damaging the flimsy filter.You could also hose your filter down in your shower. Just prop the filter up in your shower and, using your shower’s detachable shower head, spray the filter’s entire surface, front and back, in a zig-zag motion.
After hosing your filter down, allow it to dry, then replace it.
For added effect, you could sprinkle a few spoonfuls of baking soda over your filter before spraying it down.
 Some modern air conditioners might be equipped with a function that cleans the air filter for you. These air conditioners use an internal cassette and brush device to remove particles from the filter, then deposits the dust and particles in a small chamber from which they are blown outside. If your air conditioner has such a feature, set it to clean your filter regularly.