 If a regular structure to your day helped you get through the initial withdrawal period, it may also help you conquer your addiction long-term. Adjust your schedule as necessary, but keep the good habits that you’ve developed already.


Make sure you continue to manage any medications you are taking and have regular trips to your medical doctor., Don’t stop taking advantage of these resources just because you are feeling better. Recovery from addiction is a process, so continue to check in with your doctor, therapist, or support group. If this begins to feel burdensome, try thinking of it like eating right or exercising. It’s something you do regularly to stay healthy, even when you’d rather not.
 Thinking about the rest of your life can be overwhelming, so stop and celebrate your accomplishments periodically: two weeks clean, a month, three months, a year.


After even a day or week sober you can treat yourself to something you enjoy like a nice dinner or a trip to the beach. Focus on what you have done well and take the time to set goals for the next week.
After a month of sobriety you can celebrate by having a clean and sober party (with no alcohol, drugs).
 Build healthy friendships and stronger personal relationships. Resist the urge to start spending time with the people with whom you used to use amphetamines.


You can set specific boundaries with individuals who use amphetamines by saying something like, "I am focusing on my sobriety and am still in the early stages of recovery, so I can't be around people who use right now. It is too risky for me and I hope you will understand that."
Cultivate new relationships with individuals who do not use alcohol or drugs or any kind. Try signing up for a gym, dance class, church group, or any other social activity.
 If you notice increased cravings, feelings of hopelessness, or a lot of additional stress, you may be at risk for a relapse. During these times, it is especially important to avoid people, places, and situations you associate with amphetamine use. Stay strong, and focus on what you’ve accomplished.


If you do use amphetamines again and regret it, try not to beat yourself up – that won’t help. Remember that you stopped once; you can do it again. Get help immediately, and get back on track.

