 Most people who write to their congressmen usually do so for two basic reasons; they agree with their congressmen’s actions or they disagree with them. You likely have a purpose in mind when you are writing your representative, like you disagree with their current vote on healthcare reform or you want to urge them to vote in favor of a new tax cut. Your letter should have one clearly defined purpose.


Letters that have more than one purpose, like state cutbacks for education programs and about their recent vote about agricultural regulations, are less effective than sending separate letters for each issue.
 You want this letter to be well thought out, factual, and based on evidence. Regardless of your position on a certain issue, you should research what you are talking about before you sit down to write. For instance, if you are writing about a new bill that has been introduced to the House of Representatives, you should research what that bill says and what it means.


If you are unfamiliar with the legislative process, you can research how a bill is passed and what role your representative has in the process., Generally, the most effective mail is three paragraphs. The first paragraph should introduce the issue that you either support or oppose. The second paragraph should explain why you oppose or support that particular issue or bill that your representative is involved in. The third paragraph should ask the representative to do something.You can ask your representative to vote either for or against a certain bill, to write back and explain their position, or to ask them to explain the legislation that they have introduced.
 In the first paragraph, you need to state your position on the issue at hand. For example, you could say “My name is Kelly Brown and I am writing to ask you to oppose SB 2222 by voting no on March 5th.” This lets the reader know who you are, what your stance is, and what you’d like them to do. It is respectful and sets up your next paragraph where you will explain why you have this position. Your purpose should be specific and very clear.Identify the name and number of the bill or resolution and the date that it is being voted on.
 This is particularly important if you are writing about an issue that is about to be voted on.Both the House of Representatives and the Senate have calendars that are available to the public that show you exactly when they are voting on certain bills and resolutions. If you are concerned about one of the votes that are happening soon, you should send your letter or email before the vote actually happens.The earlier you can send your letter, the more time your representative has to take your thoughts and concerns into consideration.
 If you are passionate about a certain issue, like women’s reproductive rights, look at organizations that work in this area. Major organizations and nonprofits will often supply form letters that their supporters are encouraged to send to their representatives.You can find these letters in the advocacy section of their website, or by reaching out to a member of the organization and asking if they have any form letters to share.The letter to your congressmen should be in your own words, but these form letters can help you get an idea about the scope of the issue and they often have helpful research points that you can include.
You can also send a form letter if you want to. While personal letters are more effective, form letters still make an impact.
 Feel free to send another letter or email about the same issue if you are still concerned about a new development or if the vote hasn’t happened yet. You want to avoid spamming your representative’s office though, so keep your follow ups limited to one or two additional letters. You may or not receive a reply from the representative’s office. The reply may take a few weeks, or you may receive an automated email thanking you for reaching out or a basic form letter thanking you for voicing your concerns. Or, you may receive a personal letter from the representative themselves!


Be sure to thank the representative for the work that they do and for listening to your concerns.

