 The best blocking technique in the world doesn't mean squat if you don't know who you're blocking. You should know what is required of you in every play and scenario, so spend some time doing your homework. If you have questions, ask your coaches -- don't wait until game time to get the plays down. Most importantly, know whether it is a running play or passing play:


Running plays are when you drive into the defense to make as big a hole as possible, pushing back hard.
Pass blocking is when you stay on your line and keep the opponent from getting to the quarterback. You must hold position.
On a play-action pass play, there is a fake run, so fire off as if run blocking but don't go down field, holding your line instead., Even if you've got your opponent beat, the blocker that keeps their feet moving is usually the one that wins in the end. Furthermore, you have far more power in your legs than your arms, and your upper body will tire out much faster than your lower over the course of a full game.


Your knees should always be bent while blocking.
Remember -- short, explosive steps off the balls of your feet-- keep moving., One of the biggest and most dangerous blocking mistakes you can make is bending your back, putting excess strain on your spine and greatly lowering power. When crouching, you want to bend from the waist while keeping your spine straight. As you make contact, lean forward from the waist while keeping your back broom-handle straight.


Strong back and core muscles will help you do this, gaining a key advantage over opponents., Keep your elbows close to your ribs as you make contact, as this maximizes the power of your arms. Rotating your arms slightly to the outside should also square your biceps up with the opponent, further increasing power.


To help remember where to place your hands, think of pointing your thumbs straight up to the sky., Not all blocks come right off the line. Sometimes you'll need to move forward to approach your opponent. When doing so, don't just run up like normal. From about 10-12 feet out, drop your hips and take the short, choppy steps of a normal block, staying on the balls of your feet. You should be able to change directions on a dime, trying to line your shoulders up with his as you land the block.


This also applies as a defender is rushing towards you. Use your short steps to keep your shoulders square to his, then drive forward as he makes contact with you.
Running directly at someone is the best way to get faked out, as you can't change direction fast enough to react., You should want to physically dominate every single opponent that crosses your path. Don't neglect the mental portion of the game -- the most ruthless and aggressive blocker will always have the advantage. Short of holding or grabbing a jersey, use your hands to manhandle your opponent into submission.


Once you've made contact, your hands don't have to stop. Violent, short pushes and shoves can knock them off their feet and help you drive through.