 You don't want to write down every single thing that people say, unless you're taking very specific minutes. When you're in a meeting, you want to make sure you only have the most important things that come up.Especially, make sure that you note down to-do items, decisions that are made, and anything that needs to be followed up on.
Take notes on paper and copy them onto the computer later on, this will help you remember what was said.
An effective method is the Cornell method of note-taking. On the left-hand side of the paper mark a two and one half inch column (6.35 cm). On the right side have a column six inches across (15.24 cm). You'll use the right-hand column to take notes during your meeting. After the lecture, you'll summarize your notes, designate keywords, and create questions about the material in the left-hand column.
 There are some very specific things you'll need to mark down, along with what was said in the meeting. This is particularly important if you're going to have to send these notes out to everyone at the meeting afterwards.Make sure you've noted down the date, the name of the organization, the purpose of the meeting, and the people attending (as well as any people who were absent who should have been there).
 You will need to synthesize the most important material to make sure you know what needs to happen and what was decided.


Put a different colored box around the summary so that it is easily readable.
Summarize don’t transcribe. You do not need every single detail of what was said. For example: you only need to say that it was decided to order a new type of stationary, rather than the long discussion about the best types of stationary.
 You don't want to try to organize all the different types of stationary (according to the above example), you only want to say that a new stationary is needed and perhaps what kind has been decided on.


The most important things you need to make sure you have are: actions, decisions, and reference information.
Highlight the most important information or leave a margin for keywords and most important ideas.
Avoid trying to organize during the meeting. Doing that later will help you remember things and will make sure you don’t miss important material.
 You want to make sure that the material doesn’t get all bundled up together and subsequently lost in the shuffle. Do this by making sure each meeting is separately marked, or designated.


Or you can have all the same types of meetings together. For example: if you keep notes on your weekly meeting with your supervisor, you would keep those separate from the notes you keep on the weekly meeting with your entire group.
 In keeping your meeting notes together you want to make it easy to go back through and see when certain decisions were made, who wasn't at a certain meeting and therefore needs the information, and so on.
 This way you won't have to be skittering about the office after your meeting trying to find your notes. Or you won't have to worry about getting the notes out on time to the whole group because you couldn't locate them.

