 This is a great shoulder conditioning workout as long as you use a cloth in a circular motion. Do this for at least 30 minutes to work your shoulders and arms and burn approximately 150 calories.
 Instead of sitting on your knees and leaning forward, you can stand straight and squat, trying to stay balanced. Apply your cleaning product, brush the toilet and wipe clean.
 Just like sweeping the floor, you should flex your stomach and oblique muscles and keep your back straight. Pull as far away as possible and squat, rather than bend, to pick up the leaves.


This activity can be extended to other garden activities, such as mowing the lawn, flower planting, composting or general gardening. These activities, when done for at least 1/2 hour, will result in burning between 150 and 190 calories. Try to keep your back straight, as many people can end up with lower back strain.
 Moving furniture in good form, by bending your knees and straightening your back, is a form of weightlifting. Move each piece of furniture slightly and vacuum behind and replace it again.
 Use large sweeping motions and smaller motions. Reach up high with your vacuum extension.


Vacuuming a house can burn approximately 80 calories, where moving furniture can burn over 200 calories.
 Use a knee pad or do deep squats while you reach the corners with a cleaning product and a brush. Mopping the floors burns just a portion of the 190 calories you can burn by hand-cleaning 1 floor.
 Grab a sponge, some mild liquid detergent, water and a bucket and wash all areas of the car. Use long sweeping motions to get hard to reach places and squat down to clean tires and the running board.


Cleaning your car by hand can burn approximately 150 calories and work your arms, core muscles, and legs.
 Fill a bathtub with water, laundry detergent and dirty clothes. Rub the clothes against themselves and each other for 10 to 20 minutes.


Rinse the clothes twice in fresh water and squeeze to dry. For more delicate items, allow them to hang and drip dry or lay flat. Be careful not to lean too far into the bathtub, as that can put extra strain on your back. Make sure your core muscles are flexed the entire time and you will be getting an excellent core workout.
Cleaning upholstery and curtains by hand can also have the same effect. This may only need to be done monthly or yearly.
