 Different soccer players have different training needs to be successful. A goalie, after all, doesn't need to be able to run for as long as a center midfielder. But even similar positions, like outside defenders and midfielders, can focus on slightly different training regimens:



Goalies: Need quick, powerful reactions and very little long-distance stamina. Focus on strength, reactions, and a slim, quick figure.

Defenders: Need upper/lower body strength and sprinting speed. Rarely required to jog or run for long, continuous times, they need to be able to get to every ball and win it in the air or on the ground.

Midfielders: Need to be able to run for days. They should have exceptional stamina and above-average speed. Quickness and strong foot skills are a must.

Forwards: Need a balance of speed and strength, like defenders, but must also be able to jog for days to confuse defenders and open up offensive space.;
, The best way to get in soccer shape is to play soccer. While you will need to work on additional training as well, games force you to work on endurance, strength, speed, and agility in real-life situations. As long as you're exhausted at the end of the game, you've gotten a good training session in.


When playing games for fun, move around and play multiple positions. This will help you learn the game and build full-body fitness.
 Interval training is when you alternate hard sprints or effort with short rest periods, teaching your body to get to top speed and recover your energy quickly. It is much more game-realistic than an hour of jogging, and is proven to get faster results.A sample workout might look like this (note that there is no "rest" period. Jogging is your rest).


Jog for 5-10 minutes to warm up.
Sprint for 30 seconds.
Jog for 1 minute (1:30 if struggling)
Alternate sprinting/jogging for 9 more sprints.
Jog for 5-10 minutes to cool down.
Lower the rest period as you get better, eventually aiming for a 30-second sprint and jog.
 Being quick on your feet is essential to becoming a killer player. There are endless exercises to try, but some classics include:



Cone Runs: Stagger the cones in a zig-zag, then run the course, focusing on sharp turns around each cone.

Suicides: Mark off to lines roughly 20 yards apart. Sprint to the end, touch the line, and sprint back. Focus on maintaining speed and balance as you change directions as quickly and smoothly as possible.

Ladder drills: Focus on light, fast feet. Make up different patterns to train agility -- both feet in each hole, down and back, sideways, etc.

Hurdles or Box Jumps: Focus on landing on your toes and springing back up quickly and efficiently. You want to land, compress, and shoot back up quickly, as if winning a header., A long, slow run is not a great way to train for soccer on its own, but it still has a place in your workout. Use it on off days to move and stretch your muscles when you can't fully work out. Swim and bike to activate different muscles and give your joints a rest from the pounding of constant running. No matter what your style, aim for a simple, easy pace and try to run for at least 30 minutes to an hour.
 Full-body strength allows you to fight hard for loose balls, resist tackles, and muscle for position on crosses and clears. Soccer players want to stay lean, but still strong, and light strength training will make you a formidable opponent anywhere on the field. Work on the following muscle groups 2-4 times a week, choosing 2-3 exercises for each group.



Chest and Back: Your chest and back muscles will help you create and keep space in the box or in the air. A strong back, furthermore, increases balance on the ball and overall strength.

Tone your arms: Bicep curls, dips, tricep push-ups (your hands form a diamond under your chest), and pull-ups all build solid muscle from home. Toning your arms helps push away defenders and attackers and keep balance on the ball.Abs and Core: Sit-ups, crunches, and planks are an essential part of your workout, and can be performed daily. You transfer power between you upper and lower body through your core -- any crosses, shots, long passes, or headers require rock-solid muscles.
 You will have to do dedicated fitness to truly train for soccer. That said, the fastest way to get to match fitness is to actually push yourself as if you were in a match. Whenever you do drills or play games, work until you're exhausted. It is far more fun than doing sprints later on to get strong, and far more game realistic.When you're tired, focus the most on your foot skills. The players that stay technically proficient even when they get tired are the ones that win last-minute games.
Training in practice ensures you're training for your specific position. Even in pick-up games or scrimmages, the only way you get better is by working hard.
Having a dedicated training partner can help ensure you always work hard, and a little bit of competition is great motivation.

