 Use graph paper to draw out the room dimensions.  Figure out the placement of tables (round or rectangular) for food, DJ and/or games. Plan for canopy tents, if desired.;
, Have teams work on the following parts in this order:


Start with table and EZ-up tent set up. Place tablecloths on tables.
Followed by ceiling elements.
Concurrently, a team can start making balloon arches and creating the Cave of Wonders entryway.
Start decorating EZ-up tents.
Walls and other areas should be decorated with remaining materials not used in making the arch or the tents.
Lastly, decorate the tables.
  For more permanent installations, use a pulley system and cleats on the wall so the line can be lowered.
  Purchased in various colors from party supply store in 25 foot rolls.
 Start with the center colors and staple the gossamer around the cord.  Space next roll approximately 6-8" from the first (~2 fist lengths).


The pattern of colors can resemble a magic carpet. Use 3 purple strips in the center, surrounded by 1 turquoise strip on either side, then 1 red strip on either side and 1 black strip on both ends.
,  Weave colored gossamer through the horizontal members.
  Lay 2 strips of black gossamer (19" wide) side by side and attach together with tape or staples.  Lay another 2 strips on the ground and attach together.  Place the created strips on top of each other.
  Curling ribbon can act as scaffolding or a support for the gossamer. Tye it to the arch and tape it to the wall above the door.  Use staples and blue painter's tape where necessary.  For stability, tie the arch to a folding chair and/or the door frame for stability.


The purpose of the covered arch was to prevent the guests from being able to see the room decorations until they walk through the entry.
  Criss-cross gossamer over the top of the tent so that it drapes down over the legs of the tent or just tie it to the framework and let it hang down the legs.
, Let them hang down along the back and/or sides.
  Hang paper lamps with small battery powered lights from the center pole of front of the tent.
  Place scrunched up gossamer in the center of the table.  Small cardboard boxes can be used as risers and covered with similar colored gossamer.
 You can use larger sized canning jars painted on the inside with white paint.  The outside of the jars can be spray painted with gold metallic paint.  Add flower arrangements with a mixture of lavender, ornamental grasses, and small palm leaves that were tied with curling ribbon.
 Spray square candles with spray adhesive and rolled in glitter.
