 The goal of the game is to eventually win all of the cards. War is generally played between two people, but up to four people can play. The ranking for cards in War from highest to lowest is A K Q J T (10) 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2. Nothing beats an Ace and a 2 beats nothing.;
, This should be a standard deck of 52 cards. Try to mix them up as much as possible, especially if it's a brand new deck.
 Deal back and forth between you and your opponent until the two of you have the same number of cards. You should have 26 cards each. Neither player should look at his or her cards.


If you are playing with three or four players, follow the same protocol. Deal each player an equal amount of cards. If you are playing with three, each player should have 17 cards. For four players, each player should have 13 cards.
 Players are not allowed to look at their cards. Your opponent should not be able to see your cards either. You can also hold them fanned out away from you.
 Each player must count down and flip a card at the same time. You should only flip the top card of your stack of cards.
 The player with the higher card wins the round and collects both cards to add to their hand.
 However, it doesn't matter the suit of the card; its value of the card does matter. Two jacks can set up a War, or two or more tens can setup a war or even two aces can setup a war. For example, you both flip your cards and each of you flips over a '6'. Now is the time to go to war. To go to war, each player must place three more cards face-down on the table. Flip over a fourth card as you would flip a card when not at 'War'. Whoever has the higher fourth card is the person who takes all 10 cards from the round. If a player doesn't have enough cards to play the war, the player must turn his/her last card face-up. This will be the card used to play the war.


If you are playing with three or four players: If two or more players tie for highest card, each player places one card face-down. Everyone plays the next card face-up as they would during a non-War round. The player with the highest card wins. If there is another tie between two or more players, the War continues.
 This might take awhile, since War is a game of chance, but on lazy day, it's a great way to occupy your time.
 Use these as the two highest cards in the deck. They can beat anything and will give the player(s) who get dealt them a good hand.
 Război is the Romanian version of War. In Război, the number of cards put face-down in a 'war' is determined by the number on the cards that started the 'war'.



Example: If both players flip a 6, each player must put five cards face-down during the war and flip a sixth one. All face cards have a value of ten, thus each player must put down nine cards during a war and flip the tenth.
 Take two of each card (so two Aces, two Kings, two 3's etc.) and place them apart from the other half of the deck. Shuffle and use only these 36 cards to play. The game will go much more quickly.
 For instance, at the beginning of the game, pick a wild card.



Example: Designate the 2 of hearts and the 3 of diamonds to be unbeatable cards. Even an Ace cannot stand up to a wild card.
 Line up each of your 36 cards face-down directly across from your opponent's 36 cards. Go down the line and flip each card, as your opponent flips each card. Collect the pairs of cards that you win and repeat. Play until one player wins all of the cards.

