 If you have a specific color scheme for your wedding, pick flowers to match. Think about which types of flowers will come in the right colors for you.If you're doing something on the spectrum of blue or purple, there are many attractive colors to choose from. Things like anemones, clematises, lilacs, water lilies, tweedias, and delphiniums come in a wide range of blues and purples.
If you're going for a classic white look, there are many options for white or ivory flowers. White roses, daffodils, chrysanthemum, and gardenias all come in white.
Many people like colors found on the red or pink spectrum. You can go for pink or red roses, poppies, oriental lilies, gingers, gerbera daisies, and gloriosa lilies.
You can also stop by a local greenhouse and browse the flowers there. Seeing flowers in real life can help you make your selection.;
, Season is also important. If you want quality, affordable flowers, you should purchase flowers in season around the time of your wedding.In spring, flowers like apple, cherry, dogwood, quince blossoms, and orange are in season.
In summer, hydrangeas, like peegee and oakleaf are in season, as well as lemons, limes, and succulents.
In fall, cotton balls, berry branches, and willows are easy to find.
In winter, there are also berry branches, as well as evergreens, pinecones, and snowberries.
 If you're making a centerpiece, or putting some bouquets in vases, you will need to choose your vases prior to your wedding. You can figure out your arrangements first and then select vases to match. However, if you have your heart set on a particular type of face, you can choose and arrange flowers based on vase type.Remember size when selecting vases. Where will they be displayed? If you have a centerpiece for a large table, you can select a larger vase. For smaller tables, you may need smaller vases.
Also, think about color. You want to choose vases with colors that will match your wedding color scheme and chosen flowers.
 You need to start preparations early if you're arranging your own flowers. Make sure you order all your supplies so they arrive in time to assemble them for the wedding.Bouquets should be arranged the day of the wedding.
Centerpieces should be arranged two days before.
 If you're planning other aspects of your wedding, you may need help from others. It's a tremendous amount of work to select and arrange flowers on your own.Reach out to your wedding party. Groomsmen or bridesmaids may be able to help with flower arraignments.
If necessary, get professional help. It can be costly to have professional arrangements, but it may be worth it if you're pressed for time.
 Centerpieces come in many styles. As you assemble yours, you will have to keep the style you want in mind. This will dictate how you arrange your flowers.A rustic style has an asymmetrical shape with flowers of mixed textures and colors assorted randomly. It can be great for a more casual outdoor wedding.
A classic centerpiece is great if you're using light colored flowers. It's usually arranged very uniformly, with flowers of the same shape and color, and is a smaller arrangement. Classic centerpieces may work for smaller tables at the reception.
You can try a modern style, which is usually smaller and more minimalistic. It only uses one type of flower, and usually uses more colorful, exotic flowers.
If you want a very glamorous centerpiece, you can make one with cascading flowers. That means flowers spill out by their stems. These also tend to use many types of flowers and colors.
 Regardless of the style you choose, you need to prep your flowers before assembling your centerpiece. To do so, remove excess leaves and foliage with your hands or stem trimmers. You should also cut the stems evenly at an angle, about 2 inches from the bottom., All arrangements should start with the same base. This allows you to build the shape you want from a firm foundation. Hold the flowers in place with one hand and insert new flowers in the other.Take four flowers of even height and shape. Arrange them in a square shape.
Create a dome shape around this by adding more flowers circling the square center.
 Keep adding flowers around your base, keeping the shape you want in mind. All the flowers should be inserted near the base to keep the bouquet secure.Remember the design you want. For example, if you want a glamorous, cascading bouquet, only attach the tips of the stem to the base so the flowers hang down.
Your design can also help you select the types of flowers as you assemble. For a more classic design, for example, you would opt for flowers of the same shape and color.
 Once you've completed the centerpiece, hold it up against your container. You want to see how much of the stems you need to trim to fit the centerpiece inside.Once you've determined how to trim the stems, clip them to the desired length.
 A secure base will allow you to build your specific style. Use floral tape to bind the base together at the spot where the stems join naturally. Bind downward until your'e about an two inches from the ends of the stems., There are many different styles when it comes to wedding bouquets. Select a style that matches your dream for your special day.If you want a more uniform bouquet, go for a beidermeier design. This is a bouquet made up of a series of circles. This is great if you're working with flowers of the same colors and shapes.
A cascade design anchors flowers at the tips of the stems, so they spill out in a waterfall-like fashion. This works great for a more bohemian, glamorous feel.
Classic hand-tied bouquets and nosegays work great for traditional weddings. They usually involve a single flower color in a circular, dome-like shape.
 Before you begin making your bouquet, get your flowers ready. Snip off any damaged petals, thorns, or excess leaves. Keep the stems somewhat long., Use one hand to hold your flowers and another to assemble them. Start by placing four flowers in a square shape. This is the foundation of your base. Then, you can begin arranging your flowers., Place the flowers into the bouquet one by one. Make sure to create the shape you want as you go.Keep your shape in mind. If you're doing a beidermeier design, for example, make small circles of flowers of the same size and shape.
Keep arranging your flowers until the bouquet is as big as you desire.
 Tape the bouquet with floral tape at the spot where they naturally join. From there, work the tape down the stem until two inches of stem left. Trim the stems so they're about the same length.