 Before you start skimming through classified ads, check whether it’s free to post listings or if a fee is charged to do so. Expect to find puppy mills, backyard breeders, and scammers advertising dogs on free sites. Remember: their chief concern is making money, so obviously they’re going to spend as little as possible and certainly take advantage of free advertising.This doesn’t mean that sites that charge money to post listings are 100% free of untrustworthy sellers.
Also, just because a few bad apples use free sites doesn’t mean that everyone who posts on them is a bad apple, too.;
, Obviously, if someone has listed a dog for sale, then a dog’s available (assuming, of course, the someone in question isn’t a scammer). If possible, go back through the user’s history. Determine whether they seem to have a continuous supply of dogs available. If so, scratch this user off your list of potential sellers.Responsible breeders allow substantial breaks in between litters so the mother can fully recover before breeding again, meaning puppies are not always available for sale.Therefore, a seller who has dogs to sell at any time either is a strong indicator of a poor breeding environment., If an ad mentions multiple dogs for sale, check if they are all the same breed. If the ad only mentions an individual dog for sale, search through the seller’s other postings, both current and recent. Again, see if each dog listed belongs to the same breed. If not, consider the seller a no-go.Responsible breeders usually specialize in just one breed, never more than two or three.
A wide variety of breeds is a strong sign of cost-cutting and less-than-expert knowledge about any one breed.
 Check which payment method the seller insists on, if mentioned. Avoid cash-only, online, and sight-unseen purchases. Also check to see what (if any) steps you need to take before they will complete a sale. Although you may be eager to bring home a new dog as soon as possible, favor sellers who offer or even insist on visits and interviews before they are willing to sell.Trustworthy sellers should allow you to meet the dog, tour their entire breeding facility, meet the dog’s parents, and share its documentation and medical history before purchase.
Responsible sellers and breeders should be concerned about the dog’s future and just as keen to interview you as you are to talk with them.
Sellers and breeders should promise some form of guarantee that you can return the dog for any reason in case either you or it does not adjust to its new home., If the ad provides a link to the seller’s official website, copy-and-paste text from the website to a search engine to make sure they didn’t lift it off a more trustworthy source.If their site appears to be legit, contact other local organizations and/or individuals who may have dealt with or heard of the seller. These may include:


Previous customers listed as references by the seller.Dog training schools
Veterinarians
Groomers
Animal shelters and rescue organizations

