 You can arrange your flame-colored tissue paper in any way you see fit to make flames. When you're done, use a hot glue gun to stick your individual flames together into one multi-colored bonfire. One quick, easy way to create tissue flames that gives great results is as follows:


Lay a fresh sheet of tissue paper on a table before you. Pinch it gently in its center. Holding on to the sheet, whip your hand up quickly and gently catch the tissue paper. The force of pulling the tissue through the air should shape your tissue paper into a flame or bouquet shape. Handle it gently - it's easy to deform.
 Use a sharpie to make wood grain lines on several paper towel rolls or toilet tissue rolls. You may want to cut longer rolls in half so that your logs are similarly-sized.


If you have time, as an extra touch, try lightly soaking the paper towel rolls in water, crushing them in your hand, and allowing them to dry before drawing wood grain lines on them. This will give them a wrinkled, realistic appearance, mirroring real logs.
 Now that you have flames and logs, it's time to build a campfire. Arrange your logs in a way that looks like a real campfire - for instance, you may choose to have them lying in a loose pile or leaning against one another in a pyramid-like arrangement. Glue your logs securely in place with a hot glue gun. Next, glue your flames in place. For a realistic appearance, have some flames on top of the pile of logs with others emerging from the sides, as in a real fire.
 As an added decoration, you may want to add grey coals or rocks in and around your campfire. Doing this is easy - all you need to do is paint styrofoam packing peanuts grey (spray paint is cheap, easy, and works well). For bigger rocks, cut or break chunks from styrofoam packing material.
 Putting a small, well-concealed flashlight behind your fire is a great way to give it a flaming glow. Prop a small, medium-intensity flashlight so that it shines up into the base of the flames. Done correctly, this will make the flames at the base of the fire brightest, giving the impression that the fire is glowing with intensity.


You may find that conventional bulbs give a better effect than LED bulbs. LED bulbs usually give off a "white" light and can be quite bright, while conventional bulbs can have a warmer, slightly dimmer, more natural "yellow" glow.
 If you have space, a small, gentle fan can give your flames a constant rustling motion, mimicking the effect of real flames. If you can, have the fan blow up directly behind the fire, otherwise, set the fan at its lowest setting a few feet behind the fire. The flames shouldn't drastically bend or sway - you're looking for a gentle, subtle effect that's not too distracting.
