 The transport bag is key to making this operation a success. Select a bag small enough to hold the desired ice cream container size, but one that allows enough room for the possibility of including napkins, utensils and a small plastic grocery bag (non transparent) so you can dispose of the evidence when you're finished.


Pad the bag with frozen, plastic blocks or cold packs. Keep the bag cold with a thin layer of plastic frozen “bricks.” Some bags will come equipped with the cold packs or frozen bricks, however if your bag requires that you purchase cold packs, bring your bag to the store so that you can find the appropriate size and thickness.






Choose a bag that fits snugly into your briefcase. You’ll need to hide your bag of ice cream somewhere, so consider using the usual briefcase or bag you bring to work.





;
, Bringing an entire gallon of ice cream will most likely not work––let alone the fact that you'll need large freezer space, it'll be immediately spotted by everyone––so you’ll need to select a size that will satiate your pallet and accommodate your freezer bag.


Small selection of cup-sized ice creams. Luckily many grocery stores offer a variety of ice cream flavors and sizes. In fact, some brands even come in tubes or half-cup sizes so decide if a tiny cup size will satisfy your sweet tooth.






Your favorite pint. If you carry a large enough bag and have a freezer bag that will accommodate a pint, pick up your favorite for your office treat. Keep in mind that a pint of ice cream is a lot to eat. The idea is to finish whatever is in the container at work, so take into consideration your appetite and the amount of time you’ll have to consume the ice cream without being discovered.






Transfer the ice cream from a gallon at home to a freezer bag or small plastic cup with lid. Looking for a more economical way to get the ice cream from your house to work? Purchase the full gallon (or more) and then the night before, scoop out the desired amount and place either in a disposable freezer bag or in a small plastic Tupperware with a lid.
 Since you’ll have to concern yourself with the ice cream melting (even though it will be transported in the freezer bag), add your freezer bag containing the ice cream to your briefcase last––right before you leave the house in the morning.


Place the freezer bag in an area of your briefcase that will keep it hidden. Instead of piling it on top, secure the ice cream deep in your bag. It will stay frozen thanks to your freezer bag, but in order to properly conceal it, you’ll need to keep it hidden as you enter the office.
 Remove your freezer bag and place it in the company freezer. Don’t remove the ice cream (as it will reveal your sweet treat), just keep it in the bag.


Be sure your name is on the freezer bag. So that there’s no misunderstanding, be sure the bag is properly marked with your name so that a coworker won’t “accidentally” eat your afternoon treat.
 If you truly don’t want anyone to know you're eating ice cream (which may mean that they will want you to share), you’ll have to enjoy your frozen delight alone.

Check schedules to determine when the coast will be clear. In order to ensure solitude and tranquility while devouring your treat, make sure that the usual suspects will be busy.






Be casual when you transport your freezer bag back to your office or cube. If you act giddy with delight, the jig will most certainly be up. Play it cool as you saunter from the break room back to your office or cube, freezer bag in hand.






Hide your freezer bag underneath your desk until the time is right. Optimally, you should be getting your ice cream within minutes of eating it. However, if suddenly someone stops by for a quick chat or if everyone hasn’t cleared the area, place the bag underneath your desk or in a hidden spot until the coast has cleared.
 Give yourself enough time to enjoy your treat instead of having to inhale it. If you are given a specific break time, use your entire or part of your break to eat your ice cream.


Go to a remote location for consumption. If necessary, take your freezer bag outside and sit on a bench while you eat. Changing your location will also help you avoid running into coworkers (who may want some) too.
Close your office door. If you can eat behind closed doors, close your door and even lock it. That way, you’ll avoid being confronted by colleagues.
 Part of any good covert operation is getting rid of the evidence. If you packed disposable utensils and napkins you can discretely get rid of everything––including the ice cream container.

Wrap utensils in the napkin and secure them neatly inside the plastic grocery bag. You’ll want to remove any trace of your ice cream eating endeavor.






Place the empty ice cream container in the extra plastic grocery bag and place it inside your briefcase. You can go about this two ways: either take the evidence home for disposal or you can knot the top of the grocery bag containing the ice cream container, utensils and any other evidence and place it in the company or outside trash bin.
