 Sometimes, even if you do everything physically possible to avoid an embarrassing bodily function or gut sound, it cannot be avoided. The good news is that these noises and functions are common — they happen to absolutely everyone. So, while you may want to melt into the floor when your stomach makes a weird sound during your presentation, it may help to remind yourself that embarrassment (and gut noises) are universally experienced, and not something you need to obsess over.


Because the sounds our body makes are, ultimately, not totally under our control, try not to worry about it too much. If you'd like to minimize these noises, you can try the diet and lifestyle changes suggested in this article; but, unless it's indicating a more serious health problem, try not to worry about it too much.
It is unlikely, too that anyone else is making as big of a deal out of your embarrassment as you are — it's possible, even, that no one else heard your stomach rumble. You may be experiencing the "spotlight effect," which is when you believe people are more focused on you and your actions than they really are., Everyone feels embarrassed at some point in his life — it's part of being human. And, believe it or not, embarrassment can actually be a positive thing. Research has found that people who display embarrassment are more likely to be kind and generous to others. In addition, a person who reveals his embarrassment is considered more likable and trustworthy by others., Maybe you know everyone heard the embarrassing gut noise because they responded with laughter, or a comment like "What was that?". There are many ways you can deal with the embarrassment in the moment (and some may be involuntary, such as blushing). One good tactic is to acknowledge what happened, then laugh it off or minimize it, and move on.You could say something like, "Woah, sorry about that!" or even, "Well, that was embarrassing. Anyway..." Even if you want to run out of the room and hide, try just owning what happened and acting like it's no big deal.
Take a deep breath if you need to get control of your emotions. Remember not to take yourself or the situation too seriously.
 Sometimes, people will dwell on an embarrassing moment weeks, months, even years or decades after the incident. But once the moment has passed, that's it — it's part of the past, and you need to keep moving forward and living. Reliving the experience doesn't change anything and neither does punishing yourself — especially because gut noises really aren't something you can even control!If your stomach is noisy and you're afraid of being embarrassed by the sounds again and again in the future, you can do some work to prepare yourself for these moments, such as visualizing how you might react in the moment should it happen again. This way, you've already practiced what to do, and it will likely be easier for you to quickly move past it in the moment.Don't let it stop you from living your life. You may be tempted to avoid situations with the potential for embarrassment (meeting someone at the library, where it's very quiet, giving a speech or presentation in front of a group, hanging out one-on-one with a crush, etc.), but it's important not to limit yourself based on something that might happen.