 Use a gentle cleanser and warm water to clean your face. Choose a gentle cream-based cleanser. Cream-based cleansers have moisturizing elements that will help condition your skin and reduce scaling.Alternatively, use cleansers recommended by your dermatologist.
If you are unsure about a cleanser, then ask your dermatologist if it is safe to use on your skin.;
, Apply any topical treatments that have been prescribed by your doctor. If you do not have these, then apply a gentle moisturizer with an SPF. Let the treatments or moisturizer set for 5 minutes before applying your primer.The topical treatments and/or moisturizers will help reduce scaling while you wear your makeup.
 Use a makeup sponge to apply the primer onto your forehead, nose, and cheeks. Avoid your eye area. Use a yellow-tinted primer to reduce any redness on your face. Be sure to check the labels of your products for green dyes, which can irritate psoriasis.If you have very oily skin, then use an oil-absorbing primer.
For psoriasis sufferers, the use of primers is important. They create a protective barrier between your skin and other makeup products. The barrier will help reduce scaling while you wear your makeup.
 Use a yellow-tinted concealer to cover up problem areas and to further reduce the redness on your face. Dab the concealer onto the problem areas with a makeup sponge. Again, some green dyes can irritate psoriasis, so consult your product’s ingredient list before applying.A primer and a concealer may provide you with an adequate amount of coverage. If not, then apply a foundation to get more coverage.
 Do a patch test underneath your jaw by applying a little bit of foundation. If the foundation doesn’t irritate your skin, you’re good to apply it. Warm a bit of liquid foundation in your fingers, and apply your foundation with a gentle dabbing motion across your skin.If you use an applicator, make sure it’s allergen free, and use a fresh one every time.
Avoid foundations with shimmer, which can draw attention to your psoriasis and irritate your skin.
Don’t apply foundation on any open sores or areas of blistering.
 By accentuating your eyes and lips, you can draw attention away from the problem areas on your face. Use an eye shadow and lipstick color that complements your eye color.For example, if you have green eyes, then use gold or brown eye shadow and red lipstick to bring out the green in your eyes.

