 Prepare the list of words you need to memorize. Either get them from your teacher, your textbook, a play, song lyrics, or whatever source that you’ll be taking them from. It is best to print out the words and then write the word out next to the printed word before you even begin. This will be your first step in memorizing them.;
, Divide the list into manageable smaller lists. If you want to memorize them in order, that’s okay. If you don’t need to memorize them in order, then break them up so that you spread words that begin with vowels throughout your sub lists. Breaking your word list up will make it so you can more easily create word association and mnemonic devices to memorize your words.


Keep your words together if you're memorizing lines for a play or music lyrics.
Feel free to mix your words up if you're memorizing for vocabulary or spelling.
Use your best judgement when and if you'll be breaking your list up and moving words around.
 You’re going to use the first letter of every word to create memory devices that will make it easier to memorize the words. You’ll do this two ways: either creating a sentence or an acronym.


The first letter of every word will create an acronym.
For the order of operations in math (Parentheses, Exponents, Multiplication, Division, Addition, Subtraction), you’ll have p, e, m, d, a, and s. This will spell P.E.M.D.A.S.
Acronyms should work for almost any usage (vocabulary, spelling, lyrics, or a play).
This works best with word lists of 10 or less., Now spend a little time memorizing your acronym (P.E.M.D.A.S.) This shouldn’t take too long, and before long you’ll have it memorized. This might be as far as you need to go with this approach., If you want to take an extra step to memorize your sub list, take the first letter of every word (your acronym), and create a sentence based on those letter. You’ll do this by using any word that begins with the first letter of the words on your sub list. For instance:


You won’t be using the original word, simply another word that begins with the same first letter.
To remember the order of operations in math (Parentheses, Exponents, Multiplication, Division, Addition, Subtraction), take P.E.M.D.A.S. and assign words to it.
P.E.M.D.A.S. can be transformed into “Please excuse my dear aunt Sally” or any other number of short sentences.Creating a sentence like this works best for vocabulary, spelling, and similar purposes.
 After you’ve memorized a few of your sub lists, stop and review them. Don’t spend hours doing this, as your brain will probably be overloading. This method works best when you provide enough time in between memorization.

