 These elastic stockings put therapeutic pressure on the veins of your legs, easing any leg pain and temporarily keeping your varicose veins in check. They are often tightest at the ankle and get gradually looser as they go further up your leg. This encourages blood to flow upwards towards your heart. However, compression socks are not guaranteed to prevent varicose veins from getting worse or prevent new varicose veins from appearing.Compression stockings come in a variety of different sizes and pressures. Most people with varicose veins will be prescribed a class one (light compression) or class two (medium compression) stocking. They’re also available in different colors, lengths (to the knee or to the thigh), and different foot styles (covering your whole foot or stopping just before your toes).
You can purchase compression tights from your local pharmacy or directly from a manufacturer online. Your doctor can also prescribe compression socks for you, based on the severity of your varicose veins.
While compression socks can improve circulation in your legs, you will likely need to wear them all day to see any noticeable results, they can make your legs hot and sweaty, and you will need to replace the socks every three to six months., This is a type of injection that causes the varicose vein to close and fade from sight.During the procedure, your doctor will use a needle to inject a special chemical into the vein which will cause the vein walls to swell, stick, and ultimately shut. Blood flow stops completely and the vein eventually turns into a scar and fades from sight.
No anesthesia is needed, but you may need multiple treatments for the same vein. Treatments are performed every four to six weeks.
Another form of this therapy called microsclerotherapy may be used for spider veins or other small varicose veins.
 Laser therapy is usually used on smaller veins. A strong laser light is directed at the varicose vein in short bursts, eventually causing it to disappear. The treatment is not generally effective for varicose veins larger than 1/10 inch (3 mm).Laser treatments can last for 15 to 20 minutes, and you may need two to five treatments before you get rid of the varicose veins.
No chemicals or incisions are made, but the laser can be painful nonetheless.
 For this treatment, lasers or radio waves are used to damage the vein with powerful heat. That varicose vein then scars shut and fades from view. Deeper varicose veins called saphenous veins are usually treated with this method.Your doctor will insert a catheter, or small tube, into the problem vein through which a small probe is inserted. The laser or radio waves are transmitted through the tip of this probe, closing off the vein.
Healthy veins around the closed vein take over the flow of blood. Varicose veins on the surface that are connected to the treated vein usually close up shortly after treatment, as well.
 During this procedure, varicose veins are tied closed and removed from the leg through small incisions in the skin.This treatment was more common in the past but is generally only used for patients who cannot undergo endovenous thermal ablation.
You will receive anesthesia during this treatment, and the treatment will be performed in an operating room.
After the veins are removed, deeper veins will usually take over for the veins that are now missing, so blood flow should not be affected.
 This treatment also entails the removal of problem veins, but in this instance, the veins are removed via an instrument called a PIN stripper.Your doctor will sew the tip of the PIN stripper to the end of the vein. When he removes the PIN stripper, the vein will be removed, as well.
This procedure can be performed with general or local anesthesia, and it will either be done in an operating room or an outpatient center.
 For this treatment, small incisions are made to remove small problem veins close to the surface of the skin.Small hooks are inserted through small incisions in the skin. The vein is pulled out through these incisions.
Your leg will be treated with anesthesia, but you will not be put to sleep for the treatment.



This treatment is generally only used for varicose veins causing skin ulcers.
The doctor will make a small cut in the skin near a varicose vein. The endoscope, a tiny camera attached to the end of a thin tube, is inserted into the vein and pushed through. A device on the end of the tube seals the vein shut.

