 Applying for Social Security benefits for a disabled child requires two submissions: an application for Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and a Child Disability Report. Only the Child Disability Report can be completed online. See a fact sheet regarding Child Disability Benefits here. A list of approved child disabilities is available here. The decision will take 3 to 5 months after you submit the application., A checklist can be found here and lists the information you'll need to submit a child disability claim. Print off the list and check items off as you collect them. Collecting all the materials may take a few weeks, so start a folder or binder to store everything.Know what the checklist requires. You'll need to have information regarding medical care, education, social services, child care, the child's employers, birth certificate, proof of the family's current income and resources, and the names and Social Security numbers of all adults and children currently living in the household.
 Before you go through the work of filling out the Child Disability Report, find out whether the income and resources of the family are within the established limits. If they are, SSA will help you begin the SSI process and set up an interview. Find your local office here.
 Click here and print out the worksheet. Fill it out as completely as you can, and set it aside for use at your SSI interview and to help you complete the Child Disability Report online.
 This form will detail your child's medical condition and subsequent disabilities. You can print out the PDF version here, or complete it online here. There are 10 sections: Information About the Child, Contact Information, Medical Conditions and How They Affect the Child, Medical Records, Medications, Tests, Additional Information, Education, Work History and Remarks.Use the Remarks section. The Remarks section is meant for you to provide any additional, pertinent information about the disability not covered in the previous sections of the report.
 Take all the information you gathered for the Child Disability Checklist, as well as the Medical and School Worksheet and the Child Disability Report (if you did not submit online) with you. Additionally, you should bring a photo ID for identification purposes and the child’s birth certificate. If you can, have everything neatly organized in a folder or binder for easy access during the interview.
 At the interview, you'll need to discuss: The child’s medical condition, medical treatment sources and dates (including the names and addresses of doctors and hospitals), medications that the child is currently taking, and any testing the child has had.


The interview will last about an hour, and the SSA employee will go through your application with you, and may discuss the condition with your and the child.

