 Most morning after pills are formulated with a synthetic version of the hormone progestin (also called levonorgestrel). This hormone works by keeping your ovary from releasing an egg. If there is no egg, there is nothing for sperm to fertilize.If you are close to ovulating or have just ovulated, the pill has a significantly smaller chance of being effective.
Morning after pills typically have a higher dose of progestin than regular monthly birth control pills. You should not substitute morning after pills for regular birth control methods and they cannot terminate an existing pregnancy.;
, Morning after pills are most effective when they are taken within 24 hours of having unprotected sex or after you believe your contraception has failed. However, they can be taken a few days after and still prevent unwanted pregnancy.Progestin morning after pills should be taken within 72 hours of having unprotected sex.
Ulipristal acetate morning after pills (Ella) should be taken up to 120 hours after having unprotected sex in order to keep sperm from fertilizing an egg., Morning after pills are available at doctor’s offices, health clinics, and drugstores. At pharmacies, they may be kept behind the counter.You can purchase a non-prescription emergency contraceptive pill without showing your ID, regardless of your age or gender. Some pharmacies still may not stock the medication, or may refuse to provide it based on personal belief.
The pills are typically $35-$60 without insurance. Insurance may cover partial fees, depending on your plan.Some brands, such as Ella, require a prescription. , Emergency contraception medications are usually single-dose pills. However, the different brands vary and thus you should always take the amount of pills or tablets that are instructed by your doctor or the package labeling..


Morning after pills must be swallowed. Take your dose with plenty of water.
You may also want to take the pill with food to decrease your chances of developing nausea.
Regular birth control pills can be taken normally the day after you have a morning after pill.If you are unsure of the dosage or have any other concerns, ask for a consultation with a pharmacist.
 The morning after pill usually interferes with your hormones to control ovulation, so it's perfectly normal that your first period after taking the pill arrives early or late.Your period can also be lighter or heavier than usual.
 Levonogestrel pills are up to 89% effective when taken within 72 hours after unprotected sex. Similarly, Ella pills are 85% effective if taken within 120 hours after unprotected sex. However, there is still a chance you might get pregnant after taking a morning after pill.After you have taken the pill, look for signs of pregnancy especially if you miss your period.
Besides missing your period, other symptoms of pregnancy include dizziness, fatigue, aversion to the smell of food, nausea, and breast tenderness.Take an at-home pregnancy test or schedule a blood draw at your doctor’s office to determine if you are pregnant. At-home pregnancy tests can be found at drugstores in the family planning aisle.
Pregnancy tests check for hCG hormone levels in your body, which is elevated right after a fertilized egg attaches to your uterus., Single-dose progestin (levonogestrel) morning after pills (such as Plan B One Step, Next Choice One Dose, and My Way) stop pregnancy by preventing your ovary from releasing an egg. They can be found over-the-counter at pharmacies or acquired through your doctor.These pills should be taken as soon as possible but are usually effective when taken within 72 hours following unprotected intercourse. However, they may also work up to 120 hours afterward.These pills work best for women who have a BMI under 25 and may not work for women who have a BMI above 30.Taking this medication can alter your menstrual cycle, causing your next period to be lighter or heavier, and to occur earlier or later than you are used to. It can also bring on symptoms that are similar to those you experience during PMS, such as nausea and abdominal cramping.Other possible side effects include breast tenderness, dizziness, nausea, and abdominal cramping., Unlike the single-dose morning after pills, the two-dose levonorgestrel tablets require you to take two tablets in order for the dose to be effective.Take one tablet as soon as possible after having unprotected intercourse and follow up with a second dose twelve hours later.
Levonorgestrel tablets can be found at your local pharmacy.
Like other morning after pills, side effects for these tablets include early or slightly delayed periods, lighter or heavier period flow, and abdominal cramps., Ella (ulipristal acetate) is a single-dose pill and is the only emergency contraceptive that is indicated to be taken up to 5 days after intercourse to prevent pregnancy; however, the sooner you take, the more effective it is.Depending when Ella is taken during your menstrual cycle, Ella can delay ovary from expelling an egg for up to 5 days after you take it. This means that sperm left behind cannot survive long enough to complete fertilization.Ella is a better choice for women who have a BMI over 25 than the progestin pills but its effectiveness lowers in women who have a BMI over 35.Ella is available by prescription only and the most common side effects associated with its use are headache, abdominal pain, nausea, dysmenorrhea, fatigue, and dizziness.

