 The wire can be brass, copper, steel – any sturdy but bendable material. For an easy divining rod, try cutting a wire coat hanger into two equal pieces – or straightening two coat hangers by untwisting their hooks.


Choose the rod material based on purpose and availability. Brass and copper are especially popular because they don't rust. If you have wire fencing or coat hangers readily available, however, it won't hurt to work with what you have.Use a strong pair of wire cutters to trim the metal to size. There is no hard, fast rule that the wires must be 20 inches long. Make sure that they are long enough to dip of their own accord, and short enough to hold comfortably.
 If your wires are 20 inches (50.8 cm) long, make the twist about 5 inches (12.7 cm) from one end. The bend should create a 90-degree angle in the wire. The short leg will become the handle of each rod. The longer legs will dip, cross, and guide you as you approach what you are looking for.
 The handles should cover the smaller legs of the L-shaped rods – 4-5 inches of the wire, or whatever is comfortable. These handles protect your hands and give you a firmer grip. There is no one way to make a usable handle, so work with what you have available.


Use a length of 1 inch (2.5 cm) dowel rod, with a hole through the center. Alternately, glue several cotton reels together into a cylinder.
Use a pen. Remove the innards and caps of two cheap plastic pens, then thread the wire through the pen body. You may also pass the wire through a couple of drinking straws.Wrap a rag, a cloth, or a piece of felt around the shorter leg of each "L". Tie the cloth in place with tightly-stretched rubber bands, a piece of twine, or even a safety pin.
 Hold the wire by the handle (the shorter leg of the "L") so that the long part is parallel with the ground. Make sure to hold the dowsing rods loosely enough that they can swing freely from side to side. Hold the rods at arms length away from the body and about 9 inches apart. Remember to keep the rods parallel with the ground or tipped very slightly downward. Learn How to Use Dowsing or Divining Rods to find what you need to find.The rod should rest flat over the index finger, while the butt of the handle should fit into the heel of your hand.
Do not grip the handles, as the rods must float freely to work. You may, however, close your hand slightly to improve stability.