 There's nothing better than going for a nice long walk on the beach. Even a leisurely walk can offer a great workout when you're not wearing any shoes.


Walking is one the of the oldest forms of exercise. It's a low-impact and low-intensity exercise that many people can perform regardless of their fitness level.Walking barefoot on the beach offers additional benefits compared to walking with shoes on a hard surface like a sidewalk. Without shoes, you're forced to engage more of the small muscles in your feet, ankles and calves.In fact, some studies show that walking barefoot on the sand (at an easy pace) burns 2.5 times the energy compared to walking on a flat surface.
To make sure you get a good workout, walk in the dry sand (not wet sand) as this is softer and requires more work from your legs.
You may also want to consider walking in the water. The water adds a lot more resistance to your legs and body and will burn more calories as well.
Do make sure you watch where you step — there may be sharp objects, such as broken shells, barnacles, or even broken glass on the beach.;
, Jogging or running is a great form of aerobic exercise. It burns a significant amount of calories and can strengthen your cardiovascular system. Running or jogging on the beach offers additional benefits since it works your body harder.If you choose to go for a run on the beach, running in the softer, deeper sand will work your calves and glutes significantly more compared to wetter, harder sand.However, if you're not looking for a particularly butt-kicking workout, wait until lower tide so you have more wet sand (which is firmer) to run on.
Also note that most beaches have a slight slant to them. This can be difficult on your legs, especially your hips. So plan to run out and back so you equally stress both sides of your body., If you're at the beach, take advantage of the water and the opportunity to do some swimming. Unless you have access to a beach or pool, you're probably not able to use swimming as a form of aerobic exercise. Take a dip in the ocean to get in a great cardio workout.


If you can swim, try going for a swim in the ocean. Remember, swimming in the ocean is more difficult than a pool due to the current and waves. You should be a fairly experienced swimmer if you plan on staying out for awhile.
It's a low-impact exercise so it's great for those who have joint problems or pain in their feet or legs.
In addition, some studies have shown that swimming specifically can help decrease stress and increase your sense of well-being. Swimming has also been linked to decreased anxiety and depression.Make sure a lifeguard is on duty or you have someone at the beach with you while swimming.
Always swim along the shore, never straight out into the open water. You could find yourself carried out by currents or caught in a riptide. Be very aware of the current conditions where you plan to swim. There might be a long shore current, riptides, or undertows.
 Both interval and circuit training are higher intensity exercises that can burn more calories (especially from fat) than more traditional, steady-state exercises (like walking).Interval training can be done with any type of steady-state exercise like walking, jogging or swimming. Alternate between short bouts of higher intensity levels of the exercise and short bouts of moderate-intensity exercise.
For example, you can walk at a moderate pace for a minute or two and then do a slow jog or brisk walk for a few minutes. You can also alternate between a slower jog and a sprint for another type of interval training.
Circuit training includes a series of multiple aerobic exercises that you go through to complete a workout. Set up stations or write up a list of the exercises you want to use in your circuit.
For example, you can go through a series of exercises like the following: jumping jacks, squat jumps, mountain climbers, the plank, warrior pose, bear crawl or burpees.
 If you've hit the beach with your friends or family, take advantage of the extra people to start up a fun beach game. You can enjoy the company of others and the fun of a game to help you get in a good workout.Playing a sport not only helps you get in a good workout, it also helps you strengthen social bonds, helps you relax and can decrease stress and anxiety.Sports that you can play on the beach that can also double as a workout include: soccer, paddle ball, volleyball, ultimate frisbee, or even just a game of catch. Running to catch a ball or bottle of sunscreen can be great exercise.
You may want to combine play sports with more traditional cardio and strength training for the most well-rounded workout each week.
 If the beach you're at has a boardwalk, this is a great place to do some more cardio exercises. It'll serve as a great surface for a variety of exercises since it's hard and flat.


Running is a great exercise to do on the boardwalk. It's especially useful if you're having difficulty running in the sand or you're not a fan of the sand.
You can also ride your bike on the boardwalk. This might be better than riding in the sand as the salt water and sand may cause rusting on the bike. Since most beaches have beach bike rentals, you may want to consider a rental if you don't have your own bike.
If you have a pair of rollerblades, strap them on for another great workout. If you don't have a pair, you may also find rentals for these as well.
Boardwalks can be pretty crowded. Try going out for your run or bike ride earlier in the morning. Even evenings can get crowded, so mornings may be your best bet.
 Whether it's a boogie board, surfboard or skim board, there are a variety of fun and sporty exercises you can do in the water. Regardless of which one you try, you'll get in a great workout.


Using a boogie board (or even just your own body - body surfing), will help you be able to burn a lot of calories. In addition, boogie boarding requires the use of your legs, core and back muscles which can help strengthen these big muscle groups.Like boogie boarding, surfing requires a lot of energy. You'll burn a lot of calories and strengthen your arms and back muscles as you paddle out. When you're up the board, you'll strengthen your core and leg muscles as you hold yourself up.
Skim boarding is a newer beach sport. However, it can be difficult as it requires you to run after your board consistently and use your leg and core muscles to stabilize yourself on the board.
Use any of these beach boarding sports as a fun way to work out. Make sure you're surfing or boarding for at least 30 minutes to get a good workout in.
Be aware of your surroundings. Getting really worn out playing in the surf can lead to accidents. Once you feel yourself getting tired in the water, swimming or boogie boarding, it’s a good idea to take your exercise on land.
 Incorporating bodyweight exercises for a beach workout is a great idea as you don't need any special equipment.Include a variety of these exercises to help strengthen your muscles:


Push-ups or tricep push-ups
Planks and crunches
Squats and lunges
Back extensions
Front and side leg lifts

, If you want to be able to do a more diverse set of exercises, consider bringing a small set of hand weights with you to the beach. You can use these in combination with some of your body weight exercises.Try:


Bicep curls
Tricep extensions
Shoulder presses
Deltoid raises
Reverse flys
Weighted squats or lunges

, If you're not interested in dragging a set of weights with you to the beach (they may get a little heavy), consider bringing a beach or exercise ball with you. Both types of balls will serve the same purpose. You can use either to help strengthen a variety of muscles.Try these ball exercises:


Twisting v-sit crunches
Leg to arm hand off crunches
Leg raises (using the beach ball underneath your tailbone)
Side plank raises (holding the ball in-between your shins)

, Yoga is a great exercise to do on the beach. It helps strengthen a variety of muscles (especially your core) but also helps you improve your mind body connection while enjoying the serene view of your beach.Bring your yoga mat or beach towel to the beach. This will help keep your hands and feet from getting too sandy. Try to put your mat on harder, more firm wet sand as this will help you maintain your balance and stay in your postures.
If you aren't familiar with a particular yoga routine, consider downloading a yoga podcast or video to your smartphone or tablet. Play your video or podcast so you can follow along outside.
You may also just want to write down a few poses on a piece of paper to bring with you to the beach to remind you which postures you want to cycle through.
 Staying adequately hydrated is important any time of the day - whether you're exercising or not. However, because you're exercising on the beach, you may be more prone to dehydration due to the weather.


If you're planning to workout at the beach (or even at the gym or at home), make sure that you bring a filled water bottle with you. You may want to consider putting in some ice cubes or freezing 1/3 of your water bottle to keep it cool while at the beach.
In general, you should bring about 10 oz (0.5 to 1.0 litres) of water for every 20 minutes of exercise.You may need more than this if you're working out longer, working out in the sun or if it's a particularly hot day at the beach.
You may even want to consider bringing a sports or electrolyte drink. This will help hydrate you quicker and more effectively than water when you're losing a lot of sweat through the heat and exercise.In addition, if you're planning on exercising at the beach, make sure you stay hydrated before and after your workout as well. Aim for at least eight to 13 additional glasses of fluid daily to maintain proper hydration., Another essential item to bring with you to your beach workout is sunscreen. Even if you don't think it's particularly sunny, it's important to cover any exposed parts of your body with adequate amounts of sunscreen to prevent burns.


Put on your sunscreen at least 20–30 minutes prior to your exercise routine. This allows your skin to fully absorb the sunscreen prior to you sweating.Use a broad spectrum sunscreen with at least an SPF of 30; however, if you've had previous incidences with skin cancer, it's recommended to use an SPF of 50. Make sure whatever sunscreen you choose is water and sweat resistant.In addition to wearing adequate sunscreen, health professionals recommend staying out of the sun and doing your workouts either before 10 am or after 3 pm as during this time the sun rays are the strongest and can be the most damaging.If you don't have sunscreen wear long sleeves, lightweight long pants and a hat with a brim to help protect your skin from the sun's rays as much as possible.
 Although there are plenty of exercises that you can do on the beach without any equipment, to get a great, well-rounded workout, you may want to consider bringing some items to help keep you comfortable.


If you want to do yoga, some circuit training or strength training exercises, you may want to invest in a fitness or yoga mat to bring with you. Also get a mat bag or tie so you can keep it rolled up tightly so it's more convenient to carry back and forth to the beach.
If you do not have a fitness mat, you can use a large beach or bath towel. Also bring a smaller towel to help wash sweat away from your eyes or to wipe sand off of your hands.
 Your skin is not the only part of your body that's susceptible to sun damage. Your eyes can also get damaged as you spend more and more time on the beach working out.Too much exposure to UV light can damage the eyes and increase the risk of eye diseases like cataracts, "snow blindness" and cancer.Make sure you wear UV-blocking sunglasses and a hat with a wide brim to block the sun's harmful rays from hitting your eyes.
Sunglasses may feel annoying or irritating as you workout. They can slide off your face or down your nose as you get sweaty. Look for sport or athletic sunglasses that are fit a little tighter on your face and have material on the bridge to help prevent them from sliding down your face.

