 Age spots, liver spots, and solar lentigines, are all names used to describe places on the skin that change to a darker color over time. Most people experience this type of skin pigmentation change, especially in areas exposed to sunlight over the years.Changes in coloration of your skin can be alarming since they may appear to be signs of skin cancer.
See as dermatologist if you are suspicious. Your doctor may take a small skin sample of the area called a tissue biopsy to test for the presence of early skin cancer cells. Always see a doctor as soon as possible if you experience any changes that may indicate the development of a serious disease.
Age spots are not cancerous. They occur from sun exposure and usually develop on areas of the skin that have been repeatedly exposed to the sun, like the face, shoulders, and arms.
 Bleaching creams work by fading the darkened areas in a gradual manner over time. Continue to apply the product until the area matches the natural skin color.Prescription creams that are often used to fade age spots include products that contain 2-4% hydroquinone.
Talk to your dermatologist about the risks and benefits of using a hydroquinone topical product.
Other prescription products include steroid creams, ointments, products that contain tretinoin or retinoic acid, and combination preparations.
Keep in mind that bleaching creams have very little success. Try a procedure such as cryotherapy if you aren’t seeing results with bleaching creams.
 Several procedures are available that can help to get rid of darkened areas of the skin.Intense pulsed light therapy uses a laser instrument that targets the skin that has darkened. The laser disrupts the melanin-producing cells that are causing the area to be darker. Several treatments may be needed to lighten larger or very dark areas.
Cryotherapy is a process used that freezes areas of the skin. The process of freezing destroys the melanin cells in the area that are causing the pigment changes. Cryosurgery and laser surgery can destroy age spots but may leave a temporary or permanent white or dark spot.
Dermabrasion and microdermabrasion are options that can be used to treat dark spots on the skin. The procedure is performed in the same manner as that for reducing visible scars. Destroying the outermost layer(s) of the skin allows for new skin to grow in its place without the darkened areas.
A chemical peel uses topical acids that destroy the outer layer of the skin. It may take more than one treatment to get rid of larger areas of dark pigmentation.

