 You might not think of it off-hand, but you’ll need to have important information about your cat in the kit. This includes telephone phone numbers, identifying details, and your pet’s medical records. You may need these documents in an emergency.


You may not have time to get your cat to a vet in an emergency. Have a cat-specific first aid manual in the kit, for easy reference.Make sure to have your vet’s telephone number, the poison control hotline number, and the contact details of and directions to a nearby emergency animal clinic, as well.
Include identification details for your pet, like sex, appearance, breed, and any health concerns or distinguishing traits. Also have up-to-date medical records, like her proofs of vaccination.
Consider putting these documents into a waterproof, zip-lock bag to keep them from the elements.;
, You’ll need to gather an array of supplies for the first aid kit. Start with basic items that you can use in any medical emergency.You should have supplies for treating and disinfecting wounds. Get items like antiseptic wipes or ointment and rubbing alcohol, and also protective gloves. Cotton balls and swabs may come in handy, as well, for wiping clean wounds or applying substances like alcohol.
A magnifying glass, a pair of scissors, tongue depressor, penlight, and tweezers are useful to help you see and treat some kinds of injuries.
For insect bites, consider including sting stop pads or even an old credit card to scrape away imbedded stingers.You will also want to be ready for poisoning, with items like milk of magnesia to absorb poison and hydrogen peroxide to induce vomiting. Always talk to a vet or poison control center before treating poison.Have a muzzle, a towel or pillowcase for restraint, a leash, rectal thermometer, and an oral syringe, as well., Many pet injuries are wounds, which bleed and will need to be staunched and bandaged. Make sure to have a variety of gauzes and bandages for such a situation.


2 and 4 inch gauze squares can be used to apply pressure directly to a wound to stop bleeding.You will need adhesive tape to secure them.
Bandage or gauze rolls will allow you to wrap a wound and will keep the gauze square in place.
Flexible wrap or Vetwrap can be applied to secure and compress the gauze, as well, keeping pressure on the wound until your cat gets proper medical care.Human band-aids are also good to have, in case you get scratched or bitten while treating the cat.
 In planning for all situations, you should account for emergencies where your cat needs food or water or other nutritional support. Pack water but also a variety of quick-acting supplies.


Gatorade or Pedialyte are good in cases of dehydration and will hydrate your cat while replenishing her electrolytes.
Supplements like Nutri-Cal, Vitacal, or Nutristat are high-calorie gels that will give pets energy and a nutritional boost.You might also go with a high-calorie, high-sugar energy source like Karo Syrup., Finally, add medicines for pain relief, itching, allergic reactions, and diarrhea or constipation. Talk to your vet to be sure what meds are pet safe.A cortisone spray or cream is good to stop itching from insect bites, for example.
You can also keep cat laxatives or anti-diarrheal medication like Pet Pectate on hand. Just be sure that it doesn’t contain salicylates, a compound found in aspirin that is toxic to cats.
Some people suggest keeping dehydrated or canned pumpkin mix in your kit, which will ease a cat’s constipation.Cats can safely consume allergy medication like Diphenhydramine (Benadryl). However, talk to your vet about proper dosages.