 Sending regular emails is an efficient and cheap form of communication that also allows you to pick up where you left off. Emails allow you to have a longer conversation at almost any time or place.Try maintaining one longer conversation within an email thread.Send each other links of things you find funny or interesting to add to the conversation.;
, Texting is a great way to keep up with each other’s daily events and routines. Although you may be apart from one another, texting is a great way to get immediate access to each other's lives.


Texting can also be an opportunity to be spontaneous and take advantage of each other's separate experiences.
Sending a picture or selfie can be a great way to maintain connection., Following each other on social media will help you maintain a connection even when you are unable to have direct communication with the other person. You will be able to see moments of their life without having to drastically change or alter your schedule.


Make sure this isn’t your only form of connection and that it doesn’t become a habit. It’s a good stand in, but comes nowhere close to direct communication.
 Save the longer and deeper conversations for phone calls or video chats. Although you can still indulge in small talk, both phone calls and video chats allow for longer sustained conversations.Set aside larger chunks of time to schedule regular weekly phone calls.
Use Google Hangout or Skype to video chat.
 Sending handwritten letters is a great way to keep connected while also adding a personal and thoughtful touch. With so many opportunities and devices for communicating at our disposal, taking the time to write a letter shows your appreciation for the relationship.Develop a habit of handwriting their birthday card every year.
Send them a surprise letter out of the blue!

, Sending care packages is another way to express your appreciation for the relationship. Try to collect objects that relate to personal memories you both share and send them to one another.
 Plan a visit when possible. Although easier said than done, planning future visits helps relieve the pressure of figuring out when and where you are next going to see each other, even if it doesn’t end up working out in the end.You can also try working your friend into a visit if you will be traveling somewhere close to them. For example, if you are going to be going to the city where your friend lives, then you might try asking your friend to meet up for lunch or dinner. Even if you can't spend lots of time with your friend, this time to catch up and connect can help to maintain your friendship.

