 Understand the symptoms so that you can monitor the illness and determine if your relative is getting better or worse. Certain illnesses can be aided by home remedies, over the counter medicines, and simple treatments. Other, more serious illnesses, will require professional medical help.;
, If they've been prescribed a certain medicine from the doctor, make sure they get it on time. If they are taking over the counter painkillers or medication to ease cold and flu symptoms, make sure you ask them regularly whether they feel like they need another dose. Carefully read the information provided with the medication to make sure that they are taking the medicine properly. Some medications need to be taken with food and drink. Ensure that all directions are followed. Do not exceed the daily dosage limit. Common types of over the counter medication to consider are: Antihistamines
Decongestants
Cough medicine

, If the relative is frequently throwing up or suffering fits, make sure you stay near them to provide support and comfort. Hold them steady, comfort them, and help them clean up any mess that may result from the sickness.
 Rest is a very important aspect of recovery for many illnesses. Make sure that your relative is comfortable and in a relaxed environment suitable for getting lots of rest. Blankets, comfy pillows, and a bed will help your relative get the added rest they need on the road to recovery.


Creating a separate sick room is also a good idea if the illness is contagious. This will give your relative some privacy and create a quiet space while at the same time protecting the rest of the family from unwanted germs. , Many common illnesses cause nasal congestion and/or vomiting. Your relative will be much more comfortable with tissues, water, and a trash can within reach. This way they can easily blow their nose or vomit without having to get up and move around.
 Being sick in bed all day can be very boring, so help them find things to enjoy. Read to them, settle them near the TV or talk to them for a while. Chances are, the less bored they are, the less down in the dumps they'll feel.
 Fluid loss can lead to dehydration and is common for people with cold and flu symptoms. Water is the best choice. Keeping your relative well hydrated means their body is better equipped to battle their illness. Signs of dehydration include: Less than normal amounts of urine.
Dry mouth and/or eyes
Dry skin that doesn’t easily go back to normal after being pinched.
Blood in the stool or blood in the vomit.
 Light foods are easier on the digestive system and some can help to aid with hydration.


Popsicles, yogurt, toast, crackers, and broth-based soups are excellent choices.
 Ginger has long been associated with alternative medicinal treatments. Ginger root, best consumed as a tea when sick, can help treat nausea and other digestive issues. Give your relative flat ginger ale or ginger tea in order to reduce the nausea associated with the flu, chemotherapy, or pregnancy-related “morning” sickness. , Research shows that sweets can actually suppress the immune system and cause inflammation. In a similar way, fatty foods are harder to digest and may cause stomach pains and cramping. Specific foods to avoid include:


Red meats
Fried foods
Soda
Candy

