 Gravlax, also called gravad lax, is a traditional Nordic dish which uses salt and sugar to cure the salmon. Various herbs are used to give flavor to the salmon, typically white pepper and dill, and the salmon is eaten raw after the curing process is finished.



Note: because the salmon is never cooked, keeping preparation surfaces and tools especially clean throughout the process is highly recommended.
 Use high-quality salmon if possible, acquired from a trustworthy source. Using farm-raised salmon is recommended, due to a lower chance of health issues. Although the chance of parasites is not high to begin with, you can reduce the risk further by freezing the salmon first, then defrosting it., Use a pair of tweezers or a small knife and fork to remove the scales and bones of the fish.Leave the dark skin beneath the scales attached to the rest of the salmon.
 These cuts allow the spice mixture to soak into the salmon, giving it more flavor and better preservation., Chop up one bunch of dill, or about 8 tbsp (120 mL), and crush 1 tsp (5 mL) white peppercorns. Mix these into 3¼ oz (85 g) sugar and 4 oz (120 g) salt.Experienced gravlax chefs will vary the ratios of these ingredients to suit their tastes, but the large quantities of sugar and salt are important so the salmon is properly cured.
 Heap the spice mix onto the salmon fillets, turning the salmon to make sure it is exposed to the mixture on all sides.
 Place the salmon in a glass or stainless steel container, touching the salmon fillets together on the pink flesh side, rather than the dark skin side.Cover completely with plastic wrap, then press the fish down with any heavy object, such as a brick.
 During this time, the salt and sugar should melt into the salmon, adding a stronger flavor.If you are not comfortable preparing raw food, you may wish to move the fish directly to the refrigerator instead, reducing the risk of bacterial growth.
 Move the salmon to the refrigerator, keeping the weight on top of it. The longer you keep it there, the stronger the flavor will be, and the drier the fish will get.Try testing it every 24 hours to see if you enjoy the flavor.
 Once the salmon has achieved the flavor and texture you prefer, take it out of the container. Scrape off all the spices, and discard any liquid that has been created., This common pairing with gravlax can be found at scandinavian food stores. Alternatively, you can make it yourself using the ingredients for the "sauce" listed beneath the gravlax recipe. Mix the mustards, sugar, and vinegar together first, then pour the oil slowly into the mix while stirring. Once it has reached a mayonnaise consistency, stir in the chopped dill and season with white pepper and salt to taste.Rye crackers or rye bread are another common food served together with gravlax.

