 Most people who study handgun bullet ballistics and tactics such as Jeff Cooper ("the father" of what is known as "the modern technique of the handgun") have concluded that, comparatively, handgun rounds are weak, and bullet-placement is a much more reliable fight-stopper than the round itself. Not to say that there aren't some advantages to one round over another, and in a fight, the advantage should always be on your side.




Penetration is extremely important. If a bullet does not penetrate deep enough, vital organs and the nervous system are less likely to be damaged. In the late '90s the FBI conducted extensive studies which suggest a bullet should penetrate at least 14–16 inches (35.6–40.6 cm) to be reliable. This allows for bullets to enter a body at less than optimal angles and still have enough energy to reach vital organs or the spine.

Permanent cavity is the resulting "void" in a fleshy target where the majority of a bullet's energy was transferred and tissue was destroyed. The larger the permanent cavity, the greater the chance of vital organs or the central nervous system being damaged.

Recoil is something that is often not talked about in bullet ballistics because it is a very subjective and weapon-specific characteristic. Low recoil allows you to place more shots quicker and more accurately. Each person will have a different feel for the recoil of a bullet, and each handgun will transfer the recoil to the user in different ways.

Bullet energy is an over-emphasized feature of a round. In handguns, the energy of bullets is extremely low. "Knock down power" is a fable born of Hollywood action movies; stories of people being "knocked down" after being shot have been proven to happen because of a preconceived notion that when shot, you are supposed to fall down. People shot with a .22 LR in non-vital areas have fallen down because they assumed being shot is synonymous with falling down and possibly dying.
"Bullet energy" is a rebuttal against people bragging about a bullet's energy without other considerations, but the amount of energy will also contribute to the first three points positively and negatively. The first three points on the other hand are all competing against each other in the search for a perfect bullet. If a low-recoil round with deep penetration and a massive permanent cavity were available, no other handgun bullet would be needed.
 Its relatively low recoil allows for quick, accurate follow up shots. The magazine capacity is usually much greater than other larger rounds. Cost is low and availability is excellent, making the 9mm an attractive choice for extended practice. Finally, there are excellent higher pressure (+P rated) loads available, producing excellent self-defense characteristics (make sure your handgun is rated to shoot +P loads before you use them).
.45 ACP uses heavier, wider bullets than the 9mm at somewhat lower velocity. The caliber lends itself to use with sound suppressors due to the fact that a standard round (230 grain) is subsonic under almost all circumstances. The permanent cavity (on ballistics gel) of a JHP .45 ACP is about 40% larger than a JHP 9mm. Recoil is more severe than the 9mm, and the magazine capacity tends to be much lower. Most law enforcement officers will say (referring to a point-blank gun fight), if you don't hit them in the first three bullets, you aren't going to hit them. So, large capacity magazines mean less than you may think.
.40 S&W is another common caliber with performance characteristics somewhere between the 9mm Luger and the .45 ACP. It has gained a large following in law enforcement agencies and elsewhere. Among other benefits of the round, the flat nose of the round has shown to create larger temporary cavities and also to allow the energy to transfer at a quicker rate to create a sizable permanent cavity.
 .38 Special, .357 Magnum, and .44 Magnum are common revolver cartridges. The 357 SIG (a 9mm bullet in a necked-down .40 cal casing) and 10mm Auto are also somewhat prevalent autoloader calibers. Another specialty round is the 5.7x28mm, made by FN, (Fabrique Nationale) designed to defeat Class III body armor with this ammunition. Such steel-core ammunition is not widely available to civilians, but the advantage of the round as a very low-recoil, high-velocity round cannot be denied. Additionally, due to its tumbling effect in soft targets it creates a considerable permanent cavity (for its size) while still penetrating deeper than 14 inches (35.6 cm). The 4.6x30mm, which has the same characteristics as the 5.7x28mm, is made by Heckler and Koch.
