 Mark a 15 x 5 cm rectangle horizontally on the side of the can near the base.


Note that for this paint can (and the other one you'll use), you'll want to ensure that the can contained only latex-based paint and that it has been thoroughly washed with soap and water before use.
 Bend 6 cm (about 2 & 1/3 inches) at either end of the 24 cm side down at a 90o angle. This should create a 12 x 12 cm square "platform" with two 6 cm "legs". Place this mesh inside the paint can, "legs" down, lining it up with the edges of the hole you cut.
 Eventually, you'll burn coals inside this paint can to provide the heat for your steam engine. If these coals don't have a steady supply of oxygen, they won't be able to burn well. Allow ventilation by drilling or punching a series of holes in a half-circle pattern along edge of the can's lid.


These ventilation holes should ideally be bout 1 cm (4/10 in) in diameter.
 Take about 6 m (about 19 & 1/2 feet) of soft copper tubing 1/4 inch (.64 cm) in diameter and measure 30 cm (11 & 8/10 inches) from one end. Starting from this point, wrap the tubing into five coils 12 cm (4 &3/4 inches) in diameter. Wind the remaining length of the tubing into about 15 coils 8 cm (3 & 1/6 in) in diameter. You should be left with about 20 cm (7 & 5/6 in) extra.
 Bend both ends of the coil so that they're pointing upwards and insert each through one of the holes in the lid. If you don't quite have enough length in the tubing, you may need to unwind one of the coils slightly.
 Place the coil on top of the mesh platform. Fill the space around and inside the coil with charcoal briquettes. Close the lid tightly.
 In the center of the quart-sized paint can's lid, drill a hole 1 cm (4/10 in) in diameter. On the side of the can, drill two 1 cm holes - one near the base and one above it near the lid.
 Use the ends of the copper tubing to bore holes in the center of two corks. Insert one 25 cm (9 & 5/6 in) piece of hard plastic tubing into one cork and one 10 cm (3 & 11/12 in) piece into the other so that they fit snugly and extend slightly from the other end of the cork. Insert the cork with the longer tubing into the bottom hole on the small can and the cork with the shorter tubing into the top hole. Secure the tubing in each cork with hose clamps.
 Place the smaller can above the larger can with the corked tubing facing away from the larger can's ventilation holes. Use metallic tape to secure the tubing from the bottom cork to the tubing extending from the bottom of the copper coil. Then, secure the tubing from the upper cork to the tubing extending from the top of the coil in the same way.
 Use a hammer and screwdriver to remove the center portion of a circular metallic electrical junction box. Secure an electrical cable clamp to the junction box with the retaining ring inside. Insert 15 cm (5 & 9/10 in) copper pipe 1/2 in (1.27 cm) in diameter through the cable clamp connector so that the tubing protrudes a few cm below the hole in the junction box. Blunt the edges of this end inward with a hammer. Insert this end of the pipe into the hole in the lid of the smaller can.
 Take a standard wooden barbecue skewer and insert it into one end of a 1.5 cm (6/10 in) hollow wooden dowel rod 3/8 in (.95 cm) in diameter. Place the dowel rod and skewer inside the copper pipe in the metal junction box so that the skewer points up.


The skewer and dowel rod will act as the "piston" when the engine is running. To make the motion of the piston easier to see, you might want to attach a small paper "flag" to the top.
 Remove the junction box assembly from the small upper can and fill the upper can with water, allowing it to drain into the copper coil until the can is about 2/3 full of water. Check all connectors for leaks and ensure all seals are tight. Secure the lids of both cans by tapping them with a hammer. Replace the junction box in its spot above the small upper can.
 Crumple up pieces of newspaper and place them in the space enclosed by mesh at the bottom of the engine. When the charcoal has caught fire, allow the briquettes to burn for about 20-30 minutes. As they heat the water in the coil, steam should begin to build up in the upper can. When this steam reaches sufficient pressure, it will push the dowel and skewer piston upwards. Once sufficient pressure has been released, the piston will be pulled back down by gravity. Trim pieces off of the skewer as needed to reduce the weight of the piston - the lighter it is, the more frequently it will "pop" up. Try to whittle the skewer down to a weight such that the piston "runs" at a constant clip.


You can speed up the burning process by using a hair dryer to blow through the ventilation holes.
 It probably goes without saying that this DIY steam engine requires careful handling and operation. Never run the steam engine indoors. Never run it around flammable material like dry leaves or overhanging trees. Only run it on a tough, non-flammable surface like concrete. If you're working with children, ensure an adult is present to supervise at all times. Do not children or teenagers approach the engine while the charcoal is burning. If you're ever not sure how hot the engine is, assume that it's too hot to touch.


Also, be sure that the steam is able to escape from the upper "boiler". If the piston becomes stuck for some reason, pressure can build up inside the small can. In a worst case scenario, this can cause the can to explode, which can be very dangerous.

