 Girls like to feel special, so taking the time to do a few simple old fashioned gestures will go a long way when trying to win a girl’s heart. Observe her reactions to your gestures, and make sure she appreciates you going the extra mile. If she wants a more equal relationship, these may seem condescending.Open doors for her when you are with her. Take the time to open the car door for her when you arrive and leave from places. Hold doors open for her and any others around when you enter a building.
Offer her your coat on a cold night. This act of chivalry shows her that you care about her by making her comfortable.
Meet her friends and family. Ask her if you can introduce yourself to her friends or parents because you want to meet the people she loves.
 Creating a feeling of safety and security will help a girl trust and open up to you. Simple actions of kindness can help make her feel safe in your arms.Hold her hand when you are walking with her. Having her hand in yours shows her that you are proud to be with her and makes her feel as though you will keep her safe.
Stand close to her, or pull her close to you. Standing within a close proximity to her when you are out with friends will ensure her that she is your one and only.
Put your arm around her. Try putting your arm around her shoulders when you are watching a movie or hanging out with friends. She will like the feeling of comfort in your arms, and it should make her feel like you’re strong.
Be there for her when she is feeling down. A girl needs to feel safe and secure emotionally. Listen to her when she talks about a problem, and reassure her that she will be alright. Let her know that you are there for her in any way she needs, and if she needs help solving the problem, you are happy to help.
 Present yourself as being cultured and respectful by using proper manners when you eat.


Chew with your mouth closed, and don't talk while you have food in your mouth.
Use your knife to guide food on your fork, not your fingers.
Wipe you face and hands with a napkin rather than your clothes.
Keep your phone put away during dinner.
 When you treat people with respect in front of a girl, it shows her that you are going to treat her with the utmost of respect.Show love to your mom or sister in front of the girl to let her see that you understand what real love looks like.
Be helpful to elderly ladies by opening doors for them or helping them with their groceries when you are out with a girl. She will see how compassionate you are and know that you’ll be this compassionate with her.
 While a little suspense can make her excited to hear from you, make sure that you don't leave her waiting too long.

