 If you are having pain and discomfort from piriformis syndrome, then one of the best things you can do is rest your body. Piriformis syndrome may be the result of irritation or injury from exercise or other forms of strenuous activity.If you have a physical job or you like to exercise every day, then this advice may be a challenge for you. But it is important to rest to avoid further damage or irritation to the piriformis and to allow it to recover.;
, Heat therapy is an effective way to help soothe pain and discomfort caused by piriformis syndrome. Heat therapy is also an effective way to warm up your muscles before stretching them.Try using a heating pad on the affected area or take a warm bath to cover more areas at once.
 Certain stretches have been found to be effective at relieving some of the pain and discomfort associated with piriformis syndrome. For best results, you will need to perform the stretches three times per day.To perform a piriformis stretch, you will need to lay on the floor with your knees bent and both of your feet flat on the floor.
Then, pull your right leg in towards your chest and use your left hand to pull the leg over to the left side of your body.
Hold the stretch for five to 30 seconds, depending on your abilities.
Repeat the stretch on the other leg.
 After stretching, applying ice can be an effective way to reduce pain and swelling associated with piriformis syndrome. To use ice, wrap an ice pack or bag of frozen vegetables in a thin cloth or paper towel. Then place the ice pack on the most painful area. Leave the ice pack in place for about 20 minutes and then remove it. Wait for at least 2 hours to reapply., Piriformis syndrome may be agitated by sitting or standing in certain positions, so you will need to make sure to avoid these positions. Do what you need to do to make yourself comfortable while sitting and standing.Try sitting on a cushion or comfortable chair if sitting feels painful to you. If you have trouble standing, consider using crutches or a cane to help support your weight while you stand.

