 The best way to burn more calories is to incorporate more exercise into your daily routine. Cardiovascular exercises like walking, running, swimming, and biking help you to burn calories even after you have finished. You should aim for at least 30 minutes per day, but keep in mind that the longer you work out, the longer your body will keep burning calories after you have finished., Muscle burns 2.5 times more calories than fat, so the more muscle that you have on your body, the more calories you will burn when your body is at rest. If you don’t already have a strength training regimen, add strength training into your daily routine.


Focus your strength training on large muscle groups for maximum burn, such as the thighs, arms, abdomen, back and chest., The more you move throughout the day, the more calories you will burn. Add small bursts of exercise throughout your day to increase your overall calorie burn. Park further away from the entrance at the mall, take the stairs instead of the elevator, or do some lunges or crunches during commercial breaks when watching TV., Studies show that lean people fidget for about 150 minutes a day more than obese people do. That kind of low-grade activity (tapping feet and fingers, twirling hair, gesturing while speaking, etc.) can burn 350 calories a day, which translates into 10 – 30 pounds a year! It's called Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis (NEAT) and it includes any movement that isn't intended as exercise. You can burn an extra 100 – 150 calories an hour by increasing NEAT.Here are some ideas:


Standing burns 50% more calories than sitting. Stand while talking on the phone, using the computer, or reading the paper.
Pacing is even better. By pacing, you can burn 90 more calories an hour than if you were sitting still. Make it a habit to pace whenever you use the phone.
Buy a workstation or desk that you can stand at or, if you can, set up a desk over a treadmill. By walking 1 mile (1.6 km) an hour while you work, you'll burn an additional 100 calories per hour which, if you do this for two to three hours a day, you could lose 44 – 60 pounds in a year. It's recommended that you start slowly, though, walking 15 minutes every hour and then increasing gradually. Alternatively, you can use a mini-stepper under a tall desk, or while watching TV to achieve the same results.

