 Pigs have special needs and characteristics that are very different from dogs or cats.;
, Contrary to some understandings, these pigs are not small. Nor are they easily transportable. Most of all, they do not belong in apartments. They can be contrary, or even aggressive, if you don't know how to handle them well. And although they form close bonds with humans and love to snuggle, they get bored easily, which can result in them wreaking havoc if you leave them home alone or fail to interact with them sufficiently. This can result in knocked-over trash, chewed household objects, etc. Do you have the willingness to train and time to play with and interact with your pig?


Pigs will do anything for food, including learning how to open food cupboards and even the refrigerator.
Pigs need a safe indoor and outdoor environment.
 Potbelly pig personalities are complex. You need a good understanding of their behavior and habits before getting one. Potbelly pigs are herd animals. They have a strong pecking order. If they are spoiled, they often become territorial, and can be aggressive towards humans who don't form part of their herd, especially house guests. Pigs have an instinctual urge to be "top hog," which includes defending their territory. Those that receive lots of firm but subtle, daily discipline, and setting boundaries in the home, do not tend to exhibit this behavior (although anything is possible, after all, you're not a pig and it's not a human).


Potbelly pigs must be taught to respect humans from the outset. They must be trained to respect the word "no".
Pigs can learn to scream. This will be used to wake the owner for breakfast, beg for food, and raid pantries.
Potbelly pigs can be demanding, overly sensitive, or even neurotic. They can quickly be very jealous of other pets if not socialized properly.
Pigs will often pout if challenged by humans.
 In addition, they need to eat a fair amount. Can you handle the increasing size of the pig and its dietary needs? Too many pot bellied pigs are discarded after people think the "cute phase" has passed, which happens all too quickly. This is a commitment for the life of the pig.
 The pig will need room to run, play, and forage. It will also need an area to bathe and wallow. If you don't have an outdoor area to keep it, do not get one.
 Find reputable breeders through calling a national or local association responsible for pig breeding.
 Pigs are not good pets if left home alone, with no mental stimulation. They are very intelligent and trainable. First, a pig must be taught that it can trust its owner. Firm, gentle discipline works well. Because of their love for food, positive reinforcement is effective. Negative physical reinforcement is not. Pigs have a great memory, and respond well to commands. They are easily housebroken and can learn to do amazing things when properly taught.


Get a proper trainer for the pig if you don't know what to do yourself.
 You'll need to provide sufficient enrichment opportunities. Owing to the potbelly pig's food obsession, it can be aggressive with young children, in its eternal quest for treats. However, with the right kind of training, attention, and environment, it can be trained to behave. Ultimately, these pigs are steadfast friends and companions.
 Stimulate the pig's intelligence and playfulness. Learn to curb its willfulness. Spend time with it so that you can connect, giving it adequate stimulation through play. This helps to earn its trust.

