 The first step in getting to know a potential friend is to strike up a conversation. Believe it or not, very interesting conversations can start up with, "The weather is sure cold!". Another way is to find out a little bit about them and their interests. Once you get started on an interesting topic, the rest will come naturally.


Try making a general comment or asking a question about something generic, just to break the ice. For example, "Great party, huh?" or "How do you know John?"
Try to listen more than you talk. Show that you're interested in what they have to say. Even if you find their speech boring, try to appear concentrated in order to not hurt the other's feelings.
Find out about their interests and hobbies. If you can find something you have in common, the conversation will flow more freely.
 If you hit it off with someone, make sure to get their contact information before you part ways, you'll need it if you want to organize to meet up with them again.


Get their phone number or email address, or ask if they're on Facebook. It doesn't matter as long as you have a way of reaching out to them.
Be sure to give them your contact details too. They might just invite you to do something fun.
 Here is where a lot of people falter. It's fun to meet people once and make friends with them on Facebook afterwards, but you won't develop a true friendship unless you take the next step and invite them to hang out. Hang outs are not necessarily about going to Starbucks and buying a Coffee Espresso for both of you! Try new and fun ideas, like consider going on a long-drive if you have a car.


You don't need to invite them to do anything special, just ask them if they'd like to go for a drink or hang out at the beach.
Even if they can't make it, they'll probably be flattered you asked. Try again in a week or so. Let them have their space otherwise they will think you are too clingy.
 It's good to make your own plans to meet up with people, but if you get an invitation it's even better. Think of it as an easy opportunity to get to know someone better or meet more people.


Accept every invitation that's thrown your way, even if it's to see a movie you're not interested in or to play a sport you don't like. Once you're there, you will be glad that you made the effort.
You don't want to get a reputation as the person who never shows up for anything. That's a surefire way to never get invited anywhere.
If you really can't come, explain your reasons to the other person funnily and in such a way that they realize you aren't refusing to your own option but on a real excuse.
 Deep, meaningful relationships don't just blossom overnight - you need to nurture them and allow them time to mature.


Once you've made the initial steps and established a routine of hanging out, just repeat, repeat, repeat.
To become a true friend with someone, you need to hang out fairly often, keep in touch, enjoy good times together, and get to know each other on a deeper level.

