 There are a few small tricks that you can do to stimulate your body and keep yourself alert throughout the night. You'll be less likely to fall asleep if parts of your body is active and engaged.

Stretch. Stretching your forearms, calves, and wrists will make your body feel more active and less tight.






Roll your shoulders backward and forward and circle your head from side to side.
Give yourself a quick hand massage.






Tap your foot on the floor.
If you're really falling asleep, pinch yourself or bite down on your tongue.






Gently tug your earlobes.
Chew gum or suck on a mint to keep your mouth active.






If your eyes are getting tired, rest them out a window or gaze in a new location.
Stimulate your senses. Turn up the bright lights and play some medium-loud music to jolt your senses awake.
 Keeping your mind alert is just as important as stimulating your body. To keep your mind alert, you have to switch tasks from time to time and to stay mentally engaged in whatever you're doing. Here's how to stimulate your mind:


Pay attention. Notice everything that's going on around you, and ask questions if you don't understand something, like a section in your textbook that is unclear to you during a study session.
Strike up a conversation. If you're in the middle of a cram session, it's easy to keep talking to the people around you. If you're at home and struggling to stay awake, call up a night owl friend or having a quick conversation with a friend online.
Stay engaged. If you're watching a movie, ask yourself questions about it to make sure that you understand everything that's going on.
Don't let yourself drift off. If you're watching television or having a conversation, make sure that you're focused on the task at hand instead of daydreaming.
 If you want to stay up all night, you have to be able to switch it up from time to time to keep things fresh and to keep your body from falling into a trance. There are a few changes you can make to help yourself stay up all night.

Switch tasks every thirty minutes. If you're watching a movie at a sleepover, take a bathroom or snack break from time to time. If you're cramming for an exam, switch from studying your notes to using flashcards.






Switch up your environment. If you can change your environment, it will be easier for you to stay stimulated. If you're cramming for an exam, move to a different part of the library or your dorm. If you're at a sleepover, just try getting everyone to hang out in a different room from time to time.
Hang out in a different part of the same room. If you're nodding off at your friend's New Year's party, just move from the couch to the kitchen and keep talking to people. If you have to keep sitting down, pick a different seat.
 Though you'll only make yourself more tired if you start an intense workout as soon as you get tired, getting just ten minutes of light exercise can wake up your body and tell your mind, "Hey, it's not time to fall sleep yet." Here are a few things you can do:

If you're at a party, take the stairs to the upstairs bathroom instead of using the one that's more conveniently located.
Take a ten-minute walk outside or even inside to wake up your senses.
If you're alone in your room, just do thirty jumping jacks or run in place for two minutes.







