 Coke and Pepsi taste quite similar, but their flavors aren't exactly the same. Start by taking a sip of your drink. Concentrate on the flavor — ask yourself, "What else does this taste like?" Everyone's sense of taste is different, but a few popular comparisons are as follows:Coke is often said to resemble raisins with a hint of vanilla.

Pepsi is often said to resemble citrus fruit.;
, A soda's flavor isn't just about what other things it tastes like — it's also about how those tastes feel in your mouth. Take another drink of your soda. Concentrate on how the soda feels as it moves over your tongue and down your throat. Again, everyone's opinion is different, but some common observations are below:Coke has a flavor that many define as "smoother." The flavor rises gradually and recedes gently. It should go down your throat easily.

Pepsi has a flavor that many define as "sharper." The flavor has a stronger "attack" — it rises in a sudden "burst" of flavor. It should be a little more intense as it goes down your throat.
 Take another drink. This time, concentrate on the sugar content in the drink. Is the sweetness overpowering, or is it more subtle? This can be difficult to judge unless you have both drinks in front of you so that you can compare them. According to official nutritional information:Coke has a little less sugar, so it is slightly less sweet.

Pepsi has a little more sugar, so it is slightly more sweet.
 Hold a sip of the soda in your mouth for a few seconds. Concentrate on the feeling of the carbonation bubbles. Is the drink quite fizzy, or slightly "flatter" than you're used to in a soda? This, too, is difficult to tell unless you have both drinks for comparison purposes. See below:Coke has more carbonation, so it is slightly fizzier.

Pepsi has less carbonation, so it is slightly "flatter."

, If you still aren't sure, try smelling your drink as you gently swirl it in its glass (like a wine snob). This releases a little more of the aromatic chemicals into the air so your nose can pick them up. Concentrate on the aroma — if you had to choose, does it remind you of raisins and vanilla (like the flavor of Coke) or citrus fruits (like the flavor of Pepsi)?

