 Be familiar with the various strains, denominations and dialectical differences of your own religion. People tend to ask about a tradition of your religion without knowing that may be a practice peculiar to another sub-group of your religion. Spend regular time understanding and meditating on your own beliefs. Keep a journal explaining your daily enlightenment to yourself.;
, Post a few invitations in public places.
 You need to understand the basis of their current beliefs. It is easier to focus more on a particular group rather than spreading yourself thin on every possible group on the planet. Most people enjoy having conversations based on their own background and knowledge. The first step to proselytizing is gaining trust and friendship.


For example, if the target person or group is either Christian, Jewish or Muslim, read up on Christianity, Judaism and Islam and learn about their history and influences these religions have had on each other. Chart their differences.
If the target person or group is either Buddhist, Hindu, Confucian, Taoist or Shintoist, learn about the roots of these religions and the historical influences these religions have had on each other.
If the target person or group is Agnostic, Atheist, Communist or Humanist, read up classical philosophies like Socrates, Plato and Aristotle. Familiarize yourself with the influences these classical philosophers and Hellenism has had on your religion and on the current legal and political systems. Read up on the motivations, conquests and failures of major empires and political systems. At best, avoid telling members of this super-intellectual group what you know about their beliefs. Rather let them tell you what they believe and question their beliefs.
 No matter which religion you belong to, knowing more about other religions and belief systems will help you understand and interact with people better. Therefore reading outside your target group, like selections of the Quran, the Hadith, the Bible, the Talmud and various religious texts is both helpful and enlightening. Who knows, you may get converted yourself and find your true self after exposing yourself to a wider choice of religions!

, Find out how much these peculiarities affect your sincerity to your religion before deciding on the venture of proselytizing. Charting the differences between religions of each group (e.g. between Christianity, Islam, and Judaism) helps you to understand your own.
 This is key!

, Eg: Shelter or other provisions.
, If they seem comfortable after a few months, invite them to faith based events.
 Tactfully work yourself around your neighbourhood or office encouraging people to recycle and conserve the environment. Practice environmental conservation yourself. Ensure that the religion you intend to preach discourages attitudes that are contrary to the safety of the planet and its inhabitants.
 Are you certain your religion is suitable for a target person, when your congregation is not even aware that there are members struggling to get to services because they could not even afford or are unable to use public transportation?

, Is it for personal trophy, to make the world a better place, to guide the target person to a better future out of sincere concern or to contribute to efforts ensuring your personal belief system would become a dominant influence? If the reasons do not match that of your beliefs, call it a day and return home to meditate on where you have gone wrong. Discuss and share the problem with somebody you trust. This will help you avoid going astray and embarrassing your religion.
 For examples, crusade (offensive to most Muslims) and New Testament (offensive to practicing Jews).

