 The more sensory “likes” you can learn the more effective will be the guided hypnosis and self-hypnosis that follow.;
,,,,, This means moving beginning with where the person is, alert and lying on a couch, a carpet or other, to a place of profound internal calm.


The regression is bringing the person through suggestion from being externally oriented to internally oriented, and from anxious to extremely relaxed.



Use coaching prompts are memorized and/or written down.
Changing the words or images will negatively impact what you are trying to do, as well as in some way confuse the individual.
 You, knowing the person, will have to estimate how quickly or slowly, how many steps in short, to go in order to achieve moving to that place of calm already mentioned.


This is essential to move from the present awareness to that place of peace, using as many sensual cues as is possible such as hearing the water, feeling the cool moss, feeling the sunshine softly etc.
The more visual/sensorial it is, the stronger will be the impact of the process.
 If the person said that water is good, or calming, then build water into the scenario.


Combine sensations such as "soft moss" to "cool shade" and "warm sunshine. #*Warmth is most often equated with safety, so this is the direction to head towards.
Always start with where the person is and what there is to sense in the situation.



Carefully construct a scenario to shift from there anxiety producing here and now to a vision of a peaceful and safe situation that is pleasing to the senses.
Once the person is in the place of peace, reinforce that it is both peaceful and safe.
 Suggest that the “blue light” or the “warm, soft breeze” keeps them both safe and calm while they are “there”.



Create a tape or other recording of the music and your voice when high effectiveness is achieved.
Self-hypnosis occurs when the individual can use this recording without you present to add or delete certain prompts.
This happens when you create a voice over music tape or CD, where the person can use it effectively without you even being present.



Each person will be different.
Some will pick up and use the most subtle suggestions, some require it to be more pronounced and to have it stated without other words just before or after it.
 Tell the person that although he/she can return to this place of calm at any time, but for now you are going to guide them back to the here and now.



Always begin with the place of peace as step one.
Step two might be the bubble of light slowly moving away into the sky, allowing the person to thank the light, but begin to move again through the field toward the trees (as was used in the example).
 Move methodically from being completely internally oriented to gaining awareness about the present.
 Include hearing other things in the environment and telling them that they are on the carpet/couch and can feel it under them.


Using sensory clues as to the present is just as important as they were during regression.



Suggest moving legs, arms, neck etc. when they feel ready to do so.
Make sure the person is fully awake and aware of his/her own body before they truly begin to move about. You do not want someone to fall if they are not quite reoriented.
,


This is a bonus, and rather easy to do.
It will become a lifelong skill for the person, making anxiety easier to manage.



Tell the person that whenever they do this symbol, it will bring their anxiety back down, just like in the imagery, such as the field and the light bubble.



For example, when in the deepest relaxation, suggest that if one touched their pinky to their opposite elbow, they will feel just as relaxed as in the hypnotic state.
Do not use something that could happen in everyday life.
For example, touching the thumb to the forefinger happens when we write. Do not use something that commonly occurs, but has to be used intentionally.
We do not accidentally touch our pinky to the opposite elbow in most instances.
,


Monitor, and suggest purposeful use of this, for at least two months to ensure it is effective.

