 The effects of chemotherapy cause a variety of negative physical symptoms, including hair loss. To cope with this drastic physical change, some people with cancer choose to wear wigs. The wigs allow them to feel more like their old selves.


If you find that the wigs are scratchy on your head, opt for a light hat. Additionally, some companies offer baseball hats with hair sewn into the bottom, so that it looks like you’re wearing a hat over long hair, and you don’t have to feel the itchy effects of the hair.;
, Doctors may remove body parts to eliminate the source of the cancer. Obviously, this is a huge change for anyone. Wearing a prosthesis can help you feel better about your physical appearance, as well as possibly help you lead a similar life to what you led before.


For instance, a prosthetic leg may help you to be able to walk or even run again. Women with breast cancer can use prosthetic bras to help them feel more comfortable with their appearances. Ask your doctor for information about how to obtain these pieces., Some cancer and cancer surgeries can leave a person with scarring that can affect their self-esteem. It may also cause changes to their skin tone and overall complexion. Typical makeup may help to cover minor skin changes and scars, but you may require a heavier-duty product, like camouflage makeup. This type of makeup offers more coverage that could help you become more comfortable with your new appearance.


Ask your doctor about obtaining prescription camouflage makeup. Your doctor may also be able to offer advice on how to best apply the makeup., People with cancer who are undergoing treatment usually aren’t particularly active. Additionally, any steroids they take may cause weight gain. If you can’t exercise to lose or keep the weight off, consider wearing bigger clothing that may hide what you feel uncomfortable about. Wearing looser clothing may also help if your skin is feeling extra sensitive because of the medications and treatment.


However, you may find that you feel more uncomfortable wearing clothing that is too big. Donning clothes that fit properly could make you feel better about yourself. The bottom line is you should do what makes you feel best about yourself, both physically and mentally., You may find that wearing accessories helps you feel better about your appearance. Wearing earrings, scarves, and necklaces can help women play up their femininity, as can wearing makeup and using it to create the appearance of eyebrows, if yours are gone. You may find that taking these small steps can make a huge difference in how you feel about yourself.


If your fingernails are fragile because of the cancer or treatment, try using oil to keep them protected and from breaking. Additionally, use dark nail polish if you find that the treatments are making your nails look discolored. Glitter-based polish can also help to hide ridges., Fighting cancer is a hard battle. You shouldn't have to add to that by being self-conscious about your appearance. If you choose to use makeup and supplies, that's your choice. But, don't feel like you have to hide or be ashamed of physical changes caused by cancer. Do what's right for you.

