 Horses can read your emotions. They can sense if you are agitated or angry and may become flustered. Remember that some horses will not immediately trust you and will need time, which can be weeks or even months. A misstep might cause them to panic. Always approach with calmly and with confidence, not timidly or shyly., If its ears are pinned or its nostrils are flared, this might indicate that it is agitated by your presence. Don't approach the horse in either of those cases, because your movement might spook the animal.If it is safe, approach from the left and front, if possible, speaking gently so that it is aware of your presence. Never approach the animal from behind., Horses learn by positive reinforcement.If the horse is calm and you are able to safely approach it, feed it tidbits like carrots, apples, sugar cubes, or horse treats to help gain its trust. This sort of positive reinforcement will calm the horse and assure it that you are friendly. Repeat this step a few times and, if the horse is willing to eat, stroke its mane. Keep in mind that certain foods are not good, however. Avoid giving horses onions, potatoes, tomatoes, cabbage, or any other vegetable that causes intestinal gas or belongs to the nightshade family., Once you have visited often enough, the horse should slowly become used to your presence and begin to trust you as a "friend.” Continue your visits to establish a steady relationship with the horse and an ever stronger bond. After a time, the horse will trust you enough to let you on its back.
 Like humans, horses give physical signals about how they are feeling. A lowered head is a sign that the horse is relaxed, for example, while shaking the head is a sign of aggression. A rapidly darting gaze often indicates fear.Try also to read how the horse reacts to its environment. Spooking may be a psychological behavior for the horse, the result of a traumatic or abusive past. If your horse get nervous around a saddle, for example, this may mean that it has a bad association with saddles or there is something about the saddle that hurts it., And also be careful. Gaining the horse's trust might take some time. Keep working on the relationship. If your horse does spook and you are trying to restrain it, keep in mind that the animal does not necessarily know your intentions. It might panic or try to run, which could put you in danger of being kicked, bitten, or even run over. Putting more tension on the lead rein might make the situation worse. Be careful of your reaction.

