 Remember that, unless you were planning to be a stay-at-home mom, you made the decision to balance a career and a family – and that’s a perfectly valid choice. It’s best to come to terms with your decision as quickly as possible, so don’t second guess yourself! Let go of your guilt, and you’ll be more likely to go back to work with the right mindset.;
, Once you go back to work, your time with your baby will be limited, so use the rest of your maternity leave to bond as much as possible: hold and cuddle your baby, sing and laugh and make faces with your baby, and enjoy the extended time that you have together.
 There are plenty of ways to continue bonding with your baby once you go back to work. You can start preparing now. Consider:


Waking up earlier in the morning and spending some quality time cuddling with your baby before you start getting ready for the day.
Turning routine chores and activities into bonding opportunities. For example, you might work to make breakfast or bath time a special shared time for you and your baby.
Talking to your baby about your routine.
Smiling at your baby during routine moments. The happier and more interactive you are, the more content your baby will be.
 Dependable childcare is crucial to your success at work, and you won’t feel comfortable unless you know that the person caring for your baby is someone you can trust.


Ask family and friends if they are available to provide childcare, or if they have recommendations for childcare providers.
Ask potential childcare providers for references, and follow up to learn as much as possible about the person who may be caring for your child.
If you are considering a daycare facility, go for at least one tour, and ask if you can sit in and watch a typical day.
Make arrangements for back-up childcare. Ideally, a friend or relative will be able to take your baby on short notice if, for some reason, your regular childcare falls through. If not, research drop-in childcare options and ask people you know for suggestions.
Check to see if your company offers childcare benefits. Some employers do offer childcare at the office; others offer financial help with the cost.
 Once you have thought about your routine and established a childcare plan, it can help to have a practice run. This will help you identify potential problems and feel more prepared for going back to work. For the best results:


Set a wake-up schedule for you and your baby.
Go through your regular hygiene routines – including whatever additional steps you would take to be dressed and ready for a work day.
Be productive during the times you will be spending at work.
Identify steps that can be completed in the evening in order to make mornings easier, and start doing those things.
Consider starting childcare during this time. This involves some unnecessary expense, but it will ease your stress. Once you go back to work, your baby will already be more comfortable with the new routine.
 When your maternity leave ends, schedule a meeting with your supervisor. Get an update on what’s being going on in your workplace, and then bring up any questions or concerns you might have regarding the transition.


Consider asking if you can return to work mid-week to ease the transition for you and your baby.
Discuss options like telecommuting or part-time hours during the initial transition. These adjustments may allow you to ease back into your work routine.
Ask for any special considerations you may need. If you plan to continue breastfeeding, for example, you may need to ask for a clean and private room where you can pump breast milk during the day.
 There are ways to keep in touch with your baby throughout the work day. If you live close to the office, consider going home during your lunch break to feed and spend time with your baby. If you live further away, you may be able to schedule Skype sessions. If not, you can leave a picture of yourself with your child or make a recording of you talking or singing for your childcare provider to play for your baby.


Be aware of your baby’s individual needs. If seeing you briefly during the day seems to upset your baby even more, leading to additional stretches of distress and crying, you might decide that it’s better to say goodbye once in the morning and then wait until the end of the workday to reunite for some cuddling time.
 You may feel emotionally drained as you try to meet the demands of motherhood and a career simultaneously. Don’t forget to take time for yourself. Relax in a warm bath once the baby is asleep, or curl up with a good book. Get your hair done, or go for a run, or buy some new clothes – whatever makes you happy and restores your energy.
 A positive attitude will make balancing a career and a baby much easier, so:

Address any feelings of guilt. Reaffirm that you are doing what you think is best for your family.
Cultivate a sense of accomplishment. Motherhood is challenging; work is challenging. You are doing both.
Stay positive. You might feel anxious or depressed at first, but try to keep a positive attitude. You and your baby will get used to your new routine; it will get easier.

