 Try to pace yourself, and start by purchasing comic books in just one or two series at a time. Decide on a monthly budget and focus on your favorite comics, or you may find yourself running out of money and storage space long before you have the collection you're looking for.
 As you read your first few comic book stories, you'll be exposed to several writers and many art styles. When you find a favorite, turn back to the beginning of the issue and write down the author or artist name. Track down other issues written or illustrated by the same person to expose yourself to stories you wouldn't normally find.


Neil Gaiman, Alan Moore, Bill Willingham, Warren Ellis, and Mark Millar are all well-known comic authors.
 Most mainstream comic books are first released in short installments called issues, about 10–20 pages long. If you are willing to wait, you can often save money by purchasing a trade paperback containing five or so issues in one volume, or a graphic novel containing a complete story arc. Paperbacks and graphic novels are also easier to store than single issues, if you already have a bookshelf.


Some independent artists only publish as a graphic novel.
You may also check the inside cover of a comic book for subscription information, and sign up to receive the comic in the mail.
 Once you have started a comic collection, you may enjoy hunting for older or less popular comics. Visit flea markets, garage sales, thrift stores, and antique shops to see what's available.
 Meet other comic book collectors browsing shelves at the comic book store. Trade comic books with them, or loan and borrow books so you can read a comic before deciding whether to purchase it for your collection.
 There are many comic book conventions that draw thousands of fans to meet the people who create comics, find deals on new or rare comics, or hear announcements about upcoming comics. The most famous is Comic-Con, held in San Diego each year.
 Search on Amazon, eBay, and other retail sites for specific comics that will round out your collection of a series. Always look up the seller's ratings and reviews before purchasing, and search for past sales of the same issue to tell whether you are getting a good deal.


If you cannot find past sales history on an item, try looking up the comic's price at ComicsPriceGuide.
 Individual comic books are graded for quality to describe the condition the comic has been preserved in. A rating of 0.5 (Poor) means there are pages or part of the cover missing, or that the comic has been heavily damaged by spilled substances. A rating of 10.0 (Gem Mint) means the comic is in perfect condition, with no blemishes. Comic books with a higher quality grade are much more valuable.
 The truly valuable comics can be worth hundreds or thousands of dollars, and form the centerpiece of a collection. While older comics are worth more in general, the most valuable ones involve a landmark event in a popular series. Here are a few types of landmark events (along with examples from The Amazing Spiderman):


The first issue of the series (e.g. The Amazing Spiderman issue 1).
The first appearance of a major character (e.g. The Green Goblin in issue 14).
The death of a major character (e.g. issue 121).
The first appearance of a popular object or new look (e.g. the symbiote suit in issue 252).

