 Like their stock counterparts, futures mutual funds are a diversified portfolio of different commodity futures managed by a professional advisor for a fee. Managers determine which futures to buy or sell and the timing of the transactions. Most funds are highly leveraged to increase return. The portfolio might be broad including all commodity classes or limited to specific types such as grains or precious metals. Management fees typically are 1.5% or higher of the fund’s asset value.


Mutual funds let investors participate in the commodities market without having to get directly involved with trading highly leveraged commodities. Also, since commodity mutual funds also make investments in stocks related to the commodities, sometimes they still perform well even if a commodity itself is experiencing a negative price movement.
For example, stocks in a mining company may rise even though the price of the commodity they mine is falling. This is because the stock value of the companies related to the commodities are affected not only by the price of the commodity, but also by their own debt and cash flow.Major investment companies that sell commodity index funds include Pimco Real Return Strategy Fund, Oppenheimer, Barclays and JP Morgan.
Commodity mutual funds are advantageous because they are professional managed and diversified, providing a full package to inexperienced investors., A Commodity ETF is a managed portfolio of physical commodities or commodity futures designed to track either the spot price such as precious metals or an index of a specific commodities. For example, a Gold ETF might purchase and store gold in the form or coins or bullion while a Futures ETF would contain a series of futures contract designed to replicate the price movement of an index like the Dow Jones-USB Grains Subindex Total Return or the SummerHaven Dynamic Commodity Index Total Return. While assets within the ETF are rebalanced periodically to track the index more closely, active management is less intensive than a commodity mutual fund and less expensive with expense ratios of 1% or less.


Commodity ETFs trade like a common stock on a stock exchange and undergo price changes frequently as they are bought and sold.
ETFs usually have lower fees than mutual fund shares.
However, ETFs also introduce credit risk, as their issuer may not be able to repay the promised amount under certain circumstances., Both commodity mutual funds and ETFs can be purchased through a regular online brokerage or an in-person broker. Mutual funds may have management fees and/or minimum investment amounts. Check with your brokerage for details.