 It's over, it's done, no matter how much you dream about it or try to fix it, it won't happen. This is bluntly said, but they're not thinking about you half as much as you are about them. Don't waste your perfectly good time.;
, Find someone that knows or someone you can tell about your situation. It's better to have someone know about what you're going through rather then bottling it up, otherwise every memory you've had on them is only gonna build up. If you let someone know it definitely takes a lot of the baggage off.
 When you're around people that care about you, not only does it take your mind off of the situation, but it helps you realize that there ARE people in your life that will stay with you and will love you unconditionally.
 Take the time to see what's in your community that you can participate in for awhile. It will keep your mind focused on something else rather then the person you're trying to get over. If you don't want to participate in any community activities, take it upon yourself to make a day for yourself. For example; going to the movies every other Friday or cleaning the house every other weekend. Whatever you like to do make it a regular activity for yourself, even take yoga lessons or hit the gym once in a while to blow of that extra steam.
 Seeing the brighter side of life will help you move on and will help you realize you are better off without them.
 Write an un-sendable letter to them expressing every feeling in your body, heart, and mind that made you feel how you did after they left you. Write whatever you want, be free and don't second think about trying to name any good things about them because they hurt you, remember that fact.
 This is OPTIONAL, but it WILL make you feel a lot better. Be civilized and tell them your side of the story. It doesn't matter what they say, they're not the one hurting. Once you tell them everything you needed to say and everything that came from your heart don't talk to them after that because its over.
 They are no longer a part of your life so delete their phone number or any social networking you have of them added as a friend.
 Social networks are built for a reason. Not only to keep in touch with friends, but to meet people. When a door closes another one opens. Make it happen.
 Whether it be in person, on an unsendable message, or just in your heart forgive them for what they did. We are all human we make mistakes and by forgiving them you show that you no longer need them in your life but yet you don't hate hate them for what they've done to you, because the past is the past. When you forgive them you ultimately prove that you are the bigger person and you have moved on.
 After overcoming something so hard its natural to feel a little lost. Spend some time alone, read healthy books mentally or physically or even take a trip out of town. The farther you are away from the drama the easier it is to be yourself.

