 Adjustable stems have a single bolt running perpendicular to the bike where the stem meets the frame. You can loosen this bolt, adjust the stem angle, then tighten it back to quickly move your handlebars. If you have this option, adjust the stem and test it before moving on -- it may be enough to get you comfortable.
 The stem is the piece running perpendicular to your handlebars that attaches your frame to the handles. On the front of the bars (as if you were looking at the bike from straight ahead) are four screws, usually clamped to a small square plate on the center of the bars. Loosen these and the handlebars will be able to rotate up and down.
 You should feel like you could comfortably play piano on your handlebars. You want your arms slightly bent and you should be able to quickly and comfortably reach the brakes. Your back should be at a roughly 45-degree angle from your waist. Have a friend support the bike while you climb onto the seat and check your handlebar position.


Angling the handlebars is a minor adjustment. If you can't reach the brakes, have to bend over uncomfortably, or must extend your arms all the way, you will need to purchase a new handlebar stem. You may also be riding a bike that is too big for you., Have your friend hold the bike, or try a quick practice ride in a small area. Make sure you remember to tighten the bolts before beginning, however, as your weight could force the bars to angle suddenly down and cause a crash.


In many ways, handlebar angle is a matter of personal preference. As long as you are comfortable, they will work.
If you've been having finger numbness when riding, consider tipping your bars up a little more. This puts less pressure on your palms that may cut off some circulation.
 You need them to be hand tightened enough so that the bars don't move when you ride. However, you do not want them to be so tight that you cannot remove the bolts later or the screws become stripped.


If you have a torque wrench you should set the bolts to 5nm strength.