 If you don't want to use the readily available invitation cards, you can make your own at home. Here are some ideas:


Cut out Minnie Mouse heads from black cardstock. On its front side, paste a Minnie Mouse bow and decorate it with some glitter. On the reverse side, paste a red paper circle at the center and write your party message on it.
Write your party message on some white paper and roll it to form a tube. Insert this into a deflated red and white polka dot balloon, blow it up, and paste the Minnie Mouse bow on it along with a paper that says ‘pop me up’. Hand deliver these invites. Kids will love these Minnie Mouse Birthday Party Ideas, as they will get a balloon to pop up along with an invitation to attend their favorite theme party.;
, Since this is a very common theme, finding Minnie Mouse Party Supplies will not be difficult for you.


Buy a Minnie Mouse air walker and place it at the entrance for welcoming the guests. Although this can be a little expensive, you can use it for entry door decoration as well as for a photo prop. Air walkers are usually made of good quality materials and therefore, you can store this for future use.
Cut a lot of Minnie Mouse heads from black construction paper. Also cut the letters of 'Happy Birthday' from red paper. Paste the letters on the Minnie Mouse heads and then paste all the heads on a polka dot crepe paper or ribbon to make a birthday banner. You can also paste your daughter’s picture on the heads. This personalized banner will surely make your little mouseketeer feel special.
Decorate the venue with lots of red and white polka dot balloons, black balloons, themed foil balloons, polka dot crepe paper, red and black tissue pompoms, etc.
 Hire a Mickey and Minnie themed inflatable bouncy for the kids to play. Kids are always full of energy, so a treasure hunt would be the best way to keep them busy or else they will create a big mess. Spray paint some dog bones and turn them red and black in color. Hide them around the play area and ask the kids to find Pluto's bone!

, Serve pizza, soda, and other fun snacks. Visit a reliable bakery that can make a Minnie Mouse birthday cake.
 When it's time to say goodbye and a big thank you to your guests, as they made your daughter's party a huge success, you should give them a special something. Since these Disney characters are loved by all, you can easily find a lot of useful as well as inexpensive things to put in the goodie bags. Some of the options are a coloring book, wrist watch, stationery, stickers, hair accessories, etc.

