 All kids need encouragement to help them feel more confident and boost their self-esteem. Use lunch boxes notes to provide them with that added support.Notes can be general in their encouragement. For example, write a note like, "You're awesome!" or "Have a super amazing day!"
Consider more specific notes of inspiration when your kids may be worried about a school event or test. For example, write notes such as, "You're going to do great on that spelling test!" or "I'm so proud of all you do. Stay focused and you will do great!"
Provide them with a sense of hope and joy through words and pictures. Use smiley faces or pictures of strength to emphasize what you say.;
, If you're inclined to gush all your feelings, go ahead and make that known to them. Older kids might see it as embarrassing, but younger kids may love your caring words.Consider very simple words of love, such as "I love you" or "Love you always."
If you're into writing poems or using flowery language, get creative by making a poem of your own or finding one that fits your child's reading level.
Use pictures or drawing with hearts and stars. Make them feel special and add more design to your words of love.
 Teach kids the values of everyday reminders, since kids can be forgetful sometimes. Remember that this is a reminder for them around lunch time, so it's more useful to remind them of late afternoon activities at school or after class.Maybe you're more worried about your child forgetting about something, so it's a quick way to get them to remember. Just make sure to provide support and encouragement rather than judgment.
For example, "Enjoy your awesome lunch! Remember that your aunt is picking you up after school today. Love you!"
Reminder notes can also help you to encourage them to talk with their teachers or school staff, if there's something pressing. For example, "Remember to ask for another permission slip from your teacher so you can go on the school trip. Have an awesome lunch!"

, Consider adding some silly things that make your kid laugh. Kids often enjoy comics or silly little jokes. Add a few into your child's lunch box from time to time.Find some short, kid-friendly jokes that tickle your child's funny bone. For example, "What's the king of all school supplies? A ruler!"
Consider cutting out some comic strips (or making copies) and adding them to your kid's lunch box. Find comics that are age-appropriate. Consider comics like Garfield or Calvin and Hobbies, for example.
You can also add your own humor with silly or wacky pictures and funny faces with notes attached.
 Sticky notes are easy-to-use and inexpensive. This way you can add notes regularly to your child's lunch box.


Try different colors and designs as an easy way to be creative.
Add little doodles or drawings on the sticky notes for more fun.
Sometimes just a simple message is all you need to brighten your kid's day. Such as "Have a great day!" Don't overthink it.
 A picture is worth a thousand words. Consider adding some photos or drawings that help to inspire or remind your child of how special they are.Kids (and adults) always enjoy fun pictures of cats, dogs, and other animals.
Add things into your message that interest your kids. For example, if your kid is really into the latest superhero movie, consider adding some pictures and inspirational messages featuring the superhero.
If your child is feeling down, remind them of some great memories with friends and family. Add an extra photo or picture to show that they have a strong support system.
 If you're feeling more crafty, mix it up with the paper notes, and instead find other materials to write your notes on. If you like to do handicrafts, then each note can become a little art project.


Consider using paper napkins as materials for notes. Or even more creatively, write a fun note on the outer peel of a banana.
Kids enjoy stickers, glitter, and little bits of color. Give them notes that sparkle and keep their attention. Rubber stamps can also liven up designs in a fun and easy way.
For a fancier look, try different handwriting if you and your child are into calligraphy.
 Food presentation can be art in itself. Help to brighten your child's day through the act of thoughtful food design. It can help to teach your child to slow down and admire each item they're eating.Be playful and creative with the kid's food. The more appealing the food looks, the more likely they'll get excited about lunch time. Kids appreciate fun designs as much as adults.
For example, use cookie cutters to make different designs in a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Or make ants on a log with celery sticks, cream cheese and raisins.
Fun designs with the food itself can brighten your child's day in the same way as a sweet note does.
 Notes of encouragement can motivate your child. Consider notes that push your child to eat all their meal--even the healthy stuff. Consider gradually easing in more healthy foods over time if they are resistant to healthy eating.Choose healthy and kid-friendly snacks like these to pack: fresh fruit, cheese sticks, yogurt, pretzels, trail mix, dry cereal, nuts, graham crackers, pudding cups, and fig bars
Pick lunch meals that offer a variety of foods including protein, carbohydrates, vegetables, and fruit. Add also sweet or salty treats that compliment the meal.
Organize the items in such a way that it seem more attractive to eat all the foods in the lunch box, rather than just the sweets. Lunch boxes with small compartments, like bento boxes, are more fun and interesting for kids. Make each compartment of the lunch box feel like a gift.
 Have your children be an active part in the process of choosing items for lunch and making their lunch. Teach them about nutrition and how to balance their meals with different food groups.


Make grocery shopping a collaborative effort. Create lists of items to purchase before heading to the grocery store. Have your child check off when an item is placed in the grocery cart.
Consider making meals before the morning of. This way, both you and your child will have more time to work collaboratively on the lunch box meals.
If your child is old enough, consider having them make their own meals in the morning or ahead of time. This can help to instill responsibility. Just make sure to check the lunch box before they head out, and make changes as needed.
If your child ends up making their own lunch, then make sure to add the note at the end. Just tell them you added a little surprise in there.

