 Property trading, quite simply, is purchasing a property with the expectation that you can sell it a short time later for a higher price. This type of investing is commonly known as "flipping" properties. In this type of investing, the "flipper" is exposed to a tremendous amount of risk. This is because they actually own these properties and, if they fail to sell, will be stuck with the taxes and rent costs associated with keeping the properties. Be sure that you understand these risks before jumping into property trading.There are two types of property trading: one involves upgrading or refurbishing the properties to resell them and the other simply involves price speculation (hoping that the price will increase) without any changes being made to the property.Be sure to seek the advice of a Realtor, an attorney and an accountant before investing in property in the hopes of flipping it for a return on your investment.
 This type of property trading involves buying properties that are then improved to add value before selling them. These upgrades can be as simple as making small repairs or be full-scale renovations.Because of the work involved, this type of investing is usually more of a full-time job than a side investment.


When "flipping" a property, choose a house, apartment complex, duplex or commercial building with outdated features and needed upgrades.
Negotiate a reasonably low price with the seller for an "as-is" property, and install the upgrades needed to increase the property's value.
While you can hire a contractor for the work you need done, do-it-yourself repairs will result in a higher profit margin. You may want to attempt to sell the home yourself before enlisting the help of a real estate agent, as agent fees could significantly eat into your return. However, enlisting the help of a Realtor could significantly improve your chances of success.
A downside to this method is that, barring a situation where you have other contractors working for you, it limits you to developing only one property at a time., This functions exactly the same way as flipping a property after refurbishing it, except that you'll have to rely on the market to increase its value for you. You'll have to look for brief windows of time where the seller of a property has priced it below the market rate for a certain area or look for areas where you think prices will rapidly increase. This requires foresight and risk-tolerance, even more so than refurbishing houses., If you have earned equity from investment properties, there is a legal method reinvesting that money into another property without paying taxes on it. This is known as a 1031 exchange and allows you to sell out of the first property and reinvest your gains in a second property without recognizing it as a taxable sale. And because there is no limit to the number of times you can do this, you could defer your taxes indefinitely this way (until you eventually cash out and are subject to capital gains tax).This benefit is only applicable to investment properties (not your personal residence) and must be transferred between "like-kind" properties that are similar. This "like-kind" phrase is broad, but investigate the tax code before trying this yourself.Keep in mind that there are specific timelines that you will need to abide by, so it is important to consult with an accountant who is familiar with them.

