 You don't need an excuse to tell anyone that he or she is beautiful. Sometimes there really isn't a "reason" to tell someone they're beautiful; but you do it anyway. Maybe the light's hitting them just right; maybe they're wearing a stunning gown; or maybe you want to kiss them. If you feel an overwhelming urge to tell someone that he or she is beautiful: just do it.;
, You can certainly say "You're beautiful," at any time, but the statement might come across as more meaningful if you have the person's full attention. Say it during an intimate moment, when you're one-on-one. Try not to put him or her on the spot.


If you're telling a friend, lover, or significant other that he/she is beautiful, try saying it in a quiet moment when you're speaking one-on-one or looking into each other's eyes. Let the words come out naturally.
Consider writing a note. This can be a great way to create an intimate moment if you're shy, or if you can't be present for some other reason.
Say it as a greeting. Try greeting a date by telling him or her, "You look absolutely beautiful tonight!" Avoid saying it if the date is dressed casually. Save it for when they have clearly put some effort into their appearance.
 Your words don't need to imply anything more than what they mean at face value. There are many reasons to let someone know they're beautiful, and not all of these reasons are romantic. Try not to think too much about it. If you think that someone is beautiful, then it's usually a good idea to let them know.
 When you say it and how you say it are not nearly as important as 'what' you say. Inundating a simple acquaintance with over-enthusiastic or overly detailed praise can often trigger a cautionary or even a repulsed response. Avoid accenting detailed physical characteristics (like fitness, or the sizes of certain body portions) until you and the subject know each other very well. Further, refrain from discussing such things in the company of others. When in doubt, comment on the most superficial of aspects first and wait until they are comfortable in hearing more.

