 Different hair types will all have different shampoo and conditioner needs. If your hair is curly or wavy, you will need a hydrating shampoo/conditioner.
If your hair is straight, you will want a volumizing shampoo/conditioner to minimize flatness.
If your hair is course, kinky, or damaged you will want a shampoo/conditioner that can treat damage, detangle, and soften.;
, You will need shampoo, conditioner, a towel, a comb, and a cup. You will also need a sink, and possibly a step stool. A few extra towels are always a good idea.
 Prepare yourself for hair washing by rolling up your sleeves, or even taking off your shirt.You may also want to place a towel around your neck.
 You'll want a sink that is large enough to fit your head under the faucet. You'll also want a sink that is a good height for you to bend over into (a sink that sits at your belly button will be perfect). If your sink has a sprayer, that is an added benefit!


Use a step stool if your sink is too high.
Kitchen sinks tend to be larger and more commonly have sprayers. For this reason, kitchen sinks usually work best.
 Let the water run until it is warm. You want the water to be nice and comfortable, but not too hot., Bend over into the sink. Flip your hair over so that the back of your neck is exposed. Get your head as far under the running faucet as you can. Then, using the sink sprayer and/or your cup, pour additional water on your hair until the back is completely saturated. Warm water is the best choice for this step., Turn your face from side to side, placing each side of your head under the running faucet. Then, using the sink sprayer and/or your cup, pour additional water on the sides of your head until they are completely saturated.
 Cup your hands under the running water and splash water onto the hair above your forehead. By now, all of the hair on your head should be saturated.
 Depending on the length of your hair, dispense approximately a quarter-sized dollop of shampoo into your palm. Rub your hands together to lather the shampoo. Then, starting at the very front (above your forehead), apply shampoo to the roots of your hair.
 Really focus on cleansing the hair closest to the scalp. This is where hair gets the greasiest and needs to most cleansing.Once your scalp is clean, you can move the shampoo through to the tips of your hair.
 Following the same method as when you got your hair wet, begin rising out all of the shampoo. Be careful not the get soap in your eyes. Wet the back of your neck, then the sides, and finally the front.
Keep rinsing until the water is clear.
 Depending on the length of your hair, dispense approximately a quarter-sized dollop of conditioner into your palm. Rub your hands together and apply conditioner to your hair from your ears down. This is very important! Do not apply conditioner directly to your scalp., Once the hair from your ears down is effectively conditioned, you can run your hands and any remaining conditioner through the length of your hair from root to tip., Leave conditioner on your hair for one to five minutes. This gives the product time to moisturize your hair properly., Following the same method as when you got your hair wet, begin rising out all of the conditioner.Wet the back of your neck, then the sides, and finally the front.
Keep rinsing until the water is clear.
Cool or cold water is the best choice for this step., Use a towel to remove dampness from you hair. Be gentle with the towel, being sure not to damage your hair. Your hair is particularly sensitive when it is wet., Begin by combing you hair out with a wide-toothed comb. After this, continue with your normal styling routine.

