 You must know your annual salary in order to determine if your job is going to pay you enough to support your lifestyle. Assess your financial needs and plan your budget. Then determine if your annual salary is going to be enough to pay all of your bills and allow you to accomplish your goals. Besides knowing your annual salary, learn about other important ways you are compensated. For example, know what benefits are available to you, such as tuition reimbursement, retirement plans and health insurance. Also, find out if there is room for advancement and the potential to earn more money., If you aren't already established in an industry or are thinking about switching careers, use online resources to learn about the kind of salary you are likely to earn in different industries.Search for a particular job or industry. Find out about basic salary information for different positions within that industry. Learn about typical benefits packages.Compare salary averages and hourly wage rates in different locations of the country.You may also be wondering if you're being paid properly for your current work. If so, you can estimate your market value by researching compensation for similarly-experienced and employed workers in your industry and area. Use the tools mentioned above to determine whether or not you are being paid adequately.
 As you research salaries for different occupations, understand the difference between “average” and “entry level.” If you are new to an industry or just starting out in an occupation, do not expect to earn the average salary right away. Entry level salaries are typically lower than the average rate. However, your salary should increase as you gain experience. Research the potential for salary growth in your chosen industry., You may find yourself in a position to compare the salaries of two or more jobs. Perhaps you are looking for a job, or maybe you are considering leaving your current job for something else. Naturally, the total salary offered is a major consideration. Other factors that may also be valuable to you include benefits, the potential for growth, the location and the length of your commute.Sometimes it is prudent to choose a job with a lower salary because of growth opportunities, location, or workplace culture. 


, Once you know your total annual salary and you have a realistic expectation of what you should be earning in a specific field, you can use this information to negotiate salaries in future jobs. Compare the total annual salary you currently earn with others in your field or in other industries you are considering. If your research indicates that you could be earning more, arm yourself with solid data and negotiate a better salary. Move from up from an entry-level position to something more advanced. Or, request a review of your salary based on your education level or your special skills or qualifications.Your market value is influenced by your education, experience, and other assets you bring to the table. Consider every way in which you create value for your employee when determining your market value.


