 By staying with the dying person in their final days or hours, you can comfort them with your words or by holding their hand.Some adult children will snuggle in bed with their dying parent and this close contact may be comforting to a dying mother or father.
The simple act of physical contact—holding hands, a touch, or a gentle massage—can make a person feel connected to those he or she loves. It can be very soothing. Warm your hands by rubbing them together or running them under warm water.
As death scares many people, some will tend to avoid the dying person. However, it's these very moments that can be turning points for the better in the lives of people. So, make sure there is much support around this dying person, and don't be scared to keep them company with others until they do die. Knowing that people were there for them will comfort them.
 This will depend on the situation and stage. Stay organized, as caring for a dying person can be a lot of work. Keep a planner for doctor´s appointments, medicine calendars, and keep it visible. Have a board.


Accept help, but don’t let others control the situation. We all have loved ones who are always there to help, as long as it´s on their terms, and with their conditions. You don´t need this. Say thank you, but make sure they don´t add more pressure than they take off.
Educate yourself on their symptoms, the best medically suggested response to them, and on the dying process in general. Help them educate themselves too, if that's what they want.If you are not the person responsible for the care, and want to offer help, offer help, not control. Help in their terms, not yours. The best way to help, is by accepting the terms the one responsible establishes.
 We all know how nice it is to have just had a bath or a shower. If the person is too large for one person to manage, then a close friend or nurse may be helpful to give a bed bath.


Consider hospice care or a nurse. If you can afford it, hire a nurse for tasks that may be embarrassing for your dying loved one. If you can´t afford it, never do it angry.
Don’t leave a dying person alone for long periods of time. And make sure there is someone close to them in the room, even if this is done in shifts. You want them to feel the presence of family and loved ones, not just caregivers they aren’t that connected to.
Put them in a wheelchair if they are always in bed. That way they can have some fresh air, and see a new face. Ask them how they feel in case they do not want to stay outside any longer. By these loving gestures, they still feel like they are a part of the world and that you care.
 Give them their dignity. Don’t be fooled into thinking there is nothing to learn from a dying person, or that the dying process is just all pain and horrible. While it can be traumatic, witnessing death should change you.


When caring for a dying person, remember that they are still there. Do not treat them as if they are already dead, or are not there. For example, it can be very hurtful for the dying person if you talk about them or their condition with someone else, while they are in your presence.
Don't bring up the dying thing unless they do. Just hold their hand and be there for their last breaths. Stay positive and don't show sadness in front of them. Talk to them as if they are cognizant of what's going on around them. They might be or they might not be, but don't assume that they don't hear what you are saying. Mend any fences with them that you need to. Even if you think they don't respond to you, they know what you've said.

