 Add icons for Twitter, Facebook, Instagram or other social media websites on the sidebar or at the bottom of your blog. By including icons or text links to relevant social media, your readers will be able to share posts with a broader audience.Insert a link to your blog underneath your email signature.
 If you are on Facebook or other social media sites, make a link to your study abroad blog on your profile. This will allow friends to easily find and share your blog., Write standalone sections of 140 characters that can be pulled for tweets about your blog post. Using these one or two sentence sections, you can promote your blog posts on Twitter. Compose regular tweets after you write a post in your study abroad blog. Remember that the life of a tweet is only about twenty minutes or, in other words, your tweet will have the most potential to get audience attention in the first twenty minutes. After this time, your tweet will remain on your account but may not receive as much attention from other users. So, you may want to tweet more than once during the week of your blog post., If you are proud of a particular photograph on your blog or want to promote a post, you can pin it to Pinterest and include a link back to your blog. If people see it on Pinterest, they may click it and read the rest of the post., When you are chatting with friends or family members, tell them about your blog. Tell them what you are writing about and tell them they can share it with others.If you do not want to share your study abroad blog too broadly, you can also just share it with your friends and family members and avoid telling people to share it.
 Once you have developed an audience for your study abroad blog, you may start getting invitations to write articles or reviews about particular topics. If you are invited to write about a particular topic, show your commitment by writing a timely and informative post.If you are invited to do a restaurant review and receive a free meal, try to write an informative, accurate and timely post. You want to share your honest opinion of the meal and write the post in a timely fashion. Consider your experience of the meal, what your audience may want to know, and write in an ethical and responsible manner.

