 The first step in becoming a medical billing consultant is to graduate from high school or obtain your GED. If you know that you would like to pursue a career in medical billing, consider taking classes in biology, accounting and computer science. In some instances, a high school degree and some experience are enough to get a job. However, many employers require at least an associate’s degree.A high school degree is necessary if you want to get a postsecondary degree.;
, Although some people find work with only a high school degree, you will likely need an associate’s degree in order to pursue a career in medical billing. Most employers require this two-year degree, which can be completed online or through a community college. Be sure to attend a school that is properly accredited, preferably through the American Academy of Professional Coders (AAPC), the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM), or the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA).If your program is not accredited, you will not be eligible for Federal Financial aid, able to transfer your credits to another institution, or possibly enroll in a graduate program., In some instances, you may find that a bachelor’s degree will help you find higher paying jobs and get further in the field. Many institutions of higher learning offer degrees in health information management. However, you will want to make sure that they are properly accredited. Research potential programs before starting.A bachelor’s degree generally takes at least 4 years to complete.
A bachelor’s degree is required if you decide to become a medical and health service manager.
A medical billing consultant with a bachelor’s degree can make as much as $10,000 more a year than someone with an associate’s degree.
 If you decide to become a medical and health services manager, you will likely need a master’s degree in health administration, public health administration, business administration, or nursing. Most employers require at least a bachelor’s degree when hiring health services managers, but master’s degrees are common and sometimes preferred.Graduate programs can take 2 to 3 years and often include a year of supervised administrative experience in a hospital or clinic.
If you do not have a master’s degree, some employers may hire you with the expectation that you will receive a degree will under employment.

