 Brazilian blowouts, also called “thermal hair straightening” or “keratin straightening,” are professional chemical treatments that relax hair. The overall process of getting a Brazilian blowout takes an average of 90 minutes and is largely the same anywhere. It will usually look like this:The stylist will wash and towel dry your hair.
He or she will then divide your hair into sections and begin applying the straightening product.
The stylist will next blow dry your hair, trying to make it as straight as possible.
Next, he or she will flat iron your hair to seal in the straightener.
Then the stylist will rinse the solution out of your hair and apply a conditioning mask.
He or she will then rinse your hair again and apply a smoothing serum and/or balm before blow drying your hair once again.
 If you're not sure you want to get a blowout, start by setting up a consultation with a stylist who can lead you through the process and answer any questions.


Be aware going in that professional straightening treatments are expensive (anywhere from $175-$350, depending on the length and texture of your hair) and will take as long as three hours.
Also note that if you have very curly hair, a Brazilian blowout will smooth out your hair, but it won’t completely straighten it.Despite some claims to the contrary, these treatments do damage hair.
 Your hair will need some care after the treatment, though you shouldn’t feel compelled to buy expensive salon products; drugstore brands can work just as well.


Look for products that are gentle on hair and offer frizz-fighting benefits.
Don’t use any products that contain sulfates., After a Brazilian blowout, there are some general steps you should follow to maintain it (though your stylist may have different specifics).


Don’t put your hair up or in a clip during the first 72 hours after the blowout, and don’t tuck your hair behind your ears.
Don’t get your hair wet during the first 72 hours. If your hair does somehow get wet, immediately blow dry and straighten it.
Straighten hair at home as needed. As your hair grows, it will grow in curly again and you’ll need to straighten those portions at home.

