 Providing your hosts with a detailed itinerary of your stay is an easy—and totally free!—way to be considerate of your hosts before you even arrive. Knowing when you’ll be out of the house, where you’ll be going, and when you’ll probably be around will help your hosts figure out any changes they need to make to their own schedules, if they need to make a spare key, and what kind of sleeping and food arrangements they should make ahead of time.


For example, email or text an outline describing your arrival and departure times, as well as any appointments or sightseeing you’re planning during the timeframe.
If you’re in town for an interview or a wedding, make a note of when and where the engagement will take place, as well as how long you think it will take.
 Your hosts might offer to pick you up from the airport or bus station when you arrive, but you should assure them that you’re willing and prepared to make other arrangements. You probably can’t take a cab due to your limited finances, but you can figure out how to get to your host’s home by public transportation. By doing this, you ensure that your arrival creates minimal inconvenience for your friends’ daily schedule and pre-existing plans.


If they insist on picking you up, send a detailed itinerary and confirm your mobile number ahead of time so that your friend knows exactly where and when to find you, as well as how to contact you in case of confusion.
 If you're spending every evening with your hosts, you won't have to worry about the schedule you keep when staying in your hosts' home. If, though, you're spending some time separately, you should be conscientious about how late you return in the evening so that you don't disturb your hosts' usual routine.


If you must return late in the evening, be sure that your hosts know when to expect you. Also prepare your bed and pajamas so that you make minimal noise and bother when you enter.
 You probably already said thank you when bidding farewell to your host, but sending a written thank-you note after you’ve left will augment this verbal expression of gratitude. Make your own card or buy a modestly priced one from a local shop, then add a personal note expressing how much you enjoyed your stay and what a great host your friend was.If you have the space in your own home, add a sentence saying that you’d love to return the favor and host your friend if they’re ever in town in the future.

