 Millet seeds or "sprays" containing seeds are often sold as bird food, but these come in many varieties and may not be reliably labeled. While bird owners have reported success planting these seeds, or even growing them accidentally by dropping them in the garden, seeds or young plants purchased from a plant nursery will most likely be labeled with an exact species. This gives you a better idea of what to expect, and may help you find more specific answers to problems you encounter while growing.


"Ornamental millet" varieties such as Purple Majesty or Foxtail Millet Highlander are recommended for small garden plots due to their attractive appearance. They still produce edible seeds that will attract birds and other wildlife.Some millet varieties, such as Golden Millet, grow to 18–24 inches (46–61 cm) in height, while other common varieties require more space and reach 5 feet (1.5 m) or more in height.Your millet plant may not reach its maximum height in cool climates.If you plan on eating the millet or feeding it to birds, use organic millet seeds and do not treat the plant with pesticides.;
, For best results, especially with ornamental millet, start the seeds indoors approximately 6–8 weeks before the last frost of the year.Alternatively start the seeds directly outdoors as long as the frost is over and soil temperatures are above 50ºF (10ºC), but be aware that this may not give the plant time to mature and produce seeds by the end of the growing season., You can purchase seed starting soil, or mix ordinary potting soil with an equal amount of compost.Using soil from your garden may not be as effective, but you can attempt to grow millet in any soil that drains quickly. Mix perlite or sand into the soil if the soil clumps together or tends to stay soggy after watering.
 Seeds should not be buried deep, but instead placed no more than 1/4 inch (6mm) below the surface.Ideally, plant the seeds 2–3 inches (5–7.5 cm) apart. If you don't have enough space, you may plant them closer together and thin out the smallest seedlings once the seeds have sprouted.
 The seedlings should sprout within a few days. Many millet varieties are adapted to warm climates, and grow best if exposed to bright, indirect sunlight for most of the day and temperatures around 78ºF (25ºC).If the millet you purchased came with other instructions, follow them instead.
 Water the seeds immediately after planting to help them sprout and grow.Subsequently, water whenever the soil is dry or nearly dry, but not if it still feels damp. Make sure the water drains well. Millet will not grow well if the seeds are soaking in water.
 After the last frost has passed and the soil temperatures are above 50ºF (10ºC), dig the seedlings out individually, taking care to keep their roots intact. Transplant them into outdoor pots or directly into the garden, using the same soil they were in before. Try to plant the seedlings to the same depth they were before, not burying stem that was previously above the soil level. Keep the millet in full sun unless it shows signs of withering or burning.


The recommended size of the pot or spacing of the plants varies greatly with the type of millet.
If the weather is hot or the seedlings are still small, consider keeping them in an outdoor area with partial shade and wind protection for one or two weeks before moving them to an area of full sun. This allows them to gradually adjust to outdoor conditions.
 Because there are thousands of millet species and varieties, it is impractical to give specific instructions for each. Generally speaking, millet plants enjoy good-draining soil and do best if the soil is not allowed to dry out completely.Millet is unlikely to survive freezing temperatures either as seeds or adult plants, and most types thrive in warm weather.If your millet appears unhealthy or some of the plants die, have a botanist or garden nursery employee identify your species of millet and suggest specific care.


If your millet rots or looks slimy at the base or roots, reduce watering.
If your millet dries out or falls over, it may be a short-root variety. Add compost to the soil to help trap moisture and provide a sturdier support for the plants.
 If you wish to collect seeds to feed to house pets, or to plant again next year, you'll need to get to them before birds and other wildlife. The time it takes for millet to mature varies greatly with variety and climate, so once the plants flower, keep an eye out for seed pods. These pods grow among the fluffy ends of the plant, and eventually open up to release seeds. Periodically break open a pod to see if the seeds inside are brown or black. If they are, the pods are ready for collecting. Gather them individually, or simply cut off the whole stalk.Note that millet is an annual crop, meaning the plant will die after producing seeds.
 Seed pods can be left in a paper bag to dry for one or two weeks. Shake the bag to separate seeds from the other material (chaff), then store in a dark, dry place to plant next year. Alternatively, feed fresh or dry seeds to pet birds in small quantities as treats. If you have enough millet seeds, you can boil them into a porridge.


Together, millets and other treats should not make up more than 10% of your bird's diet.