 The traditional path for fashion designers is usually to go to a design school. The Fashion Institute of Technology and Parsons The New School for Design (both in New York City) are leaders in this industry, but they don’t come cheap. Tuition is often thousands of dollars per year.


Many colleges also offer majors in Fashion Merchandising, which includes courses in design, marketing, and business practices. If you want to own your own label, this could be a good option for you.If you’re very confident in your business and design skills, you could try to train through apprenticeships with other fashion labels, or even go it on your own.;
, Many people dream of becoming fashion designers, envisioning the life as a world full of glamor and beautiful models and gorgeous silks and leathers. While these things can be part of it, some experts suggest that less than 10% of your time as a label owner will be spent actually designing your clothes: the rest of it is eaten up with small-business-owner responsibilities such as managing line production, packaging and sending off clothes to magazines and customers, and dealing with the public., For some people, being your own boss and being solely responsible for the success of your company is an exhilarating sense of independence; for others, it’s the stuff of sweat-drenched nightmares. Are you the type of person who thrives on challenge, tight deadlines, and stiff competition? Can you persist through hardships because your dream of a label is everything to you?


You can still work in fashion even if you don’t start your own line. Some fashion designers go to work for large fashion houses and never start their own labels, because they don’t want all the extra responsibilities that come along with that.
 In fashion, much of your success will be determined not only by what you know, but by who you know.


Finding a business partner with experience in running a small business could be a really good idea. In addition to bringing expertise and a different set of skills to your label, they can also take care of the business side if you’re less confident with it, while you can focus on designing.If the words “wholesale margins,” “overhead,” or “production management” mean nothing to you, consider taking some business classes, or at the very least reading up on the nitty-gritty details of running a business. You can have all the passion and determination in the world, but you’ve got to also turn a profit to keep your dream going.
 To start a new “ready-to-wear” clothing brand (the type that is sold in department stores) requires between $2 million and $3 million dollars.Even starting small requires between $500 and $10,000.Be sure you know what your expenses will be and how you will pay for them.


Small business loans can be hard to procure, especially if you haven’t written a business plan before. Consider crowdfunding options such as Kickstarter or gofundme to help you reach your funding goals. Even credit cards can be an option, although this is not ideal as interest rates tend to be very high.
 One of the big issues for beginning fashion designers is whether to stay the proprietor of a business or to take the legal steps necessary to incorporate an LLC, or “limited liability corporation.” Paying consulting fees may not seem like a good use of your limited money, but it’s best to have expert advice on how to keep your label profitable -- and from taking everything else you own with it should it fail., It may help to have a few labels in mind that inspire you. If you want to sell boho glam women’s clothing, check out what designers like Rachel Zoe do. Where do they sell their labels? How do they promote themselves online? How do they sell the idea of their label to the public?Do research on hard numbers, too. How much money is in men’s jeans or bridal or whatever you want to do? What type of sales volume will you need to make a profit? How many other designers and labels are out there in your niche, and who are your biggest competitors?The website How to Start a Clothing Company is recommended by a variety of fashion designers and experts as a good source of information on everything ranging from startup costs to design copyright to marketing., Having a strong sense of who your ideal target customer is will help your label find success.Businesses that try to market “something for everyone” may ultimately end up without a strong, focused identity and lose customers to confusion over what their brand represents. Similarly, labels that design for “glamorous women” or “young business professionals” without a sense of who that really means may end up out of business.


Think about the fashion labels that are incredibly successful and how well they define their customer base: for example, Kate Spade New York markets to young professional women who rock a fun vintage vibe, while Versace targets glamorous, over-the-top trendsetters. Both of these labels were among the most popular in 2013, even though they’re at opposite ends of the fashion spectrum.Consider registering your label name and logo with the patent and trademark office. Once this is done, others can’t rip off your ideas (and if they do, you have legal recourse)., They should aim to create an emotional connection between your label and your customers by using characters or scenes that people care about and vivid descriptive language. Most importantly, they should say something about your brand: what does your label stand for?You’ll also want to define a “brand equity statement” that describes exactly what customers can expect from your label, as in this example from the Business of Fashion website: “Brand X is a contemporary American work wear collection featuring traditional fits and luxury fabrics for professional women ages 40-50. Brand X is unique because it offers exceptional quality at accessible prices.”,


Think about how successful labels have created such items: for example, the wrap dress is practically synonymous with Diane von Furstenberg, and Burberry’s signature plaid sells everything from coats to bags because it’s instantly recognizable.
 You should start planning even before you sketch this season’s designs. Do you have a theme in mind that will run throughout the collection? A source of artistic inspiration? Try to imagine your collection as a cohesive group of designs, rather than separate designs that just happen to be sold at the same time.


All collections should start with the signature item you created in the previous step. This will be the “base” of your collection, and probably won’t change too much from year to year.
The “middle” portion of your collection should include some tried-and-true products that you’re very comfortable with. You can adapt these with new colors or stylings from season to season, but they will stay fairly similar because you know they’ll sell.
The “top” portion of your collection is where you do the most experimentation. This section should be a couple of pieces that change according to season and are the “edgy” or trendy parts of your label. These can be the most difficult to predict sales for: you could have an instant hit on your hands, or a dud that nobody buys. Keep this portion small but stylish.
 If you need some inspiration, try doing research in the art section of the library or visiting museums which have clothing and costumes on display. Sketch what you’re confident you can create impeccably.


When sketching, keep the cost of fabrics and construction in mind. A dress with elements such as intricate beading or a lot of piecing and seaming is going to be labor-intensive to construct, which will result in a more expensive final product.
A good rule of thumb is to consider that retail markup is around 6 times the cost of production. That means that every dollar you spend on fabric or construction cost translates to roughly $6 in the final sale price. Don’t out price your customer base by over designing.
 You may be able to find discounts on fabrics at stores that are targeted toward fashion designers. Online warehouses can also be good choices, but always order a swatch or sample before you purchase large quantities of fabric!

, It’s important that these be perfect (or as close as you can get it). Often, the fit and finishing of a piece will determine its success.If you don’t know how to sew, you can outsource the production to others, but always ask for a sample of their work first. There’s nothing worse than hiring someone to construct your label and then discovering that they’ve destroyed your $40-a-yard fabric with ragged edges and uneven seaming., The biggest upfront cost for brick-and-mortar stores is filling the racks, and that kind of volume costs serious money to produce. Selling online, you can afford to start smaller. Venues such as Etsy and ASOS marketplace are established sites that can often net you customers very quickly., Take advantage of the Internet Age and use every platform you can think of to promote a solid, coherent brand identity. Get on Instagram, which many PR reps in fashion think of as the most important platform for designers. Use Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, Vimeo, YouTube, Flickr, Tumblr, and your own website (a must!) to create a constantly updated, exciting web presence.


Update your social media presences frequently! Emma Hart, a fashion PR rep who owns her own firm, compares social media platforms to your “shop window”: it has to be constantly updated, refreshed, and invigorated, or people will think you’re not serious about your label., You can do this online, even in places like Instagram. In addition to promoting your own brand, share designs by others that you love and find inspiring. Leave encouraging comments and compliments on other designers’ pages. You’ll find that being generous may inspire others to return the favor.
 Ask your customers for their feedback! Listen to what they love and they don’t. If you notice something isn’t selling, ask your customer base for their opinions. There is no substitute for time spent listening to your customers and thinking about their opinions.


It can be hard to hear criticism, especially if it’s directed toward a passion project. Try to remember that you are there to serve your customers, and that criticism of a product isn’t necessarily criticism of you. Do what you can to constantly improve your label and your merchandise.
Don’t make drastic changes to your label based on a few customer opinions, though.Too many sudden, dramatic changes could cause your customers to question your brand image., Customers won’t want to buy your label if they can’t connect emotionally with it. This also goes for the designer: customers want to see that you are passionate about this business and that you pour that passion into the products you create.