 Pour two quarts of water into a large pot. Place the bean-thread or cellophane noodles in the water. Bring the pot of noodles and water to a boil over medium-high heat., Once the water and noodles reach a boil, you will need to turn off the stove. Place a lid over the pot., After you cover the pot of noodles, you will need to let it sit for 10-15 minutes. Allowing the noodles to sit in the hot water will soften them., Place the noodles in a strainer and let the water drain from the noodles. You will eventually add the noodles to the skillet with the lion’s head meatballs., You will need to create a space for the meatballs to rest once you prepare them. A large baking sheet works well for this purpose. Lightly oil the large baking sheet and set aside. If you don’t have a large baking sheet, you can oil a large cutting board or platter instead., In a large mixing bowl, combine the white pepper, wine, ginger, green onions, water chestnuts, and pork. Then add two teaspoons of the salt and one tablespoon of the soy sauce. Use your hands to thoroughly combine the ingredients., Once you have combined the meatball ingredients, you will use your hands to shape the meatballs. You will want each meatball to be about four ounces. An easy way to get the meatballs to this size is to measure each one using a ½ cup measuring cup. Place the meatballs on the prepared baking sheet., You will need a space to drain the meatballs once you brown them in oil. Take several paper towels and use them to line a large plate. You can also use a large platter or another baking sheet lined with paper towels., Place a thin layer of oil in the bottom of a large skillet. Position the skillet on the stove. Turn the heat to high and allow the oil to heat up for about one minute., Use a slotted spoon or tongs to position the meatballs in the bottom of the skillet. Make sure you do not overcrowd the meatballs. You might need to cook them in several batches depending on the size of your skillet., After you arrange the meatballs in the skillet, turn the temperature down to medium. Cook the meatballs until all sides are well browned, using the tongs to turn the meatballs occasionally. This should take about six minutes., After you the meatballs are evenly browned on all sides, use the tongs to remove them from the skillet. Place the meatballs on the paper-towel lined plate and let them drain., Pour the chicken broth over the meatballs. Then pour ½ cup (120 mL) of water on top of the meatballs. Bring to a boil., After you bring the meatballs and broth to a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low. Simmer the meatballs uncovered for 5 minutes., Quarter the leaves of the cabbage lengthwise. Then cut each leaf horizontally into thirds. Set the cabbage aside., After simmering the meatballs for 5 minutes, add the cut up cabbage leaves. Then add one teaspoon of salt to the broth. Cover the saucepan with a tight fitting lid and cook for 10 more minutes., After simmering the meatballs for 10 minutes, add the drained noodles to the saucepan. Then add the final two tablespoons of soy sauce. Stir to combine and remove from heat., Use tongs or a slotted spoon to place a pile of noodles and cabbage on each individual plate. Place the meatballs on top of the noodles and cabbage. Enjoy!