 You will be required to fill in a Nebraska Name Change Petition, which will act as the official application for changing your name. You will fill in your current address and county of residence, as well as your current and desired first, middle, and last names. You will also indicate on this form why you wish to change your name., You must submit your petition to the Clerk of District Court in the county where you are a resident. There will be a filing fee—check with your county Clerk of District Court office to find out the fee. Ask the county Clerk of District Court office if the form should be notarized as well. If so, have your completed petition notarized by a notary public, which can be found at your bank. Wait to sign the form in the presence of the notary. The court will give you a case number when you file the form., Call the Clerk of District Court for the name and phone number of the bailiff or hearing scheduler you must contact to schedule your hearing. Schedule your hearing for six weeks later in order to have ample time to publish legal notice. Write down the hearing date to use to complete the Legal Notice form. You must have the legal notice published in your local newspaper once per week for four consecutive weeks, and you must also have the newspaper provide the the court with proof that the notice was published accordingly. This proof will come in the form of an affidavit., You will need to have filled out the Decree of Name Change form prior to your hearing. Bring two copies to the hearing—one for the judge to sign and sign and file, and another for you to keep. Also, contact the Clerk of District Court to ensure that the newspaper has sent the affidavit verifying the publication of your Legal Notice., You will need to attend your hearing and testify under oath about the issues raised in your petition. Afterward, the court will either agree to grant your name change or not., You can obtain certified copies of your Decree of Name Change from the Clerk of District Court. Now that you have completed the legal name change process, you must change your name at all public and private institutions that should be aware of your new name.