 Local anesthetics may provide temporary pain relief from your symptoms. You can use ointment with 5% lidocaine applied in a thin layer several times a day as needed. EMLA cream, which is 2.5% lidocaine and 2.5% prilocaine, is generally applied in a thin layer 15-20 minutes before sexual activity to prevent pain.


Do not apply local anesthetics to broken or irritated skin.
Local anesthetics will increase the likelihood of condom failure because the alcohol in the anesthetic can cause latex to tear. Make sure you and your partner have been tested for sexually transmitted infections, and use a back-up method of birth control.
Patients with long standing vulvodynia that does not respond to local anesthetics may get relief from receiving a nerve block.Talk to your doctor about getting evaluated for a nerve block and see a trained anesthesiologist if you are considering this option.
 Some patients with vulvodynia find relief with estrogen tablets or creams.Applying estrogen products can relieve pain, itching, dryness, redness, urinary symptoms and pain during sexual intercourse.


Estrogen therapy can be helpful for vulvar pain caused by atrophy (thinning of tissues and drying out).Your doctor may recommend a 1% estradiol cream if other estrogen measures are not as helpful. However, some medications, such as oral contraceptive pills (OCP), can cause atrophic changes and lead to increased pain.
 Antidepressant medications are sometimes used successfully to treat chronic pain conditions that do not have a clear cause, such as vulvodynia.Your doctor may suggest antidepressants (typically tricyclic antidepressants, or TCAs, which alter the way that the neurotransmitters in your brain transmit the signal of pain) as a possible treatment for vulvodynia.


Amitriptyline, a TCA, is one of the most commonly prescribed medications for vulvodynia. Generally, patients start with a small dose of 10 milligrams taken orally at night. This dose is increased by 10 milligrams per week until you achieve an effective dose (never exceeding 150 milligrams). Your doctor will likely recommend that you stay at the effective dose for 3 months before tapering off the medication. In some women, the symptoms of vulvodynia do not reappear after treatment.
Be aware of antidepressant side effects. Side effects of TCAs include drowsiness, weakness, fatigue, dry mouth, headache and constipation. Notify your physician if these effects persist or worsen. Always seek immediate medical attention if you experience rashes, itching, swelling or difficulty in breathing while taking any medication.
Effexor and Cymbalta (a separate class of drugs) have also been used for vulvodynia treatment.
 Anticonvulsant medications can work to manage chronic pain conditions, including vulvodynia.The most commonly prescribed medication in this class is called gabapentin. It works by altering the transmission of pain signals in the brain.


Gabapentin dosages can vary considerably. Patients usually start with 300 milligrams orally each day, then gradually increase to reach an effective dose (never take more than 3600 milligrams a day). Common side effects include drowsiness, dizziness, headache, fatigue, nausea, dry mouth, constipation, unsteadiness and fever. Notify your physician if these effects persist or worsen.
Other medications include pregabalin which is similar to gabapentin. It is approved for postherpetic neuralgia it is now being used as an off-label drug for vulvar pain. Your doctor may start you on 50 mg of pregabalin three times a day. Your doctor may increase your dose to as much as 600 mg per day divided in three doses, if you tolerate the drug and it is helping.
 Your doctor may suggest that you try corticosteroids or antihistamines if you have itching, swelling or inflammation.You may also be prescribed fluconazole to treat any yeast infections. Talk to your doctor to be sure that you are taking all your medications safely.
 Surgery should only be considered when every possible alternative diagnosis has been ruled out and all other treatment options for vulvodynia have been exhausted. Furthermore, it may only be effective for women with vulvar vestibulitis syndrome.


See multiple specialists. Many physicians may not be well-versed in all treatment options for vulvodynia. See a second (and even a third) physician before agreeing to try surgery.
Consider a vestibulectomy. If you have tried all other treatment options and sought a second opinion, you might consider a surgery called vestibulectomy.This procedure involves the removal of the painful tissues of the vaginal vestibule (the area around the vaginal opening). This surgery is usually performed under either spinal or general anesthesia.

