 You'll have a hard time hitting a target that you're blind to.


An example of a good purpose is, "Experience this character's feelings during the course of this book" or "Figure out exactly what I don't know about this subject."
Setting a purpose "activates" your brain. When you have a clear purpose, your brain searches for all the references and ideas it can that will help you achieve your purpose.;
, Peaceful and quiet places will help you focus on the book. If you're in a crowded place, you will be distracted or disturbed by the things that are going around you. Also, make sure your place has a lot of light so you'll be able to see the words clearly.
 Make sure it's comfortable and has good lighting. A small table nearby is handy. You can even add a small box full of book favorites by the couch.
 If you want to be a successful reader, it's recommended you turn off electronics while you are reading, unless you're using device such as a Kindle. This will distract you a lot and you will not be able to focus. Not only electronics, but anything else that might distract you and make you unable to read.
 Make sure you have a book that's just right for you. If you like comedy, get a funny book. If you like fantasy, get a book about fairy tales or fantasy. If you get a book that's not right for you, you may lose interest in the book and won't want to read it.


Reading a small section of a book is helpful for deciding its value to you. If you're thinking of buying a book, why not head to your local library and check it out? Different genres appeal to different readers, so browse around.
You might prefer an audiobook.
 There is a difference between giving the book a chance and being halfway through the book and still hating the story or information it depicts. If you think you are not enjoying a book that you have picked stop reading it, because if you keep on at it, it will put you off reading. Try a different book that you might enjoy more.


If you found it boring because it was too hard, try an easier one. Or vice versa, if you wish to challenge yourself more.
 Imagine what the characters are feeling and what their next moves might be before you find out what the author actually has them do.
 If Junie B. Jones was making mischief, would you make the situation brighter or dimmer?

, Your version doesn't have to match what the author describes exactly, and it's okay if they have the face of somebody you know.
 Pick some delicious food such as parfaits, salad, fruit smoothie, or even chopped up fruit. This trick can raise your mood. A special drink is nice, too - hot chocolate, lemonade, tea, etc.
 If it is a rainy day, cuddle up with a blanket and a favorite stuffed animal. It will make you feel appreciated.
 Example: In that situation, I would... If you remember a similar situation think about what you did in it, and compare to a character's decision.
 Reading makes you a lot smarter. If you read every once in a while, you may forget about it and not continue reading.

