 Before you set off into the woods with your dog, it is important to consider how they may act. If you are prepared for them to be curious and sniff around a lot, you will be much less frustrated. Be ready for both a leisurely stroll and a fast-paced chase to keep up with your furry pal.For example, right when you arrive at a trailhead, your dog will probably sniff a lot. This is because they are examining what has happened recently. If you hurry them along, they lose the chance to become comfortable in a new environment.
Later in the walk, your dog may try to chase down interesting things that they see. Be prepared to have your leash pulled or to chase your dog.
 Before heading out to the woods, you need to have many treats available for training them to come back to you. Think about what treats get your pet most excited. Do they like rawhide? Dog biscuits? You can make your own treats to minimize cost and control what your dog eats. Ensure that these treats are healthy since you will need to give them a lot.


For example, you can make your own dog trail mix with leftover meat scraps.You can bake your own dog biscuits with whole wheat flour, bullion granules, cheese, broth, an egg, bacon bits, and other protein-rich foods.
You can make pumpkin balls for a quick treat with canned pumpkin, molasses, whole wheat flour, and spices.
Just be sure whatever treat you make can be taken on the trail without making a mess in your pocket.
Consult your veterinarian about what treats are most healthy for your dog.
 When you arrive at a trailhead, set the tone for a calm and controlled hike by being firm when getting out of the car. Don’t allow your pet to charge wildly out of the seat. Instead, take a firm grasp of the leash, open the car, and command your dog to sit. Then command them to get out of the car.Wait until you are several yards or meters down the trail before releasing a tight hold on the leash.
This control prevents your pet from getting in others’ ways in the parking lot and trailhead, where people are often gathered when you first start a trail.
 If you are keeping your dog on a leash for the entire hike, you need to train them properly. Being familiar with a leash prevents frustration for both you and your dog. Your job is to assert your dominance in keeping your dog by your side instead of letting your dog walk you.Keep your dog by your side when walking on a leash.
Their head should be raised and show that they are paying attention.
Your dog should be walking at the same speed as you. This displays that they are aware of you and agree that you are in charge.
Train your dog to do these things by using a short leash and rewarding them along the way., As your dog becomes accustomed to walking by your side, you can start to give them gradual freedom on the trail. For example, they can be on a long leash (some people use 30-foot or 10 meter leashes) so that they feel like they are running free. Then when it is time for them to come back to you, you can pull them in if they don’t respond. This is called recall training.It is important to reward your pet each time they come when you call. A treat with each “check in” tells them that coming when you say their name is a good thing.Look at treats on the trail as payment for checking in. It is like being rewarded with $20 for giving your teacher a high five every 5 minutes.
As your dog responds to being recalled, you can let the leash get longer and longer. If the trail you’re on allows it, you may be able to take the leash off completely.
 When it is time to get back in the car, offer more treats. This way going home isn’t a tug of war or a power struggle. Seeing the leash (if they have been off of it for the hike) or the car should be a happy sign because it means more treats are about to come.After a few months, you will probably have a successfully trained dog.
You may be able to reduce how many treats you give on a walk as your dog becomes accustomed to being recalled and going home.

