 Use LT for Xbox360, L2 for PS3, and the Esc key on a PC;
, Dragon Age lets you hone three types of crafting skills: trap-making to help lure and ensnare unsuspecting enemies, herbalism for potions and salves, and poison-making for bombs and poisons that can be used to coat your weapon.


When you select the crafting type, you will need to have the party member with the particular ability active when you do this. For example, Leliana knows basic poison-making when she joins your party, so you can have her craft poisons for Barlin in Lothering.
The skull icon at the bottom left is for Poisons and Traps.

Select the skull and crossbones icon to make poisons.
Select the leg trap icon to make traps.


The leather pouch on the left is for Potions. Select the green leaf icon to open your potion options.
 It will list options with the different poisons, traps, and potions you can make for the active party member.


Each craft requires that you have the recipe or plans to make the desired product. For example, when you talk to Elder Miriam in Lothering, she will give you the recipe to make the Lesser Health Poultice. Usually you will have to buy a recipe or plan, but some of them can be found in your travels.
When you open the crafting skill menu, it will show you what recipes and plans you have already acquired, and if you have the necessary ingredients to make a particular item. Some crafting items also require a certain skill level, so even if you have the ingredients and basic skill you may not always be able to craft what you want. Keep this in mind as you level up your skills.
Herbalism requires a recipe and the ingredients (at least two). You can see on the menu what Restoratives and Enhancing potions and salves you can make, including dog treats. Except for dog biscuits, you will almost always need a Flask to make items, so make sure to stock up on them with nearly any merchant you encounter.
Poisons require a recipe and the ingredients (at least two). Like Herbalism, you will almost always need a flask to make these lethal items.
Traps require plans and several different elements to create them.
 You will know if it’s successful by the pinwheel that appears on the page and the chime-like music. Items are automatically deposited into your Inventory.


Lothering is a great place to start learning how to craft as it basically has quests that require you to use each of the three crafting skills. You won’t need to learn Poisons because Leliana already knows how to make them; just make sure you let her join your party. Morrigan already knows Herbalism, so as long as she is in the party in Lothering you can complete that quest.
Traps are the only crafting skill that no one knows at this point in the game. When you level up in Ostagar, either you or Alistair can learn it to complete all three quests in Lothering.

Elder Miriam gives you a quest that requires Herbalism. She will send you out to get the supplies, but you will need to purchase the flasks either from the scrupulous merchant near the Chantry or Barlin in the tavern.
Barlin gives you a quest that requires Poison crafting skills. He will expect you to either have or purchase the necessary supplies to make them.
Allison gives you a quest that requires Trap-Making skills. You will need to get your own supplies.
All three quests mentioned above require you to make three of the most basic items for that skill, so it is not too difficult to collect or purchase what you need.



