 Standard home security alarms generally include sensors on all entry doors, sensors on easily accessed windows, and some motion activated sensors for outdoor spaces. They are also a direct link to a monitoring service. These systems act as a deterrent for intruders and are fairly easy to use..


You can have a home automation system installed that allows you to access a security system through a smart phone or computer application. Often a full security system would include outdoor cameras, automated lighting and an alarm and monitoring system. These provide peace of mind whenever you’re far away from your home.
Installing a home security system may also reduce your homeowners’ insurance payments.;
, If you have chosen to purchase and install a home security system, consider purchasing a sign from a different company. Some homeowners worry that advertising their home security system will clue burglars in how to trick the system. If you put up a sign from a different company, you eliminate this risk. Even if you did not install a security system, you can still find a sign to put up in your yard, because it may be enough to scare any potential burglars away.
You can easily find these signs on most resale websites or auction websites.
 This is applicable for homeowners rather than for families living in apartment buildings. If you have outdoor spaces, consider installing motion sensors that turn on a light when someone moves close. Consider adding motion sensors by any entryways like those on porches, decks, and by garages.


Ensure that the light on the sensor is bright enough to draw attention to anyone attempting to enter the home.
 Strong doors are a worthwhile investment as a deterrent for robberies. Ideally, they will be over 1 inch thick and be made of metal. Hardwoods are also a good option. Your door should be strong enough that no one can break it down or kick it in. Not only will this increase security, it will also improve your home's energy efficiency.Good locks are useless if your door is easily broken!This may not be possible if you are renting your home or live in an apartment. If this is the case, speak with your landlord to see if they will consider installing more secure doors.
 Consider adding a dead bolt or an extra strong lock to entry way doors. If you have sliding glass doors, install locks that wedge between the door and the track to ensure they cannot be opened from the outside.


If you have window screens, add security latches to the screen. Window screens can be easily opened, but this latch adds another layer of protection.
 A safe is a necessary investment for every homeowner. You should keep your essential documents here, like the deed to your home, your passports, and identification cards whether you are home or away.Before you leave, lock up any valuables that you may keep out on an everyday basis, like jewelry or sensitive documents.
 Many of us have a hidden key to our front doors or garages tucked away under a welcome mat, in a plant, or in a decorative garden item. Retrieve the hidden key and put it somewhere safe inside your home.


Since you’ll be away, there’s no reason for a hidden key to be outside. Most burglars know that homeowners will hide keys and will look for one that is easily accessible when they want to break in.

