 While not a scam in the strict sense, restaurant menus are sometimes designed to mislead customers who aren’t paying close enough attention. This is especially prevalent in places with large, complex menus that offer lots of different options. Make a note of each item’s description and price, how it’s served and whether any additional costs may apply.For example, the price of a cheeseburger may seem fairly standard until you see that French fries have to be ordered separately.
Specify the exact size of the item you’re ordering in establishments that offer different portion sizes to avoid being upcharged without your awareness.;
, You never really know what a waiter is doing when they walk away with your money. It’s not uncommon to get incorrect change by mistake on occasion, but a desperate grifter can intentionally attempt to shortchange you or simply pocket the remainder of a cash payment. They’re usually counting on the fact that you won’t notice, or that you’ll choose not to say anything even if you do in order to avoid confrontation.Always count your change to verify that you’ve received the correct sum before leaving the table or counter.It isn’t customary for a waiter to assume to their tip is included in the payment. If your waiter takes your money and doesn’t return, flag them down or ask to speak to a manager.
 Credit card scams are becoming increasingly common as more and more people pay with plastic. It can be disconcertingly easy for your card info to get into the hands of a dishonest employee, who is then free to take it on a spending spree. If you have reason to believe that your card number has been stolen, cancel your card immediately and have your bank refund the fraudulent purchases.Watch your bank statements closely and look for any suspicious purchases or payments that you don’t remember making., Unscrupulous restaurants will sometimes use discount coupons to lure customers in, then claim the coupons are no longer redeemable or tack on unadvertised “service” charges. Read the fine print and look for hidden expiration dates or other covert clauses that might render any coupons you’ve been given invalid.Don’t accept coupons that are being handed out on the street. These promotions are almost always a ruse designed to bring in customers.Restaurant gift cards, rewards cards and customer loyalty programs should also be examined for any shady conditions that may come back to haunt you on future visits.

