 An iron (III) salt such as ferric chloride will be easy to add to solution.It is often used for etching copper, so you can buy it online, at a chemical supply store, and sometimes even an electronics store such as RadioShack Also, a fine rust powder would work well. You can collect rust and grind it to a fine powder, if you choose to go that route., Add water to the iron (III) oxide source in a beaker (or other container). The aqueous environment (in water) is ideal for the iron (III) and iron (II) molecules to react with each other and with oxygen. It will suspend your iron (III) molecules in solution and make it easy to combine with the iron (II) and oxygen molecules. You do not need to cover the container, but this can help keep out contaminants. , Since iron (II) in its pure form is rare under atmospheric conditions, you will likely need to use an iron (II) salt. Iron sulphate, iron (II) chloride, and iron (II) phosphate are relatively common options. Iron sulphate is used in gardening and can be found at most garden supply stores., Whatever your choice of iron (II) salt, you will need to dissolve it in water. Do this as a separate beaker (or other container) from the iron (III) solution to ensure that the iron (III) has not saturated the water. This will allow the most iron (II) to dissolve into the water. Again, a lid will help keep out contaminants, but is not necessary., Combine the iron (III) solution and the iron (II) solution into the same container. This will allow bring the iron (III) ions and the iron (II) ions into contact with each other. They will also contact oxygen in the water and the atmosphere, which is needed to produce magnetite., While the reaction will proceed by mixing the two solutions together, it will proceed very slowly. You can speed up the reaction by adding an oxidizing solution, such as ammonia. Hydrogen peroxide is also a good oxidizing agent.The addition of an oxidizing agent will allow the reaction to proceed much faster. Times will vary based on the ratios of reactants and oxidizer, but you will likely see some change in just a few seconds.
Storing your iron oxide in a dry place is recommended.

