 Even if you work in a mechanic's garage or other job where cleanliness is hard to maintain, people still notice the way you look after yourself.;
, This includes adhering to the noticeable dress code. Everybody would like to speak with a person who is clean and tidy. The rule applies in office as well.
 These people often report early to set the day's agenda, and will notice you before the rest of the shift reports. At the very least, always be punctual and avoid being late.
 Do it quality-wise and appropriately.
 If you are the person who always finishes a job ahead of schedule, your supervisors and customers (if applicable) will appreciate your efforts.
 Staying late just to collect overtime, of course, will draw negative attention to you, and that is not the focus of this article.
 Some employers have suggestion boxes, and some even offer bonuses for suggestions that make a task more efficient or profitable.
 A smile is the best asset that anybody has! Flash it around and get noticed, simple.
 Don't hesitate or be afraid, most bosses like people who talk. Remember: "A talking mind is an open one".
 Lending a hand, helping out with good suggestions, or just listening to them when they need someone to sound off to will get their attention.
 Many workplaces take collections for the United Way, local charities, or employees who are having medical problems they need help paying for.
 This may happen at company functions, meetings, or even when you run into them out on the town.
 It's said, "When in Rome, do as Romans do!" This goes well when it's about your workplace. Your colleagues, especially seniors, should not know if you had a fight with your husband this morning or you did not sleep through the night, until it's extremely required.


Outside-office friends should remain outside. If you'll keep busy in taking care of old friendships while at work too, then you will never be able to become a part of your present place i.e. office. Try to develop a healthy relationship with your colleagues in office.
 In order to keep their employees motivated and as a part of recreational activities, many offices celebrate Office Days. They may include 'Red Colour Day' or 'Robot day', etc. Even if you feel it's a bit immature, treat it as the permitted opportunity to let down your hair and really get to know others at work in their "true colours". It's a good chance to use your humour and take it lightheartedly.

