 If you are writing a conclusion to an essay or paper for school or college, it's important to understand the functions of the conclusion. Your conclusion shouldn't only restate the main points of your argument in a way that is disconnected from the rest of the text. It should flow fluently and be written in such a way that your readers expect you to conclude when you do.


To help you achieve this fluency, you should start with a sentence that links the conclusion to the main body of the text.This might be a statement that reflects the content of your essay but connects your essay to the wider points that your conclusion will then go on to briefly discuss.
The sentence "A sense of the impermanence of human achievement permeates this poem", indicates a transition to the conclusion by articulating the key argument in one sentence.
 If you are concluding an essay or research paper, you should try to avoid using phrases such as "in conclusion" or "to conclude" at the start of your conclusion. These phrases are overused and an unimaginative way to begin a conclusion. You should be able to indicate that you are beginning the conclusion in a way that does not break the flow of the text so sharply., One way to begin your conclusion is to make a reference to the essay question or something you outlined in your introduction. If there is a phrase or quote that is especially relevant, recalling this in the conclusion can help you indicate that your essay is a complete a coherent argument.Echoing a key image or idea from the introduction is a good way to do this.For example, what if the essay question asks you "to what extent did the Battle of Monte Casino change the course of the Second World War"?
Here, you could begin with a sentence such as "The Battle of Monte Casino was a crucial moment that reflected the shifting dynamic of WWII, but did not in itself turn the tide of the war".
 While your conclusion can be a useful place to briefly summarise the key points of your argument, you should try to go beyond this. It's important to show that your essay is coherent and all of your points connect together.You can demonstrate this in your conclusion. Instead of just going through each point one by one, try to summarise your argument in a way that highlights how the various strands of your argument are interconnected.


A short summary can be useful in a longer essay, but do not simply restate what you have said in the same terms.Rather, indicate your key points while situating them within a larger context, which displays a deeper understanding and potentially opens up new lines of inquiry., Conclusions can perform a number of functions in an essay or paper. A good conclusion can emphasise the importance of your argument and its particular relevance, as well as the significance of your unique findings or results. But it can also go beyond this and suggest how your essay has broader potential implications and applications than this one piece of work.


In your conclusion structure, this discussion of the broader implications should follow the transition sentences and the explanation of how the different elements of your argument fit together.This could include universalizing the topic of essay, making a connection to a contemporary issue, or providing a call to action.

