 When you first begin turning your hobby into a career, you might feel that doing so is an unattainable dream. But a little perseverance goes a long way. Set a schedule that devotes at least some time each day to your hobby.Start by spending at least 15 minutes per day on your hobby/career.
Slowly increase the amount of time you spend on your hobby until you’re devoting enough time to it (and making enough money at it) that you can settle into a regular work rhythm.
 Even if you manage to turn your hobby into a career, it’s a constant struggle to keep your product or service competitive. Think about new products you can offer, new services you can provide, and new ways to improve or enhance your existing products.For instance, instead of just offering whole pizzas at your pizzeria, offer pizza by the slice, pizza with a drink and fries as a combo, or rolled-up slices of pizza. Check other local pizzerias to see what sorts of pizza products they offer – then create something even better.
If the hobby you turned into a career is crafting small dolls, expand the line of dolls you have available. Try making dolls shaped like ducks, cats, pigs, and dogs. Create historical dolls from the Renaissance, or dolls dressed in the traditional garb of various nations around the world like Japan or France.
Consult with your business partners frequently in order to figure out ways to keep your career afloat. Customer feedback is also invaluable for identifying new product-creation opportunities. Ask both customers and business partners, “Do you have any ideas for new products that we should think about introducing?”

, As you transition your hobby into a career, solicit feedback from friends, family, and – most important of all – customers. Listen to what they think about your products and services. Find out what products or services they wish you had. Respond to their advice and suggestions by tweaking existing products and adding new ones to meet consumer demands.Ask your business partners what their views are, too. Regularly ask them, “How do you think our business is doing? Do you see any areas where we could improve? Please, speak frankly.” Listen carefully to their answers and come to a decision that you all agree with.
While it’s important to respond to consumer demands and market changes, it’s also important that you stay true to yourself and your brand. Don’t try to fit your service or product into every small change in trends and styles.

