 So, do you think you're an alcoholic? It doesn't matter if someone else thinks you are and it doesn't matter what the people at your local meeting think. Only you can determine if you're an alcoholic. If you think you are and you want to give AA a try, here's a little how-to.;
, If you are afraid of going to your first meeting...that's okay. Most people are. It's important to just bite the bullet and go. If you are really tired of the way you are living, you won't regret it. People at the meeting will not look down at you-in fact, just the opposite. You will undoubtedly find acceptance and support because we are all alike and suffer from the same malady. Do yourself a favor and say a little prayer and just go.
 Alcoholism makes people very very lonely and isolated. It's time to feel a part of something and start living! Try asking around for some people of the same sex that have been sober awhile and stick with them. Go out to eat with them after the meeting if possible. At least get their phone numbers and maybe make arrangements to go out after another meeting. (if you go to AA and start hanging around someone of the opposite sex who's been sober 2 months you probably won't get sober). Anyway, sober friends are very important. You'll want to find someone of the same sex who's been sober at least a year and who has worked and understands the 12 steps. Very important. You will need a good sponsor; someone you trust. Someone who you can talk to about anything. It might take awhile to find such a person, so at least get a temporary sponsor.
 If you're shaking from needing a drink and find it hard to concentrate, that's okay, they've all been there, but just try to listen and relate to what's being discussed. If it's a discussion meeting and it comes around to you, just introduce yourself and pass. It's that easy. If you feel you are an alcoholic, you can safely introduce yourself as such. If you're not sure, you can say that you're not sure.
 If you get a Big Book, read it. It could save your life. There's a lot of wonderful information in there about recovering from alcoholism, and it actually instructs you as to how to precisely recover from alcoholism. You'll want to read it a few times before you and your sponsor work the steps.
 It may be hard to believe early on, but people want to get to know you! Stick around and help clean up a little. Clean the coffee pot! Doing little things like this will help you feel involved and "a part of".
 Get some phone numbers, and if/when you feel like drinking call someone first. If you do what is suggested in the Big Book, after a while that desire to drink will go away, and someday you will be giving someone your number, and they will be calling you, and you will be sponsoring people! Believe it!

