 Crunchy, crispy, salty french fries are one of the tastiest foods out there and kids generally love them. Try swapping in a more nutrient dense vegetable (like a sweet potato). You'll be able to enjoy a serving of vegetables without feeling like you're eating a bland, boring or bitter item.


An easy swap for a french fry is using sweet potatoes instead of the regular white potatoes. These orange spuds have way more Vitamin C and a whole day's worth of Vitamin A.You can also try making zucchini or summer squash fries as well. Both of these vegetables are really low in calories, but also have Vitamin C.You can also try making butternut squash fries, asparagus fries, avocado fries or even green bean fries.
You can dip them in a batter or dredge and and fry them in a little oil or bake them in the oven.;
, Another fun way to get a few extra servings of vegetables into your diet is by making vegetable spaghetti. Try using a spiralizer to help you make some nutritious noodles for a kid-friendly twist on pasta.


A spiralizer is a kitchen tool that turns a variety of vegetables or fruits into noodle shapes. Depending on which spiralizer you get, you can make spaghetti noodles, fettuccine noodles or even "curly fry" sized noodles.
Use a spiralizer to make noodles out of vegetables like zucchini, summer squash, carrots or even cucumbers. It looks like spaghetti, but its all veggies.Depending on your taste, you can try topping lightly cooked veggie spaghetti with sauce. Or you can try mixing half vegetable spaghetti with half regular spaghetti together.
Also try using spaghetti squash instead of pasta. This neat squash, when cooked, shreds like little spaghetti noodles and contains Vitamin A, C and Iron.Top with olive oil and Parmesan cheese or with your favorite pasta sauce.
 One way to make veggies a little more appetizing for children is serving them with a dip. Bland or boring vegetables get a little kick of flavor and children will enjoy getting to dunk their veggies in dip.


Serve cut up raw vegetables with your favorite salad dressing or dip. If you're not a fan of totally raw vegetables, you can try blanching them quickly to help make them a little softer and less crunchy.
If you want a vegetable that doesn't have a strong flavor, try cut up celery, cucumbers or cauliflower. These are fairly bland. Sliced peppers or snap peas have a sweeter and less bitter taste.
 Like french fries, potato chips are a great salty snack that kids love. Instead of using white potatoes, try making homemade veggie chips instead.


Swap out your regular white potato, for a more colorful set of vegetables like: sweet potatoes, purple potatoes, gold and red beats, sliced carrots or even kale.Toss thinly sliced vegetables in olive oil and your favorite seasonings. Bake until they're golden brown and crispy.
Many store brand "veggie chips" don't really have very many (if any) vegetables in their ingredients.Make your own out of real vegetables for the best bet.
 One fairly plain and flavorless vegetable out there is lettuce - especially iceberg lettuce. Swap out your child's sandwich bread or wrap in favor of a lettuce wrap.


By swapping out your favorite sandwich bread in favor of a wrap, you're automatically cutting out calories and carbohydrates from your meal.
There are a variety of different lettuces that you can use as a wrap. Some lettuces, like iceberg, do not have many nutritional benefits outside of being very low calorie.However, you can try using kale leaves or Swiss chard leaves for a low calorie and Vitamin A and C packed wrap., Not only are baby vegetables more cute and fun to eat, they may taste better too. Stick to these little vegetables if your child is more sensitive to many flavors of more mature vegetables.


When a vegetable is allowed to mature and grow to it's full size, the flavors of that vegetable intensify and become more significant (and can also be more bitter).This can make vegetable unappealing at times.
Baby vegetables are picked when they are younger. They have very little bitter flavor and actually taste more sweet. Most people are able to tolerate vegetables that have a slightly sweeter taste to them.Baby vegetables can be easily found. Look for baby zucchini, carrots, artichokes and turnips.
 In addition to making vegetables more appealing in general, try to sneak them into your child's breakfast foods so they aren't even aware that they're there!


Oatmeal is a great breakfast meal to disguise some hidden vegetables. Mix oatmeal with canned pumpkin for a a slightly sweet fall-inspired breakfast. Pumpkin has large amounts of Vitamin A, Vitamin C and fiber.Make green eggs and ham. Puree a little bit of frozen spinach into scrambled eggs to make a real life version of green eggs (serve with some Canadian bacon or ham). Spinach has also has a lot Vitamin A and folate.You can also try smearing your favorite toast with a 1/2 of avocado. This creamy vegetable tastes great with a sprinkling of salt and pepper. Plus, it has a significant amount of fiber and heart healthy fats., A great way for picky eaters to get more vegetables is by pureeing them into their favorite savory dishes. Pureeing helps disguise them visually and hides their flavor.


Meatballs, burgers and meatloaf are a great place to hide pureed vegetables. You can add pureed spinach, peppers, onions and even zucchini into the meat mixture of these items.
Mac and cheese or lasagna are great options to hide pureed cauliflower, pumpkin, sweet potato or butternut squash. The white and yellow fit right into the color scheme with these baked items.
Tomato sauce and soups are a great place to hide additional vegetables outside tomatoes. Try adding pureed carrots, onions, peppers, zucchini or spinach.
Add cauliflower to mashed potatoes. It's white, has very little flavor and blends well with mashed potatoes.
 Use the natural sweetness of fruits and dairy to make a smoothie. Vegetables get hidden with ease and kids will enjoy a sweet smoothie as a breakfast treat or afternoon snack.


Make a smoothie with your favorite yogurt, fruit and some water to thin it out. Puree in a few vegetables for added nutrition.
Spinach is a great vegetable to add to smoothies. It makes them a brilliant green color and since spinach is slightly sweet, it doesn't add any additional flavor to the smoothie.
Adding avocado to your smoothie can help make your drink extra creamy and rich.
Both carrots and beets are also naturally sweet and will blend well into a fruit smoothie.
 It's always hard for children or adults to turn down a delicious sweetened baked good. Sugar, chocolate and other sweet flavors mask any hint of a vegetable making baked goods a great place to hide veggies.Common recipes that add extra vegetables are muffins and quick breads. You can add shredded zucchini or carrots and make zucchini bread or morning glory muffins.
Sweet potatoes, yams, winter squash and pumpkin are sweet and make great additions to muffins, waffles, quick breads and even ice cream.
Avocado can also be used to make ice cream or pudding which makes for a nice creamy and rich treat. You can also add pureed avocado to brownies, muffins or quick breads as well.
 If you or your children enjoy drinking fruit juices, you may enjoy making make your own homemade juice. Again, the flavor of vegetables is generally masked by the sweet fruit.


You may want to consider purchasing a juicer or blender to make your own homemade juice.
Use sweet vegetables in your juices to blend in with fruit. Try: carrots, beets and dark greens for a sweet twist.
Other vegetables like celery and cucumbers impart very little flavor to fresh juices.
 It's important to be a good role model for your children. They mimic a variety of your behaviors (especially when they're young) including how and what you eat. If you're not eating vegetables, then your children may not either.When you're serving dinner or other meals, make sure that you serve yourself a helping of vegetables in addition to everyone else at the table.
Also, if you're planning on having a snack, show your child that you can pick cook or raw vegetables as snack instead of typical "junk food" snacks like crackers, chips or cookies.
Be aware of how you talk about vegetables. If you talk about how you don't like them, they don't taste good or you don't enjoy eating them, your child may pick up on these signals and mimic these same thoughts.
 There are always going to be foods, vegetables included, that your child doesn't like and refuses to eat. However, its important that you get them to try a bite and not make them a different or special meal.


If your child refuses certain foods, don't worry. It's normal for children to go through different phases and have their tastes change over time.
Have your child try one or two bites of everything on their plates. They do not have to finish their entire meal, but should be encouraged to sample all new foods or foods they do not like.If you're cooking a vegetable that your child previously refused, still scoop a serving onto their plate. It can take 15 or 20 tries for a child to like a new food. By skipping it, you never give their taste buds an opportunity to grow.Also, don't make "kid special" meals. Your child should be eating exactly what's on your plate (unless it's unsafe or inappropriate for their age).
 Children respond well to hands on activities - especially cooking. They can "play" with their food, help make cooking decisions and get creative in the kitchen.


Studies have shown that when children participate in cooking or prepping foods, they're more likely to eat those same foods.Children can start cooking and helping you prepare foods from an early age (even at 2 years old). Let them get their hands in their food and help get creative.In addition to getting your child to try or eat more vegetables, cooking together can help you bond, teach your child life skills and give you the opportunity to talk about the health benefits of vegetables., It may sound a little odd, but if you're interested in getting your child to eat a new vegetable or expand their palate, try pairing their veggies next to a "non-exciting" main dish.


Studies have shown that kids were more likely to eat the vegetables on their plate if those veggies were paired with an item that didn't get a lot of attention and wasn't their favorite item.For example, if your child loves chicken nuggets but isn't a fan of broccoli, pairing the two together will result in the broccoli being left on the plate. Your child will eat their favorite thing first and ditch the unwanted item.
Instead, pair the broccoli with grilled chicken strips instead. It's not your child's favorite (but they'll still eat it) and your child may end up taking a few bites of that broccoli.
 Roasting is a great method of cooking for vegetables. It can help bring out the best flavors in vegetables.


One big benefit to roasted vegetables is that many nutrients that are found in vegetables are actually more "available" to our bodies once the vegetable has been cooked.For example, the antioxidant lycopene found in tomatoes is actually better absorbed when the tomatoes have been cooked.
In addition, roasting brings out a sweet nutty flavor in vegetables and helps take away the bitter, raw flavor of boiled or raw vegetables.The vegetables also become golden brown and even a little bit crispy with roasting due to the higher temperatures. This may make them a little more appealing to picky eaters.Roasted vegetables are great as a side to a main dish or tossed with a salad.
 Blanching is a cooking method primarily used for vegetables. It's a great way to enjoy crunchy vegetables without that raw, bitter flavor.


Blanching is a very simple process. You submerge vegetables in boiling water for just a few seconds. This helps quickly cook vegetables and removes their harsh raw flavor.
Blanching also helps preserve the color and flavor of vegetables which can be appealing to picky eaters. Plus, these vegetables remain crunchy instead of soft and mushy.Blanched vegetables are great to eat with a dip, add to smoothies or homemade juices or eat by themselves.
 Making a homemade cheese sauce to go with blanched or steamed vegetables is a great idea for picky eaters. It's an easy way to make a vegetable a little bit more exciting.


The cheese sauce is tasty and can help cover up flavors of vegetables that may be unappealing to a picky eater.
The most nutritious cheese sauce would be one that you'd make at home where you can control the ingredients, calories and fat.If you don't know how or do not want to make your own cheese sauce, many frozen vegetables come with cheese sauce already mixed with them.
Cheese sauce goes especially well with broccoli or cauliflower. However, you can use it on any type of vegetable you'd be willing to eat.
 Grilling is a cooking method that lends a lot of great flavors to many foods including vegetables. It's a great way to tempt a picky eater into trying vegetables.


Grilling imparts a lot of great smoky, charred flavor to vegetables. It's a unique flavor profile that only grilling can provide. You can use an outdoor grill or even a grilled pan over the stove.
Another great thing with grilling is that you can marinate vegetables or season them prior to grilling. This is another way to add a lot more flavor.
Grilling also helps vegetables get a little crispy. It helps improve texture for those that are off put by the texture of some vegetables.

