 There’s many historical and educational institutions you can visit to learn about space. You’ll be able to find spaceship models (or even the real thing), artifacts and memorabilia from previous space programs, personal items from astronauts, meteorites and moon rocks.


Inquire if your local museums have a permanent or visiting exhibit about space.
Visit your local planetarium for an exhibit on stars and planets. Find the closest one here http://www.go-astronomy.com/planetariums.htm

Take a road trip to Roswell, New Mexico, the site of a purported alien visit in 1950’s. You’ll find plenty of alien folklore with the added benefit of being in perfect stargazing country.
 Thankfully we have tools that help us see farther into space than ever before. High powered telescopes based on Earth and in space, allow us to peer into the far corners of the universe. You can begin by checking out incredible images from the Hubble telescope http://hubblesite.org/gallery/ Hubble telescope, NASA's own collection of photos, as well as the the European Space Agency’s collections http://www.esa.int/spaceinimages/Images.
 Observing the night skies can be a rewarding experience, even more so if you can get away from the city. Many celestial bodies are visible with the naked eye. Planets, constellations, satellites, and shooting stars can all be observed if you look carefully. The ideal conditions for observation are a clear night with good weather and a location far from big population centers.


Check to see what objects will be visible on a particular night, so you know what to look for.
Check the weather report for rain or clouds.
Consider planning a camping trip to coincide with a meteor shower.
National and state parks have campgrounds, and have the added benefit of being away from cities with light pollution.
You can use binoculars or a personal telescope to zoom in on the stars.
 Get with a group of people who share your interest in space. Together you can discuss the latest space news, invite guest speakers, and build your models of the solar system and spaceships.

