 There can be a lot of pain associated with degenerative joint disease and it is your job as a cat owner to make sure that your cat's pain is managed as much as possible. Pain can be managed with several types of medication, including NSAIDs and opioids. Both should be prescribed by your veterinarian.Since cats are notorious for hiding their pain, you will need to assess its pain medication needs as best as you can. Discuss your cat's pain level with your veterinarian if you are unsure whether your cat has chronic pain or needs medication regularly.
 If your cat has been diagnosed with degenerative joint disease, then movement will become more difficult for your cat. With this in mind, you should change the cat's environment to accommodate its newly limited mobility. Keep essential items, such as food dishes and litter boxes, in close proximity to where your cat spends its time. Also, make sure that the cat does not need to climb stairs to complete essential activities, such as getting to a water dish.

Make sure the sides of the litter box are low enough for the cat to get in and out of it.
You may need to stall ramps or stairs in your home to ease your cat's daily movement. For instance, if your cat sleeps on your bed at night, you may need to install stairs or a ramp to allow the cat easy access., If your cat has degenerative joint disease, it may not be able to complete all of the activities that it used to. In order to keep your cat's mind active, even when its body can't be, you should enrich its environment. Give it areas to watch the outdoors and puzzles to work on that don't take much strength.Enriching your cat's environment will go a long ways towards keeping your cat happy even though it is losing mobility.
 If your cat is overweight and it has degenerative joint disease it may help the cat to lose some weight. Less weight on the cat's body means less pressure on its joints, which can decrease the cat's pain and discomfort.Discuss weight-loss plans with your veterinarian in order to assure that your cat gets a balanced diet while still losing weight.
 If your cat has been diagnosed with degenerative joint disease, it will need veterinary care but it will also need your love and affection. A cat that is in pain and unable to enjoy all the things in life that it once did will require more attention from you. Your love and affection can sometimes fill a void that is created when the ability to move is reduced.Spend quality time with your cat every day. Pet it, play with it, and just generally show it that you care.

