 If you’re new to wearing heels, you probably don’t want to go for a six-inch stiletto pump right off the bat. For one thing, you want to build your balance up to shoes that are trickier to wear; for another, you’ll be more mentally comfortable if you feel like your new shoes aren’t a wild diversion from your normal style.Short heels (from 2-3 inches) are much simpler to walk in than tall ones.
Chunky heels are easier to balance in than thin ones.
The general structure of the shoe matters, too: the more fabric or leather covers your foot, the better it will stay attached to it. Go for boots or mary-janes over strappy sandals for an easier time.;
, If you’re grimacing in pain, it won’t matter how hot your shoes are--you just won’t look as good. Heels don’t feel the same as flats, but you can still find a pair that fits your feet perfectly. Don’t wear shoes that pinch your feet or dig into your ankles if you want to look your best.


Instead of buying shoes online, try them on in stores so you can see how comfortable they are., To look your best wearing heels, wear them at the right time and place. Rules of dress aren’t as pronounced as they used to be, so don’t worry too much about ettiquette--just make sure your heels won’t get in the way of whatever you’re planning to do, and you’ll probably be fine.


Some good places to show off dressy heels like pumps include: cocktail parties, weddings and business formal settings.Brunch, daytime parties, and more relaxed workplaces are good places for casual heels, like wedges or lace-up boots. In some of these settings, you can also use more formal heels to set off a simple outfit.Use your judgement to figure out when it’s a bad time for heels. In general, any setting that requires running or mud--or both--is not the best place to wear your fancy shoes.
 Again, there is no fashion police, and no one is going to arrest you if you wear combat boots in the summer. Still, your excellent shoes can add a lot of flair to your outfit, so match them intentionally.


In the summer, wedge sandals can handle shifting sands, and look nice with a sundress.
Close-toed stiletto pumps work well with a pencil skirt or rolled-up relaxed-fit jeans.
Chunky platforms are excellent with skater dresses. As a bonus, they’re comfortable for going out and dancing up a storm.
 Sometimes you find an excellent pair of heels that are deeply on sale, and you must have them, even if they're half a size too small. While it's ideal to buy shoes that fit perfectly--they are comfier and easier to move in--there are ways to adapt an almost-right shoe to your foot.


If a shoe is slightly too small, stretch it. A cobbler can do this for you, or you can try it yourself by donning some thick socks, sliding the shoes on top, and heating them with a hairdryer for several minutes.Insoles and insets can make shoes more cushy and supportive.
If your shoes are chafing you, fix them with moleskin. Buy a pack of the adhesive material at the drugstore, and trim pieces to fit the spots on your shoe that are rubbing you raw.(Don't worry: it's made from cotton, not real moles.)

, Don't save your new shoes until a big event. Once you've brought them home, you should take steps to make sure they're properly molded to your feet. Wear them around the house or to the grocery store to break them in a bit and get your body used to the feeling.