 We all have negative thoughts from time to time. It is important to know not just how to change them, but how to cope with them if they are legitimate thoughts.For example, if you lose a loved one, you may think, “I really miss that person,” and this is a real thought that is true. These kinds of thoughts don’t necessarily need to be changed if they are accurate, based in reality, and helpful. Thus, we need to learn how to cope with negative thinking and situations.


Learn to distinguish between negative thoughts that need to be changed, and thoughts that are based in reality. Check to see if your thought fits into any unhelpful thinking categories identified above such as: catastrophizing, predicting the future, critical self-talk, over-generalizing, black and white thinking, and mind reading.If your thought does not fit into one of these categories, then it may not be a negative thinking habit. If you are dealing with a difficult situation such as grieving a loved one, or coping with a medical issue, these are legitimate situations in which some degree of negative thoughts are warranted.
Shift your attention or distract yourself with something positive such as a fun activity. This helps prevents rumination on negative thoughts. You can use coping strategies to deal with negative thoughts and emotions such as art, writing, and expressive forms of exercise (dance for example).
Get out in nature. The sunshine and fresh air can help you to feel better and to change your perspective. Simply getting up and moving can help to boost your mood and produce positive thoughts.
If you are spiritual or religious, try prayer or talking to your higher power.
 Avoid trying to immediately change the thought if you have identified that it is true. The idea of acceptance is a core component of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), which is about changing your relationship to your thoughts rather than focusing on changing your thoughts directly.We all have negative thoughts from time to time, accept that this is the case and your negative thoughts may have less power.
Understand that some thoughts are accurate, while others are not. Do not just believe every thought you have as fact. These are simply ideas that you came up with, which you can disregard if you want to., If we are not feeling well physically or mentally, this could increase the amount of negative thinking we have. Better physical health is connected to optimism.Therefore, it is crucial to take care of yourself especially during difficult times.


Eat a well-balanced diet filled with fruits, vegetables, protein, and vitamins. Avoid drinking alcohol to excess, using non-prescribed prescription medication, or engaging in other forms of substance use.
Exercise is a great way to increase positive emotions and distract yourself from negative thinking. Try new and creative forms of working out like: hiking, rock climbing, dancing, aerobics, martial arts and yoga.
 Looking at this article is a great start. Reading the experiences of others is another way to see that changing your thought patterns from bad to good is entirely achievable. Browse on the Internet for "positivity," "positive phrases," etc. There are many positive people out there that wish to help others to banish negative thinking.
 If your negative thoughts cause you to have extreme emotions or to engage in risky or harmful behaviors, therapy or other treatment may be necessary. Some signs you need to see a professional are if you experience: thoughts of harming yourself or others, depressed or irritable mood for more than a few weeks, difficulty concentrating, changes in sleep (sleeping too much or too little), changes in weight or appetite, loss of energy, loss of interest in previously enjoyed activities, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, irritability, and restlessness.


Contact a psychologist, Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC), or marriage and family therapist (MFT). There are several treatments which specifically help people alter negative thinking including: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), and Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT).DBT is a form of treatment that helps individuals improve their distress tolerance (coping with negative thoughts and emotions), learn mindfulness skills, and be effective in relationships.
Explore medication options. If your negative thoughts are severe (thoughts about self-harm, harming others) or result in recurrent depressed or anxious mood, you could have a larger mental health concern. If this is the case, medication if often an option to treat emotional symptoms and sometimes severe thought processes (such as delusional thinking). Consult a psychiatrist for an evaluation, or to discuss psychotropic options.