 You may have spent a lot of your time and energy with this person and finding yourself alone can be difficult. The best way to deal with this is to concentrate on yourself, your self worth, and your happiness.


Spend time with friends who make you feel good about yourself.
Repeat affirmations to yourself to help you focus on your future and your self-worth.Volunteer to do charity work for a cause that is really important to you.
 At times the break up will get to you and make you feel incredibly sad. One of the best parts of a break up is rediscovering the things that made you happy. Maybe he hated Indian food and you love it, or maybe he would never go to an art museum with you. Now is a great time to grab some friends and make plans to cultivate your interests.

If it has been so long that you feel you can't remember, find new hobbies or interests to participate in.Discover yourself and your passions again.
 Another way to create a fresh start for yourself is to organize or redecorate your living space.You'll have the opportunity to rid your space of anything bad or negative and introduce new fresh and uplifting styles, colors, or decor. Additionally, attending to your living space in this way will help reduce stress levels or negative thoughts that might come from having a living area that is cluttered or full of memories.Take new pictures with family or friends, and buy new frames to display them.
Change the color scheme of your apartment or bedroom.
Reorganize your kitchen so that everything is just the way you like it.
 It is common to seek comfort or the stability of a new relationship. This can often only lead to further confusion and emotional struggles.Think of your break up like a broken bone. Would it make sense to immediately go and play a new full contact game on a broken bone? Or would it just increase the likelihood that you will only get injured further? Give yourself time to heal and focus on your own emotional health first.
 It can be easy, during the pain of a horrible break up, to forget to take care of yourself. It is okay to wallow for a time, but make sure you are taking care of yourself and your needs going forward. You are important, and you should treat yourself likewise. Address how you are eating, sleeping, relaxing, and taking care of yourself to see what you can change for the better.


Make sure you are keeping up with daily tasks like cooking meals, showering, and cleaning; even though they may require a extra effort while you are healing.Keep active by doing some activity you like such as swimming, running, or working out. Exercise will make you feel healthier and trigger feel-good responses in your body to help you find a sense of well-being.
Eat a well-balanced diet every day. Eating balanced includes: 5 portions of fruits and vegetables, starchy foods, some dairy, protein, less saturated fat and sugar, and plenty of water. Make sure you are getting adequate sleep of between 7 to 9 restful hours per night.Pamper yourself with some at-home spa treatments like a luxurious bath or facial mask.

