 Seller financing, also called owner financing, is a purchase arrangement in which you repay the sale price of the business directly to its previous owner over several years. For the buyer, this provides some flexibility in repaying the loan, such as negotiating a longer repayment period, a temporary reprieve from payments, or reducing the price in exchange for letting the owner keep some equity in the business. However, this type of arrangement is typically more expensive, with the owner charging a higher interest rate than the bank would charge.


Ideally, the buyer should negotiate an arrangement where all or a portion of the loan financed by the seller may be contingent upon the profits reached and payable over a limited term. This protects the buyer in case profits are not as high as expected.
Obtaining seller financing may give you more power in negotiating down the price of the business.
Doing so also gives the seller reason to help you out more in running and managing the business., Start by asking the seller directly if they would consider seller financing. It may help if you explain to them that this will result in their getting more money over time, as they get to keep the interest on your loan (rather than the bank keeping it). If they agree, you can begin negotiating a contract.If possible, avoid securing the seller with assets purchased. This gives you a cushion if additional financing is needed to get the business is running smoothly.
 Work with the seller to form the terms of sale. Start by offering to make a down payment with what you can gather on your own, say 10 to 20 percent of the sale price. Try to offer as large of a down payment as you can afford; this will only help you and save you money in the long run. Then discuss a repayment period and interest rate. Try to negotiate a longer repayment period and lower interest rate to make sure that you can afford the payments.


You may be able to agree on a large, balloon payment in a number of years. This will reduce your monthly payments. Then, you can get a bank loan or use your savings to cover the balloon payment.Alternately, where a C corporation is involved in the purchase, issuing preferred stock may be a better option than debt for the buyer when repaying the balloon payment.
 Ideally, you should have an attorney that specializes in business contracts draw up the contract. However, you can also have one review the contract to ensure that your interests are represented and that there are no surprises waiting for you in the wording of the contract. You may also want to have an accountant review the financials of the deal to make sure everything checks out.The lawyer, and possibly an accountant, should confirm the validity of the financial statements, specifically the identity, value and location of assets and liabilities.
 Once you've been assured that the contract is right for both you and the seller, close the deal and take control of the business. With seller financing, you'll likely be able to convince the previous owner to help you out with getting started as the manager of your new business.

