 Use a medium-sized bowl to combine your ingredients. First, stir together your wet ingredients together: 1 tablespoon soy sauce; 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar; 1 teaspoon sesame oil. Then add 2 teaspoons of cornstarch and whisk until it has totally dissolved.Instead of balsamic vinegar, you can also use 2 teaspoons of rice wine or dry sherry.;
, First, cut your chicken into cubes or chunks, anywhere from a half-inch to an inch thick. Add the chicken to the bowl and stir until each piece is coated on all sides.Wash your hands and use your fingers to rub the liquid into the meat., Allow the meat some time to absorb the liquid. For a quick meal, give it ten minutes at room temperature.For a longer marination (or to prep well ahead of cooking), seal the bowl with a lid, aluminum foil, or plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to prevent spoiling. Give it anywhere from a half-hour to overnight to marinate., While the chicken marinates, make a sauce for sauteeing. Use a small bowl to stir your ingredients together. Combine your wet ingredients first: 2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar; 1 tablespoon soy sauce; 1 tablespoon hoisin sauce; 1 teaspoon sesame oil. Then whisk in 2 teaspoons of cornstarch.Chinese black vinegar works just as well as balsamic.Add 2 teaspoons of sugar for a touch of sweetness.
Ground Sichuan peppers also make a nice addition.
 Use your remaining time to cut and measure your other ingredients. Mince 2 cloves of garlic. Chop half of a green bell pepper and half of a red bell pepper into rough chunks. Slice 4 scallions (slice the white parts very thinly, while cutting the green parts into inch-long strips).Once you’re done, measure out the following: ½ teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes; ¼ teaspoon ground ginger; ¼ cup roasted peanuts.Instead of fresh peppers, spice your dish up with about 8 dried red chiles, with whole or halved, with or without the seeds and membranes.You can add 1 ounce of hot chile paste to your sauce instead of whole chiles., Once your chicken has marinated, set a large skillet or wok on your stovetop. Coat it with 1 to 2 tablespoons of cooking oil (peanut or vegetable), as needed.Set the burner to high.
 Once the cooking oil begins to smoke, add the crushed red pepper flakes, followed by the green and red peppers. Sautee for three to four minutes, stirring occasionally. Then add the garlic and ginger and stir constantly for one more minute..Turn the exhaust fan on, since some ingredients may start to smoke quickly.If using whole chiles, only sautee them for half a minute before adding the next ingredients.
 Transfer your chicken from the bowl to the skillet or wok. Sautee your chicken in the cooking oil. If you marinated it at room temperature, give it two to five minutes before adding more ingredients.If you refrigerated it, give it a little longer.


Chicken should reach an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit (75 degrees Celsius) before consuming.If you don’t use a meat thermometer, slice a piece open. The meat inside should appear white, without any pink.
 Transfer your sauce and peanuts into your skillet or wok and stir them. Reserve the scallions for garnish. Continue cooking for a couple minutes, then serve right away with the uncooked scallions on top.,