 Mix the warm water, sugar, salt and yeast in a bowl, and let it sit for 5 to 10 minutes, until it foams and bubbles. Warm the milk in a pan on the stove, or in 5-second intervals in the microwave. Place the the flour, warm milk, yeast mixture and oil in a bowl, and mix together.


You can use a stand mixer or mix the ingredients by hand with a spatula.
Be sure the milk doesn't come to a boil when you warm it. If it does, start over with new milk.;
, If you're using a stand mixer, you can simply let it continue to do the work for you for a minute or two after the ingredients are combined. If you're kneading by hand, punch out the dough 8 to 10 times. It should feel smooth and elastic when you're done.
 Place the dough into a clean bowl dusted with flour. The flour will make it easier to remove the dough from the bowl later. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap or a dish towel. Allow the dough to rise for one to two hours. When it's doubled in size, you'll be ready for the next step.


You can snip an X into the top of the dough to help the dough rise a little more quickly. Cut an X that's about 2 inches (5 cm) wide in the middle of the dough.
Place the dough in a warm area in your kitchen to help it rise faster.
 After the dough has doubled, gently remove it from the bowl and place it on a countertop lightly dusted with flour. Press the dough into an 8x12-inch rectangle (20x30 cm). Try to keep the edges as straight as possible. You can use your hands, or gently press down with a rolling pin.
 Fold the dough into thirds, like a letter. This is called "turning." Fold up the bottom third of the dough so that it covers the middle third, then fold the top third down over the other two layers.
 Cover the dough lightly with plastic wrap or a dish towel. Let it rise until it doubles in size again, which should take about an hour and a half. Put it in the refrigerator for the last half-hour, since it needs to be chilled for the next step.


If you'd like, you can allow the dough to rise overnight in the refrigerator. Just put it in the fridge, and it'll be ready to go in the morning.

