 Natural methods can be very effective, but if you have diabetes and require medications, it's important to take your medications as prescribed.


Most diabetics are prescribed either oral medications, injectable medications or injectable insulin to help them manage their blood sugars. These are usually to help keep your blood sugar lower instead of too high.
In addition, you may also be prescribed emergency medications that help increase your blood sugar if it gets too low.
Make sure you review your medications, dosages and how to use them thoroughly with your doctor. You need to make sure you understand exactly how to use them. Not taking the right dosage, the right medications or not taking them at the right time can cause significant fluctuations in your blood sugar.
 Another trick to help lower a high blood sugar is by drinking water. This doesn't have a drastic effect on your blood sugar, but is advisable if you notice your sugars are running high.


When your blood sugars are high, your body will naturally try to reduce your blood sugar by excreting excess glucose into your urine. As a result, your body will excrete more fluid causing your body to get dehydratedIncrease your water consumption to help replace the fluids that your body excretes. This extra water consumption can help your body flush out the extra blood sugar.Only drink sugar-free, caffeine free liquids like water, flavored water, sparkling water or decaf coffee and tea.
 Regular exercise helps you stabilize your blood sugars and improve the management of your diabetes. But it can also help lower a blood sugar in the short term as well.


Before insulin was regularly used to treat diabetics, it was advised for those experiencing a high blood sugar to exercise.When you exercise, your body uses blood sugar to fuel your muscles and organs during activity. Exercising for even 10 minutes can help lower blood sugar immediately.If you test your urine for ketones and notice there are ketones in your urine, do not participate in strenuous exercise as this can worsen your condition., On the other hand, if you're experiencing a low blood sugar and need to stabilize yourself, have something sweet to drink to slowly bring your sugar back up to normal.


Try drinking a glass of water with a tablespoon of honey mixed into it or cup of 100% fruit juice.
You can also suck on hard candies or glucose tablets or eat a few crackers to help raise your blood sugar.
After you drink some juice or have a few crackers and are feeling better, make sure you eat a snack or meal that contains protein, healthy fats and a nutritious carbohydrate. This will help stabilize your blood sugars for several hours.

