 Students need to frequently sign with a person who is fluent in sign language. Younger children also benefit from storytime in sign language because they are able see how the words are signed while also looking at the printed words in the storybook.Mentors are especially important if the student’s parents are not fluent in sign language.
Parents who are fluent in sign language can act as mentors to their children.
 Cued Speech and visual cues are both useful in helping deaf or hard of hearing students understand how letters sound. Cues should be used as you speak to the student or show them the corresponding letter or word.

Cued Speech is a communication system that uses 8 hand shapes and 4 indicators near the mouth to represent the 45 phonemes of English.
Grapheme cues visually represent sound, showing what it looks like.
Hand cues mimic the sound that a letter might make so that students can see it.
Speechreading/lipreading cues help students understand how the mouth looks when saying a sound., Emphasize the sounds you want students to pick up on by saying the sound louder or whispering it, depending on the type of sound.Whispering works when you have a silent consonant sound because it creates an emphasis on the consonant sound.
You can also stress a syllable.
 Called syllabication, breaking words into syllables can help students understand how sounds blend together. You can convey syllables using rhythm, mouth movements, and finger signing.

To finger sign syllables, break the word into syllables and sign each letter of the syllable. Teach the students to wait in between syllables so that they can connect the letters as one sound., Sign language presents words and ideas differently than written language. For example, signs can represent a concept, or words may be presented in a different order than they are written. Because of these differences, students who sign can struggle with reading because the words are arranged and presented differently.Be aware of this difference and discuss it with the student.
Make sure that the student understands the text the class is reading.
Ask the student to highlight areas that they’re having trouble reading. Discuss how those sentences would be communicated through signing, then compare it to how they look on paper.
 The bilingual method is a great option for helping students who sign better understand written language. The goal is to help them master both sign language and written language, which are considered two different languages. The method works by having a teacher or mentor sign with the student as they read a printed text. The student is able to see both the sign that corresponds with the word and how it looks on paper.

Incorporate Cued Speech and fingerspelling into your teaching sessions that use texts.
Act out the text with younger children to boost understanding.
Reread the text multiple times so that the student is exposed to the material several times, allowing them to learn it., Provide students with different types of exposure to new vocabulary, such as repetition, word maps, and classroom discussion. Deaf and hard of hearing students may require pre-teaching of words that other students have encountered via overhearing conversations or participating in activities that are inaccessible to individuals who have reduced hearing.