 Narrative therapy is unique because it puts the client in the driver’s seat. The therapist’s job is not to offer advice, but to help the client define, clarify, and revise their own personal storylines that shape their understanding of themselves. It can be used with individual clients, but also with families and couples.Rather than teaching the client how to solve problems, narrative therapy assumes that the client already possesses the ability to overcome their difficulties and simply needs a paradigm shift to unlock these skills.
Narrative therapy sees the problem as separate from the client. It encourages the client to use their own coping skills to minimize problems in their lives.
The idea is to have clients take their personal experiences – the experience that has shaped their lives – and use this story to find purpose, meaning, and self-empowerment in life. The therapy should help to dissipate the client’s resistance and move them to address their concerns in a more productive manner.
 Once you know the basics, reading books can give you a more in-depth understanding of the nuances of narrative therapy. One of the best-known introductory books on the subject is What Is Narrative Therapy? An Easy-To-Read Introduction by Alice Morgan.To find other books on narrative therapy, you can reference the Narrative Therapy Library’s extensive list of publications. , Numerous organizations worldwide offer courses, workshops, and other resources for learning about narrative therapy. Check to see what training is available in your area. If you cannot find local resources for narrative therapy training, online courses may be able to meet your needs.


As a starting point, consider taking the Dulwich Centre’s free introductory online course on narrative therapy. The Dulwich Centre, a hub of narrative practice located in Adelaide, Australia, offers numerous resources for learning about narrative therapy techniques., There is much more to doing narrative therapy than one or two workshops or books can give you. Narrative therapy should only be conducted by a certified, licensed therapist. To be qualified, you’ll need to get thorough training and certification – a process that will take years.

First of all, learn more about mental health and decide that it is the right field for you. Be sure you have aptitude and desire to enter the profession.
Finish high school and apply to a program at an accredited university. Complete your degree, and then take the licensing test in the state you want to practice in.
You may need to take supplemental classes to specialize as a therapist in Narrative Therapy, too, as well as take continuing education courses to stay up-to-date in your professional and specialization.

