 Make sure that your name and contact details are highly visible. Give a brief description of the sort of person you are, what you do and what your philosophy is regarding the work that you do. Something that works well can be as simple as “I have worked in the restaurant trade for the past 10 years, progressing from waiter to manager, and I am passionate about service excellence”.;
, (Employers are rarely looking for someone who is stuck in a rut without drive or ambition) However, be careful not to overstate your case and make it look as if you want your boss’s job before you’ve even started.
 Don’t restrict yourself here. You need to think outside the box of past and present work experience. Include anything that may be relevant to the work you want to do. Think about the types of attributes and aptitudes the employer may be looking for. Being the coach for the under 10’s baseball team at the local school gives you skills in coaching, mentoring and working with a team!

, Believe it or not, your resume is not all about you. Don’t start every sentence with ‘I’. The projects and the work that you have been involved in are important too. You may be able to import better or more efficient ways of doing things into a new company, so make sure that your methodology and experience are highlighted. Rather than “I worked on a number of sales projects” say “ Two sales projects, which successfully raised local sales by ten and fifteen per cent respectively, increased my knowledge of both telesales and internet marketing techniques”. Your prospective employer will want to see that you have just as big an interest in the company as in your paycheck. Make a point of having a paragraph that details what specifically you are offering the company. (Many times I have asked that question of interviewees and a blank response usually consigns the resume to the trash can).
 Sometimes a leader needs to be able to lead from behind and sometimes a follower is required to stand up and be counted. Find examples of being able to take responsibility as well as showing your aptitude for delegation and team work.
 Employees who are able to handle the day to day tasks are easy to find. Finding that special person who is able to be counted upon during problematic times is like finding a diamond on the beach.
 It’s the little things that count. Make sure that your resume is clean, tidy and well set out. Good grammar and spelling are more important than clip art or Photoshop. Proofread at least twice. Finally, to make your resume really stand out prepare a one page summary headed ‘In Brief’ which details: Name and contact details, Personal Details (work philosophy and history), Career Path (relevant highlights) and ‘What I bring to my work’. This last is a brief summary of your attributes, skills and capabilities shown in bullet format. Trim and tailor this page, making sure that you include the key words that will keep your prospective employer’s attention focused on where you want it – your job. Most employers don’t have time to go through long resumes and having a single page summary of the most relevant details keeps your good points right under his/her nose. This page can be ‘tweaked’ according to the job that you are applying for and even if you work through an agency that sends out standard formats, taking this page with you when you go for an interview is sure to get you noticed and make you stand out from the crowd.

