 Stroke the copper item in a linear motion to give the metal an even grain so the patina will be smooth and not patchy. You may skip this step or experiment with cleaning portions of the copper if you are trying to create an art piece with a contrasting new and aged appearance.
 Remove soap, oils and film from the copper. Wipe and pat the copper item dry with a soft cloth.
 There are many possible solutions you can use to oxidize copper, depending on the final color you are trying to achieve. Several are listed here using common household items or items available at a drug or grocery store.


Warning: always wear rubber gloves and work in a ventilated area when handling ammonia. Safety glasses and a respirator mask are recommended. Be ready to wash your skin or eyes with running water for fifteen minutes in case of spills.
To create a green patina, mix 2 cups (480 mL) white vinegar, 1.5 cups (360 mL) pure non-detergent ammonia, and 0.5 cups (120 mL) salt. Mix in a plastic spray bottle until the salt dissolves. Use less salt to reduce the amount of green in the patina.For a brown patina, mix baking soda in a spray bottle full of hot water until additional baking soda will not dissolve.You may buy a commercial antiquing solution and follow the instructions on the packaging to achieve the desired color. Liver of Sulphur is commonly used for copper., Spread newspapers underneath it to protect the surface it is standing on from spills.
 Spray the copper with the solution and wait an hour to see if it develops. If it has, you can continue to spray hourly, focusing on portions where the patina didn't hold. Otherwise, spray twice a day until the patina becomes visible. Leave it outside during this time to speed up the oxidization.


If you want to have more control over exactly where and how the patina forms, scrub with a scotch brite pad, brass brush, or cotton swab after spraying.Wear gloves and safety glasses for this if your solution contains ammonia, acids or other dangerous chemicals.
If you are in a low humidity area, place a plastic bag or sheet over the item to keep in moisture. Use a frame or drape it between larger objects so the plastic does not come in contact with the copper.