 Take the cheeseburger apart, dividing it into its separate pieces: buns, patty, condiments, and vegetables.You might be tempted to stick the whole cheeseburger in the microwave without separating it into parts, but doing so will result in soggy buns and vegetables. Each component of the cheeseburger contains a different level of moisture, which is partially why reheating them at the same time produces uneven—and undesirable—results.
Scrape the condiments off the patty and buns. A little can remain, but most of it should be removed.
Consider scraping the cheese off, as well. It won't affect the way the burger patty reheats, but it may melt off during the reheating process even if you leave it on.
Sort through the vegetables and other toppings. Lettuce and tomatoes have a tendency to get soggy during storage, so you may need to toss them. Pickles, onions, bacon, and other toppings with a lower water content tend to be okay and can be saved.;
, Warm up the burger patty by itself using the microwave, oven, or stovetop.


See the “Different Ways to Reheat the Burger Patty” section for additional information.
The microwave is the quickest method, but it's also easier to overcook the patty when using that appliance. If you're more interested in quality than speed, the oven and stovetop might be better options.
 Most of the original cheese may completely melt off as you reheat the patty. As a result, you may need to top the patty with a fresh slice of cheese.


To lightly melt the cheese onto the patty, place it on top during the final part of the reheating process. You can place the cheese on after you finish reheating the patty, but it may not melt at all if you wait until then.
 The best way to reheat the cheeseburger bun is to place it in the oven for a few minutes, but if you're short on time, the microwave can be used instead.


See the "Different Ways to Reheat the Burger Bun" section for additional information.
If you're already using the oven or the stovetop to reheat the patty, it is recommended that you use the oven to reheat the bun. Even though the process takes a little longer than the microwave, the oven tends to produce higher quality results.
 Place the patty on the bottom bun, followed by any condiments and vegetables. Top it all off with the top bun.


Replace any condiments, including ketchup, mustard, mayonnaise, and special sauces.
Salvageable vegetables from the original sandwich can be reused, but you should consider replacing any vegetables that were soggy or wilted.
 Sprinkle the surface with a few drops of water.


Keep the patty in the center of the plate so that it reheats evenly.
Burger patties can lose some of their moisture content during refrigeration, so if you don't sprinkle them with a few flicks of water before sticking them in the microwave, they can dry out and become rubbery., Microwave the patty on high for 30 to 90 seconds, working in 15-second to 30-second intervals.


The exact amount of time can vary depending on the thickness of the burger patty and the wattage of your microwave.
If you want to add a fresh piece of cheese, place it on top of the patty and microwave the two together for another 10 seconds.
 Prepare a small baking sheet by lining it with nonstick aluminum foil.
 Place the patty in the middle of the prepared baking sheet. Sprinkle the surface with a little water.


Burger patties lose moisture when they sit in the refrigerator, so sprinkling the patty with a few drops of water before reheating it can prevent it from drying out too severely in the heat of the oven.
 Stick the patty in the preheated oven and cook until heated through. This will usually take approximately 10 minutes, but may take more or less time depending on the thickness of the patty.


If you want to melt additional cheese onto the patty, place a fresh slice on top of the burger during the last 1 or 2 minutes.
 Place the burger patty in a small stainless steel or cast iron pan.


Make sure that the pan you use has a lid.
 Fill the pan with just enough water to cover the bottom.Alternatively, you can add a little beef broth or cooking oil instead of water to give the patty an extra dimension of flavor.
The addition of liquid will prevent the patty from drying out any further as it cooks. Moreover, some of the moisture it lost while sitting in the refrigerator will even be regained as the steam seeps into the meat.
 Place the pan on your stove, cover it, and heat over medium to medium-high for 5 to 7 minutes.By covering the pan, you allow steam to build up inside. This steam is the primary heat source responsible for reheating the patty.
If you want to add a fresh slice of cheese, remove the lid and place the cheese on top for 30 to 60 seconds. Keep the lid off while the cheese melts.
 Remove the patty from the pan and transfer it to a paper towel lined plate for 30 seconds. This rest time should allow most excess water to drip off.


The liquid in the pan can be discarded at this point.
 If you already have the oven set to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) to reheat the patty, you can keep it at that temperature.
 Wrap each bun in a separate sheet of aluminum foil. All sides of each bun should be covered.


The foil should prevent the buns from burning in the oven. The extra insulation should also help distribute the heat throughout the bun more evenly.
You can place the foil-wrapped buns on a baking sheet, but doing so is not necessary.
 Place the wrapped buns in the oven and reheat until warmed throughout. This should only take approximately 5 minutes or less.


If the oven has been set for 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius), you should only keep the buns in the oven for 2 to 3 minutes.
 Loosely wrap the two buns together using a long, clean sheet of paper towel.


The paper towels can help control and balance the moisture content of the bread as it reheats.
 Place the buns in the microwave and cook on high for 30 seconds, or until both buns feel evenly warm.


Lay the buns side by side instead of putting one on top of the other.
If you need to reheat the buns for longer than 30 seconds, rotate them before microwaving for additional time.
