 This might seem obvious, but if you’ve been with someone for awhile, you may take certain things for granted. You may have stopped sharing things with one another, asking each other questions, or telling each other things that have changed. Get to know your boyfriend again by making an effort to talk.Find out if your boyfriend has any new hobbies, interests, or favorite movies. Ask him if there are things that bug him, or if anything else has changed that you may have missed.
For example, you might ask, "What new TV shows or movies have you watched lately? Have you found any great new songs?" or "I've noticed you've been reading a lot of fantasy lately. That's new. Tell me about it."

, One way to improve the communication with your boyfriend is to listen to him, really listen to him. If you are arguing, don’t get so upset that you ignore what he is saying in favor or getting your point across. Instead, listen to what he has to say. Listening to each other will help you come to a resolution instead of continuing arguing.When you listen, actually listen. Turn off the voices in your head that are screaming the points you want to make, how wrong he is, and how how can get him to side with you.
To be an active listener, you should use open body language, looking at the person directly and nodding. Pay attention to what the person is saying, and restate what they say back to you (for example, "It sounds like you're having a pretty hard time at work!"). Make good eye contact, and provide thoughtful comments and questions about what the person is saying., One way to better the relationship with your boyfriend is to be honest with him. This may be difficult, but if you want to have a good, healthy relationship, both of you need to trust each other enough to open up and be honest. Be honest about things that bother you, things that scare you, or things that make you uneasy.Avoid lying to your boyfriend. This will only cause problems down the road.
Being honest doesn’t mean just tell him when he bothers you. This means being honest about all aspects of your life. Work on opening up to him and trusting him.
 If there is something important you need to discuss with your boyfriend, do it in person instead of via text or e-mail. This helps avoid miscommunication. You need to also find the right time to talk in person. Choose a time when you both have time to talk and when you can be alone.Refrain from attacking your boyfriend when you talk. This doesn’t lead to any productive resolution.
 After you’ve been with someone for a long time, you just assume they know things. You may think your boyfriend knows what you think, what you feel, and how you feel about him. He is not a mind reader, just as you are not a mind reader. Let your boyfriend know what you want so you can be on the same page.Tell your boyfriend that you care about him, like being around him, or love him. Tell him like like it when he holds your hand or appreciate it when he takes you around his friends.
Let him know that you are having a bad day, or that you had a great day at work. Communicate to him that you want to try a new restaurant or do something different this weekend.
For example, you may say, "I really appreciate it when you hold my hand in public," "I'd like to try Indian food tonight, and I'd love for you to come with me," or "We should try something new this weekend. I was thinking about going for a hike somewhere we haven't been. What do you think?"
During a bad day, say, "I had a bad day at work and am grumpy" or "I'm sorry I snapped, but I had a really bad day."

, Small talk is important in a relationship. Talking about the random things that seem unimportant may help you improve your relationship. Ask your boyfriend about the new video game he’s playing, his intramural baseball team, or what he thought of the last episode of a television show.Tell him about the little things in your life, too. Share all aspects of your life with each other, not just the big important things.
Don’t get bored when your boyfriend goes on and on about something you don’t care about. If he’s taking the time to share it with you, it must mean something to him.
For example, you may share things like, "We got a new employee at work" or "My dog did the funniest thing." You may also say, "I watched this really great movie" or "I had a great workout this morning. Let me tell you why."

, You and your partner may have gotten to different places in life. You may want the things you used to, which means you may not have the same goals anymore as he does. Talk about what you want out of life, what your plans are, and what goals you have for your life.Focus on goals that you both share. Sharing common goals can help you both work towards something together, which can be fulfilling and make you closer.
For example, tell your boyfriend, "I really want to travel to exotic places. What about you?" or "My goal is to get an advanced degree. What are your career aspirations?"

, One way to better your relationship is for you and your boyfriend to sit down and make goals for the relationship. What do you want from your relationship? Where do you want it to be? These goals work both ways. He can come up with things he wants you to work on just like you come up with things for him to work on.Maybe you would both like to spend more time being active together, or maybe you would like to spend more time with your families.
You may want him to stop watching so much sports, while he wants you to be more organized.
Tell your boyfriend what you need from him, and encourage him to do the same for you.
 If you think your relationship is in trouble but don't know how to fix it, consider going to see a relationship counselor. A relationship counselor can help both of you learn how to better communicate, solve problems, and work on problems in healthy, productive ways.


A relationship counselor may not be for everyone. If you haven't been going out for very long, it may be too soon for a relationship counselor.

