 Cancer is complex, and every individual has a different case. In order to help your friend, you need to learn about your friend's particular type of cancer. If she's not up to talking about it, do some research on your own. You can get information from your doctor or local hospital.Learn to speak the language. For example, cancer is diagnosed in stages. Find out whether your friend is Stage 1 (non-invasive) or Stage 4 (invasive and most advanced).
If it seems appropriate, ask about the prognosis. You don't want to be too aggressive when asking questions, but if your friend seems to want to talk, ask questions to let them know that you are interested and that you care.
 Once you understand what type of cancer your friend has, you can start to learn about the type of treatment. Often, cancer is treated with surgery. Other times, chemotherapy is the first step. If you don't understand what your friend is talking about, ask. They'll be glad you are concerned.If your friend is set to have surgery, help her plan for her post-surgery care. Make sure she knows you're around to walk their dog. You can also help out by bringing magazines and treats to the hospital.
If your friend is going through chemotherapy, you can offer to keep her company during the treatments. Take along a deck of cards or download some great T.V. shows on their iPad. They'll be glad to have distractions.
 Cancer takes a huge toll on a person, both physically and emotionally. Learn some of the common issues cancer patients deal with. By knowing what to expect, you will be better prepared to support your friend.Be aware that your friend might look physically different. For example, they might suffer from hair and weight loss.
Feeling extremely tired is another side effect. Be patient with your friend if they doze off while you are spending time together. They might also be more forgetful than usual, so don't be offended if they forget some details of a story you told them.
 This cancer diagnosis is difficult for your friend, but it is also difficult for you. Make sure that you have a good support system around you to help you cope with your emotions. If you know others who have been in the same situation, ask for advice on how they dealt with all of their feelings.Consider talking to a therapist if you are having trouble coping with your sadness.
Be kind to yourself. It takes a lot of energy to support a loved one who is going through cancer, so make sure to take time for yourself and relax.

