 Different drums are available for beginner players and for more advanced drummers.


A beginner bongo is smaller and does not weigh as much as drums made for more skilled players.
A bongo for an advanced drummer is typically more expensive due to better quality heads and rims and more ornate design.;
, The difference between the 2 materials is the tone of the sound of the drum. When it is played, a fiberglass drum offers a bright pop, while a wooden drum sends out an earthly, hollow sound.



When deciding on a rawhide skin to purchase, hold it up to the light. Look for an evenly colored skin, which indicates a skin of uniform thickness. Color variations can suggest the skin is not the same thickness all the way across, which affects the sound quality of the particular skin. Since weather affects rawhide heads, expect changes in tone as the weather changes, and plan on spending more time tuning the head. Warmer weather tightens the head and produces a higher pitch.
Synthetic heads are mass produced of man-made materials and provide a consistent and smooth playing surface. Changes in weather do not affect synthetic heads. Synthetic heads offer a convenience above rawhide heads in that they come already stretched and tucked onto a frame and are ready to mount to the drum and play.



Synthetic heads are typically pre-fitted. Pre-fitted heads are convenient to replace quickly. They are not affected by humidity, altering the tuning and sound of the head, as rawhide heads are.
Flat heads give you the decision power of the exact rawhide you want for your drum and the satisfaction of tucking it on your own. If you use flat heads, you will have to learn how to tuck heads, and then each time you tuck one, you will have to wait to play the bongo until the head dries.



The size of the drummer can direct you to the size of bongo you purchase. A smaller drum set better accommodating a person of smaller stature.
Sound preference can be instrumental in determining the size of your bongos. Smaller drums offer a higher pitched sound, while the sound of drums with larger heads is deeper.

