 Park brake cables sometimes become corroded or get dirt and grim in them. If this happens, it can cause your brake to get stuck and not function properly. Your best option is to replace the cable., It is important that your car does not sink or roll away while resting on a jack or on jack stands., Consult your service manual to see which wheels are held by the park brake. If any of the wheels you will be working on has hubcaps, use a wrench or screwdriver to remove them., It is important to remember to loosen, or break, the lug nuts before you jack up the vehicle. This way the weight of the vehicle is still on the wheels and it prevents them from spinning dangerously while you turn the lugs., Once the lugs have been loosened, it will be necessary to jack the car up so that the wheels can be removed. As mentioned above, this should be done on level concrete or some other hard, level surface. Some important things to remember when jacking up the car are:

Your owner’s manual will recommend jacking points
The most common way to elevate the car is a floor jack or trolley jack.
You should use jack stands to stabilize the car.
If you have access to a hydraulic lift, it will save you time.
 At this point, the lugs may be loose enough to remove by hand. If not, finish removing the lugs with the lug wrench or impact wrench. Once the lugs are removed, pull the wheel off of the wheelbase. Place wheels under the car as back-up protection in case the jack stands fail., This cap will be in the center of the hub and can be removed by simply prying away from the hub. This will expose the retaining nut., There will be a pin in front of the retaining nut that prevents the nut from loosening (referred to as a cotter pin). Remove it by straightening the bent end of the pin and prying it out of its hole with pliers or a screwdriver., Using a wrench or ratchet, turn the nut counter-clockwise (to the left) to loosen it. If the nut is stuck, lubricate it with WD-40 or similar lubricant., Some drums have small bolts holding them to the hub. If this is the case, you will need to remove those bolts. , Pull the drum straight off of the hub. You may have to wiggle a little to get it started. If the drum appears stuck and will not pull off, you should:

Check to make sure all bolts holding the drum to the hub are removed.
Check to see if the drum is getting caught on the brake shoes., This step is only necessary if your drum is getting caught on the brake shoes. You will need to look on the back side of the backing plate (the steel plate on which the brake components are mounted) for a small rubber plug. Removing this plug will provide access to the brake shoe adjuster. Use a flat head screwdriver or a brake adjuster bar to retract the brake shoes.

The adjuster is designed to self-adjust the shoes into a tightened position, so loosening them may be tricky. If the drum gets harder to turn as you adjust, you are going in the wrong direction.
Once the shoes are retracted, you can remove the drum and continue.

