 When you set your weight goal, make sure not to set it up too high. Because it might discourage you to stop losing weight if you can't reach your targeted weight. For example, if you weigh about 256 pounds, you should probably set it to about 220 or 225 or if your stomach ratio is about 60 inches (152.4 cm), than try to reach for 45 or 50 inches (114.3 or 127.0 cm). But if you're willing to reach a bigger goal, that's your choice if you can handle it. But don't expect that you'll reach that target so quickly.There are plenty of apps on the appstore that could be helpful for you.;
, When you chose someone to be your partner, make sure you have a strong bond with each other, rather than hiring a personal trainer which cost thousands of dollars. Your partner should be the same gender as you. He could be your brother, your best friend or even your son. Just make sure he is in top physical shape. Do not choose someone who is also losing weight, then he won't serve as an inspiration for reaching your goal.
 This step is very important and must be done annually. There are two methods of measuring you. You can use a weighing scale or measuring tape. The measuring tape is better, because it easily measures the ratio of your stomach but the weighing scale only measures mass and it doesn't really determine if someone is overweight or not, because muscle weighs more than fat. When measuring with a weighing scale, your partner must observe the number being shown as you step on the scale. Make sure to put the scale on a flat surface. When you use the measuring tape, you must remove your shirt as your partner wraps the tape around your abdomen which is located at your belly button. Make sure to record the sizes every time you exercise.
 When you and your coach exercise, you have to be in full cooperation with him. If you're too conscious of people watching you exercise then you should exercise in a place where you feel most comfortable at like your house, a gym or a park. Before you exercise, make sure to do a little stretch exercise and limber up before doing intense movement like push-ups, cardio or sit-ups. Once you're done stretching, run a couple of laps around a track or your house. Wherever you are. The most recommended exercise would be sit-ups because it directly targets your mid-section giving you a better chance of shedding pounds.
 Since you're on this weight loss journey, you must observe a strict diet in order to attain the goal weight you want. This means no junk food, soft drinks, fast food and other unhealthy products. Eat a high fiber and sodium rich meal at least five times a week and just drink water, milk and juice made from natural ingredients as your beverages.Avoid eating food that have too much oils in them. If you crave to eat these fatty foods, don't give up, just remember the reason why you chose to change your life.Your coach could decide what diet is most suitable for you.
 This is the most important step of them all. Just never give up. You have the encouragement of your coach. Inside of you there is a new you trying to struggle free and you are the only one who can let him out. It may seem that your coach may torture you with all these exercises and not let you eat your favorite food but he actually cares for your health. Just believe in yourself and you can become like these changed men.

