 While hardware mixers and synths are often used by pros, software alternatives are considerably less expensive and an increasing number of professional producers use software. A digital audio workstation (DAW) will be used for much of the process, so finding a good one can be key. Some of the more popular DAWs include Ableton Live, Cubase, and FL Studio. In addition, you may want software (or hardware) synthesizers. Some popular soft synths include Massive and Sylenth1. Finally, sample packs can help since drums are often difficult to synthesize. You might try the packs from Vengeance, although there are plenty of free packs online.


If you can't afford synths, you may be able to find some free online. Many DAWs will come with soft synths too.
Listen to music using DAWs, vsts, or sample packs you're considering buying. If the software is popular, it shouldn't be too hard to find.
Be sure your computer is reasonably up to date, or it may not run your software. A good soundcard, as well as good headphones help too.;
, Make sure you understand the interface, not just of your DAW, but your vsts too. There are lots of tutorials are on youtube for more popular software, and the website for your software may have information too.


Don't be afraid to follow tutorials outside your genre. A little work in funk or dubstep will only help you understand your software all the better.
 You don't have to start with drums, but many producers may choose to start with them. Your bpm should be about 120-130 depending on subgenre, although some may by slightly outside these speeds. Take your kick drum and place it on every quarter note of a 1 bar loop. Then your snare should be on the offbeat (skip the 1st quarter, play the 2nd, etc.) An open hat should be between each quarter, and closed hats can play 16ths for speed.


While this forms a nice basic beat, you may want to add extra elements. Toms or random percussion effects would be more common, although it is your song. If you would prefer an unusual instrument, go for it!
You may want to create separate patterns for each instrument. That way you can build and remove elements throughout the song.
 In house, loops may often last 8 bars. Set your 1 bar drum loops to repeat for 8 bars. If you would rather not use 8, loops lasting 16 or maybe 32 bars are sometimes used. Shorter loops are used too, although they may sound overly repetitive.


These lengths are used to make transitioning songs easier on the DJ.
 Synth chords, vocals, and synth basses are some of the more common elements, although as long as the loops sound good together, anything goes. Don't worry about it sounding too intense too early in the song. This isn't actually how your song will begin, but if the loops played together blend well, the track will sound more cohesive.


Don't be afraid to blend real with electronic. If done well, it can add more depth to your tracks.
 Take the different patterns and work in units of 8 bars (more or less if you choose) to create your track. you might start with your synth pad, add the kick after the first 8, bring in the snare next, etc. You can remove elements too of course, or add more than 1 element at once.


Many house tracks start with a "drum intro." This is where you gradually introduce your drum patterns before playing the melodic (or harmonic) elements.
Units of 8 bars often group to form larger sections of 32. You might have a 32 bar drum intro, a 32 bar breakdown, then a 32 bar "drop," etc.
 Filtering in your leads, or using a downlifter that came with one of your sample packs will work, but there are many different transitions. Try listening to some of your favorite tracks and see how they transition.


Wind effects are good for transitions and not nearly as difficult to synthesize as drums. You could try make some yourself instead of sampling. That way you have more control over the sound.
 It can be a complex process, but it will greatly improve your results. You can always find someone to master it for you, or learn yourself. Try to find guides online.
 Youtube or Soundcloud are great for posting music. Although, if you used any copyrighted material, be sure to give credit where due.


Even if you don't want to sell your music, download links from Mediafire or similar file storing sites can be nice. It'll be easier for your friends to get a hold of it.
If you do want to sell it, you may not need a label. Bandcamp, TuneCore, or CD Baby make self publishing very easy.

