 Someone who is a bully may exhibit some of these behaviors toward you or others: forcing you to do something you would not normally do, or don’t want to do; hitting you, or using any other form of physically aggressive and abusive behavior; taking and breaking your property, such as a cell phone or toy; calling you names or using any other form of verbally aggressive behavior toward you., Realize that bullying can come from many sources such as older siblings, a parental figure, friends, or even strangers who use aggression and intimidation to get their way. It’s possible that the bully has an undiagnosed or diagnosed learning or other disability which inhibits their ability to learn both social and problem-solving skills.


Bullies also often have cognitive distortions, which means that they see their situations in such a way that they truly feel they can justify their bullying behavior, even if we can see that it is wrong.
Bullies like to rebuild their internal sense of control that they may have felt was lost. When they feel powerless and afraid, they show it through aggressive behavior because that's what makes him feel more in control.
 A “friend” who talks about you behind your back isn’t a real friend. Spend your time with people who are loyal, honest, and caring, and don’t waste your time on the others.A true friend is someone who would stand up for you instead of believing a false rumor about you.
 Gossiping can feel fun, but it has the potential to hurt people. If you’ve been the subject of malicious gossip, use the experience to become more empathetic. Avoid talking about other people behind their backs, and if you hear other people gossiping, say something to shut it down.For instance, if two of your friends start gossiping about someone else, say something like, “Sarah has always been nice to me. I’d rather not talk about her while she isn’t here.”

, Spend time developing your skills, taking care of your health, and trying new things. Learn to enjoy spending time by yourself as well as with other people. When you have healthy self-esteem, you’ll bounce back from bullying more easily.