 Once your character reaches level 15, you will be able to find Sam Guevenne. Make sure you visit a tavern located in a capital city., You will challenge Sam to a drinking contest with a chance at winning a staff. After you consume three drinks, you black out and awaken at the Temple of Dibella.
 You are greeted by a priestess named Senna who asks you to pick up a giant’s toe, a Hagraven feather, two bottles of wine, and an odd note written by Sam.


This chore can be bypassed if your speech skill is high enough. You will be able to use your speech skill before each step of the quest.
 After cleaning up the Temple of Dibella, Senna will mention Rorikstead. This small village is located in the Whiterun Hold. Upon arrival, a Redguard named Ennis will claim that you stole his goat, Gleda. You can either retrieve the goat from the giant named Grok or skip the task with a high enough speech skill. Once completed, Ennis will mention Ysolda in Whiterun.


Simply leading the goat back to Ennis is possible while avoiding the giant. However, a follower will automatically attack the giant and force you to have to slay him.
 Ysolda will ask you to locate a ring located in Witchmist Grove from your recently called-off wedding from the night before.
 Witchmist Grove is located south of Windhelm and north of Bonestrewn Crest. Moira can be found near her camp site. Upon speaking to her, she claims you intend to give the wedding ring to Esmerelda and attacks you. Once you kill Moira and recover the ring, return to Ysolda in Whiterun. Ysolda will mention you married someone in Morvunskar the night before and will tell you to visit there.


This task can be skipped if you have a high enough speech skill.
There is a random chance that you don’t visit Moira at all and instead Ysolda sends you to a tower full of mages. You must clear the mages which will cause a portal to appear, taking you to the wedding reception to meet Sanguine.
 Morvunskar is a ruined fort located southwest of Windhelm. In these ruins is the entrance to Misty Grove, the location of Sam and other dinner guests. Once you speak to Sam, he will mention that he is the Daedric prince, Sanguine. You are given two gifts, a Daedric Artifact and the Sanguine Rose. You are immediately teleported back to the tavern where you started the quest.

