 While there is no way to increase your lung size, there are many ways to increase the amount of air your lungs take in, and the efficiency with which they capture oxygen. In particular, a rigorous exercise routine can help to strengthen your lungs and maximize their capacity to hold air.



Do plenty of cardio. Incorporating some intense cardio workouts into your weekly routine can do wonders for your lungs. Running, skipping, aerobics and swimming are all great forms of cardiovascular exercise which get the blood pumping and the lungs working hard to supply the body with the oxygen it needs to keep going. Try doing exercising in intense 30 minute bursts, pushing your body to its limits, to achieve the best result.

Exercise in water. Exercising in water (swimming, water aerobics, underwater weight training) is also a form of cardio exercise, but the water provides an element of resistance which requires the body to work harder to complete each task. As a result, the lungs need to work harder to supply the body with oxygen, causing their air capacity to increase significantly over time.

Work-out at high elevation. At higher elevations, there is less oxygen in the air, meaning your lungs have to work harder to supply the body with oxygen. This is an excellent way to strengthen the lungs, but you must be careful not to train to hard, or you could potentially fall victim to altitude sickness.
 Any excess baggage reduces your body's efficiency in using oxygen, as there is increased body mass to which your blood must pump oxygen.As a result, many competitive breath holders will attempt to shed any extra pounds in the weeks coming up to a competition.


This weight loss should be achieved in a strictly healthy way - through exercise and balanced diet - as weakening your body through crash dieting will negatively impact your ability to hold your breath.
The world record breath holder, Aleix Segura Vendrell, is reported to have lost weight for 4 months before attempting to beat the world record for holding breath underwater, in an effort to improve his ratio of body volume to lung volume., The fact that smoking has a negative impact on lung strength and capacity is common knowledge. Quitting can considerably increase your lungs' ability to release carbon dioxide and absorb oxygen, even withing a matter of weeks. So if you are trying to strengthen your lungs and increase their capacity, giving up smoking is undoubtedly the first thing on the to-do list.


You should also try to avoid second-hand smoke as far as possible, as inhaling someone else's cigarette smoke can have a negative effect on your lungs.
 These types of instruments require plenty of lung power, making them a great way to improve lung strength and increase your ability to control your breathing. And aside from that, playing an instrument is a fantastic life skill, which can provide immense personal satisfaction.


The flute, clarinet, oboe and saxophone are all good options when it comes to wind instruments, while the trumpet, trombone and tuba are popular brass options.
If you have a good voice, singing is another great musical aid to improving lung power. Singing requires immense control of one's breathing, making it an excellent complimentary activity for aspiring breath-holders.

