 Humans are highly susceptible to “emotional contagion,” which happens when we pick up on the emotions of those around us and begin to feel the same way.In other words, you’re likely to feel the same way that the people around you feel. Researchers have found that support, compassion, and kindness from others impacts our brains and sense of well-being.Surround yourself with friends and loved ones who support each other and don’t judge others based on shallow and artificial ideas.


Ask for a hug! Making physical contact with people you love releases oxytocin, a powerful bonding hormone that can also boost your mood., Some people may make hurtful comments about your appearance without even realizing that they have been unkind. Others may say hurtful things because of their own insecurities. Stand up for yourself when these things happen. Calmly tell the other person how s/he has hurt your feelings and ask him/her to stop. If s/he does not, avoid that person. You don’t have to put up with judgment or unkindness from others.Bullying about one’s appearance is unfortunately common. If you are the victim of bullying, harassment, violence, or other abusive behavior, report this to the appropriate authority figure, such as your school counselor or HR rep at your workplace.
 While you don’t need anyone else’s validation to be beautiful, hearing love and support from people you trust and love can be helpful.Talk to a trusted friend or loved one about how you’re feeling. Ask if s/he has had a similar experience. You may be able to support and encourage each other., Practicing compassion toward others can help you feel happier and healthier.The next time you’re feeling down about your own appearance, make an effort to say something kind to someone else. Tell them what you would hope to hear yourself. Practicing kindness toward others can also help you extend it to yourself.As it turns out, beauty really is as beauty does. Studies have shown that people who are kind are more likely to be rated as physically attractive than unkind people.Other studies have shown that people who appear to be empathetic are more likely to be rated as sexually attractive., If you wait to live your life until you “feel” beautiful, you could wait for a long time. Your brain may have gotten very good at convincing you that those criticisms and judgments are true. Practice behaving as if you already feel beautiful. It turns out that you actually can “fake it till you make it.”For example, if you are worried about your body image, buy something that you would like to wear but don’t feel confident in. Wear it out somewhere. Repeat to yourself a positive phrase, such as “I am strong and beautiful. This outfit enhances my natural beauty and I feel good.”
Examine how you feel. What did it feel like to tell yourself you were good enough? Did you enjoy the experience?
Look at others’ reactions. You may have expected criticism or even disaster. And it’s certainly possible that some people will judge you. However, you may be surprised to find that when you tell yourself that you’re worth love and acceptance, others will often accept you too.
 Sometimes, the pressure to conform to society’s standards of beauty can cause deep wounds. It may also trigger illnesses such as eating disorders. If you’re struggling with negative thinking about yourself, a counselor or therapist can help by teaching you how to combat those unhelpful ways of thinking and finding ways to live a healthy and happy life.Eating disorders are on the rise, with up to 30 million people in the U.S. suffering from one.If you feel unattractive or dissatisfied with your appearance, you may be more at risk for developing an eating disorder. Eating disorders are severe medical conditions that require treatment.If you frequently experience depression, feeling guilty about eating or your appearance, feeling “fat,” feeling unable to control what you eat, feeling obsessed with the type or quantity of food you eat, or feeling worried that you will gain weight, seek the help of a mental health professional immediately.