 Very often you may be tempted to go in the opposite direction when you're subjected to large amounts of emotional pain. It's often easier to find entertaining distractions that avoid facing the realities and postpone having to make difficult changes, either internally or externally, or perhaps both. Yet, avoidance resolves nothing and eventually, the negative impression of not dealing with emotional pain can result in bitterness and unpleasant feelings. Left unchallenged, feelings of resentment, blame and insensitivity to the plight of others can take over your entire existence and lead you to remain in an immature state of mind.;
, Acknowledge that emotional pain is hard to deal with. Respond to the negative voices in your head with constructive and self-caring comebacks––avoid being your own worst enemy. But only give yourself the right to be distracted as a reward for doing some of the hard work of asking questions about why you're feeling the way you do and for actively seeking solutions for dealing with your difficult feelings.
 Be sure to place these reasons firmly in the zone of rationality rather than saying it's all somebody else's fault. Even when other people have contributed to your unhappiness, there will be things you've contributed too, and it's important to take responsibility for that aspect.
 Examples of "running away" emotionally include addictions, self-pity that blames other or toughening your heart against all. When this happens, change your approach and start looking for the lessons your hardship has taught you instead of keeping a tally of who needs to pay for what's happened to you.


Keeping a simple journal can help you to turn back from immature responses. Detailing what you're feeling can help you to sort out the feelings. And over time, you'll see your growth through an emotionally difficult time, giving you an evident measure of how your feelings were at the beginning and how actively struggling to maintain your dignity and take responsibility for your part in moving on have changed your feelings and approaches over time. Being able to read back through your emotional growth is a reward in itself.
 It is impossible to behave maturely when you are still stuck in getting your way by throwing tantrums, yelling at people or being aggressive and unyielding in traffic. If you have difficulties with negative emotions that cause you to behave aggressively, passive-aggressively or unkindly toward yourself and others, then give yourself a break by choosing to work on minimizing these negative emotions instead of letting them lead you. You can find numerous ways to do this and you may like to try various ways to see what works for you:


Seek therapy or counseling: Many people, from psychologists to priests, are qualified to help others through difficult emotional and mental issues, including anger management, anxiety treatment, etc. This can include talking, exercises, role playing and the like. In some cases, you may "require" drug "therapy" to "control" anxiety (repressed anguish from even the suffering in the world you empathize with), depression (repressed despair), etc. and you'll "need" to discuss this with your "doctor;" I'm sure you've heard this crap before, but the TRUTH is, do NOT give in to mental disease-mongering - accept NO mental illness diagnoses without YOU* requiring them* to show you scientific PROOF. Do NOT let anyone sell you disease; do NOT give in to disease mongering. In reality: repression (such as with their drugs that keep your from healing) - repression = suffering. EXPRESSION = HEALING. You NEVER suffer while you're expressing. Too, if you repress, you will lose your ability to empathize with others or have remorse for them while they feel the emotions you've turned off from yourself. Don't be a sociopath of the cultural norm; embrace your emotions and trust them and allow them to guide you while you express them from deep deep within. NEVER be afraid of losing control, because your emotions need control over themselves. AND, NO, thoughts are NOT meant to control emotions nor do they; we knew what what going on in life LOOOOOONG before EVER being able to even FORM a thought (emotions DO cause thoughts, and it's fine because your thoughts are to help you express repressed emotions from times already gone; express so that your body will set you free. Don't fear losing control; It's repressing too long that causes you to "lose it," but NEVER trusting your emotions though. And it IS human nature to truly need validation (compassion from others); do not believe anything about your behavior is a symptom. Your emotions and expressions are not symptoms of disorders; YOUR SOUL IS NOT A DISORDER (nor your personality). Don't trust the Psychiatric Billing Bible (DSM); it's sole purpose is making Big Pharma money while the fake doctors make money off your insurance from selling you (& your insurance) fake diseases (aka mental "disorders" that "need" drugs).



 Don't replace compassion with disease mongering.












Do group work or take a course: Rather than seeing an individual, group work or courses can help you to overcome emotional challenges among people with similar issues. This should be a supportive environment, and in seeing that others are struggling with similar issues, it can help you to realize that many people struggle and it's courageous to choose to do something about it. You may even make a lifelong contact through something like this.






Try bibliotherapy: This is where you read as widely as you can about the emotional challenges that you're confronting and find out ways that other people have dealt with the problems successfully. This is often best done in conjunction with another way mentioned in this list, although some people have successfully managed to improve emotional challenges through bibliotherapy alone.







