 Physical signs that you are suffering from stress will help you diagnose the problem. Heed these signs so that you can take actions to rejuvenate your body and enjoy the holiday season. Some of the physical signs to watch for include:


Tight muscles. Stress hormones can cause your muscles to contract for extended periods of time.
Shallow breathing. When your body is in fight-or-flight mode, your breathing quickens and you become more alert.
Headaches. Not all headaches are caused by stress, but if they consistently surface in difficult moments, they may be stress headaches.
Lack of energy. If your body is maintaining its stress response over a period of time, you will suffer from a lack of energy to put toward other activities, such as spending quality time with family and friends.;
, Get a good number of restful hours per night, or the sleeplessness will become a vicious cycle: the less you sleep, the more you need; the more you need, the less time you have to prepare for and appreciate the holiday season, and the more taxed you will feel.


Ensure that you have 7 to 8 hours of uninterrupted sleep every night. Leave last minute tasks for tomorrow. Avoid getting bogged down in holiday planning and responsibilities.
Set aside an hour or two of "winding down" time before you drift off. This will help your body prepare to enter the sleep state. Avoid electronics and noisy environments right before bed. Enjoy the crackle of the fireplace instead!

, Nutritious eating is a powerful measure to ensure your body's ability to handle stress. Stay away from sugar, fat, and caffeine. Instead, opt for foods with high fiber content and carbohydrates, such as baked sweet potatoes. Fruits and vegetables are also a good choice.


Avoid eating as a stress management tactic. This can lead to guilt and health problems associated with overeating. With all the great food circulating around during the holiday season, this is an especially important caution to take.
 Many people love to appreciate the holidays with a glass of eggnog. Moderate amounts of alcohol may temporarily relieve stress and increase enjoyment, but research shows that alcohol can also prolong stress-related tension. Consuming a reasonable amount (1-2 drinks) is usually safe and may even confer certain health benefits, but be careful and consult your doctor if you have concerns.
 Engaging in physical activity releases endorphins: the chemicals in the body that promote good feelings. Choose an activity you like and are likely to stick with; almost any form of exercise will do the job. If the gym is closed for the holidays, try running outside!


If you have health concerns or haven't exercised in a while, consult your doctor first.
Finding a workout buddy will increase the enjoyment factor.
 In the middle of everything, remember to breathe. Allow your body a moment of relaxation; let your body do what it naturally does. Practice deep breathing techniques to keep your calm amidst the holiday chaos.


Take a deep breath, allowing the air to fill both your belly and your chest. Count to three, and then exhale. Repeat this a few times until you feel your body begin to unwind.
Breathe normally, while counting your breaths. You can use "one" for inhales and "two" for exhales, or you can go all the way to ten. This focusing technique will drown out stressful outside influences.
 A stressed mind can really dampen holiday cheer. Stress affects people's minds differently, but take note of these common symptoms and find out if you should make intervening efforts to relieve yourself from stress's draining emotional and cognitive effects.


Irritability: you find yourself becoming irritated by relatively insignificant annoyances and inconveniences.
Altered sense of humor: things you would normally find funny fail to make you laugh.
Forgetfulness/poor memory: your mind is distracted to such an extent that you make careless mistakes and forget details.
Racing mind: your thoughts are speeding by and you're unable to slow down and appreciate what's going on around you.
 The commotion of the holiday seasoning can be too much for some people. If you are under a lot of pressure, take a step back and remove the stressors from your immediate environment. Some of the things you might benefit from include:


Leave the stressful environment behind and find something that makes you laugh. You aren't obligated to spend every minute of the holiday season with family. Watch your favorite comedy or talk to a funny friend.
Meditate. Meditation has been shown to reduce anxiety and tension, as well as promote new perspectives on life and increase self-awareness.
Write your feelings down. Research shows that keeping a journal is cathartic and people who regularly record their thoughts visit doctors less often. Journal about your holiday experience so far and what you want to happen in the immediate future.
Try progressive muscle relaxation techniques. These are great techniques for helping your body and mind to let go of negativity. Find some time to try them out between gift shopping and preparing the holiday meals.
 Sometimes you may need a little help getting into the holiday mood and appreciating the season on a deeper, more meaningful level. Try these activities to help you enter into the holiday head-space:


Bake cookies. It may seem trivial, but baking is a creative process for many people that produces something tangibly delicious and also allows us an expressive outlet.
Focus on family and friends. Gifts can be an enervating part of the holiday season, but try focusing less on the material aspects and more on meaning: community, discovering your true desires, and more.
Make your gift-giving meaningful. Instead of buying prepackaged, generic gifts, try crafting or creating your own. Specialize the gift to the person, make it personal.
 Some perfectionism is healthy if it means being goal-oriented and striving toward things that are meaningful to you. However, there is also "neurotic perfectionism," where people sabotage themselves from experiencing joy and other positive emotions. The media may construct an image of the holidays as a conflict and stress-free wonderland, but real life is more nuanced:


Pursue realistic goals. There's nothing wrong with the desire to achieve certain goals, but be sure to analyze your expectations. It's okay to make mistakes now and then. If you're involved in planning holiday events, allow yourself some slack to make errors and have things not come out totally flawless.
Celebrate success. Recognize your achievements rather than glossing over them. Write about them in your journal! Use the holiday downtime to reflect on what you've achieved over the course of the year.
Practice feeling gratitude. Gratitude is something that can be cultivated by focusing on what you have to be thankful for. Again, writing entries in your journal is a good idea. Spending time with family and friends during the holiday season is a great time to be aware in this sense.
 Not everyone enjoys the holiday season, and that's okay. If you are feeling overwhelmed or sad, own it. You're under no obligation to act differently than you feel. Research suggests that avoiding our emotions is actually the source of many psychological difficulties. Avoid making things worse; accept how you feel.


Tell yourself that the emotion isn't bad. It's where you are, it's what you're feeling in this moment. Even if it hurts, it won't last forever. Think of it as an interesting experience, approach it with curiosity and openness.
 Some level of disagreement and friction is normal. Avoid stressing over the small stuff:


Pick your battles. Avoid arguing over things like who sits where at the dinner table.
See the bigger picture. Adjust your perspective. Your sibling may be irritable for reasons other than you, so avoid taking it personally.
 Family conflict is a universally common occurrence. There are several reasons why family social structures create the conditions for a variety of minor, and not so minor, forms of hostility. Learn these reasons to better understand your place in the structure and give in less to predictable, repeating patterns of interaction:


People notice and remember small differences in personality more than they do similarities. These small, recollected differences can create tension when you've lived with the person for many years.
Cumulative annoyances are the basis for a lot of interpersonal conflict. Small grievances can explode into full-blown hostility over years of close proximity. Family systems are the perfect environment for these "social allergens" to grow.
Siblings and parents/children are both prone to the same kind of conflict over things like competition for limited resources and personal eccentricities.
 Forgiveness is a powerful activity, contributing positively to overall happiness, health (including stress), and the harmony of relationships. Use these steps to forgive and let go of old conflict patterns:


See the positives. Has arguing with your sibling made you a more assertive person? It may seem counterintuitive, but seeing the good in the bad helps you move toward forgiveness.
Generate empathy. Try to imagine what would cause the person to behave rudely to you. Maybe they feel jealousy about a perceived instance of favoritism by other family members. Understand that people lash out for a reason.
Think of forgiveness as self-care. As mentioned, forgiveness grants a lot of positive benefits to the forgiver, emotionally and in terms of overall health. Forgive is positive for everyone involved.
 Develop a toolbox of skills and attitudes for coping, when conflicts do arise. These steps can form the foundation:


Listen to what they have to say. Practice effective listening. For instance, summarize the points they have presented, and then go beyond that by asking clarifying questions.
Collaborate. Adopt an attitude of compromise that's equally respectful of your needs and the needs of the other person. Search for the "win/win" option. Incorporate both of your insights into problem-solving endeavors.
Attack the problem, not the person. Keep it as impersonal as possible. Avoid dragging personal insecurities into it, so that people don't feel a need to defend themselves.
 If you aren't feeling a particular planned activity, give yourself a pass. Conserve your time and energy for the most important events. Over-planning and creating a hectic schedule can muddy your holiday season. This way you can avoid regret and keep yourself on track for doing what you actually want to do.

