 Topical creams and ointments can reduce the visibility of psoriasis significantly.


Use salicylic acid. Salicylic acid works by regulating the shedding of psoriatic scales, although too much salicylic acid over too large an area can lead to nasty side-effects.
Try steroidal ointments. Steroidal ointments are remarkably effective in decreasing inflammation, relieving itching, and halting the overproduction of psoriatic cells. Steroidal ointments are the gold standard of psoriasis treatment.
Use calcipotriene. Calcipotriene, related to vitamin D, is also effective in treating psoriasis, particularly if combined with corticosteroids. Use only in moderation, however.
Try retinoids. Retinoids contain a synthetic version of vitamin A, but are overall less effective and slower than some steroidal ointments.
 Phototherapy, or light therapy, in combination with topical ointments to deliver light to the skin where symptoms are present. Patients usually receive light therapy three times a week for three months. This combination method has been proven to be effective and preferable by patients in numerous studies, although it comes with an increased risk of skin cancer.
 Oral medications can be taken in tandem with topical medications to halt the overproduction and skin cells, which is emblematic of psoriasis. These oral medications include:


Methotrexate. Although this is a chemotherapy drug, methotrexate has been shown to produce dramatic turnarounds in patients with psoriasis.Because it can cause significant side-effects, blood tests need to be administered regularly by any consulting doctor.
Oral retinoids. Oral retinoids, like topical retinoids, contain a synthetic variant of vitamin E. For women, however, these medications need to be taken in combination with birth control for three years after initial treatment because of possible birth defects.
 Although scientifically verified medicines are often the most effective treatment options for people with psoriasis, natural remedies may provide certain benefits. Try the following:


Aloe-vera. Aloe-vera performed slightly better than a placebo in a medical test measuring psoriasis treatment.Fish oil. Taken orally, daily fish oil supplements may provide some relief of symptoms.
Bath solutions. Epsom salts, Dead Sea salts, oatmeal baths, and mineral oils can be mixed in a bath for a full-body treatment.
Cayenne pepper. Capsaicin, which gives the pepper its distinctive heat, is also used in many analgesics. Capsaicin applied to the skin may help reduce itching and skin lesions in people with psoriasis.

