 On average, the people who tend to struggle the most with their first days are people who spent too much of their summer indoors and relaxing. While summer should be about having fun and letting loose a little, you should also try to stay active and busy over the course of the summer. There are lots of ways you can go about doing this:



Getting a summer job is a perfect way to stay on your feet. Not only will you be keeping in the swing of proper routine and getting worthwhile experience; you'll also be making some good money while you're at it. Having an extra coin in your pocket will help ensure your summer's as good as it can be.
Joining a sport for the summer is a fun way to spend long hot days, and you'll become more fit as a result.;
, The people who struggle with school the most at first are those who weren't learning over the summer. Learning itself doesn't have to be boring! You can learn about anything you want, whether it's films, history, or avant-garde cinema. Simply keeping your brain in the habit of learning will give you an extra advantage when it comes to going back to school.


If you're keen on getting the best grades and know what classes you'll be taking in advance, you should research some of those course topics in advance. That way, you'll already be a bit of an expert on the subjects before they're even brought up!

, Most schools enroll students based on their catchments, or where they're living. If you have any friends living in the same neighbourhood as you, chances are they'll be going to the same school! Make a point of nurturing stronger bonds with those friends. Spend part of your summer with them, and grow closer. While there's always bound to be some anxiety going into a first day of school, having friends around that care about you makes it much easier.
 Arguably the most important thing you can do in preparing for your first day is making sure you have all of the equipment you need. The types of materials you'll need will vary from class to class. A lot of high school classes will have some sort of online webpage that will post the recommended materials you should bring. Print off a copy for each list of materials and take them to an office supplies store. Certain things, like pens and paper, will be used for virtually all classes, so you can buy a single stack for use throughout your school year. Here are some things you'll almost certainly need for your first day:


A backpack with comfortable shoulder straps.
A sturdy binder, filled with ruled paper.
Pens (red and black) and HB pencils.
Spiral-bound notebooks; one for each class you're enrolled in.
A pair of scissors.
A scientific calculator and graphed paper, if you're doing Mathematics.
A small vial of hand sanitizer.
A portable USB drive, for saving computer work.
 Arranging some reliable transport is a necessary step. It's very important there isn't any question of how you're going to get to school on your first day; things are going to be stressful enough as it is, and you don't want a simple mix-up to get in the way. There are a few likely ways you can get to school:


If you live close enough, you can always walk to school. It's also a good way to exercise and encourage some oxygen flow before your day. Walking will help your stress if you're feeling anxious at all.
You can ask your parents to drive you. Even if they won't always be able to drive you, getting a quick ride over will help make the day as smooth as it can be.
Most schools operate some kind of bus service. Taking one of these buses will bring you right to the school, and you might make some friends on the way!
Joining a carpool is eco-friendly, and a safer bet than constantly relying on your parents.
Public transport is also another eco-friendly option, which can save time and money.
 When you go back to school, you won't have as much time for things like cleaning. Give your room a good tidying; that way, you'll have something clean and relaxing to come home to the next day.
 Especially if you're worried about making a good first impression, choosing the right outfit on your first day can be a nerve-wracking experience! Luckily, you should have lots of time to choose the day before. Find your favourite clothes and lay them neatly beside your bed. That way, you won't be in a rush trying to figure out what to wear.


Any fashion advice depends purely on you at your personality. Ideally, you'll want to wear something casual, comfy, and clean.
If you haven't done so already, it's a good idea to give your outfit a wash in the laundry.
If your school enforces a uniform policy, there are still things you can do to accessorize. Adding buttons or frills to a uniform can give it some zest. Just make sure you're not breaking any policy rules by modifying it!

, You've probably heard similar advice before. While many people are fine with five or six, you're going to need eight to succeed in the coming day, especially if you're looking to make a good impression.Getting enough sleep is even more important if you're 16 or younger! Your body needs more time to rest while it's still growing.


If you've been staying up really late throughout the summer, it is recommended you start to get your sleep schedule on track up to a week in advance of your first school day. That way, you'll have a much easier time adjusting to the new routine.
If you're having trouble getting to sleep, stay away from lit screens and electronics. Try reading a book instead. You'll start to feel tired naturally that way.
 If you've given yourself a proper night of rest, this shouldn't be a problem at all. Set your alarm to give yourself at least an hour to get ready. Drink a fresh glass of cold water. After sleeping for 8 hours, your body will be in need of hydrating, and drinking cold water will give your body a jolt of energy to get you through your morning.
 Have a nice, long shower. Make sure you're clean and look reasonably well-kept. After your shower, put on the outfit you chose the night before. If you decide at the last minute you want a different outfit, you can open your drawers and try something new. Just make sure to watch the clock; you want to give yourself ample time to eat breakfast, and you don't want to risk being late for your first day!


If you have bad skin and want to fix it, you can buy a good toner and skin cream.Applying a skin cream for at least a week should make most of the problem go away.
 There's no underrating what a strong, healthy breakfast can do for the rest of your day. Make sure you incorporate some fruits and vegetables into your breakfast, as they'll be the things that give you energy.Sugary cereals are okay, so long as they're only part of the overall breakfast.


If you're feeling groggy, coffee helps in a pinch. Be sure not to drink too much, however, as an overdose of caffeine will leave you with anxiety and headaches.
 The quickest thing that can hurt your first day is being stressed out over being late. To make sure that doesn't happen, aim to be at school at least fifteen minutes before your first class. This will give you time to find out where your classes are, and you might even spark a conversation with a new friend. Some schools don't count being late for the first week of school.
 Find your class and get there. Once you sit down, be sure to bring out all of the materials you're going to need for the class. If the teacher hasn't said anything so far, a notebook and pencil should do just fine. While you're waiting for the class to start, you can take the opportunity to get to know the classmates around you. Chances are they're feeling some anxiety as well, so getting to know each other may prove to be mutually beneficial.
 Ask questions. Be an integral part of the class. The most important thing you'll want to accomplish with your first day is making a precedent for future great days at school. This includes fostering connections with teachers and classmates, asking questions if you have any, and keeping good notes.


It's a good idea to keep each course's syllabus safe in your binder. There will be times later on in the year where you'll undoubtedly need to reference them. Keep them somewhere you can easily find them, so you can save yourself the embarrassment of having to ask for them again!

, Everyone is technically there to learn, but school is an amazing place to meet friends. Some of the friends you meet at school, you might end up having for the rest of your life. No time's better for meeting people than your first day, so come into the classroom with a smile, and don't be afraid to strike up conversation with other classmates.


If you have social anxiety, being extra brave on your first day and making friends is a good way to help break out of your shyness. You'll soon find the vast majority of the people around you are potential friends you haven't bothered talking to yet!

, School clubs tend to start early in the year, so it's a good idea to look around at billboards. Most schools have lots of great clubs, and no matter what your interests are, you'll find at least a few are catered to an interest of yours? Do you love music? Join the school choir or guitar club. Do you love the cinema of Akira Kurosawa and Lars von Trier? The school's film club might be perfect for you. Clubs are a great way to nurture interests you already have, and a perfect outlet to meet people operating on a similar wavelength.


If you're really interested in something there isn't already a club for, you might want to start a school club yourself!


, While it may sound like too much to handle at once, you should remember that a first day at school should ultimately be a fun experience. You are surrounding yourself with people you'll be spending much of the next year with, and there's no reason why you shouldn't have fun spending time with them. Learn to overcome the anxieties you're feeling, and remember to wear your best smile throughout the day.
 There's nothing like finally coming home after your first day at school. Your first day will feel strangely long compared to other days, largely because of how many different things and people you'll have been exposed to at once. Make sure to treat yourself. Snuggle up and watch your favourite film. Better yet, ask a friend you met earlier that day to hang out and do something together. Relax and feel good; you've made a great start to what should be an amazing year.

