 If you have successfully managed to pay off leases and utilities for several months to a year, you have some record of financial responsibility, even though you do not have official credit or a credit score. If you can contact these creditors to ask for official verification of your financial record with them, you will be that much closer to proving your financial responsibility to a potential lender.


For major loans, like mortgage loans or car loans, try to make sure that you have at least one rent or lease payment to show.
As a general rule, try to have at least four alternative credit tradelines
Ask each creditor or institution for a letter on official letterhead indicating your name and account number. Ask them to state that your account has been "paid as agreed for the last 12 months."You can also provide copies of your latest utility bills to show that your accounts and responsibilities are currently paid in full.
 A hefty down payment improves your chances of securing a loan, with or without credit. If for no other reason, it means that the amount of money you need to be approved for is lower, thereby improving your chances that an institution will be willing to take a risk on you.


A good down payment will also suggest to potential lenders that you have the means to pay off a loan as well as the ability to save and put money toward a purchase.
You should try to have a full 20 percent down payment.
 Statements from your employer and bank statements can indicate to a potential lender that you have the financial means to make consistent payments and pay off your loan.


Provide copies of your financial documents, including documents that reflect your savings, income, and monthly debts. Most lenders will want to see that your monthly debts will not be any higher than 36 percent of your gross monthly income.
Ask your current employer for a letter on company letterhead stating your position, how long you have worked for the company, and your current salary. Lenders are more likely to be encouraged if you have worked at the same company for two years or longer since it indicates some sort of financial stability.
 As you go through the process of trying to secure a loan, you can start building a little credit history through official means. It may be deemed insufficient by some lenders, but if you can back up a baby credit history with other records proving your financial responsibility, it may carry more weight.


Establish a checking or savings account. Bank statements can be used to show lenders that you are responsible with your money and have not overdrawn your account.Apply for a credit card. Gas cards and department store cards are usually the easiest to get, followed by credit cards offered by a bank and connected to an account. You can also get a secured credit card, but you will need to make a deposit on the credit account to get one.

The card issuer must report to a credit bureau if you want to use the card to build a credit history.



