 As you prepare to talk with your parents or in-laws about new official parenting guidelines, it’s important to make sure you are providing them with the right information. Doing some research and talking with your pediatrician beforehand can ensure that you are fully informed.


You might ask your child’s doctor, “I know many guidelines have changed over the past several years and decades. I want to make sure the grandparents have the most updated information. Can you provide me with some materials or point me to some authoritative resources?”
Authorities on childcare in the United States include entities such as the American Academy of Pediatrics, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the National Institutes of Health. Refrain from taking information from products or services that claim to prevent sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) or other problems. Follow guidelines as set forth by trusted entities only.;
, Have the talk about new parenting guidelines as soon as you bring your baby home from the hospital or, at least, before you allow the grandparents to provide care. Emphasize the seriousness of abiding by these new guidelines, as failing to do so can be harmful for your child.


You might say, “Mom, Dad…we wanted to talk with you about some updates regarding what’s best for the baby. We know, years ago, it was okay to put the baby down on his stomach or even sleep in the bed with him. To reduce the risk of SIDS, the American Academy of Pediatrics now recommends that the baby sleep alone on his back in a crib or co-sleeping attachment in the room with us. The bed shouldn’t have any pillows or bedding that can trap them or cause suffocation. Never let the baby sleep in the bed with you or on a couch or chair. Do you understand?”For older children, you might include addition instructions for riding in the car. “Old advice said it was okay to turn the car seat around after the first birthday, but that’s no longer recommended. Until he reaches age two, the car seat needs to be rear-facing.”, You want to repeat yourself often to ensure you got the message across. Therefore, it’s a good idea to ask if the grandparents have any questions, so that you can clarify anything that is not clear.


Say, “We want to make sure you understand how important it is to follow these policies. Do you have any questions?” Let’s say, your mom asks, “Is it okay to swaddle her?” Use your research to answer such a question: “Yes, swaddling is fine as long as it is not so tight that the baby can’t breathe or move her hips. I’ll show you how.”, New rules take some time to get used to for caretakers as well as kids. A visual reminder like a list can help grandparents remember what you’ve asked them to do differently. Print out a “cheat sheet” of the newest parenting guidelines and give it to them when you leave your child in their care.You might also keep a cliff-notes version of these guidelines on your fridge or in the nursery in your own home, so that your parents or in-laws can see them when babysitting at your house.
Keep your list concise. Focus on the most important guidelines you want your kids’ grandparents to follow, and leave the less important details off to minimize overwhelm or confusion.

