 This'll help if you're stuck in a long traffic jam and get hungry, and it's honestly a pretty good time waster, too. Try to bring food that won't make a mess in the car! Avoid jams and other sticky condiments, or any crumbly pastries or crackers.


If you're drinking anything sugary or sweet, be careful of spilling; if you can opt for a bottle with a sports top, do!;
, If you're a passenger of the car, and you have been stuffed in a serious traffic jam where the cars aren't moving at all, just roll down the window or even open the door (if you're not moving at all, and it's safe to do so), and take a breath beside your car for a second. This should help you in the following.


This can help you feel better if you're carsick, and give you a literal breath of fresh air. Making you feel better if you were car sick. If it's safe to get out, it also gives you an opportunity to stretch your legs. Keep safety in mind, though, and don't attempt to get out unless traffic is at a total standstill and has been for a long time.
 Playing a road game is a great way to get rid of the boredom. If you haven't played any road games before below are some pretty popular road games that are fun and enjoyable for everyone!



Punch Buggy is a fun and very popular road game. Where you punch (lightly) your friends/family in the arm when you see a punch buggy car, while yelling out "punch buggy" or "slug bug!"

I Spy is another very popular road game where you say "I spy with my little eye something that is..." and you say the color of the object you've chosen, and the others have to guess what it is.
Name that tune is not really popular, but really fun to play! The way you play this is, the "Chosen one" starts to sing or hum to a song and the others have to guess, and the first one to guess the name of the song wins!

, Do you like to read, crochet, knit, color, or do any other hobbies with materials that are easy to transport? Bring them along and get some done while you're waiting.
 There are plenty of other things you can do while being stuck in a traffic jam! Some of the ones below are not just fun, but productive too!


Ask the driver to go to a good radio station and start calling in and get involved, or call all the radio stations and dedicate some songs to people.
No matter who’s watching you, sing along to the song on the radio at the top of your voice and dance around in your seat to the song! (Let's face it, you’re never going to see people in the jam again are you?)
Strike up a conversation with the person in the car next to you! (Pretend you know them and start by saying: “I haven’t’ seen you ages!”)
Take selfies.
Work on your to-do list.
Read a book.
Go on social media sites.

