 Your carbon footprint is your impact on the earth's atmosphere measured in the CO2 emissions intrinsic to your lifestyle. Become aware of the various "externalities" that lie beyond every choice you make. Think about the story behind your stuff: the various complex factors that have gone into the production, distribution, and sale of every single commercial product that you consume.Remember that you don't need to bring your carbon footprint to absolutely zero to make a difference. Ever little bit helps.
 There are a number of small steps that you can take to use less electricity in your everyday life. Turn off the lights when you leave a room. Do not leave appliances plugged in and running unless you absolutely need to do so. Remember that electricity is a luxury.


Open the windows. Use fresh air and sunlight for a free, natural source of cooling, heating, and light. Consider whether you truly need the lights and the A/C on during the day.
Avoid leaving devices plugged in when you aren't using them. Turn your computer to sleep or hibernate mode when you don't need it on.
 Don't let the tap run, keep showers short, and try to avoid unnecessary consumption. Practice the "if it's yellow, let it mellow" rule. Generally aim to be conscious of how much water you are using.



Collect rainwater for watering gardens and lawns. Install timers on sprinklers to limit water usage. Put in water-less urinals.
 Try walking, bicycling, or taking public transportation. Carpool with friends, family, and coworkers, when possible. If you must own your own vehicle, then explore the possibility of hybrid-electric cars and scooters that allow you to burn less.


Consider using Internet-based ride-sharing networks to match with strangers who are seeking or offering rides. Try https://rideshare.org/, Zimride, or Craigslist Rideshare.Adjust your expectations. Many methods of transportation are much slower and less immediately convenient than driving a car. This does not mean that you cannot find value in them. Do your work or read a book on the train; look at your bicycle commute as a workout; use a carpool to connect with your coworkers outside of the office.
 The Internet has made it much easier to avoid using paper for everyday tasks. Challenge yourself to switch to digital solutions for your bills, receipts, and correspondence. Pay bills online and ask for digital receipts in shops.


Communicate over the Internet. Use email, e-cards, and social media to keep in touch with people. Physical correspondence holds a certain nostalgia for many people, but it is not the greenest way.
Change your newspaper and magazine subscriptions from print to electronic. This way, you can get all of the content with none of the waste.

