 Meanwhile, prepare a baking sheet by covering it with parchment paper., Place the flour, baking powder, sugar, and table salt in a food processor. Pulse the ingredients several times to combine them.


If you don't have a food processor, you can still prepare this recipe by hand. Whisk the dry ingredients together during this step until they seem thoroughly combined.
 Add the 3 Tbsp (45 ml) melted butter, vegetable oil, and water to the dry mixture in that order, pulsing well to mix in each new ingredient immediately after you add it. Continue pulsing until the dough forms a smooth ball.


When adding the water, drizzle in a little at a time and pulse after each addition.
If you're mixing the dough by hand, add the butter and oil at the same time, then mix in the water a little at a time. Continue until a smooth dough forms.
 Remove the ball of dough from the food processor and cover it with plastic wrap. Let the dough rest for 5 to 10 minutes.
 Turn the dough out onto a clean, lightly floured work surface. Use a rolling pin to flatten the dough to a thickness between 1/16 and 1/8 inch (1.5 and 3 mm).
 Using a sharp knife, cut the dough into individual crackers measuring about 2 inches (5 cm) in length or diameter.


To create conventional butter crackers, consider cutting the crackers using a fluted biscuit cutter. You can also use cookie cutters of various shapes.
 Use a fork or toothpick to prick the surface of each cracker several times. Doing so should make it easier for the crackers to bake flat.


Use a flat spatula to transfer the crackers to your prepared baking sheet. Arrange them so that they are close but not quite touching.
 Place the crackers in your preheated oven and bake them for about 10 minutes, or until turn golden brown across the entire surface.You should not need to flip or turn the crackers as they bake.
 As soon as you remove the crackers from the oven, brush them with the remaining melted butter and evenly sprinkle them with the coarse salt.
 Transfer the crackers to a wire rack and allow them to cool to room temperature. After they cool, the crackers are ready to eat.


You can store extra crackers in an airtight container kept out at room temperature. They should last between one and two weeks.

