 Try your best to create an inviting environment for your students and yourself! High or low temperatures, hard seats, and poor lighting don’t make for a great learning environment. Remember that your goal is to create a space for students to perform their best.If your classroom has windows, let some natural light and fresh air in. Keep the room at a cool temperature. If it is too hot or too cold, students may start to complain and get distracted from the their classwork.
Create an area with a rug and pillows or beanbags to rest on. This could be reading area or a resting area for students who need a break. Pillows and other comfortable items work best in elementary school classrooms.
Bring in plants to add some life to the room.;
, It is common for teachers to arrange desks in rows that face the front of the room. This is a good seating arrangement if you want students to work individually or take a test. Group work and student interaction, however, is to be expected in a modern classroom. Think about the type of activity you will be doing in your lesson and arrange the desks in way that facilitates that activity.


If you plan to have students do any kind of group work like creating a poster or having a discussion, set the desks up in small clusters of four or five students.
Maybe you want students to be able to talk to a partner, but most of the lesson involves facing the board. Try setting up the room in rows, but set the desks close to each other so that they are touching. Create two aisles so that the classroom resembles a theater.
 It is important that the teacher is able to move around the room easily. This communicates that you are in charge of the entire room, as you can easily approach a student’s desk to check their work or correct behavior. This also makes it easier to talk privately with a student if necessary.Move around the room during your lesson. It helps to have big walkways so that you can move from the front to the back of the room easily. You can do this if desks are arranged in small groups, neat rows, or a large circle.

