 If you have an older computer or one that doesn’t have much memory, this might impede on your beat making. Macs are typically considered to be the better option for music making apps, and are naturally geared towards creative work right out the box.Don't underestimate the importance of choosing the type of computer that you are most comfortable with. The goal is to make creating beats feel like second nature, and Windows computers are more than capable.Look for a computer that has at least 2 GB RAM, or random access memory. This is temporary storage within your computer that dictates how fast your computer runs.
 A DAW is a program used for editing, mixing, recording, and mastering digital audio files. This is what you'll actually be using to record instruments and add effects. While every software has its advantages, you need to keep in mind your specific needs while choosing one. Remember that your computer can also dictate what DAW you are able to use. GarageBand and Logic Studio, for instance, are only available on Apple computers.


Take your budget into account. This is most likely going to be an investment that you'll use for years to come, so consider if saving up a few extra hundred dollars will help you get the software of your dreams.Consider your experience level. Pro Tools will be hard for beginners to comprehend, and if it's too daunting, you might give up prematurely. On the other hand, experienced beat makers might not find all the bells and whistles if they go with a beginner's software, and learning Pro Tools or Logic brings you to near-pro status once you've gotten over the learning curve.
If you find using the mouse tedious and find yourself more inclined to use knobs, faders, and buttons, then you'll need to purchase an external controller or MIDI. Just like your mouse would, the knobs on a Midi device control pitch, tempo, volume and more.
 It may be difficult for you to hear the detailed music you're creating without some high-quality speakers.Studio monitor speakers make your music creations sound as accurate as possible because they are tuned to a flat response. Unlike other speakers which tend to emphasize bass or make notes sound fuller, these speakers will be consistent and precise. However, this means that the speakers don't color your creation in any way, so while you may not think it sounds good at first, you'll be able to recognize where you need work.


Active monitors already include a built-in amplifier. Aside from saving yourself from needing to purchase external equipment, this amp is made to ensure the best performance. Serious audiophiles, however, likely want an external receiver or amplifier. If this sounds too complicated, just stick to a set of speakers and don't worry about the amp.
You want speakers with at least five inches woofers., While you can definitely make many beats with little more than a computer and speakers, you're going to up plenty of new doors if you invest in more precise music equipment. At minimum, you should consider:



Keyboards: Keyboards allow you to input notes straight into the computer. You can then assign these notes to any sound or instrument you want, making a keyboard invaluable for melody making, or even drumming (if you set the keys to drum sounds).

Drum Machines: These let you assign a sound to a set of pads you can then hit like real drums.

Microphone: You can record voices or raps, but also record any sounds you hear otherwise to incorporate into the beat.

MIDI Controllers: MIDI controllers give you the ability to adjust rhythm, drums, loops, tone, and beats with complex but powerful controls. This is the level of precise control needed for professional sounding beats. 