 Place a large water bath canner or pot on the stove. Place a wire rack in the bottom of the pot and fill the pot about three-quarters full of water. Bring the water to a boil. To sterilize the jars, you can either place several half-pint (250 ml) jars in the pot so they boil along with the water or you can run them through the dishwasher.Keep the jars warm while you're preparing the syrup or fruit.
 Put new lids that have a fresh seal into a small pot. Cover them with water and turn the heat to medium. Let the lids simmer while you prepare the syrup. This will soften the lids so they create a good seal with the jars.You won't need to sterilize or heat the bands. Just have clean bands out on your work space.
 Set the warm, empty jars on a kitchen towel on your work space. Place a funnel in the jar and use a ladle to carefully fill the jars. Leave 1/2 inch (12 mm) headspace at the top of the jar. Remove the funnel and use a clean cloth to wipe around the rim of the jar. Repeat this until you've used all of the syrup.Keep in mind that if you aren't able to completely fill the last jar, you'll need to store it in the fridge and use it within several weeks. If you have more than 1/2 inch (12 mm) headspace, there will be too much space in the jar to safely can the syrup.
 Carefully lift the warm lids from the small pot. Place a lid on each jar and screw a clean band on it. Avoid screwing the band on tightly or the air in the jar will not have a way to escape while it's processing. The band should only be fingertip tight.You may want to use a kitchen towel to handle the jars since they will be hot.
 Turn the heat to high on your water bath canner and gently lower the filled jars into the water. They should set on the wire rack and the jars shouldn't be touching each other. Bring the water to a boil and put the lid on the pot. Process (boil) the jars for 10 minutes., Turn off the heat and use a jar lifter to carefully pull the canned syrup out of the water bath canner. Place the jars on a kitchen towel on your work space. Let the jars cool completely. Check the seals the next day to ensure that the jars were processed correctly. You can store the jars of syrup for up to one year.Remember to check the seals before you open the syrup.
Touch the center of the lid to test the seal. If it springs back or is flexible, the jar is not sealed properly. You could also look at the lid at eye level. It should bend down slightly in the center. If it's flat or bulging up, it's not sealed properly.

