 Cable exercises allow for a more natural range of motion. They are excellent for eccentric training because they involve a great range of motion, which helps pack on muscle.Focus on the eccentric phase of cable exercises. Try integrating the following four cable exercises into your eccentric routine:Standing cable chest press.
Standing cable pull-throughs.
Low-to-high chops.
Single-arm, single-leg row.
 Place your hands slightly wider than shoulder width apart on the ground in front of you. Put your feet at hip width apart on the ground behind you. Keep your whole body straight.Slowly lower yourself to the ground. It should take you ten seconds to reach the ground. Then, push yourself up with a burst of energy. The concentric phase should be one second.Try two sets of ten eccentric pushups.
 Get into starting position, with your feet slightly wider than hip width apart. Slowly, lower your knees towards the ground for a count of ten seconds. Then, push yourself back up towards the starting position. The concentric phase should last one second.Perform two sets of ten squats.
 Hold the barbell with your palms facing down. Bend your knees and move your whole torso slightly forward. Keep your back straight. Breathe out and lift the barbell towards you.The lifting phase should last one second. Then, lower the barbell for a count of five., Kneel on the ground. Secure your ankles and engage your core. Let your arms fall to your sides and look straight ahead.Breathe in and then gradually lower yourself to the ground. Keep your core engaged and your torso straight.Finally, press yourself back up to the starting position.Ask a partner to hold your ankles for the duration of the exercise.If you are training alone, you should find a low bar or railing. Place your ankles underneath the bar, so that you will be supported during the exercise.
If you can’t find a partner or a bar at the gym, you could use barbells. Place your ankles underneath the barbells. You will need heavier weights of at least thirty-five pounds.
 You may want to try the band-assisted nordic, especially if you are having a hard time lowering yourself slowly during the last stages of the eccentric movement. To get the benefits of the full range of motion, tie a band to a piece of weight lifting equipment behind you. Hold it with your hands as you perform the nordic lift.The resistance from the band will allow you to lower yourself slowly and receive the benefits of the full range of eccentric motion.

