 Big shoulders became a hot fashion as more women found themselves entering the workplace. A square-cut suit jacket with heavy shoulder pads looks 1980s-professional, while a blouse or dress with thick shoulder pads works well for more casual looks.;
, If shoulder pads aren't your thing, consider an oversized sweater, sweatshirt, or blouse. Look for one with a broad scoop neckline. Solid colors work best, but you may also consider a top with a gaudy geometric pattern.
 Denim mini-skirts work especially well, but leather and knit materials may also look fine. If selecting a colored skirt, go with a hot pink or other bright, neon color.
 These work especially well beneath mini-skirts and oversized sweaters that come down to the mid-thigh or lower. Look for solid colors or patterned tights with spots, stripes, textured lace, or other embroidered designs.
 These pants are made of a stretch knit fabric that tapers down toward the ankle. At the ankle, the pants have an elastic "stirrup" strap that fits under the heel. Choose a pair in any color or pattern, from black to neon orange.
 Look for an old pair with bleach marks or holes. Cut-offs with ragged edges also look appropriate for a classic 1980’s look.
 This trend was especially popular in the early to mid decade. In the 1980s, leg warmers could be found in wool, cotton, and synthetic fiber blends. They came in a variety of colors, with brighter colors favored over duller, neutral hues. Wear leg warmers with nearly any bottom, whether you choose a mini-skirt or skinny jeans.
 The shoes have a semi-transparent, glossy sheen, and were often infused with glitter. Most jellies were flats, but some had low heels.
 Adult women wore heels with the majority of their outfits, whether professional or casual. Select a pair of pointed toe sling-backs with a high, slender heel. Go with white or black for a versatile option, or consider a bright yellow or pink if you want to play on the loud, neon-colored reputation of American 1980s fashion.
 In addition to heels and jellies, teenagers and young women also wore sneakers and boots with many of their outfits. Consider a pair of thick-soled, black lace-up boots. Wear the boots with nearly any bottom, from mini-skirts to acid wash-jeans.
 In general, popular jewelry during this decade was gaudy and large. Earrings were especially in vogue, however. Look for diamante or pearl earrings, preferably in gold. Dangle earrings that brush your shoulder or collar work best.
 No American 1980s look would be complete without big, teased locks.


Take a section of your hair by the crown of your head.
Comb downward toward the scalp in short strokes.
Spray hairspray near the roots of the section you just teased.
Repeat the initial teasing process with a section of hair beneath the first section to give your hair a bump.
Repeat the entire teasing process with the rest of your hair.
 Do not be afraid of over-applying. Cosmetics in the 1980’s were notoriously noticeable.


Trace around your entire eye with black eye liner.
Apply mascara.
Wear bright eye shadow. Choose a bold color and consider wearing contrasting shades at the same time.
Apply heavy blush to your cheekbones.

