 During the winter months, your rabbit will need to stay warm. You'll need to make certain adjustments to his hut to make sure it's hospitable for your rabbit.


If possible, the easiest adjustment you can make is to simply move the hutch somewhere warmer. If you can bring it indoors or to a heated garage, this is ideal.Check for any gaps in the hutch's wall. It's not uncommon for rain and other weather conditions to wear down a hutch. Wood may also be old and rotting. If you see any damages, apply rabbit-safe wood protectant coating. You can also line the hutch with newspaper to keep cold air from entering through any gaps.If your rabbit hutch has mesh doors, cover them in clear plastic wrap. This will allow your rabbit to see through the hutch doors while preventing air from entering. However, leave a small gap towards the bottom for proper ventilation.;
, You want to insulate your rabbit's hutch during winter. To do this, place sheets of newspaper and a warm blanket on the roof. Then, cover in an outdoor tarp. Not only will this trap heat and keep the hutch adequately warm, it will prevent snow or rain from falling on your rabbits., Rabbits need warm beds year-round, but especially in the winter. There should be some kind of box in your rabbit's hut with an entry hole the rabbit can climb in and out of. You can buy a rabbit bed at a pet store or online. You can also make your own out of a cardboard box.


During winter, line the floors and walls of a rabbit's bed with newspaper. This will help insulate the bed and keep your rabbit warm.Place a lot of bedding material in the sleeping area. You can use dust-free hay as bedding. Avoid giving your rabbit a blanket in his bed. Rabbits may chew on blankets, which can cause intestinal blockage., When it comes to keeping rabbits warm, straw is one of the best materials. Place straw throughout the cage. Pack straw towards the edge of the hut, adding insulation, and place a bit of straw inside the rabbit's sleeping area. Make sure to change straw every few days. Rabbits may urinate on the straw and you do not want your rabbit sleeping in dampened material.