 Secret Stones are nifty little things that enhance certain skills for its assigned weapons. If you buy even the cheapest ones, the small boost to your weapon’s signature skill is considerable. There are Secret Stone Merchants in every city and town, and you can find them by searching the world map for a blue icon resembling a crystal with a white X.
 Talk to the merchant and pick the “Show me what you got for sale.” option. The regular, low-level secret stones from the merchants in the town are worth about 200 Silver a piece.


At higher levels, you can buy better, but more expensive Secret Stones from the Masters at the Military Hall in Navea, found in the furthest northeastern area of Navea, at the side of the huge building in the Military Hall. You can buy the Secret Stones for both weapons and armors from them for some Gold.
At level 65 and above, you can find Secret Stones in the high-level versions of Instance Dungeons in Crescent Hill, Cactakara Forest, and Demareach Mines. Do note that you need a party to enter these Instances, however.
 To embed a stone in your weapon or armor, simply choose the “I want to embed, extract or upgrade a Secret Stone” option when you talk to the Secret Stone merchant, click the “Inlay/Extract” tab, and place the weapon you want to embed the stone in on the top slot. Place the stone to embed on the bottom slot, and then press the “Inlay” button.


If you want to take out a stone, place the weapon on the top slot and the Secret Stone in the weapon will show up in the bottom slot. The “Inlay” button will become an “Extract” button. Press this to remove the stone from the weapon—just make sure you have enough slots in your inventory first!

, You can even upgrade these Secret Stones by selecting the “I want to embed, extract or upgrade a Secret Stone” option, placing your chosen weapon’s Secret Stone on the slot on the middle, then placing Secret Stones and consumable Secret Stones (Secret Stone of Despair, Glimmering Secret Stones, Shining Secret Stones, etc.) on the slots at the bottom and press “Refine.” Best part is that it’s free!


Do note that levelling up the Secret Stone boosts not only the bonus effectiveness of the move, but also some stats depending on the prefix of the stone you got when you bought it.

