 When you experience a panic attack, your breathing changes and becomes shallow and quick. This can lead to feelings of lightheadedness or chest tightness. Deep breathing is an effective and quick way to take control of your symptoms. Focusing on deep breathing can make your body experience an immediate sense of calm.You can use deep breathing when you begin to feel anxious or experience fear around a panic attack. Block any thoughts you have and instead, put your attention on your breath. Begin lengthening your breaths and breathing more slowly.;
, Pick up a new activity that can help you relax and wind down. This can help you take a few steps back and help you to clear your head and calm your thoughts.Take a daily class or set aside time each day for specific activities. Especially if you have a hectic work or school schedule, go straight to something that calms you after your workday is done.


You can try yoga, qi gong, tai chi, progressive muscle relaxation and meditation.
 Music can have a calming effect and help you to cope with stress and anxiety. If you want to reduce stress and anxiety, listen to slow classical music.Listen to music you enjoy that helps induce a sense and feeling of calm.


Binaural beats are a type of rhythm that can help induce certain brain states. They’ve been shown to help reduce anxiety when listened to in the delta/theta range.They are usually paired with soft, soothing music. Learn more about binaural beats by checking out How to Meditate With Binaural Beats MP3s.
 One of the major ways to treat panic disorder involves attending therapy. Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) is often the approach of choice, as it teaches you to notice and respond to your thoughts and behaviors. A therapist will help you examine the thoughts and behaviors that lead up to panic attacks and those which sustain or prolong the attacks. Together, you can work on changing the inner dialog to reduce and eliminate the attacks.Often, the fear of having another attack keeps people from living a full life. For example, if you fear having an attack at work, a therapist may ask you, “What’s the worst that could happen? You may need to excuse yourself for a few moments and come back when you feel more composed.”

, Some people are fearful of the possibility of a panic attack. For example, you may be more afraid of the thought of having a panic attack while speaking in front of a group and not being able to get help than actually fearing speaking in public. Exposure therapy can work with helping you to control your physical symptoms (such as elevated heart rate, sweating, and shallow breathing) in a safe and supportive setting. Working with a therapist, you will gradually begin to control these responses and not let them get out of control and turn into a panic attack.Exposure therapy should be performed by a qualified therapist and not on your own.
 Biofeedback therapy is a natural way to stop the cycle of anxiety. This therapy includes monitoring the physical signs of your anxiety, which may include changes in brain wave activity, heart rate, temperature, and breathing.In your therapy sessions, you will take on small challenges to practice bringing your anxiety under control, such as by using deep breathing and other relaxation techniques.
Through these sessions, you will learn how to identify the signs of your anxiety and how to manage them effectively without the use of drugs.
 While panic disorder is often a psychological diagnosis, sometimes medical causes can mimic symptoms of panic attacks. It’s important to take any medical causes seriously. Ask your medical doctor about medical problems that may be the cause of the symptoms.Some medical causes that can look like panic symptoms include low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism), and minor problems related to the heart, such as mitral valve prolapse. Stimulants (such as amphetamines, cocaine, and caffeine) can also cause panic symptoms.
 Expanding your knowledge about panic disorder can help you lower your distress and is one way to support yourself. Learn about anxiety, panic disorder, and panic symptoms. It can be helpful to recognize typical symptoms of panic disorder and realize that you’re not “crazy.”Learn about the sensations, thoughts, and feelings that contribute to panic disorder.
Many people experience the “fight-or-flight” response that your body creates to deal with potential danger. Recognize that this is a good response to danger, but can also be triggered in non-threatening situations and can contribute to panic disorder.
 If you feel alone in your experience or that having panic disorder is something you can’t talk about with those close to you, a support group can be of great benefit. You can meet with people who also experience panic disorder and not feel isolated or alone. A support group can provide information, mental health referrals, and advice about how to manage panic disorder.The support often doesn’t just occur within meetings. Some support groups offer telephone or email support, or use a buddy system to pair people together in support.
 Don’t be afraid to reach out to friends and family. If you feel overwhelmed, call up a friend or family member.You may feel embarrassed or scared to tell people about problems with your mental or emotional health. Remember that these are people who care about you and want to see you happy.


Your friends and family members want to support you.
 Exercise is an excellent way to control anxiety naturally.If you are prone to anxiety, then try to get at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity every day, such as walking, biking, swimming, or taking an aerobics class.


You may also benefit from adding more activity during your regular activities, such as walking or riding your bike to work, parking further away from entrances at stores, and taking the stairs instead of the elevator.
 If you experience anxiety and panic symptoms, it’s best to stay away from substances that can provoke symptoms.Avoid tobacco, coffee, and caffeinated beverages. Avoid stimulants as well, which can be a part of diet pills or cold medicines.


Because many symptoms from panic attacks are bodily symptoms, take care of your body and treat it well.
 Eat and prepare healthy meals that support your overall health. Foods can affect your mood and emotions, so make sure you get your vitamins and nutrients to balance your mood and healthy functioning.Avoid skipping meals and have snacks on hand when you need them.You may want to keep some nuts or dried fruit in your car if you get hungry while driving.
 Get plenty of sleep each night. Most adults need 7 ½ to 9 hours of sleep each night, and children need up to 13 or 14 hours each night of sleep, depending on age.Especially if you are stressed, your body needs more sleep.For more information about building good sleep habits, check out How to Sleep Better.
 Some people use a supplement called inositol. Inositol influences serotonin, which can help with the frequency and severity of panic attacks. Like all supplements, consult with your physician prior to use. Discontinue use if you notice negative or uncomfortable side-effects.