 Ask her how it’s going, and if there are any ways that you can be of help. If your mom has made the decision to quit smoking, that’s just the first hurdle. Ending her smoking habit will take lots of time and effort. Be sure to listen to her struggles and reassure her that they are perfectly normal.


Reward or celebrate her achievements along the way. Incentive-based smoking cessation programs are highly effective, and can definitely give your mom great motivation to quit smoking. Track her progress, whether she goes without smoking for one month or just one day, ensure that she feels supported and encouraged.
Promise to do a few extra chores or help out more around the house for each milestone she reaches. If she goes a full week, tell her that you will mop the kitchen floor. After two smoke-free weeks, dust the living room, etc. Be creative, and perform duties that she will really appreciate.
Make an agreement that she will have to place a certain amount of money into a jar each time she smokes a cigarette. Research has shown that people are likely to quit smoking when it is associated with losing money. , Mothers often have so much to deal with on a daily basis, and it is possible that her smoking could be related to stress. Try taking on some of the tasks that she may perform so that she is able to relax and decompress throughout the day.


Make dinner a few nights a week.
Treat her to a spa day, or nice massage.
When she seems agitated, take her out for a short walk. A bit of physical activity can help to lift her mood., Getting your mom involved in activities such as exercise, yoga, meditation and healthy eating can help to shift your mother’s perspective regarding her health. Those who have healthier lifestyles and routine self-care are much less likely to smoke tobacco or engage in any other harmful habits.


Introduce your mom to mindfulness practices which have been shown to reduce smoking rates by creating an awareness of addictive behaviors, and developing techniques to overcome them such as, recognizing her craving for smoking, understanding why she may want to smoke at that moment and choosing to make a different decision.Many yoga programs include specific poses and deep breathing exercises, which can alleviate stress, improve blood circulation, increase oxygen to the brain and ultimately help with smoking cessation. Helpful poses include the cobra pose, child pose, bridge pose and triangle pose.
 If you believe that there are underlying mental health factors that may be contributing to her smoking addiction. It may not be a bad idea to suggest that she seek professional counseling. Many addictions are prolonged by co-occurring disorders such as anxiety, depression or genetic disorders.Oftentimes, treatment of the underlying problem can help one to rid themselves of any addictions which may have been lying beneath the surface.

