 It should be on the right side of the task bar, right next to where the time and date are displayed.;
, This will bring up a menu that says things like: Playback devices, Recording devices, and Sounds.
 You will get a pop-up on your desktop that says "Sound."


Click here to continue.
 You will get a drop-down menu that says things like: "Search," "Start," and "Settings."

, You will get a side menu that says things like: Control Panel, PC Info, and Help.
 This will bring up the Control Panel pop-up on your desktop.
 It should be on the left-side of the pop-up.
 It can be found under the "Sound" section. Once you click on that, you will get a pop-up that says "Sound."


Click here to continue.
 You can do this by clicking on the "Start" icon on the lower-left side of the task bar. You can also click the "Start" button on your keyboard; it is located on the bottom left. It looks like a white window.
 This will bring up several results, including one that says "Settings."

, This will take you to a new screen.
 You will get a new pop-up on your desktop that says "Sounds."


Click here to continue.
 There will be several tabs along the top of the Sounds pop-up, including: "Playback," "Recording," "Sounds," and "Communications."

, You may have only one microphone showing, or you may have several. If the microphone you want to use is not showing up in the list, try one of the following:


Make sure that the microphone you want to use is plugged in, and that it's in the correct jack socket. The color of the socket may vary; it should have an icon of a microphone right next to it.
If you are on a laptop, you will likely have a microphone already built into your computer; however, you can still plug in a higher-quality one.
Right-click one of the microphones from the list, and make sure that the "Show disabled devices" is checked. This should bring up all of the microphones available.
, This will now be your active microphone.


You can also select "Set as default communication device." This means that you'll only be able to use the microphone to chat with other people in programs, such as Skype and video games.
If you want to make recordings on your computer, then select "Set as default device."

, You can also breathe into it, or tap it.
 This means that the microphone is picking up noise. You may notice that more green bars appear the louder your talk. If the microphone you want to use is not showing any green bars, you will need to configure it.


Make sure that the microphone you are using is set as your default.
 This will bring up the "Microphone properties" pop-up.
 When you bring up the "Microphone properties" pop-up, you will notice several tabs along the top, including: "General," "Listen," and "Levels." Make sure that "Levels" is selected.
 You may notice two different sliders: "Microphone" and "Microphone boost." Go to the "Microphone" slider, and move the arrow to the right, until the number "100" shows up in the box beside it. Click "Okay" to return to the sound pop-up.
 You should now see some moving green bars each time that you talk. Click "Okay" again to save your settings.

