 Before you send your email of interest, use the information you gathered to write a preliminary draft. This will help you ensure that your email sets the right tone and is comprehensive.


Avoid putting the recipient’s email address into the “to” field so that you don’t accidentally send the draft until you are ready.
An email of interest won’t be as long as a formal written letter. It should be between three and five paragraphs in length. If you write anything longer, the potential employer may not read the entire text and could miss vital information about you.The tone of your draft and letter should be professional, yet personable.A brief introduction should state your name, the job for which you’re applying or types of positions that might interest you, what prompted you to contact the company, and that you feel you could significantly contribute to the company and its mission.
For example, you could write “My name is Christopher Smith and I am interested in working at Brand Marketing, Inc. After hearing positive reviews of your company with colleagues, I would like to inquire if you have any positions in your advertising department. I feel my qualifications and experience could significantly contribute to Brand Marketing’s mission.”
The body of the email can be 1-3 paragraphs and should discuss your qualifications and experiences, specific skills, and achievements. You can also address how you could benefit the potential employer and point the addressee towards an attached resume.You should close by thanking the company for considering your possible employment, a time at which you will contact the addressee to follow up, and how the company may contact you.For example, “Thank you for considering my employment at Brand Marketing, Inc. I will contact you to follow up on Monday, September 8 at 1:00 to discuss potential opportunities. Please feel free to contact me at any time by email or phone. My phone number is (555) 555-5555.”;
, When you’re drafting and later revising your email, you want to make yourself as attractive to a company as possible. This can help your potential employer get a better sense you and it may also present a more positive image of yourself.Use verbs such as collaborate, cooperate, and promote.Use nouns such as team-player, asset, and responsibility.Use adjectives such as reliable, intelligent, good-natured, diligent.You can put these words together in phrases such as “I collaborated on a marketing project and was a significant asset in my company gaining several new clients. Being a team player was integral to devising my company’s current successful marketing campaign with a Fortune 500 company. This work had a significant impact on raising our company profile and annual profits.”, You want to sell yourself as best as possible while being honest about your qualifications. There is a fine line between honesty and exaggeration and you want to avoid this so that potential employers don’t find your email disingenuous.You don’t necessarily need to say you are the best unless they actually are. Instead, consider writing something like “My current employers have called me one of the most responsible and collegial co-workers with whom they’ve had the pleasure to work.” When assessing your technical skills and abilities, you can write something along the lines of “I am among the top 5% of brand managers in my field based on sales.”

, Once you’ve drafted your email, revise the text to strengthen it and iron out any areas that need additional development. This will also allow you to copy edit the email for any spelling, punctuation or grammatical errors.


Make sure your revised draft has the appropriate components of an introduction, body, and closing that are honest, incorporate positive vocabulary, and present the best picture of you possible.Consider reading the letter aloud to hear possible mistakes and help ensure that it sounds professional.Make sure that the information you provide in the letter is tailored to a specific job or the company., Once you’ve completed your draft, you’ll need to include the proper greeting and closing to your email. Using the right format can make you seem professional and like someone this company would want to hire.Your greeting should say Dear “Ms. Smith” followed by a comma.If you cannot locate the name of the person in charge of hiring, you can use “To Whom It May concern” followed by a colon.If the person has a gender neutral name and you can’t figure out their gender or preference, err on the side of caution and use the full name in the greeting. For example, it’s better to say “Dear Chris Smith,” than writing Dear Ms. Smith to a Christopher Smith.
Your closing can say “sincerely” followed by a comma. If you want to jazz it up a bit, consider writing “I look forward to hearing from you” followed by sincerely.Make sure to include your name and any relevant contact information underneath it such as telephone number or address.
 If you’ve mentioned that you will attach a resume to your email, add the file and any other relevant files you would like. This can help the prospective employer get a better sense of you and your qualifications.


Make sure to update and proofread your resume before sending it to a potential employer.
 In order to send the email to the company or HR representative, you need to address the email. Having the proper email address for the person or company can help ensure it is directed to the proper person.If there is more than one email address that may apply, consider adding them in the “to” field.
You may want to blind copy yourself to make sure the email successfully sends., Before you send the email, read over the text one final time. This can help ensure that you haven’t made any mistakes or omitted important information.

