 You can start by asking your parents or grandparents questions about your ancestry. Then, you may be able to conduct an internet search or get your genealogy completed online. Figuring out where your family came from can give you a better idea of who you truly are.


If you are African American, your family may have come to this country during times of oppression and slavery. Remember that you are only here today because they survived these times and had children who carried their heritage onto the next generation, who also had to fight to continue their family. You are their legacy. You are what they fought to preserve for over 300 years, in a society that did not value the lives of black people. That is definitely something you should be proud of.
If you are a dark-skinned person from another country of origin, learn about your people's ancestry. Ask your parents and grandparents to tell your stories about your family history so that you can better identify with your race and culture.
 Changes in attitude towards blacks only occurred because of the brave people who stood up for the rights of themselves and others. They did not accept their fate as outcasts and demanded the respect they--and you-- deserve. Inform yourself about these historical figures from America and beyond, such as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Nelson Mandela.


Find modern, present-day writers and bloggers who are carrying on this fight to learn what’s happening today in terms of racial activism. Some examples of writers may include Ta-Nehisi Coates, Claudia Rankine, and Black Girl Dangerous.
 If you have trouble being proud of your black heritage, it may be due to the negativity that is frequently repeated in the media about people of color. Oftentimes, the good is not highlighted, only the bad. To counteract this, find meaningful contributions of black culture that you enjoy.Do you like African-American, Haitian, Jamaican, Somalian (or some other form of black culture) fashion, music, food, or dancing? You can represent pride in your heritage by taking on one of these positive contributions of the black culture that you like. Or, you can learn more about the history of these cultural symbols to gain a sense of pride.
 Being proud to be black can be especially challenging when you are one of few in a certain profession, geographical location, or other group.Furthermore, this can be difficult when blacks are being portrayed negatively in the media. When your race is not being represented at all, or is being negatively represented, it may seem easier to adopt the habits of whites, who are more socially accepted.


It can be very uncomfortable to stand out. However, you must overcome the desire to fit in if it means disowning who you are.

