 This map is divided into 9 squares, each one representing an important aspect of balanced life. You can use this map in each room of your home to help you know what to place where. Specific spots in the room and specific objects have best possible energies, and the map helps you determine those spots. There is simple version of the map with just the names of the sections, and a more complicated version which gives examples of what all is represented by that section.Align the bottom portion of the map with the door/entryway to the room. Arrange the things that apply to each section on the map in the proper place in your room. In the lower left, place books which represent wisdom. In the middle right, which is “child” and represents creativity, place a musical instrument you play or a place where you can paint.;
, It will take time and careful consideration, but if you want to apply feng shui properly, you need to give the process the proper time. Understanding the map and learning what each section represents is the only way you can apply it properly. Some versions of the Bagua map will have slightly different titles than these listed, but the basic idea of each section is intact.Lower left: Knowledge and growth, which can apply to learning and studying, investing in spiritual wisdom and faith, and personal growth.
Lower-middle: Career and work success, which focuses on success in current jobs, getting promotions, moving to new careers, and achieving goals.
Lower-right: Travel and helpful people, which applies to safety in travels, relocating to new places, seeking people who will help and mentor you in life.
Middle-left: Family relationships and health, which means investing in the strength of your family, expanding your social life, and being committed to personal health.
Center: Self or well being, which seeks to achieve harmony with yourself and environment, promote health and overcome illness, increase endurance and vitality.
Middle-right: Child or creativity, which represents unlocking creativity, bettering communication and building the future.
Upper-left: Wealth and power, which seeks prosperity, generating cash flow, and promoting abundance.
Upper-center: Reputation and fame, which seeks public attention, becoming well known, and creating a strong reputation.
Upper-right: Love and marriage, which includes improving relationships, attracting love, and increasing self-esteem.
 This map is a guide for what parts of the room are best for certain objects. It’s very important that you do your best to include something for every section because feng shui is all about creating balance. So if you load one section of the room, maybe the wealth section with ledgers and your piggy bank, but you neglect another section, you will upset the balance of the room.Maybe you don’t have a specific object, or enough space, to place something in every section. Something you can do instead is write down on a piece of paper something you care about which represents that or something you desire that represents that section. This can be a stand-in for the actual object.
It’s also important to note that sometimes due to room or house layouts, parts of the map may be missing or partial. You can symbolically apply the feng shui to the wall where the missing section would be. Just make your intent for the missing section clear when you place something there.
 If you have broken objects around the house, especially things that you use frequently, they are likely to cause you frustration, which leads to negative energy in your home. To counteract this, it’s highly advised that you fix things as soon as they break to promote calm and good energy., The five elements of life are fire, water, earth, wood, and metal. Good feng shui in any room or home means having a mix of these elements. Most rooms will have a few of these already, depending on the structure of the room and furniture present. Look around your room and see what elements are already present and consider ways to add the remaining. Candles are the easiest way to add fire to any room.Faucets already bring running water, but in rooms without faucets, consider buying a small fountain which can constantly be running water.
Plants are a great way to add earth to a room.
If you can’t easily incorporate something physically made of the element, hanging a picture that represents the element is a good alternative.
 The door to the home is where the energy flows in, so make sure you use the front door as much as you can. If you typically enter through a door besides the main one, consider purposefully using the front door a few times a week to keep good energy flowing in. It’s hard to maintain good energy throughout the house if the door is always closed.
 If you are having trouble understanding the principles of feng shui, or your particular home is not cooperating with your endeavors, consider hiring a professional who can give you advice on how to apply feng shui to your specific living space.