 In many cases, type 1 diabetes is first diagnosed in the emergency room, when children are admitted in a diabetic coma or diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). Though it can be treated with fluids and insulin, it's best to avoid this altogether by consulting your physician immediately if you suspect your child may be diabetic. Don't wait for your child to pass out for a long time thanks to DKA in order to have your suspicion confirmed. Get your child tested!Symptoms that require immediate medical attention include: loss of appetite, nausea or vomiting, a high temperature, stomach pain, fruity smelling breath (likely you can smell it but your child won't be able to smell it themselves)., If you suspect that your child might have type 1 diabetes, get evaluated immediately. To diagnose diabetes your doctor will want to request a blood test to assess how much sugar is in your child's blood. There are two possible tests, hemoglobin test and a random or fasting blood sugar test.Glycated hemoglobin (A1C) test — This blood test provides information about your child's blood sugar levels over the past two to three months by measuring the percentage of blood sugar attached to the hemoglobin in the blood. Hemoglobin is a protein that carries oxygen in the red blood cells. The higher your child's blood sugar levels, the more sugar will be attached to the hemoglobin. A level of 6.5% or higher on two different tests is indicative of diabetes. This test is the standard test for diabetes assessment, management, and research.Blood sugar test — In this test, your doctor takes a random blood sample. Irrespective of whether your child just ate or not, a random blood sugar level of 200 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) may indicate diabetes, especially if it occurs with other symptoms. Your doctor may also consider taking a blood test after requiring your child fast overnight. In this test, a blood sugar level from 100 to 125 mg/dL indicates prediabetes, while a blood sugar level of 126 mg/dL (7 mmol/L) or higher on two separate tests, your child has diabetes.Your doctor may also request a urine test to confirm Type 1 diabetes. The existence of ketones, which emerge from the breaking down of fat in the body, in the urine is indicative of Type 1, as opposed to Type 2.The presence of glucose in the urine also indicates diabetes.
 Once the tests are completed, your doctor will use your child's blood test results and the American Diabetes Association (ADA) criteria to diagnose diabetes. Following the diagnosis, your child will need close medical follow up until their blood sugar has stabilized. Your doctor will need to determine the right type of insulin for your child as well as the appropriate dosage. You will likely need to consult an endocrinologist, a specialist in hormone disorders, in order to coordinate your child's diabetes care.Once the basic insulin treatment plan for managing your child's type 1 diabetes is set, you will need to schedule checkups for your child every few months to repeat some of the above tests to make sure your child's blood sugar levels are satisfactory.
Your child will also need to have regular foot and eye exams, since these are often places where the symptoms of poor management of diabetes are seen first.Though there is no cure for diabetes, technology and treatment have developed to such an extent that most children with type 1 diabetes live happy and healthy lives once they know how to manage their diabetes.

