 A punk skater depends a lot on his or her style to achieve his look, but is also known by his or her attitude. To be a punk skater you need to be confident, edgy, bold, and able to defend your look. Punk skaters are often known for their taste in punk or rock music, so consider going to concerts and discovering new music. As you skate you can also wear headphones and listen to music to show that you are all about the punk life.
 Stark colors like red and black and violent images like skulls and blood are classic skate-punk wear. Punk band tees are especially appropriate for this look. Punk skaters like to set their own style, so be creative and original with your clothes. Visit a thrift shop for some cool, vintage tees.


Another alternative to tees is wearing tanks. You have to be pretty confident to pull this look off, but some punk skaters wear tanks to create an edgy look that allows them to show off their tattoos.
 Punk skaters are known for black, edgy clothing and hair. If you really want to achieve a punk skater look, consider dying your hair black and styling it with gel in a mohawk or wearing it long, over your eyes. You can also throw in a few colored streaks to your hair if you really want to stand out., Modern punk skaters tend to wear tight jeans, usually in a dark color like black. Make sure that the jeans you choose have some elasticity in the fabric so that you can still do tricks. Some punk skaters like to wear baggy, knee-length shorts, usually in black, so choose whatever clothing is most comfortable to you and gives you the best range of movement.
 Like most other skaters, punk skaters usually wear the typical skater shoes, with a flat sole and good grip. These shoes normally come in a lot of different colors, but you'll probably want to stick to neutral colors like black or dark grey. To go for a more retro, punk look consider wearing converse.
 Punk skaters don't wear a lot of bling, but they do appreciate spiked jewelry, like belts. You can also wear an earring or two for an even more edgy look. Punk skaters really like to stand out with their tattoo art, so if you really want to go for the look, consider getting a tattoo sleeve.

