 This is a matter of personal preference, but since you can choose between any photos you have taken with your phone camera and images you have downloaded, you may want to search online for an image you enjoy to use as your screen saver.


Some image files may not display on your phone if you do not have the right software or if the file type is not supported by your phone. In this case, you will have to convert the image to a different file type.;
, Unlock your phone if necessary, and navigate to your home screen. From here you will be able to access the main menu of your phone and change your screen saver image.
 You can usually find this button next to the home button below the screen of your phone.It is represented by an image of several sheets of paper stacked on top of each other. Pressing this will open a menu with a list of options.
 In the menu, you should see an option labeled "Settings." The icon will be shaped like a cog, and by tapping it, you will open your phone settings menu.
 Depending on the model of Samsung device you have, you will see either "Display" or "Device" in your phone settings list. From here you will be able to access your phone wallpaper options.
 Now that you're in your wallpaper settings, you will have to choose between changing your lock screen or your home screen. Your lock screen is the screen you see when you turn on your phone, where you input your phone password when it is locked. The home screen is the image behind the icons of your phone home screen.
 This can be a photograph of a friend, a loved one, or an image you have downloaded from the Internet and saved to your phone. Once you have chosen your image, you will have to adjust it to your liking by cropping its boundaries.


Cropping an image usually entails manipulating a white box around your image to define its boundaries. If there is anything or anyone you would like to crop out of your screen saver, you can do so by pressing the small manipulator boxes located on the perimeter larger white box and sliding your finger in the direction you wish to move the boundary.
 You can verify your home screen simply by hitting the home button; your new wallpaper should be in the background. To check your lock screen, put your phone in its stand-by mode. When you activate your phone again, the lock screen should appear with you your updated image.

