 It would actually be better if you cut it yourself, since not many hair salons know how to do scene hairstyles. Make it layered with side bangs. Many professionals don't get that you want it to be choppy and not tapered around the face. If you would like, you could use a razor to get the choppy look. If you really want/must go to a salon, Bring a picture of the hairstyle you think would fit you best from a magazine that you think is "scene" enough. Better yet, print out a picture from online of a scene kid, And show them that.;
, Wear clothes you already have that just might fit into 'scene': shirts with cartoon characters on them, stripes or polka dots, skinny jeans (if you don't have any try putting normal jeans into the dryer a couple of times when they aren't wet), and colorful accessories. Bangles and beaded necklaces are great! You can find lots of stuff like that at the dollar store. If you really don't have anything that you would consider scene, shop at secondhand stores where things aren't too expensive.
 Just wear anything you can find that doesn't come off too easily. Mascara and eyeliner work great, and if you don't have them, colorful eyeshadow will work too! Also you can use black eyeshadow as eyeliner like the girl in the picture did.
 Listen to punk rock, alternative rock, etc. Don't listen to too much hip-hop, and try staying away from country music. Do not go on music sharing sites! Your computer may catch a virus and if it catches one you then you may face huge problems. Popular bands include: Black Veil Brides, All Time Low, Never Shout Never, As I lay dying, Escape the Fate, Chiodos, Aiden, Paramore, etc... anyone that might be playing at Warped Tour.
 Dig up your childhood things. Wear old crazy sunglasses, paint your nails black or neon green, hot pink, or other bright colors like yellow. But with your kiddie stuff...be careful, because there is a fine line between tacky and Scene Crazy (which is what you want).
 For $10 you can get a decent pair of clear lens glasses (for that cool nerd look) or a good pair of stunners. Or, find some big sunglasses and punch out the lenses! Works perfectly!

, As long as you have the music part down; you're already halfway there!

, Scene kids love to mix it up and add their own touch to clothes. So check them out! there is a lot of unique stuff to find.
 Lots of stores have short sales that you can keep your eyes peeled for.
 If there is a killer pair of skinny jeans that you just can't live without, splurge on that then hold back for a while on the spending.
 Are the skinny jeans you're holding in your hand $32? Is that cute shirt you're eying $20? Is that brass knuckles necklace $12? Well, when you're on a budget, it's more than you should pay for one piece of clothing or an accessory, so put them back. Some stores WILL charge that much for a pair of jeans or a shirt. So, while this may sound crazy, it will make much more sense when you see a pair of jeans at the mall for $15+, but find the same brand at Goodwill for only about $4-5.
 Confidence is the one scene trait that is free. So go out there and don't let anyone judge you. Also, if you can laugh at yourself and poke fun at the stereotypes, it'll help to boost your self-confidence. (e.g. Go to a show and be all, "Have you guys seen my friend? He's in a 3OH!3 shirt, dark skinny jeans, has snake bites and a pierced septum, and has anime hair that would put Yu-Gi-Oh to shame. Have you seen him?")

, People label each other as a nice shorthand description (NOT to judge you or put you into a box), and it happens all the time, so get used to it. This goes double if you are making yourself over so as to get the look. Besides, it doesn't make much sense to dress Scene and listen to the music but deny that you are Scene. Basically, if you can admit to being Scene without going around and saying you are just to get attention, you won't be a poseur. Remember--there IS a difference between labeling and judging.

