 Brushing is important and it shouldn’t be skipped or rushed. When you brush, do so for at least two minutes. This will give you time to thoroughly clean each tooth.Replace your toothbrush when it gets worn out. After about three months the bristles get permanently bent and they don’t clean as well — in fact they get also sharpened and will hurt your gums making bleeding easier. A new toothbrush will keep your teeth clean and sparkling.
If you use an electric toothbrush the head should also be replaced every three months.
Children should start brushing as soon as they get their baby teeth. Baby teeth are also vulnerable to cavities and the brushing will teach them how to take care of their teeth for when they get their permanent teeth.You can also bring a toothbrush to work or school and give your teeth a quick brush after lunch. This will prevent bits of food from sticking in your teeth and giving you bad breath. But don’t brush immediately after eating. Wait a half hour first. The food in your mouth produces acid which softens your enamel making the enamel vulnerable to being worn away.;
, Fluoride is important because it increases the strength of the enamel on your teeth. This helps protect your teeth from decay. Look for a toothpaste brand that has 1,350–1,500 ppm of fluoride in it. Children can brush with it, but an adult should supervise them to make sure they don’t swallow it. Only use a pea-sized amount of toothpaste for children between two and six years old.Children’s toothpaste doesn’t always contain enough fluoride to be effective in preventing tooth decay. It needs to have at least 1,000 ppm of fluoride.
Put a small blob of toothpaste on the brush and then brush it over all surfaces of your teeth. Spit it out afterwards instead of swallowing it.
 Flossing removes food particles, plaque, and bacteria that build up between your teeth. When you start flossing, your gums may bleed a little bit, but after few days that should stop.It is best to floss before you brush. The floss will then scrape the sides of your teeth clean, making it easier for the fluoride to get in and strengthen the enamel there.
Use about 18 inches (46 cm) of floss. Wrap it around one finger on each hand, and then gently slide it between your teeth. Curve the floss around one of the teeth and move the floss up and down along the tooth. Don’t press too hard when you go below the gum line. It shouldn’t hurt; however, you can expect a slight bleeding which is absolutely normal. This also relieves the micro inflammation created in the papilla
Some people find floss to be awkward. If this is the case for you, try using an interdental cleaner. This is a small brush, pick, or stick that lets you get between your teeth without dealing with long strings of floss., Mouthwash can kill bacteria and keep bad breath under control. You can buy different commercially prepared solutions or make a salt solution at home. Swish the mouthwash around in your mouth for at least two minutes.Dissolve about a half a teaspoon of table salt into a cup of water. The salt will dissolve faster if the water is slightly warm and you stir vigorously.
Check the ingredients on commercially prepared mouthwashes. Some have antibacterial properties or fluoride in them. The flavors can be strong, so choose one you can tolerate.
Even if you use mouthwash, you still need to brush.
You can also put mouthwash in a water pick and use that to more thoroughly clean between your teeth.
 You can do this with a tongue scraper. Many toothbrushes have tongue scrapers on the back of them. If you need to, you can even brush your tongue with the bristles of your toothbrush. Cleaning your tongue will remove food particles and bacteria that are on the surface of your tongue.Scrape lightly from back to front along your tongue, being careful not to gag yourself.
Rinse your mouth out when you are done. Don’t swallow the bacteria that you have scraped off of your tongue.
 Smoking increases your risks of mouth cancers, gum disease, and it gives you bad breath and stains your teeth. It can also decrease saliva flow, which allows bacteria to thrive in your mouth. If you already smoke, quitting will improve your oral hygiene tremendously. If you need help quitting there are many resources available including:Hotlines, counseling services, and support groups
Medical assistance such as medication, nicotine replacement therapy, and residential treatments

