 To give the bouquet as a gift, you’ll need tissue paper, clear plastic gift wrapping, an elastic band, and twine. Grab a vase as well that you can use to arrange your bouquet before packaging it.


You can also leave the bouquet in the vase if you aren't giving it as a gift or don't want to package it.
 While not all flowers are edible, there are many that are, and they are delicious in salads, soups, teas, sorbets, and many other dishes. You can select flowers based on color, look, or just what’s available.


Edible blue or purple flowers include: borage, hyssop, chive, violet, lavender, cornflower,lilac, clover, and dame’s rocket.
Edible pink or red flowers include: honey suckle, bee balm, waxed begonias, tuberous begonias, apple blossoms, banana blossoms,English daisy, and carnations.
Edible orange or yellow flowers include: nasturtium, mustard, zucchini and squash blossoms, daylily, calendula, and dandelions.
Multicolored flowers or flowers that come in multiple colors include: Johnny jump ups,roses, and chrysanthemums.
 Leave the stems long, but if you need to trim them down, cut them with garden clippers or a sharp knife.Start with the largest flowers (all of the same kind), and place them in the vase. Space them around so they’ll be balanced (though not even) throughout the arrangement. Always work with uneven numbers of flowers.Then select your second largest flowers and space them around in the arrangement as well. Constantly turn the vase around so you can see it from all angles.
Fill in empty spaces with bunches of smaller flowers, and add some depth and height by adding tall flowers like lavender.
 When you have finished arranging your bouquet, remove it from the vase, being careful not to let the flowers slip out of place. Hold the bouquet near the top of the stems and place an elastic band around them loosely to keep them in place.


Use tissue paper to wrap the stems and surround the flowers. Wrap the paper with clear plastic wrap. Tie the bouquet closed with the twine just below where the flowers meet the stems.

