 Road trips take a lot of planning, time, and money. But, with a good reason to go, nothing is stopping you!


If you're taking a big road trip, it could be around 1 to 3 months. Reasons people go on these long trips include trying to find yourself, getting out of your comfort zone, having fun with your friends, or just traveling the USA before you can't. All are very good reasons.;
, Make a list of people who are eligible to you to come on the road trip. Ask those people about the trip once you're done. (Hint: it's easier to do this at least a year ahead of time so they have time to respond). However, there are things you will want to keep in mind:


Can you trust the people you want to come with? Furthermore, make sure you know these people and know them. It might not be good to invite strangers.
Will these people be able to contribute anything on the road trip?
Will they want to do anything? Chances are, you're going to be driving a long time, then walking around, visiting the sights to see. If they can't handle that, they might be dead weight on the trip.
Do these people have money they can contribute for gas, food, hotels, and things for themselves?
Will they be able to handle the time they'll be away from home?
Will they complain a lot like children when in the car for hours at a time? (To make sure this isn't an issue, see if they have experience being in a car for hours at a time.)
If they are underage, will they have permission from parents or guardian?

, Sometimes you go on a road trip without destinations. But if you like to plan things, list all the places in your country that you want to drive to. Do you want to go to Chicago? New York City? Las Vegas? Write down these places somewhere. You can even mark them on a map.
 You need to consider how long your trip is going to be, and if you really need to go to some places you write down. To do this, consider all the things you can do there. If there's tons of things to do and everyone wants to go, don't cut that place. However, if there's not much to do there, and nobody really wants to go, take it out of your road trip.


Almost every city you go to will have museums, art galleries, and gardens. Consider places with national memorials (like the 9/11 memorial in New York), natural phenomenon (Grand Canyon, Yellowstone, etc), or iconic monuments (Space Needle in Seattle).
Also consider the places your friends want to go, so they can be happy too.
Spend only 2 to 4 days at each destination, so you can keep the trip going and make it short as possible.
 Will you take someone's car? Will you pay for other transportation? Are you going to take a bus? Whatever you take, be sure it has enough room for everyone coming. Also keep in mind how much gas you'll be using.


If you take a car, make sure you have enough room for luggage and everyone coming. Figure out who's you're going to take as well.
If you pay for city buses or taxis, know where they are taking you and how much it will cost to ride. Although you might think you're saving money on gas, you might not be.
If you decide to buy a bus, consider remodeling in it and putting furniture in it. You can also put entertainment in it of some sort. A bus might be your best option, since they have lots of room ad people won't feel so cramped. You can even buy some with TVs, tables, passenger seats, and a back luggage area. You can also decorate the inside of the bus to make it pretty.
 Make sure you have enough money for hotels and motels, but there are other options.


Find campsites along the way. You can pull out sleeping bags and tents and sleep under the stars, or sleep in your vehicle. (There's more room in a bus to do that).
Find a Walmart parking lot to sleep in. They don't make you leave, and there's bathrooms and restaurants inside.
Find Hostels. People prefer these because they feel homier and cost less.
If you're still doing hotels, try to find a branch that has a point system. When you stay at their hotels long enough, you can earn enough points to earn a free night.
 It's bad to eat out all the way, because it's unhealthy and pricey. Instead, pack food or things to make food. This will keep everyone happy, and the trip shorter from not having to stop as much.
 If there's not going to be gas stations when you need them, then consider taking gas with you.


Make sure everyone chips in for gas.
 Take turns driving so you can sleep, socialize, etc. It's also unhealthy to drive the whole way without getting any rest.
 Get a job or two to raise money for you trip. Get others to do the same.


Try to raise $200-$300 for every destination. You may not need that much, but it's better to have too much than too little.
 If you're underage, get permission from your parents/guardians. If you have a job, get permission from your boss. If he/she says no, you may have to quit your job entirely. Make sure you're dedicated to this trip enough to do that.


To convince them, make sure you have enough money, know where you're going, and who's coming. This will make you seem more responsible.
 Be prepared.
 You may not have enough room to pack everything, but pack everything that you'll need.
 Have parents or others drop off your friends at whatever house has the mode of transportation. You can pack up the vehicle and leave the next morning.
 Things you can put in the backpack include:


Electronics
Books
Journals
Camera
Chargers
Brush (if you feel the need to brush your hair along the way or the morning of the trip)
Earbuds/headphones
Snacks for yourself.
 That way, you'll be able to snack anytime on the road.
, You can put them on CDs, or make a playlist on an electronic. Get your friends to make them too.
 Make sure you didn't forget anything important! This can affect your road trip negatively.
 You'll be excited and it'll be hard to fall asleep, but you need to be well-rested in order to enjoy the ride and the destinations.
 It sounds too early, but you'll be so excited to get up and head on your journey, and won't be so bad.
 But put your backpack on your seat. If you have a pillow or a blanket, put it on your seat as well.
 Did you pack everything you needed? Is the food in the cooler and box? Is everyone here and ready to go? Do you have money? Your music? If yes, then you're ready to head off!

, Road trips are when you really get to know people, so talk! come up with ice breakers and would you rather questions. Talk about deep topics and memories you've had, and the road trip!

, If you're not talking, play music and sing or dance along. It's fun, and you get to know what kind of music people like.
 It kills time and makes the hours fly by. But don't watch movies the entire trip. Talk to your friends. It's also not fair to the driver.
 Have lots of fun, and remember them forever. Bring a camera to capture these memories.

