 We all form first impressions. And we all continue to judge others based on first impressions we’ve taken of them. When you first meet your teacher, make sure that you are polite, hard-working, respectful, and ready to learn. It is possible that when your teacher goes to grade your assignment, they’ll be guided by the kind feelings they have towards you. They might be more likely to let an error slide and an inconsistency pass. The result of this may only be a couple of points, but those points add up., Do you tend to stare out of the window? Do you doodle nonstop while the teacher is talking? Do you pass notes constantly? All of these activities are common faux-pas. In the classroom, your goal should be to absorb as much information as possible. Doing so will reduce the time needed to comprehend the material later. Homework will become infinitely easier and take a fraction of the time used when you’re having to teach yourself the material.Take all the necessary steps before class to reduce distractions. Feed yourself. Get some sleep. Make phone calls ahead of time or take the time to text before entering the class., Ask questions. Answer your teacher’s questions. Participate in class dialogues. This step is essential for two reasons. First, it manages your teacher’s expectations further. It makes you seem like a motivated student. More importantly, if you take time to ask questions in class, you’ll probably understand the material better later on and will require less time to study or complete homework., Maybe this seems counterintuitive, but teachers need to know what their students don’t get. If you are open about not understanding the significance of asymptotes, the function of the mitochondria, or how to use a semicolon, your teacher will spend more time on the subject, which will help you in the long run to reduce the amount of work you have to complete. Furthermore, your teacher might cut you some slack if he sees you struggling with a subject.
 This will help you to focus and give the impression that you are willing to pay attention. Teachers know that serious students sit up front because it is difficult to hide things up front. You won’t be able to text or fall asleep without the teacher noticing.
 Many teachers test on their lectures exclusively or at least in addition to the materials found in the book. More importantly, your teacher will take the time to cover the most essential and perhaps the most difficult materials in class. Take excellent notes. Adopt a shorthand and be sure to note what your teacher spends more time on. More time spent covering it in class equals more likely it will be on the test.According to the Cornell note taking system, be sure to highlight key words and write questions you have in the margins of your notes. Then ask your teacher them when you next see them. Similarly, write out key questions that your teacher focuses on in the class. Most likely, you'll see those questions on a test later.

