 Just like with your face, you want to use a lotion that is designed for your particular skin type. Don’t assume your body has the same skin type as your face either. Sometimes the skin on your body is drier or more acne prone than the skin on your face, and determining the distinct skin type that your body is currently is important., As with face lotions, you want to look for body lotions that include the best ingredients for moisturizing your skin type. This is why it’s especially important to first determine your body skin type, since assuming it is the same as your face could mean applying ingredients that could damage the skin or cause breakouts. Some ingredients that are great for each skin type are:Normal skin: Look for thicker lotions or moisturizing creams that include ingredients like vitamin C to help manage antioxidant damage and vitamin E to satiate thirsty skin. Licorice as an ingredient will also help reduce any pigmentation damage.
Oily skin: Use lightweight, non-greasy formulas, especially ones that are fast absorbing or contain witch hazel, which is a great natural ingredient for reducing excess oil production and body acne by unclogging pores. Avoid thick, greasy products or ones that contain alcohol or petrolatum.
Dry skin: Look for thick cream-based lotions or healing ointments, especially ones that contain shea butter or coconut oil, two intensely moisturizing ingredients that repair the skin’s moisture barrier. Avoid products that contain alcohol, which will dry out the skin further.
Sensitive skin: Look for products that contain soothing ingredients like Echinacea to sooth the skin and avocado oil, which contains fatty acids and tons of vitamin B to moisturize the skin and regulate cell function. Avoid products that contain chemicals, dyes, or perfumes.
Combination skin: Look for oil-free formulas containing panthenol, zinc oxide, and lycopene. Avoid thick creams and water-based gels, which will be too heavy or drying for the combination areas.
 Though the skin on your body is not as delicate as the skin on your face, you still need to properly prep your skin for lotion in order to get the maximum benefits. You want to shower or bathe every day, washing your body with a cleanser for your body skin type. Use a clean washcloth or loofah to gently scrub your body clean using circular motions. You should also use a body exfoliator in place of the cleanser twice a week to get rid of dead skin cells and product buildup so that your lotion can sink in better. Keep in mind:Limit your showers to 5 - 10 minutes to avoid stripping your skin of any moisturizing properties in the cleanser.
Only use water that is warm-to-hot in temperature. You want the water to be slightly hotter than the water you use to wash your face, but water that is too hot will strip your skin of its natural oils.
Rinse your body thoroughly so no product remains to clog your pores or cause irritation and blemishes.
Shaving also exfoliates the skin, so skip exfoliating on days where you shaved your legs, neck, or other areas.
 Just like with your face, you do not want to towel off completely. You want your skin to remain a little damp to help your lotion absorb fully and lock in moisture. Don’t open the bathroom door yet either so that you keep all of the humid air inside the bathroom. The combination of damp, warm skin and moist air will help activate the ingredients in your lotion and keep your skin looking its best., Taking into consideration the consistency of the lotion and the directions on the product, pump or squeeze a suitable amount of lotion into your hands. You don’t want to pump lotion for your entire body into your hands all at once; you want to focus on one area of your body at a time. Rub your hands together to warm up the lotion and then apply it to your body. Gently press the lotion into your skin with slow sweeping motions, focusing your application on areas that are particularly dry, like the knees and elbows., Before you exit the steamy bathroom or put on clothes, give the lotion about 5 minutes to sink into your skin. The humidity will keep your pores open, which will allow the lotion to sink in faster and hydrate your skin better. Putting clothes on or wrapping a towel around yourself too soon will wipe away the lotion you just applied, and you will lose all of the moisturizing benefits.