 Sometimes comments cross the line between mean and bullying. If the comments get sexually graphic, violent, threatening, humiliating or if the same person (or people) posts lots of mean comments about you, then it is cyberbullying.You should save some form of evidence of it so that you can report it.


If the comment references race/ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religion, or disabilities it can be considered discrimination.People often go back and delete mean comments they post on social media, so document the comment as soon as you see it.
Take a screenshot of the comment. Try to make sure you get the time, date, and sender’s name in the shot.
Keep a journal documenting where the comment was posted, what exactly it said or showed, who sent it, etc.
 Even though you may want to retaliate, stand up for yourself, or defend yourself in a reply post, it’s not a good idea. Responding to a cyberbully might make you feel better for a minute or two, but in the end, it will only make things worse.The person wants a response from you and will probably use anything you post in response as a way to harass you even more.
A response from you could bring extra attention to the situation and upset you even more.
Write what you would post in response to the comment in your journal or in an email to yourself, instead.
 Telling someone of authority like the site administrators or even a teacher is the best way to deal with cyber-bullying.They will be able to help you make the bully stop leaving mean comments (even if the person sends them anonymously).


If you are a child or teen, tell an adult like your parent or teacher about the comments. They can help you handle the situation and report it to the right people.
Make sure you send or show them your documentation of the comment. It will make it easier and quicker to stop the bully.
Some social networking sites have places like Facebook’s ‘Safety Center’ where you can report cyberbullying.
If the comment threatens something physical or sexual you should also report it to the police.
 Consider setting your email, messaging, and social media accounts up so that only people you know (or no one) can leave comments without you reviewing them first. Doing this will make it harder for the cyberbully to contact you and leave mean comments.If possible, block the person that has been cyberbullying you. This may mean deleting them as an online ‘friend’. Check with the site or app for specific directions on doing this.
Send their email messages directly to your ‘spam’ or ‘trash’ folder or use your email provider’s block feature.

