 Much of the work on a ranch involves handling the cattle and any other animals that live on the ranch. Most ranches run both horses and cattle, but some raise other livestock, such as sheep and llama. Ranch jobs involve herding, feeding, and grooming the animals.Call a local farm or search the internet for opportunities to work with animals. It's possible to gain experience with animals growing up on your family farm, working at the local sale barn, gaining summer employment at an area farm, or volunteering at a large-animal veterinarian's practice.;
, Ranches tend to be quite large and require a lot of handy work. These are the kinds of manual skills that you may not have learned in school. You’ll need some experience to get hired, and it never hurts to have a few extra skills in your back pocket.Prepare for work on a ranch by programs like 4-H, Future Farmers of America, or the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program.Such organizations often have programs for students who are interested in learning about agriculture, common farm practices, and ranch work. Check with your guidance counselor or local government to see if classes are offered in your area.
 Search the internet for blogs or websites that give detailed information about the kinds of jobs that are offered on ranches. Ranch jobs are plenty. Some jobs ask for specific work with certain animals like cows or horses, whereas others are general management or maintenance jobs.Vary your search. Try using keywords like “farm” instead of “ranch” in your search. Although there are technical differences between farming and ranching, you might find useful information about work options if you broaden your search., Talk to any friends and family who have experience working on farms. Someone may be able to put you in touch with a ranch or farm in your area. Express your interest and set up a time to have an in-depth conversation where you can ask for tips.


For example, you might say, “Hi Susie, I heard that you used to work on a farm. I’m interested in working a ranch job. I’d love to hear about your experience and get some suggestions. Would you be willing to chat over a coffee sometime?”

, Prepare to share a resume with your relevant work experience, interests, and skills. Also prepare to share your education level (a high school diploma or GED is often desired) which includes any agricultural or farm-related classes you have taken. Remember to have copies of any legal documents that allow you to work such as a driver’s license and social security card., Decide on a job that fits your experience and interest. Although some ranch jobs are seasonal, many ranches also hire for long-term positions. You may also need to mention whether you will need room and board if hired. Some ranches include room and board as a part of your salary, while others do not.If you’ve found a job listing on a website, follow the instructions for applying. Some ranches also have their own websites where you can contact the employer directly.
Maybe a family friend or acquaintance suggested a job for you. Ask your friend how to go about approaching the ranch owners. It might be appropriate to state that you were referred by a friend.

