 Use a spoon or dull knife to get rid of as much of the paint as you can. Hold the fabric of the shoe taught and gently scoop up the extra paint. This will make it much easier to sponge and blot away the stain.
 This will dampen the area, making it easier to flush out the stain. It will also make the fabric more pliable and easy to work with. Use lots of water and do not be afraid to reapply as needed.









Try to keep the canvas as wet as possible. It will be easier to remove the stain if the canvas is wet. The water will keep the fabric flexible and activate the detergent as you work on the stain.
 A few paper towels or an old dishtowel that you no longer use near food or dishes will work fine. Place the towel on a flat surface and then lay the shoe on top, with the stained area facing down agains the towel.
 Apply the turpentine to an old sponge or rag, and rub it on the inside of the shoe. Make sure you are holding the shoe with one hand as you apply pressure to the inside of the stain. The paint will begin to come off onto the dry towel you placed on the outside of the shoe.









Make sure to be wearing a pair of rubber gloves when handling turpentine.
Use the turpentine in a well-ventilated area.
Continue to replace the dry cloth outside the shoe as it gets wet from the turpentine. The paint will also begin to transfer to the cloth.
Repeat until the stain has disappeared. Continue to apply turpentine to the sponge, and apply pressure to the area until the turpentine starts to take effect.
 Apply the detergent to a dry paper towel or old rag. Rub the outside of the shoe with the dry cloth on the affected area. This will help remove any leftover paint that remains set in the fabric.
 Use a bucket or laundry sink. Fill with hot water and submerge the shoes completely. Soak them for at least six hours.


Rub the stain with your thumbs every once in awhile to help remove dislodged paint while it soaks.
 Let them air dry, outside if possible. The stain should now be completely gone.


After being washed and dried, the canvas of the shoe may be a little tighter on your foot. However, the fabric will stretch out through continued wear.

