 For someone who hasn't been high very often before, the experience can sometime be scary. It can feel like you're losing control of your mind and body or even like you're having an overdose. Luckily, for some drugs, overdose is impossible. If you're high on marijuana or a psychedelic drug like LSD, mushrooms, or peyote, you can't overdose, so don't worry!These drugs can make you less coordinated and give you poor judgement, however, so you will never want to do anything physically dangerous when high on them (like drive a car, operate machinery, use a gun, etc.);
, When you're high, your surroundings can have a big effect on the way you feel. If you're in a relaxing, calm place, it's easier to feel good, and if you're in a scary, stressful place, it's easier to feel panicked or stressed. If you've got a case of the jitters, try going somewhere relaxing and comfortable, like your room or a comfortable chair in your basement. Try listening to relaxing music or watching a movie or TV show you love. Don't go somewhere that makes you nervous or agitated, like a crowded mall or a loud nightclub.
 Good people can make it much easier to enjoy your high. If your high is making you nervous, try to surround yourself with people you know and trust. Close friends who are also high are usually your best bet. However, in the right situations, a trusted family member, a boyfriend/girlfriend, or a close friend who isn't high can be a good choice as well.


Everyone's different, so listen to your intuition — if someone makes you relaxed when you're high, stay with this person, and if someone makes you nervous or upset, stay away from this person.
 People who are high often worry about the idea of other people who aren't high "discovering" their highness. In reality, it's a lot harder for people to tell that you're high than you may think. People usually won't assume that another person is high unless they have good reason to, even if they're acting a little weird. Most high people are almost impossible to tell apart from non-high people unless you're specifically looking for it, which almost no one is, so don't worry! Take a deep breath, relax, and be yourself — no one's going to find out.
 When the effects of a high are making it hard to act normal, worrying usually makes the problem worse. Since it's tough to force yourself not to worry, instead, try doing something to distract yourself. Concentrating on something besides the fact that you're high can make you much more relaxed and focused. In fact, you may forget that you're high in the first place. Here are just a few ideas for taking your mind off of your high:


Listen to music.
Watch a movie you like.
Read.
Do something with your hands (like playing with Legos, drawing, or writing).
Find something interesting nearby to look at (like a plant, a piece of art, or some interesting architecture)

, Most people who are nervous from their high are absolutely fine and aren't in any danger. However, some drugs are dangerous and can hurt you if you overdose. To stay safe, it's important to know the signs of overdose for these drugs. This knowledge can also help you stay relaxed — if you don't have these symptoms, you're probably fine. Overdose symptoms for a few "hard" drugs are listed below:


MDMA/Ecstasy/Molly: Overheating, extremely high heart rate, dehydration, cardiac arrest, strokeCocaine: Overheating, extremely high heart rate, seizures, nausea, difficulty breathing, chest painsHeroin: Difficult breathing, no breathing, weak pulse, coma, bluish skinMethamphetamine: Extreme agitation, chest pains, cardiac arrest, extremely high heart rate, paranoia, stomach painOpiate painkillers (codeine, Oxycontin, vicodin, etc.): difficulty breathing, nausea, weak or very slow pulse, "choking" sounds from breathing, bluish skin, limp body, difficulty speaking