 Classy doesn't mean that it has to be designer. Massie may have the money for a designer wardrobe, but you may not. Massie shops at Saks, Marc Jacobs, Tiffany and Co. etc., so if you have enough money to shop at these places, that's good. If you can't afford designer clothes, try stores like JC Penney, Wet Seal, H&M, or Macy's. When planning outfits out like Massie Block, never shop at Abercrombie, Aeropostale, Hollister, or any other stores where the brand is written on the clothing in big letters. Your clothes should not have any writing or pictures on them, because to Massie, that's tacky, and un-Alpha.;
, Like said above, Massie shops at stores like Tiffany and Co, but if you can't afford a Tiffany charm bracelet, go to stores like Sears and buy jewelry from their jewelry department. Buy some diamond/crystal earrings, or if you can't afford them, buy some cubic zirconia earrings (they look like expensive diamonds, but are really cheap fakes, but nobody needs to know that!), as well as a silver necklace and a charm bracelet like Massie's. Silver and gold are the only colours your jewelry should be.


Avoid stores like Claire's, because the jewelry there is too tacky and cheap for Massie.
 Massie would never be seen in shoes like Keds. Buy some kitten heels or pumps that look expensive and would make Massie proud.
 The colors must co-ordinate without looking too matchy-matchy. Add some accessories to make it all come together. Be stylish and make your outfit look as expensive and mature as possible.
 Massie always has a handbag with her to carry her credit cards in! Make sure that your purse looks as classy as possible.


Keep that purse clean and organized. Luna bar wrappers and expired lip gloss look tacky and gross.
 Don't overdo it. Make it look as natural as possible so that you don't look like a clown. When Massie wears makeup, she wears it in good taste.


Don't forget a quick swipe with some lip gloss (Massie never goes out with out her Gossip Girl lip gloss!) to make your lips shiny and kissable.
 Either straighten it extremely well or curl it in loose curls. Try as hard as possible not to make your hair frizzy, because Massie would never have frizzy hair. If you hair looks good, your outfit looks great.


Use a thermal spray before heat styling to prevent excess damage.
Some other cute styles include french braids, flirty ponytails, beachy waves, etc. Look at youtube for style ideas.
 The humidity, temperature,etc. can all play important roles in your outfit choice.

