 Always wear gloves: you never know if you might be allergic to a weed or it might stick you. Your ultimate goal is to get the roots of the weed out, as well as any remains of the weed itself, or else it will have a chance to grow back again.;
, If you can't get it out with just your hands, try to figure out if the problem is the soil. Is the soil dry and crusty on top? You might want to use a small rake or trowel to brake up the soil. Does the soil have rocks underneath it? Remove the rocks so you can get to the root of the weed. Then try to pull it out.
 If it isn't the soil, though, the plant might be holding on with its roots, or connected to another weed (like grass), so you'll have to use a shovel or trowel (mini shovel) to dig around it and pull it out by the base.
 If you have the weeds you want, and if you have a green waste (a garbage can especially for garden scraps, like weeds), just toss them in there. If you don't have a green waste, you might want to invest in one; you won't regret it.
 Deadheading might seem simple: just take the end off, but if you don't do it right, it could still be fatal to the plant. So, first, you'll want to have the right tools:


Scissors (you'll want these especially for deadheading because they can't be used on paper after this).
Clippers (these are for the bigger stems).
Kneeling pad (or else your knees will have a hard time. You can get one of these at a planting store for about $1.00.).
Bucket or something to put them in instead of the ground.
 Make yourself comfortable. You may be here for a while.
 You may be able to find them easily because they look dark and sad compared to all the other flowers. Find the part of the stem (it may be really deep down in the plant) that splits off into other stems or ends up at the ground. If it ends at the ground, clip it off very close to the ground, if it ends with another stem connecting to it, clip the bad stem off as close to the base of the other stem as possible.
 Then repeat that process with the next deadhead, and the next, and the next, until all the deadheads are gone from the plant.
 You have just saved the life of a plant!

