 Nothing will get you killed quicker than becoming complacent and unaware. Whether it's a necromorph coming through a vent or a hazard you're about to walk into, you have got to be aware of your environment and surroundings. Look around whenever you're moving and be on the lookout for suspicious activity like dead bodies, because they can sometimes just be necromorphs acting dead.;
, Look for open vents or fans on the wall, holes in the ground or ship and terrain features such as gravity panels or open engines; all of these areas can be dangerous and potentially harbor necromorphs. Moving slowly around them and staying alert will decrease the risk of being taken by surprise.
 Your inventory should always have a supply of ammunition, health packs, stasis rechargers and oxygen cans so that you can deal with every situation you come across. The time you run out is usually the time you will need it most, so make your way to a store to refill your inventory or try salvaging some supplies from crates or shelves nearby.
 Note how to deal with each type of necromorph and what damages them - this will help you stay safer and kill them faster. When you come to a hazard, using stasis is invaluable, although there may be other methods of dealing with it. Learn from your encounters as they will help you survive later on.
 You will never know when a necromorph will be standing behind an elevator door or next to a corner, so being ready with your gun aimed will prepare you. Aim your gun slightly lowered towards the ground to maximize damage, as some necromorphs are smaller than others.
 When you sprint in the game, quite often you'll only be running into a crowd of necromorphs or another bad situation. Running has its merits when escaping attacks or if you need to hurry, but generally, walking through the ship will allow you more time to react.
 Some parts of the USG Ishimura are dark and unlit, so you will need to rely on your wits and senses to survive. Aim your gun when in dark areas, so the aiming light will brighten the shadowed areas or use kinesis to carry the torches found in some areas from place to place, lighting your path. Avoid dark areas if you can, but if you use your equipment wisely, you'll be able to make it through.
 Although it may be scarier, turning the volume up on your television will allow you to hear enemies coming behind you or distant dangers easier than if you have your volume turned down.
 You are given the opportunity to change the game brightness and settings when you start the game, so consider enhancing the brightness of the game so it's easier to see and lowering the game music to better hear dangers and necromorphs. This may change your game experience, but you will be safer.
 Sometimes, even with the most alert eyes and the heaviest weapon, things can go wrong. If all else fails, you can always revert to a previous save, so save often. Save whenever you come across one or complete an objective or make a large purchase in the store or clear another room of necromorphs. It'll save you having to retry everything all over again.

