 A gel made from chia seeds and lemon juice can infuse your hair with moisture and protect your locks from dry air.


Add 1/3 cup (80 ml) chia seeds to a resealable container and pour in 2 cups (500 ml) of water. Whisk well and let it sit for 5 to 10 minutes.
Whisk the mixture again and let it sit in the refrigerator for 15 minutes or until it turns into a gel.
Mix 3 Tbsp (45 ml) of lemon juice into the gel.
Apply the concoction to your hair and let it sit for 10 minutes before rinsing it off.;
,


Mix 1/2 cup (125 ml) coconut oil and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) lemon juice with 2 Tbsp (30 ml) chia seeds.
Gently wet your face with warm water and apply the chia exfoliating scrub to your skin. Let it set for 2 minutes, during which it should begin to form a gel.
Remove the chia scrub with a wet washcloth and rinse your face with cool water when finished.
 The combination of egg whites, plain yogurt, and chia seed oil can revitalize skin, making it smoother and less dry.


Thoroughly mix two egg whites, 1 cup (250 ml) plain yogurt, and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) commercially prepared chia seed oil.Apply this mixture to your face and let it sit for 10 minutes before you rinse it off with cool water.
The egg whites make your skin firmer and the yogurt makes it smoother. The chia seed oil help hydrate the skin.
 You can apply chia seed oil directly to the area surrounding your eyes before going to bed each night to help repair the skin.


Dab commercially prepared, organic chia seed oil around your eyes, focusing on any puffy bags.
The omega-3 fatty acids in the chia will reduce the puffiness and help fight fine wrinkles.
 Chia gel can reduce fight inflammation thanks to the high concentration of omega-3 fatty acids it contains.


Mix 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of chia seeds with 3 Tbsp (45 ml) water and let it set into a gel for 10 minutes. Mix in a few drops of lavender essential oil for an added boost.
Apply the mixture to red areas and scars. Let it sit for a few minutes before rinsing off with cool water.
 Unofficially, chia seeds are sometimes used to help treat diabetes, high blood pressure, and cardiovascular disease in general.Chia seeds have high amounts of omega-3 fatty acids and dietary fiber. Preliminary research suggests that these nutrients might be able to help minimize risk factors for various forms or heart disease.
People with diabetes, in particular, might be able to benefit from consuming 37 g of "Salba" chia seeds daily for 12 weeks. This dosage can help reduce blood pressure and lower the amounts of inflammatory C-reactive proteins and clot-forming von Willebrand factors in the blood.
You should not take chia seeds if you are pregnant, breast-feeding, at risk for prostate cancer or currently diagnosed with prostate cancer, or dealing with high triglyceride levels.
Talk to your doctor to determine a good dosage of chia seeds for your particular set of health conditions.
 Chia seed gel made from chia and plain water can be used as a substitute for eggs in most baked good recipes.


Grind a handful of chia seeds dry in a coffee grinder, blender, or food processor.
Mix 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of ground chia seeds with 3 Tbsp (45 ml) of water. Let it sit for 15 minutes or until it thickens into a gel.This amount can be used as a substitute for one egg in just about any baked recipe.
 Speaking of baking, you can grind chia seeds into a coarse gluten-free flour that can be used in a variety of recipes, including those for many baked goods.


Put a handful of seeds in a food processor, coffee grinder, or blender and pulse until a powder forms.
For thick doughs, you can substitute chia flour in equal parts.
For thin batter, mix one part chia seed flour with three parts gluten-free flour.
 Chia seeds absorb liquid and give it a thicker texture. In highly concentrated amounts, chia seeds can turn the liquid into gel, but in small enough amounts, it only acts as a thickener.


Add 2 Tbsp (30 ml) whole or ground chia seeds to soups, stews, gravies, and sauces instead of cornstarch or flour. Mix well to combine and let it sit for 5 minutes to gauge the new thickness.
Continue adding additional chia seeds to the liquid as needed to achieve your desired thickness.
 There are a variety of chia seed based snacks that you can make at home. Some of the easiest include chia crackers and chia seed pudding.


There are several variations of chia crackers you can make, but most simply require you to mix the seeds with a few seasonings and some water before baking.

Mix 1/2 cup (125 ml) chia seeds with 1/2 cup (125 ml) sunflower seeds, 1/2 cup (125 ml) pumpkin seeds, and 1/2 cup (125 ml) sesame seeds.Combine 1 cup (250 ml) water, 1 grated garlic clove, 1 tsp (5 ml) grated onion, and 1/4 tsp (125 ml) salt separately before stirring the seasoning liquid into the seeds.
Spread the mixture onto a baking sheet and cook for 30 minutes at 325 degrees Fahrenheit (160 degrees Celsius).
Cut into crackers, flip to the other side, and bake for another 30 minutes before enjoying.


You can make chia pudding by blending together 2 cups (500 ml) coconut milk, 1/2 cup (125 ml) chia seeds, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) cocoa powder, 1 tsp (5 ml) vanilla extract, and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) honey. Let it sit for 10 minutes in the refrigerator before serving.
 If you want a healthy way to add filler to meatballs or to bread chicken, pork, or fish, chia seeds can be just what you need.


If you need to thicken meat with a filler, add 2 to 3 Tbsp (30 to 45 ml) of chia seeds per 1 lb (450 g) of meat and mix well to combine thoroughly.
To use chia seeds for a breading, mix equal parts chia seeds with almond flour or another type of gluten-free flour. Dredge cuts of meat in this mixture and cook as normal.
 You can grow chia sprouts in the same manner you can grow bean sprouts at home. These sprouts are crisp, healthy, and great for salads and stir-fry garnishes.


Place a handful of chia seeds in a glass jar. Cover with water for 5 minutes or so.
Drain the water and let the seeds sit in the covered jar for a few days.
Rinse the seeds with water every 12 hours, pouring the water out of the jar each time.
The sprouts should be ready within a few days.
 Chia seeds mixed with coconut water can form a thick, hydrating energy gel that is far healthier than sugary sports drinks and commercial energy gels.


Add 2 Tbsp (30 ml) chia seeds to 1 cup (250 ml) coconut water. Let it sit for 10 minutes until a thin gel forms.
This gel can be enjoyed as an energy drink and can be beneficial for kids and adults alike.
 Extra berries can be mashed into a puree and combined with chia seeds to make a tasty and simple jam.Combine 1 cup (250 ml) berries with 1 Tbsp (15 ml) chia seeds and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) warm water. Blend in a food processor to give the mixture a jam or jelly consistency.
Let the mixture set for 60 minutes before using it.
 You can enjoy chia seeds plain. Instead of crunching down on them alone, though, you might find it a little more appetizing to add plain chia seeds to salads, stir-fries, granola, and other foods as an easy garnish.
 The word "chia" became popular in Western culture thanks to the commercially produced "Chia Pet," but you can make your own cheap version of this at home by sprouting chia seeds in a small pot and watering consistently.


Fill a clay pot with soil. If you want to get creative, you can find a pot shaped like an animal, but any pot can be used.
Sprinkle the chia seeds over the pot. Gently press them into the soil with your fingers.
Add enough water to keep the soil moist. Continue watering the plant, keeping it regularly moist, and let the chia plant sit in a sunny area.
It should only take a few days for chia to sprout.
 If you pack chia seeds into a dark area of your yard, they can help prevent mud and make your lawn look neater and cleaner.


Spread a handful of chia seeds evenly over a small patch of yard in a shaded area. Use your feet or the back of a shovel to pat the chia seeds into the ground.
Without sun and regular watering, the chia seeds are unlikely to sprout into chia plants.

