 The SIM card slot is at the right side of the device, and sits flush on the side when fully inserted.;
, Get the SIM slot ejecting tool, which comes with your Nexus 5 device in the box. It looks like a circular piece of plastic, with a thin protruding pin.


Use the tool to insert the pin into the small hole right under the SIM card tray. Push the pin inside gently but firmly, and the SIM tray should pop out.
 Take your micro SIM card and put it in the SIM tray. It should sit flush inside the slot in the tray.
 Do this by pushing the tray all the way in the slot until the right side of the phone is flush.
 Do this by pressing and holding the Power button, which is the small button above the SIM slot.


You should feel a brief vibration, and see the screen turn on. The Google splash logo should appear, along with the Nexus boot animation.
Wait for the phone to boot, which should take just a few second.
 The first screen you should see is the language option. Swipe up and down on the language options to choose your preferred language, and then tap the forward-pointing arrow at the bottom of the language options.
 The next menu will be the Wi-Fi network connection setup screen. The device will detect a Wi-Fi connection in your vicinity. Tap on an access point you have access to, and enter the password for the network under the password field if applicable.


Once you’re done, tap on “Connect” to connect to Wi-Fi.
 The next screen will ask if you have a Google account already. If you do, tap on “Yes” to sign into it, or “No” to create a new account.


If you selected yes, just enter your Gmail address and password on the fields provided then tap “Sign in.”
If you are creating a new account, enter your first and last name in the appropriate fields then tap on the arrow on the bottom right. Enter your desired email address and tap on the arrow again. Google will check the address availability and will provide you some alternatives if your chosen address is unavailable.
Assign a password for the new account in the given fields then press the arrow in the bottom right. You will then be able to choose a recovery option in case you forget the password.
In the recovery screen, enter a mobile number than Google can send recovery details, as well as an alternate email that you can access to receive the recovery email.
Tap on the arrow in the lower right, and tick the box in the next screen if you wish to receive Google Play newsletters. Tap on “I accept” in the next screen then authenticate the account creation by entering the text in the image.
 Tap on “Skip” in the screen introducing the Google+ social network and you should be taken to the payment info setup screen. Tap on “Add credit or debit card” then “Continue.”


Add your credit card number, and tap “Save.” The next screen will show you a list of the Google products that you can choose to have your phone sync. Tap the arrow in the lower right again to proceed.
Setting up your Google Wallet here ensures that you can pay for apps that cost money in the Play Store.
 Tap on the tick box below “BACKUP & RESTORE” if you wish the phone to download all the Google apps, contacts, calendar entries, etc. that you have on your other Android devices.


Under “LOCATION,” choose if you want apps to know your location by leaving the first box ticked, and if you want improve GPS accuracy, keep the second one ticked.
Scroll down and untick the check box in the bottom if you do not want Google newsletters delivered to your Gmail address then tap on the arrow on the lower right to proceed.
 The phone will then display your first and last name in case you signed into an existing account. You can change this if you want. When you’re done, tap the arrow to proceed.
 An introduction to Google Now should show on the screen at this point. Read the description. Google Now provides plenty of information easily, such as weather, sports scores, location data, etc. Tap on the arrow again to proceed.


You will then be should a demo screen, with labels for the icon that help you use Google Now. Tap “OK” in the bottom right.
 The next screen introduces you to your home screen elements. Read the labels, and tap “OK” to finalize the setup.


You should be taken to your brand-new Nexus 5 home screen so you can begin using and enjoying your Nexus 5 device.

