 When you have a psychotic disorder, it can be hard to leave the house or get out of your head. People who have psychotic disorder suffer from delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, mood changes, and other issues.To develop your social network, try setting some personal goals with the help of your therapist.


For example, you could decide that you want to set a goal of smiling at one new person every week, or of striking up a conversation with someone in the elevator. Or, you might decide that you want to set a goal to invite friendly coworker to go for a walk with you during your lunch hour.
Talk to your therapist about your goals for making new friends and work on some ways that you can do that.;
, When you have a psychotic disorder, you may not be willing to put yourself out there as much. However, it is often necessary to be the one to introduce yourself or invite someone to do something to get a friendship started.


Invite someone to coffee, send out an e-mail or text message, or invite a new possible friend to see a movie.Try saying something like, “Hey Samantha. I hope you are having a good day! I was thinking about going to see a movie this weekend. Would you like to go with me?”
Try taking small steps at first. For example, you could start initiating contact by texting a friend and just asking how his or her day is going, such as, “Hey Joe. How are you doing today?”
You can also try practicing initiating contact with someone, by talking to yourself in the mirror. For example, you can try practicing how you will say hello or how you will ask someone to join you for coffee.
 Once you start making new friends, make sure you don't get too attached too quickly. Try not to be clingy or overbearing when you are still solidifying your friendship. For example, don’t call 10 times per day or text your friend constantly or show up at his or her house unless you have been invited. It is important for people to have time to themselves, so try your best to respect that.Also try not to call, text, or visit your new friend if your friend has indicated that he or she is busy.
When you spend time away from your new friends, focus on your own hobbies and enjoying your alone time, or spend some time with your family.
If you find it hard to keep a friendship or you develop unwanted symptoms surrounding your new friendships, such as obsessing over a new friend or having delusions about a new friend, then work with your therapist or psychologist to get past this.
 If a friend has to cancel or change plans on you, don't take it as a personal affront or jump to conclusions about the reason. Things come up and plans change, but it likely has nothing to do with you or your friendship.Don't take any change of plans or anything your friend does as a reflection on you.


Your psychotic disorder can make you misinterpret things or see things that aren't there, so make sure you keep this in mind with new friends.
If you have a hard time making friends, you may take anything like that to heart. Make sure you work with therapist or psychologist to work through any abandonment or attachment issues you have.
 Just because you make a new friend doesn't mean you have to keep that friend. Try not to force a friendship to happen if it isn't natural. Instead, aim to make lasting, meaningful relationships rather than trying to connect to people you do not want to be around.Make sure it isn't your psychotic disorder keeping you from making these connections.
Having friends you actually want to connect with will help you through treatment and make you feel better.
 When you are trying to making new friends, it is important to connect with those around you. Keeping your face glued to a phone or tablet will not help you connect to others or make friends. Keep your phone in your pocket or purse when you are around people so you can pay attention to them and make meaningful connections.

If you put down your phone, you will be more approachable and be more likely to make connections.

