 If you did not create a separate entity to run your joint venture, or if the violation is not egregious enough to warrant dissolution, you may have to comply with the dispute resolution proceedings laid out in your joint venture agreement. If you think a violation has occurred, read the joint venture agreement to see if it contemplates the type of action that should be taken. If it does, follow the required procedures in order to resolve the dispute.


For example, assume your partner does not feel like he or she needs to share a specific piece of intellectual property with the joint venture, but you feel like they do. When you hear about this possible violation (i.e., not sharing intellectual property), you read the joint venture agreement and determine that he or she should share it. However, your partner still refuses. When you go back to the joint venture agreement, it states that intellectual property disputes require you to take part in mediation and expert determinations.
 Most dispute resolution provisions in a joint venture agreement will lay out a series of steps that both parties must abide by if violations are alleged. The proceedings will usually start with less formal negotiations and work their way up to binding arbitration. In addition to the proceedings, there is usually a provision in joint venture agreements that dictates how the proceeding can be initiated. For example, some agreements require one party to send written notice to their partner.In other agreements, you may be able to file for mediation immediately upon hearing about an alleged violation.


Whatever your initiation provision calls for, make sure you follow those directions so the decision cannot be challenged later.
 If your dispute resolution provision requires good faith negotiations, you will need to engage the other party in an attempt to resolve the dispute amicably. During negotiations, you and the other party will need to get together and discuss the alleged violation. Each party will present their side of the story and you will try to find common ground. If a resolution can be reached, create a written agreement laying out the resolution.


If your agreement lays out a structured set of proceedings, it will likely put a time limit on your negotiations. For example, in some agreements, if a resolution cannot be reached within 14 days of negotiations, the parties can move forward to remaining clauses in the dispute resolution section. If this happens, the next step is usually mediation., If negotiations did not lead to a resolution, you might need to submit to mediation. Mediation is an informal process where a neutral third party (i.e., a mediator) assists you and your partner in reaching a settlement. The mediator will listen to both parties and try to find common ground based on your interests. Mediators cannot impose binding decisions and are only there to help move the conversation forward.


If mediation is successful, you and your partner will draft and execute a settlement agreement that will become binding.If mediation is not successful, you and your partner will have to continue through your joint venture agreement's dispute resolution process. In most cases, this will either be an expert determination or arbitration.
 Expert determinations are used a lot in joint venture agreements when partners have disputes about technical matters (e.g., patent questions and valuation questions). If you are required to submit to an expert determination, it will usually only be for certain specific disputes. For example, if you and your partner disagree as to the value of a product, you might submit it to a panel of business experts who will place a value on the product for you.


To initiate an expert determination, you and your partner will usually submit a technical question to one or more experts, chosen beforehand, who will make a final determination on the issue. Your joint venture agreement should dictate whether the expert's determination is binding or not., The last resort in most dispute resolution sections of joint venture agreements is arbitration. Arbitration is a procedure in which you submit your dispute to one or more decision makers (i.e., arbitrators) who will review the dispute and make a final, often binding, decision based on both parties rights and obligations under the joint venture agreement.Most arbitration clauses will set out exactly what disputes can be taken to arbitration, how arbitrators will be chosen, what rules will be followed, where the hearings will take place, what laws will apply, and who will pay.