 Shopping online can save you money and time. There are a variety of low cost websites that offer a variety of organic foods that will be delivered directly to your door.Consider checking:Amazon
VitaCost
Herbs Pro
Thrive Market

, Most stores carry organic foods, but not all stores are reasonably priced. Consider shopping at stores that offer inexpensive grocery store brands of organic foods such as: Trader Joe’s
Earth Fare
365 brand
ShopRite
Wegmans
Kroger
Publix
Harris Teeter
Costco
Sprouts Farmers Market

, Farmers’ markets provide fresher, more nutritious foods for a price that’s equal to the supermarket.Shopping at the farmer’s market also lets you speak directly to the person producing your food.You can ask the farmer if their foods have any pesticides or antibiotics on or in them.
 Wherever you live, there are probably numerous farms (and farmers) within a reasonable distance. See if you can track down several local organic farmers and contact them. Ask if you can buy organic products directly from them.


Cutting out the “middle man” might get you fresher organic food at a much better price. You’ll also know that you’re directly helping a local organic farmer.
Alternatively, you can find and join a local organic food co-op that acquires organic foods in bulk from nearby producers. Your membership fee will get you access to some of the best organic food from across your region., If you can accept that a can of organic diced tomatoes with a small dent in it is just as healthy as the pristine ones in the “regular” grocery store, you can save a tidy sum of money!The store might have a dedicated organic section, or you might have to do some hunting to track down organic canned and boxed foods.
Some scratch and dent stores may also have produce sections with organic fruits and vegetables that are a bit past their prime but still quite edible.
 If you want to be one-hundred-percent sure that your cucumbers and strawberries are grown using organic methods, your best bet is to do the growing yourself. That way, you control the entire process, literally from the ground up. It’s also likely to save you a good bit of money, provide you with some outdoor exercise, and be fun as well.Remember, however, that food you grow for yourself isn’t “free.” You have to pay for the seeds, the water, the tools, and so on. There is also a lot of time involved, especially if you have pesky rabbits and birds around that also enjoy “eating organic”!

