 Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Line a 15 inch (38.1 cm) by 10 inch (25.4 cm) baking pan with parchment paper. Grease the parchment paper with olive oil or cooking oil to make sure the cake won't stick.In order to make a log roll, the cake must be baked in a large, shallow pan, rather than a stout pan. A cookie sheet with 1-inch high sides should do the trick.
Don't skimp on greasing the parchment paper. It's important for the cake to stay intact when you lift it from the pan.;
, Place the yolks in a large mixing bowl, and use either a whisk or a hand mixture to beat them well, until they're light and yellow. Add 1/2 cup of the sugar and the pumpkin, and continue beating until the mixture is smooth and the sugar has dissolved.
 Place the egg whites in a separate mixing bowl. Beat them until soft peaks begin to form. Add the remaining 1/2 cup of sugar and continue beating until the egg whites become stiffer and glossy.


Be sure the beaters or whisk you use to beat the whites are clean and dry, or you won't be able to get peaks to form.
Add the sugar gradually as you beat, rather than pouring it in all at once, to achieve a glossy texture.
 Fold the egg white mixture into the egg yolk mixture with a spatula. In a small bowl, combine the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt, then pour it into the wet mixture. Use the spatula to gently stir the ingredients until the batter comes together.
 Pour the batter into the baking pan. Use the spatula to smooth it evenly across the pan, all the way to the sides and into the corners. Place the pan in the oven and bake the cake for about 15 minutes. Remove it from the oven and let it cool for 5 minutes.


Check the cake by touching it with the back of a spoon. If it springs back, it's finished.
Don't overbake the cake, or it will get crumbly. Remove it from the oven when it is just finished.
Don't let the cake cool completely before moving to the next step.
 You can dust the parchment paper with powdered sugar to ensure the cake won't stick to the paper. Carefully turn the baking sheet over and turn the cake upside down over the paper. Use a spatula to help dislodge it from the pan if necessary. Remove the parchment paper from the cake.
 The cake should finish cooling in a rolled-up shape, so that it doesn't fall apart when you finish assembling it later. Lay a clean dishcloth over the cake. Gently begin rolling the cake, starting with one of the short sides, until the entire cake is in the form of a jelly roll. Let the cake finish cooling while you mix up the filling., Place the cream cheese in a mixing bowl and beat it until it becomes light and fluffy in texture. Add the butter and continue beating until the ingredients are fully incorporated.
 Place the powdered sugar in the bowl and keep beating. Taste the mixture and add more sugar if you desire.
 Pour in the vanilla and keep beating the filling until it has a smooth, spreadable consistency. Add more vanilla if you need to thin it out.
 Carefully roll the cake in the opposite direction so that it lays flat again. Remove the dishcloth.
 Scoop some of the filling into the center of the cake and use a knife or spatula to spread it over the surface of the cake, stopping about 1/2 in from the edges. Add as much or as little filling as you'd like.
 Roll the cake back up in the same direction it was rolled before. Place it in the freezer to let it firm up for an hour.
 Place the cake on a cake plate or platter for serving. Dust the cake with more powdered sugar, or make a sugar glaze to pour over the top. Serve with whipped cream or a scoop of vanilla ice cream.

