 One of the best ways to locate a reputable chiropractor is to ask your primary care physician or family doctor for a recommendation. You may ask your doctor, “If someone in your family needed a chiropractor, who would you recommend?” This will ensure he recommends a chiropractor he trusts.If you have a physical therapist you go to or a spine specialist, you can also ask him for a recommendation. Getting a recommendation for a chiropractor from trusted medical professionals can help you feel at ease.;
, Reach out to friends or colleagues who have had a positive experience with a chiropractor in the past. Focus on individuals who have had similar joint issues as you, as they may be able to refer you to a chiropractor who works effectively on your issue.Remember that everyone’s notion of a good chiropractor can be different. Make sure you specify your joint issue when you are getting a recommendation from a friend, as this will increase the likelihood that the chiropractor can help you with your specific issue.
 Do a search online, using the chiropractor's name, and read her online reviews. Note if patients had a positive experience with her overall. You should also read the reviews to get a sense of the chiropractor's techniques and mannerisms. Pay attention to any reviews that are negative or note issues patients had with the chiropractor. A good chiropractor should have mostly positive online reviews from patients.
 Do some research on the chiropractor’s background before you make an appointment through your state’s Chiropractic Regulation & Licensing Board. The board can provide background information on the chiropractor, including any disciplinary actions that have been taken against the chiropractor.You should also confirm that the chiropractor’s college is accredited by the Council on Chiropractic Education, as this will confirm that the chiropractor is properly trained and certified.
 A good chiropractor should be willing to sit down with you and discuss your specific needs as a potential patient. He should also be open to showing you around his office or clinic and describe his techniques. You can arrange an in-person consultation or a consultation over the phone. Ask yourself several questions during the consultation with the chiropractor, including:Is the chiropractor friendly and courteous?
Do I feel comfortable talking about my specific joint issues with the chiropractor?
Does the chiropractor appear to be a good listener and pay attention to my description of my needs?
Does the office/clinic appear to be clean and sanitary?

, Use the consultation time to ask the chiropractor questions about her techniques and her experience. A good chiropractor will provide detailed, clear answers and be transparent about her techniques. You may ask questions such as:What type of chiropractic techniques do you use? There are several different chiropractic techniques. Most chiropractors are well versed in four to five techniques and will chose the one that best suits the patient’s needs.

Do you use your hands or an instrument? Some chiropractors will use their hands to manipulate your joints, while others may use a small instrument to do adjustments on your joints. Chiropractors can also use quick firm movements or lighter movements. You should let the chiropractor know if you prefer quick firm movements or low-force techniques, where lighter movements are used.

How many years have you been practicing? How much training and experience do you have with specific techniques? This will ensure she is well experienced and confident with specific techniques.
 Once you have an overall sense of the chiropractor’s techniques, you should ask him how he would address your specific issue. The technique he selects should be based on your comfort level and the needs of your specific joint issue.


For example, if you have a neck joint issue due to a recent car accident, the chiropractor may suggest using a quick, firm movement to address the joint issue and help relieve stiffness in the joint. He may also suggest that you come back to the clinic for monthly adjustments so your neck can relax more and more over time, leading to long-term healing., It’s important to get a better understanding of the costs that you may need to pay for treatment in the beginning. This will make treatments less stressful for you and your chiropractor. By knowing the costs, you can make the decision with your chiropractor on whether you will be able to afford the treatments, or whether there are other alternatives. By knowing the fees, your chiropractor can also then be comforted that you have committed to your health and she can provide the best treatment moving forward.
 Ask your chiropractor if he will be able to communicate with your physician if it is required. By knowing this beforehand, you can be comforted that your physician will be able to get any relevant medical information on your treatments. Communication between health professionals will increase the chances of success with your treatments.
 Prepare for your session by wearing clothing that is not too tight or restrictive. You may wear stretchy workout plans and a loose shirt or wide, cotton pants and a loose top. Dress comfortably and avoid stiff or tight clothing, as this could make it more difficult for the chiropractor to adjust you.
 To ensure the session goes well, you should focus on staying relaxed and calm. The chiropractor will instruct you to lie face-down on the padded chiropractic table. You should allow your arms to hang down towards the floor. This will relax your spine and fan out your vertebrae, which will make the adjustments on your spine easier to do.Focus on keeping your body relaxed during the session. Continue to lay down on your stomach and avoid crossing your legs or bending your legs, as this can interfere with the adjustment., To ease your nerves, you can ask the chiropractor to describe her actions throughout the session. This could include her observations around your problem areas and what she is going to do to adjust them. She may also tell you to breathe deeply in and out as she applies pressure to the problem areas on your spine or neck.The chiropractor may also warn you that you will hear a popping or cracking sound when she adjusts the problem joint. Keep in mind the popping or cracking noise is not due to a bone breaking or a joint cracking. The popping or cracking sound occurs because the chiropractor is opening up the joint, also known as gapping the joint. As the joint opens, gas escapes and this gas creates an audible pop or crack. Though the noise may sound scary or worrisome, it is a sign that the joint is opening up and releasing any tension or stiffness., Raise your hand if you start to feel any pain or raise yourself off the padded table and address the chiropractor. He may respond by using a lighter touch or he may instruct you to breathe in as he adjusts you. The discomfort may be temporary and subside once the adjustment is made by the chiropractor.The chiropractor may make the adjustment with precise, quick force. Initially, you may feel an aching or soreness around the adjusted joint right after the adjustment. This is normal. However, if you experience any intense pain or discomfort due to the adjustment, as this may be an indication that it was not done properly.At the end of the session, take your time getting up. Rise up slowly on your side. Do not sit up from your back or straddle the chiropractic bench, as these movements could destabilize your adjusted joint. Try to avoid rubbing or poking the adjusted area as this can irritate it., Your chiropractor should let you know about any side effects you may experience due to the chiropractic adjustment on your joint. These include a minor headache and fatigue, as well as soreness around the areas that were adjusted. These side effects usually subside within 24 hours to several days after the session.The chiropractor should also suggest that you apply an ice pack to the sore, adjusted area to help ease any discomfort or swelling.
 If the side effects of the adjustment do not go away after two to four weeks or if you experience intense pain in the adjusted area, you may want to consider other types of treatment on the area. You can also make another appointment with the chiropractor to discuss other adjustments. The chiropractor may try treating a different area of your spine or reevaluate your treatment plan., Just like you may have asked your physician about a good chiropractor, you may want to ask your chiropractor about other health professionals if your condition is not improving. Most health professionals have a list of other practitioners to whom they refer patients for specific conditions. Your chiropractor may also know another health professional that may be able to help your condition if you are not seeing the results you were hoping for.

