 While fried food still has a rather unsavoury image, the whole industry has made an effort to advertise how vegetable oils, improved frying methods and unprocessed ingredients have made this variety of fast food more healthy than most. Use this to your advantage and promote healthier oils and foods to your customers so that they prefer your product over others. Be sensitive to changes in health knowledge as well - for instance, the problems now recognised with trans fats.;
, Another reason why the chip shop has survived is that it has, like any business, diversified to suit the times. At first sausages, pizzas, pies, chicken or burgers were added to the menu, more recently, kebabs, salads and vegetarian specialities have also made an appearance. Consider adding other types of food to your business to attract more customers.
 White fish and fried potatoes remain the core line. In fact, 300 million portions were served to Britons in 1999. Always ensure that these key items are part of your menu, available at all times to your customers.
 Part of the strength of the fish & chip trade relies on not diversifying too much; just enough to attract varied customers. Buying and cooking in bulk ensures that the meal remains the cheapest in the UK –and hence the most popular. It can be difficult to handle too many different food styles in a business, so think strategically when adding new foods to your menu, for example, can the new food be made in the same cookers, served in the same manner etc? Things that can be double-used will save costs for you.
 Leasehold prices vary hugely – from as little as £10,000 in certain parts of the north to as much as £350,000 in affluent London areas. Location and seating areas must be considered. As well as the usual importance of location, the provision of a sitting area can pump up the price significantly, although it does attract customers and you can charge slightly more for "eat-in".
, Given that costs can be cut to a minimum as a result of buying the basics in bulk, margins can be high – although of course profit ratios depend upon competition and how much you can shave off your prices.
Running a smaller shop – typically a husband-and-wife affair – is a high-stress job, involving, as it does, toiling over commercial fryers for a large part of the day.
It is worth taking into account that not all shops will be busy both lunchtimes and evenings, and larger shops can employ extra staff, making the job less physically demanding on the owner.
 Fish ‘n’ chips have had a renaissance over the past few years. In these days of health scares and food awareness, the 'chippy' can offer natural and unprocessed produce. It seems like the ideal time to reconsider this British favourite. Include signs that tell customers the healthier benefits of your food, along with their price advantage and other relevant benefits. Consider leaflet drops in your local areas to encourage new customers to come and take a look.

