 A stomp brush, also called a slap brush, often comes in a variety of different textures. Stomp brushes are brushes with very long bristles and can be used to make a variety of textures on your wall. Choose a brush for a type of texture that you want. If you want thicker pieces hanging from the ceiling, pick a stomp brush with thicker bristles. You can purchase slap brushes at most hardware stores., Read the instructions for your wall texture mix and combine the appropriate amount of water with the mix in a giant mixing bucket. Continue to mix the texture mix with water until it reaches a pasty consistency like pancake mix.One of the most popular brands of texture mix is Sheetrock texture paint.
You can use a 5-gallon (3.7 liters) bucket for this.
 Roll your paint roller into the drywall mixture that you just created and get it fully saturated. Knock the excess dripping paint back into your bucket so that the paint does not drip when you apply it to the ceiling. , Before you commit your texture to the ceiling, you should practice on a piece of cardboard first. Practice painting your textured paint onto the surface of some cardboard. If the mixture is too thick or not the texture that you want, add more water to your drywall mixture., Use a paint roller to apply a 1/8″ thick layer of the compound to the wall. Work in 1/6ths of your ceiling so that the mixture doesn't dry before you finish texturing your ceiling., Hold your slap brush perpendicular to the wall and push it into your layer of paint. Lift the brush back and you should have a nice texture on your wall. Experiment with different slap brushes and different amounts of paint to achieve different textures. , Using the roller and brush method, move to the different parts of your ceiling until it's totally finished. Remember to mix your drywall mixture as you paint, so it doesn't harden in your bucket., Once your entire ceiling has been textured, allow it to dry for at least 48 hours before removing your painter's tape and wiping the ceiling down with a damp rag.