 If you can attend a similar event as a member of the public, do so. Notice what other presenters are doing. Bring a notepad and paper, taking notes on what you appreciated in certain booths and what you thought other booths could have done better. As you do, keep your audience in mind. Activities, displays and giveaways for seniors are far different than those for boomers, x-ers and other groups.
 Find out well in advance what is required to run a booth at the event you wish to attend. Apply and pay any fees ahead of time, too.

Now is the time to contact event organizers with any special requests. If you need lighting or electricity in your booth, for instance, be sure to request it well in advance. If you need a sound system, refrigeration, vehicle access, or anything else besides your designated space, ask for it right now!
If you have a choice of booth locations, choose the one that will have the most traffic. Failing that, try to be near other booths or concessions that will attract the sort of traffic that you want.
 When the event is over you will want to compare its cost and results with other events to decide if you want to return., If you must travel to get to this event, reserve lodging, book flights, and secure a rental car. Large-scale events may completely fill the facilities near the venue, so secure these accommodations as soon as you're certain you will attend.
 Your supplies will depend on the exact nature of the event and what you are promoting, but consider the following:





 Show your identity clearly.

Displays and signs. At the very least, have at least one large banner stating clearly who or what you are promoting. Additional displays can help to inform your audience, too. Don't expect anybody to read large amounts of text while wandering by a booth. Instead, use large, eye-catching graphics and save the details for your flyers. A consistent look and feel between your different displays will help give your booth a unified, complete feel.





 Colorful stickers.

Freebies. A classic way to attract people to your booth is to give something away. Samples of something related to your message are ideal. Usable items (pens, t-shirts, bags) with your name and insignia printed on them can act as long-term reminders and even walking advertisements. Even a few dollars' worth of candy or a plate of munchies can get people to approach.

Literature. If you want people to contact you and remember you after the event, plan to hand out business cards, flyers, or brochures relating to your message. Bring more than you think you will need.
Demonstrations. If you can demonstrate something related to your organization (such as a product or service) or display the results of a successful project or activity, bring it for show and tell. Better yet, allow your visitors to participate in some way, perhaps by trying out what you are promoting.




 Your turn next.

Activities. Bring these to draw people to your booth. Holding a drawing for a larger prize can net you a bowl full of contact information. Even if the activity is a beanbag toss or a portable putting green, it can bring people in for long enough to talk to them and let them know why you're there.





 A space out of the rain.

A canopy. If your event is outdoors, a portable canopy, tent, or gazebo is indispensable for keeping the sun (or rain) off. It will also help you look more official and professional. If it can match your organization's colors or just be brightly colored, it will help make your presence that much more noticeable. Be sure that you learn in advance how much space the event will permit you to occupy.

A table and chairs. Again, the event organizers may provide these, or not. If you're not sure, ask.
Weather proofing. If the booth is outdoors, you may need weights to hold down papers, clips or clothespins to keep tablecloths and signs from blowing away, and so on. Of course, also dress for the weather you expect.




 Come prepared.

Tie downs and tools. If you know you will be assembling your own booth, table, or displays, make sure to bring the tools you'll need. Screwdrivers, pliers, and an adjustable wrench could come in handy. Scissors, packing tape, safety pins, and rope are good ideas, too. If you're not sure what you need to assemble your booth, do a dry run in advance at home or at the home office. Note: With current aviation restrictions, make sure that you pack assembly tools in your checked luggage, not your carry-on, to avoid hassles. Nothing worse than having any tools that will be useful at the show for assembly confiscated due to safety restrictions.





 The wheel was invented for a reason.

A cart or dolly. Especially if it is a large event, don't assume that you'll be able to park anywhere close to your booth. A handcart or dolly will help to bridge the gap.
Lights. If you think you will need lights, be sure you will have a source of electricity to power them.


Water. You'll be talking a lot, and it may be costly or inconvenient to visit the event concessions.




 Getting there.

A vehicle large enough to carry everything you will need. If you need to rent a van or truck, make arrangements in advance.
 If your booth is doing its job, you'll have lots of people to talk to over the course of the event. Don't try to make it a one-person show. Even one other person can help to keep you composed and your voice intact. If your booth is fairly popular, you'll want help just to make sure that everybody who is interested has somebody to talk to without waiting in line. If at all possible, arrange the schedule so that people work in shorter shifts. It's tiring to stand for long periods of time and say the same things over and over., Let them know what they're offering the public, whom they're approaching and how, where the various facilities nearby are, and when to arrive. They'll be speaking for your organization as experts, and they'll come across more professionally if they're informed, even if they are volunteers., Try to staff your booth with attractive people who are attired appropriately, yet draw attention. This will set your booth and organization apart from the maze of other booths and make you part of the show.
If your organization has a uniform or even a t-shirt, wear it, and encourage your colleagues to do the same. Customized t-shirts are relatively inexpensive to produce even in low volumes.
Dress alike. Even if you simply agree to wear jeans and a t-shirt in your organization's color, you'll look more like you are meant to be there.
Dress professionally. A business suit will show that you're serious and give your message that much more clout.
Wear costumes or dress thematically. If it's a festive atmosphere, or your group is theatrical, wearing clown costumes, ball gowns, or big, silly hats could attract a lot of attention.
Use professional spokes models if appropriate. Attractive people who know how to "work" a crowd can be a powerful force to draw attention to your booth and your organization. Make sure you use professional people who understand how to behave correctly.

