 Make any repairs necessary.


The Portuguese government, in conjunction with EDP, (Energias de Portugal), have implemented rules governing the new connections of mains electricity to private, habitations as well as commercial properties to ensure all safety regulations are met.
If a property (habitation) has never had a mains electricity supply and is deemed to be in a sub habitable condition, then the electricity supply will not be connected until the property matches the correct criteria.
In the case of ruins and ruined property, this will mean submitting a planning application to the local council to make the structural repairs necessary bringing the property up to a habitable condition. This includes a full new electrical system, installation of water inlet and egress pipes, creation of a septic tank, wiring for telephone and broadband capabilities and installation of pipe work for mains gas as well as any structural work which needs to be carried out.
All of which collectively must meet the building regulations standard laid down by the government. Only after all of this is done, the work approved and the electricity system has been installed and signed off by a registered electrician will the electric company give a connection with a definitive electric metre.;
, Electrical posts are sited 100 meters (328.1 ft) apart and although you can get the electric metre sited at the edge of your boundary bringing the supply to it can be expensive. To have a post installed by the electric company will cost around 1,000 euros per post. If the nearest post is on the opposite side of the road from your property you will have to have a new post installed to ensure there is enough clearance room beneath for high sided vehicles to pass beneath.
 You will need your identity documents and your fiscal card as well as some proof you are the new owner of the property (ideally a copy of the Escritura). Then the staff within the office will create a new contract for you with a start date for the electricity supply to be changed into your name. When visiting EDP it is advisable to read the existing metre as this will speed up the process.
 However EDP have also introduced an online billing procedure which can be useful if your property is a holiday home.

