 If your dog becomes anxious during certain situations, like the sound of fireworks or thunder, you could try massaging him to calm his nerves.Starting with your palm lying flat against the top of his head or neck, make light and sweeping motions down to his tail.Continue these sweeping motions until you see your dog start to relax.
Finish the massage by lightly resting one hand at the base of his head and the other on his hips (near his sacrum). These locations represent the parts of the spinal cord that control rest and relaxation responses.It may help to talk to your dog in a quiet and soothing voice while you are massaging him.
 If you have an active dog, it is helpful to get him warmed up before intense exercise. Begin by petting him over his entire body for a few minutes.Next, with your palm still facing down, use the heel of your hand (near your wrist) to briskly rub his large muscles (thighs, hips, neck, shoulders).Do not apply excessive pressure with the heel of your hand. Your dog will likely let you know if you are using too much pressure.
After briskly rubbing those muscles, lift them as if you were kneading dough— gently grab the muscles and rub them between your thumb and fingers.
To warm up his leg muscles, gently squeeze the muscles at the bottom of each leg and work your way up.Finish the massage the way you started it—broad strokes across his entire body., Dogs, just like people, can become sore after vigorous physical activity. Giving your dog a massage after exercise can help him recover a little more quickly. If you notice a particular joint that seems to be sore (e.g., hip joint, shoulder joint), begin to pet in that general area to warm it up.In a rhythmic fashion, gently press down on the muscles around the joint, then release the pressure. This compression improves circulation through the muscles and takes some tension off the tendons around the affected joint.Make sure not press down directly on the affected joint.If you do by accident, your dog will let you know that you’ve touched a painful area.
Finish the massage by petting the affected area again., If your dog is suffering from cancer, you may be able to use massage to help him feel a little better. In human cancer patients, massage can help to reduce anxiety, relieve such symptoms as pain and nausea, and lower blood pressure.It is reasonable to think that dogs with cancer may benefit from massage as well.Talk with your veterinarian first before massaging your dog.