 It's best to bathe the horse the night before so your horse is clean and ready to go.If you clean your horse before the night of the show, your horse could get dirty and you would have to clean them again.


Beware of using shine-enhancing formula around the saddle area though, or you might run into the issue of a slipping saddle or saddle pad.
Another benefit of bathing the horse the night before is that there is less time for them to roll about etc. to make themselves dirty again.
 Clip the fetlocks on your horse's legs closely, as well as the longer hairs that grow on your horse's muzzle, face, ears, and throat. Clip the hair that falls onto your horses hooves straight. Clipping is important! Always clip your horse a nice, clean bridle path - for stock horses, the length of the ear but for light breeds about an ear and a half. Clipping adds definition to your horse's body shape and improves the overall presentation before the judge.


Do not trim your horses if they are heavy horses, such as Friesians or Clydesdales.
If you're planning on a full-body clip, do so 1-2 weeks prior to the show. Clipping the entire body gives the coat a dull appearance until the oils are spread out again and the coat grows back a bit., A white horse or horse with socks that appears brown, grass-stained, or dingy won’t score as well with judges. Use a whitening shampoo to thoroughly scrub all white areas on your horse, allowing it to set and soak in for about 5 minutes before rinsing it off. Then, coat white socks or stars with cornstarch or French chalk to keep the white looking white.


Wrap white socks with standing wraps to keep your horse from dirtying and staining them before a show.
 Wash the mane and tail with a specialized shampoo, and use a whitening product if your horse’s hair is white. Add in a detangler to make sure that there are no knots to get your comb caught on. Then, use a metal pull brush to thin out too-thick manes, or use a specialized mane razor to accomplish the task. Finish off by braiding or banding the mane and tail for the show.


By braiding the mane and tail a few days in advance, even if you intend to have their mane and tail loose, it will keep it from getting tangled and add a lovely wave to the hair.
If you’re banding the mane, cut off excess hair after banding. This will help it to look more precise and avoid the need to cut it twice.
Wrap the tail with a tail bag or long sock to keep it from coming undone or getting caught on anything.

