 Then everyone slams them on the table with the openings downward, so no one else can see how the dice fell.






;
, After you peek at your dice, based on what you found you can make a call about how many of any number of dice there are on the table.









For example, you can say "three 2s," meaning you think that there are three dice on the table that rolled a 2.
Remember, your guess includes all the dice belonging to all the players, not just your own dice, so you're making a guess that includes dice you can't see!

, The calls must be in order to the player on the left. If somebody else makes a higher call than you, you can raise yours, but only if the player that raises it is on the left. The hands are ranked first by amount, number of dice (5 4's), then by value, dots on the face (5 4's). So, (2, 3's) are better that (2, 2's) but not (3, 2's)








, For example, if there are 4 dice on the table and someone calls a "3" and there is a "ace" or "1" one, but no "3" to act as the mother die, they lose.
 For instance, they might say there are six 6s when there are only eight dice on the table and the other player can see none of his are 6's, and somebody will say the caller is a liar. At that point, the dice are revealed.









If you call somebody a liar and you were wrong, you lose.
If you call someone a liar and they were lying, they lose.
 For example, if you call "five 6s" and there aren't at least five dice that show 6 on the table, you've lost.
 This way there is always a loser--the loser loses some of whatever they were betting. Bets can be re-decided each time, or you can choose to make the bets constant, it's your choice. The first person who loses a game with no chips (NOT the first person who loses all of their chips).









On top of losing your chips you lose one of your dice.
If the person who made the first call calls 1s or aces, ones are no longer wild for that round.
If it should come down to two players each with one die, then Liar's Dice becomes "spots". This means that you both roll and look at your dice, but instead of number of dice you are saying the number of spots. If there is one five and one 3, there are 8 spots. The game continues normally after this.

