 The off-season will depend largely on the location you choose, but most places experience a higher volume of visitors in spring and summer. To cut costs, plan your wedding and travels for autumn or winter. This can save not only on airfare, but also on wedding venues and hotel booking.Make sure you are aware of any inclement weather associated with the off season, such as hurricanes or blizzards, and work your calendar around weather patterns to avoid a failed wedding attempt.
 Base your wedding date around flight prices. Before you set a date, check flights for your desired location, and choose a date that offers low prices. If you search early enough, you might even be able to travel in a higher-volume season for less money.Extend this same courtesy to your guests. If you found cheap flights, get your invitations out quickly so that your guests can take advantage of lower prices, as well.
 Before you settle on a wedding venue, compare prices, including hotel prices, travel costs, and ceremony expenses. Some venues will be inexpensive to use, but will cost too much to travel to, while others might have the opposite problem. Choose a destination that not only suits your wants, but also takes your budget restrictions into account., Some hotels require you to use their vendors, their clergy, and their facilities for all parts of your wedding, while others are extremely lax in their rules and regulations. Take this into account when choosing a venue, as you might not like the facilities for both a wedding and a reception., The style of wedding you want will determine what type of hotel you want to visit. If you are a more controlling personality, you might want a hotel that gives the reins to you. If you are a relaxed personality, you might like the convenience of an all-inclusive package.


All-inclusive packages can be more expensive, but they can also be budget-friendly, as you don’t want to find and negotiate with vendors on your own.
 Destination weddings do not have to be to far-off places. You can have a destination wedding at a small beach town 5 hours away from your home. You can have a destination wedding as little as two hours away. When you decide on your venue, distance should not be the first priority. Instead, your first priority should be finding a venue you love.If you met in college in another state, you can get married on your college campus. Get creative with your destination, and give yourself the freedom to be sentimental.

