 No matter what preventative measures you take, there's always a risk that someone might still come into your store and attempt to steal. However, most shoplifters are not professional criminals. They're usually very nervous, sloppy in their methods, and tend to draw attention to themselves.


Keep an eye on anyone who spends a lot of time watching the cashier or sales clerk.
If you have a dressing room at your store, keep track of who goes in and how much merchandise they take with them. If you have a public rest room, make sure no one takes unpaid merchandise into the rest room with them.
If you see someone who looks or acts nervous (avoiding eye contact, picking up random items with no interest, etc.), keep a close eye on that individual. He is probably planning to steal something and is waiting for the right time.
 Shoplifters are not terribly inventive. They tend to use the same routines in store after store until getting caught. Know what to look for, and keep an eye on suspicious individuals.


The most common places shoplifters hide stolen goods are in their own clothing, in a handbag/purse/backpack, in a stroller, inside a folded umbrella, and inside other purchased merchandise.Many shoplifters attempt to do a "false return," in which a thief tries to return a stolen item for a full cash refund. Make sure anyone trying to return an item has a receipt from your store, and don't give money to anyone who may have stollen the item in question.
Another common trick is switching the price tags on merchandise. Pay attention to the prices as you cash someone one, and make sure your employees do as well.
 The decision to confront a shoplifter is not an easy one to make. As a store owner, you may feel it's your duty to prevent theft and ensure profitable sales. However, you also need to recognize the possibility that a shoplifter may be a threat to your safety or the safety of others.It's important to assess every situation as unique and potentially dangerous. If there is any chance a shoplifter might be armed or dangerous, do not attempt to stop that individual and simply wait for the police.
Never put your life, your employees lives, or your other customers' lives at risk. Remember that stolen merchandise is just an object that can be replaced, and is not worth losing a life over.
If you decide to confront a shoplifter, be 100% certain that that individual actually stole from the store. Wrongly accusing a customer will make you lose business and could result in a lawsuit.
 Any time you catch someone shoplifting, or have strong evidence that a person has committed theft, call the police. If you have a security system in place, show the police any video footage you captured of the incident, and cooperate with their requests.


Remember that police are trained professionals who are capable of chasing, detaining, searching, and arresting a shoplifter.
Do not try to be a hero. If you suspect a theft has taken place and you don't feel safe pursuing the suspect, simply call the police and tell them everything that happened.

