 When talking to your parents, you need to be able to know exactly what you want. Do you just want to be able to have some alone time, or do you really feel like you need some new responsibilities to be more independent? Maybe you feel like your parents don't trust you or respect your person, and by trying to avoid them, you're really just trying to develop your own independent self. Before you talk to your parents, try to sort out your feelings and figure out what you hope to gain.Try writing about your feelings. Ask yourself questions like, "Why do I want to avoid my parents?" and then let yourself be free to write down what you're feeling. Look at what you've written to figure out what you want.
For instance, if you really are just trying to be more independent, talk to your parents about how you can earn their trust and ways you can start to do things on your own.
 You don't want to ambush your parents at a bad time. If they're busy getting dinner ready, they won't be able to focus on you and what you need. Therefore, it's best to set up a time with them so they'll be ready to put their attention on you.For example, you could say, "Hey, I'd like to sit down and talk to you at some point about something. When would be a good time when I'd have your full attention?"

, Of course, you don't want to be mean. However, once you've figured out what you want from your parents, you need to tell them. Start with how you're feeling, and move on to what you'd like them to do to help you change that.For example, you could say something like, "I've been feeling restless lately. I feel like I'm getting old enough to be trusted to go out on my own more. I feel upset when you don't trust me enough to do that. I'd like to prove to you that I'm responsible enough to be trusted, but I need your input on how to do that."
Don't blame your parents. Rather, talk about your emotions to help your parents understand.
 As you are still a teen, your parents need to know where you are most of the time. While it can be annoying, giving your parents an idea of what you'll be doing can help put them at ease. Plus, they know where to find you in case of an emergency.Remember that your parents love you and have your best interest at heart. Also, remember that they're human. They've watched you grow up, and of course, they're going to feel protective of you. Realize that it's going to be hard for them to let go.
 No matter how you go about it, setting a boundary or asking for space may cause your parents to get emotional.That's natural. However, if you're calm and respectful about it and help your parents see that you just want to be your own person, all of you can move forward with a healthier relationship.

