 Pap tests are the primary method for a doctor to check for cervical cancer or precancerous changes to the cervix. If a Pap test comes back irregular, the doctor may opt to perform an HPV DNA test to see if the Pap sample tests positive for HPV.However, some doctors also perform both tests together.


Pap tests are recommended every three years for women under the age of 65 whose previous Paps have come back normal. If you receive an irregular Pap result, your doctor will advise you on a good testing schedule.
 HPV tests are may not be given as part of a routine exam for women, but many doctors perform both tests together. You can request an HPV test along with your pap test if you believe you have reason to worry. Samples for an HPV test are collected the same way as those for a Pap test, by swabbing the cervix.HPV tests are generally only recommended for women age 30 or over, and thus a doctor may not recommend one for younger patients.
HPV is common in young women, and most strains are cleared up by a healthy immune system before any symptoms or complications can occur. Subsequently, your doctor may recommend another screening method, such as a Pap test, to see if there is any need for concern or further testing.
At this point, HPV tests have only been effectively developed for women. Thus, a woman cannot ask a male partner to get screened for HPV in order to assess their risk.
 If you notice any warts, lesions, or lumps around your genital area, contact your doctor immediately. Set up an appointment to have the doctor look at any warts or suspicious symptoms as soon as possible.


Genital warts often go away on their own, and depending upon your specific symptoms your doctor may recommend careful monitoring and no further treatment.
If your doctor does recommend treatment, they may opt for topical treatments or freezing the warts. Ask your doctor if your treatment can be applied at home, or if it must be done by a medical professional.
If you receive treatment for genital warts, ask your doctor, “What should I do to prevent infection in this area and minimize risk of future warts?”, Be sure to talk with your doctor about any concerns you have about HPV. Part of a well woman exam is also an examination of the vulva, vagina, and anal area. If you are concerned that you are at risk for HPV infections, then let your doctor know so that these areas can be examined too.

