 Comb through your hair to get rid of any tangles. If you just washed your hair, apply some texturizing spray or mousse to it to make it easier to work with.


Some people find that this style works best on slightly-wavy hair.This style starts at the mid-back of your head. It is suitable for both short and long hair.
 Tie your hair off with a clear hair tie.If you have very dark hair, you could use a black one instead.
 Make a hole on your half-up, half-down ponytail, just above the hair tie. Bring your finger up through the hole. Hook it around the ponytail, then bring it back down through the hole., Gather a small section of hair from your hairline on each side of your head. Add the two sections to the half-up, half-down ponytail. Wrap another clear hair tie around the ponytail, including the two added sections., Make another hole in the ponytail, then use your finger to gather the pony, and pull it down through the hole., Keep gathering hair from your left and right hairline, and adding them to the ponytail. Tie the ponytail off with a clear elastic, then flip it., Gather all your hair into a low ponytail, then split it into two sections. Take some hair from the outer-left section, cross it over the left section, and add it to the inner-right. Take some more hair from the outer-right section, cross it over the right section, and add it to the inner left section.You can continue doing topsy-turvy ponytails until you reach the end of your hair, then finish off with a mini fishtail instead.If you have short hair, you may not be able to get a very long fishtail braid.
 Once the braid is as long as you want it to be, gather all your hair together, and tie it off with a hair tie. If you have enough hair leftover, you could wrap a thin around the hair tie to hide it, then secure it with a bobby pin.
 You don't have to do this, but it's a great way to add some volume to your hair. Simply tug on the outer loops of your braid to achieve the fullness you want.Set your braid with a light misting of hairspray.

