 Having the speech written and placed onto note cards or in whatever other format works for you provides a huge confidence boost that lets you relax, knowing that the content aspect has been taken care of.


Write your speech points on cue cards, or at least have a paper that has your speech written on it.;
, If you're new to presenting speeches, nothing beats rehearsal beforehand. This gives your the opportunity to test your speaking style, to play around with intonation and to watch your stance and posture in the mirror. You could record yourself on video and see what your demeanor looks like when played back. Make the most of rehearsal time to adjust the rough edges and to give you a confidence boost.


It's not recommended that you over-rehearse though; a little spontaneity helps the speech to sound more authentic, coming from your heart. Rehearse mainly for the sake of experience at speaking and getting your posture and movements accurate.
 This will ensure that you're well rested and can think straight when standing in front of the audience.
 It can be hard to cope if people are around you as you wait to give the speech. At some point, this cannot be avoided. However, try to find a spot where you can take yourself to self calm and avoid distractions for at least a few minutes prior to giving the speech. This could be a quiet corner, a separate room or even a stall in the bathroom. Use this time to breathe deeply, remind yourself that you're well prepared or know the subject matter well and to bolster your confidence.


Be aware that distractions can cause you to focus on things that are not related to your speech.
 Breathe deeply and notice your breathing pattern consciously. If you catch yourself breathing quickly or in a shallow way, deliberately make a choice to breathe more slowly and deeply, as this will help to calm you down.
 It is easy to blank when panicking or feeling anxious, and this can increase the worry. You were asked to give this speech for a reason, be it for learning, for teaching, for sharing information––so focus on the opportunity it is presenting you as much as for the audience.

