 Cut a bunch of plastic bags into strips of about 2 inches (5cm) wide by 5 to 6 inches (5-7.5cm) long. Any longer and your wreath will lose its body and oomph.









How many ribbon pieces you need depends on the size of the wreath you're going for. Somewhere in the realm of 400 should do the trick if you're working with a standard-sized wire hanger.
For ribbons, colored plastic bags work well, but so do strips of cut or torn fabric (such as cotton, flannel, worn denim, old neckties, etc.). Avoid t-shirt fabric, soft knits, satin or silk, as these materials are too loose and slinky to hold up under their own weight.
 While holding the hanger by the hook in one hand, grasp the hanger in the center of the bottom hanger bar with your other hand. Gently stretch the hanger until the hanger forms a crude squarish-diamond shape.









You could also make a crude heart shape if you're making the wreath for an event such as Valentine's Day or Mother's Day. It won't be perfect, but the ribbon will disguise any imperfections.
 With both hands near each other, as if you were trying to break a pencil in half, bend the wire all the way around the diamond until the wire forms a rough circle. The circle does not need to be perfect, as it's going to be covered in ribbon soon.









Don't worry about it being a perfect circle, but do try to get it so that it lays relatively flat on a surface. If one side juts up more than another, it'll look wonky when hung.
 Randomly select one to three strips of the plastic "ribbon" and tie onto the wire form. You can go in a specific order or you can go as haphazardly as you like. At the end, you may not be able to tell if there was a pattern at all.









If you're not sure if you have enough of a specific color or colors, tie around the wreath at different points (3, 6, 9, and 12 o'clock for example). That way the color will stay evenly spread even if you do run out.
 As you near the finish line, push the ribbons closely together at the knot, towards the hanger hook. Add more if space presents itself while adjusting









If desired, consider mixing a few strips of colorful ribbon in with the plastic ribbons (grosgrain ribbon, fabric hem tape, fabric bias tape, or simply cut strips of fabric).
 The plastic strips are very malleable and can be molded easily. And if one isn't cooperating, simply take it off!









If you'd like to decorate it, do so at this step. Glue small buttons, paper cut-out shapes, candy hearts or pinwheel mints to the tails of the focal ribbon for accent.
 This takes your project from a pretty, fluffy hoop to an actual wreath decoration. Alternately, you could tie the ribbon at the bottom, but using the hook is much, much easier.
 And you thought using a hanger was being cheap. No, it's being resourceful! Could it be any easier?








