 If you feel like you’re starting to drown in information, the best way to get your feet back on solid ground is by turning off the faucet. Every single day, get away from both your phone and computer for an hour or two. For many people, this simple task seems almost unthinkable. In fact, the harder this may seem, the more likely you will benefit from taking a break.As incredibly and useful as smartphones, tablets, and laptops are, they are also the vessels through which you are exposed to far more information than you can possibly handle.;
, The torrential accumulation of information that is available will only continue to increase. However, you can choose to limit the amount of information that literally occupies your mind. In particular, set aside a block of time to tackle the task of unsubscribing to every email list you no longer want to receive. Similarly, change the settings on your phone to only allow a few apps to distract you with alerts.Depending on the forms of email and other applications you use on your online devices, the specific process of limiting your exposure will vary.
Essentially: eliminate the sources of distractions that expose you to unnecessary information that is contributing to mental discomfort, whether you realize it or not.
 With our increased connectivity to other people and literally limitless sources of information, it can readily seem as though you are always being exposed to more and more things to think about, respond to, or otherwise address. This can readily lead to information overload. There are all sorts of boundaries you can set up to reduce the amount of information that brings itself to your attention.A classic example is setting up some strict work-life boundaries. That said, peoples’ increasing use of social media platforms means you’re not only facing a barrage of emails from work, but an endless stream of updates, promotions, invitations, and emoticons.
Recognize that you may simply need to commit to leaving your work computer at work, or disallow yourself from using social media platforms outside of scheduled time slots that you choose to do so.

