 Sometimes, it’s impossible to know why you don’t like a person. However, sometimes, there are specific reasons for why you and another person don't get along. Figure out what your problems are with his friend or group of friends. If you don’t drink and they drink copious amounts, then it may be that your lifestyles don’t match. Or, maybe one of them behaves quite rudely towards you. These don’t have to be massive character faults. Perhaps you simply don’t share similar interests. This is fine. Knowing this will help you figure out how to improve this situation.;
, Communicate to your boyfriend that it’s hard to deal with some of his friends. Sit with him and have a conversation about what you feel your problems are. By doing this, you are showing that you do want his friends to be part of your life. Be honest.Your boyfriend will value this because it shows that you are willing to be up front about how you feel.


You might start the discussion with a phrase like, “I don’t seem to be fitting in with your friends.” Or, perhaps, you can say “I want to know more about your friends.” Using gentle language like this will make it easy to start conversing.
 You may think that you are getting bad signals from your boyfriend’s friends. Yet, if you think about this from their side, you might possibly find that they are not reacting badly towards you out of malice. For example, they may just be protective of their friend. They don’t necessarily dislike you, but they feel they need to put up a strong front in order to keep you from hurting their friend. If you explain to them that you aren’t, then you might find they will be more receptive to you, and less likely to irritate you on purpose.


This is hard but doable. By thinking about their perspectives, you will be able to find a way to communicate with them.
 It’s natural to want to be with your partner when you first meet. It is also completely natural to become envious of anyone who also has claims on his time. However, you should not lash out at him or his friends because you feel this way. Take this as a good sign. It means that you have found a person that everyone wants to spend time with.


For example, you might become jealous of his best friend. Though this is a natural reaction, you shouldn’t become too possessive of your boyfriend. He and his best friend have probably known each other for a while, so you should respect that they need to have their time together.
 You may not understand why his friends behave in a certain way. They may act in ways that annoy and irritate you. You might try ignoring them. However, sometimes, this may be impossible to do. In that case, you need to find a way to confront them in a non-threatening manner.


For example, perhaps one of his friends always tags along with you and your boyfriend. You don’t know why this is. Perhaps, he simply does not have much to do or he just really likes your boyfriend. Either way, this is getting on your nerves. The next time he wants to hang out with you both, ask your boyfriend to tell him that you want to have couple time. If your boyfriend tells him this, then he will probably get the message.

