 A possibly injured victim should be left in place whenever possible, since moving may cause injury. If the car is burning or there is another reason the victim must move immediately, follow these instructions:Move the victim's legs clear of the pedals.
Rotate the victim so her back faces the open car door.
Lock your arms under her armpits and in front of her chest.
Drag the victim to a safe location, supporting her head with your body.
If her legs or feet catch on the car, slowly lower her to the ground, lift her legs out by hand, then drag using the next step.
 If the ground is smooth and there are no obvious leg injuries, use this technique to move the victim out of the danger area. Crouch low and grab the patient's ankles. Lean back and pull the victim to safety.Leaning back uses your own body weight as leverage, allowing you to drag someone much heavier than yourself.


To reduce the risk of self-injury, do not extend your arms more than 15–20 inches (38–51cm). Flex your arms slowly backwards, then reposition yourself before pulling again.Some first aid agencies do not like this method because it drags the victim's head along the ground.For this reason, never use it on rough ground.
 Bend over next to the top of the person's head. Grasp the victim's clothing underneath the shoulders, supporting her head with your arm. Drag backward.


Alternatively, pull the victim's arms above her head. Grip the elbows, pressing them against the victim's head to support it. Use this method if the victim's clothing is torn or weak., Carrying someone is a last resort in an emergency. It can make an injury worse, or expose the victim to smoke inhalation during a fire.Use it only when immediate movement is necessary, and dragging is not possible.


If the victim is unconscious, it can take considerable strength to lift her to a standing position. To do this, roll the person onto her stomach. Kneel at the top of her head, and place both arms under her armpits. Grasp her back and stand by pushing with your legs, keeping both your backs as straight as possible.Once the victim is in a standing position, you can follow the instructions under "carrying a friend."
Alternatively, give a "piggyback ride" by crossing the victim's arms in front of your chest and balancing the victim's weight on your hips. This may be safer if the victim is injured, but it is still not ideal.