 If you purchase seeds, sow these into small seedling containers. Leave on a sunny windowsill to germinate. Turn every few days to encourage straight growth.;
, It is important to bring the seedlings outside gradually, to get them used to being outdoors. Try growing them on the porch first, to let them ease into the temperature changes.


If the seedlings are going into a pot, plant into pots approximately 13 cm/ 5" in diameter. Keep out of direct sunlight but provide plenty of light as gerbera loves sun.Garden: Plant in well-drained soil that has been dug over. Position the gerbera daisy plants in a cool, well ventilated and bright part of the garden. Avoid direct sunlight, however, as it will get sunburned.Burke's Backyard, however, says that gerberas thrive in full sun, so you may need to experiment with different types and those grown to your local conditions are likely to be fine.It is also important to have a warm climate; if you are growing them in a colder climate, protect them from cold blasts and frosts.Be sure to keep the crown 1-2cm/1" above the soil level to prevent disease.



The flowers will form a few months after sowing; feeding (fertilising) will encourage bigger flowers.Slow-release, low-phosphorus fertilizer, such as 15-5-15 are preferred for gerberas, at the rate recommended on the package for the size of your bed/container.
Water the plants immediately after fertilizing, rinsing the foliage with the water. The leaves are easily burned while coming in contact with a fertilizer.
 Water sparingly during winter and cold spells.
 With a pair of clean, sharp secateurs, clean up your gerberas at a regular interval. This reduces the chance of diseases, and makes your plants look more beautiful.
 Gerberas need a regular morning bathing to survive better in a hot weather.
 Gardeners who live in areas where gerberas are hardy -- can propagate them through division. In spring, or at the beginning of the rainy season (if you have a rainy season), dig up the existing plants and pry apart their root crowns with your fingers. Snip off any dead roots or shriveled foliage, leaving some good roots and at least one growth bud on each division. Use pruning shears which have been cleaned with rubbing alcohol to make any necessary cuts, cleaning the blades of those shears again between each plant. When replanting the divisions, position each one with its root crown slightly higher than the surrounding soil.
 Gerberas can be induced to produce more flowers by


Providing more space to each plant, so that they don't have to compete for food, water and air
Keeping the potting soil continuously moist (not soggy) during the summer days
Deadheading the spent blooms regularly
Providing adequate sunlight for at least 6 hours a day
Morning misting with water daily during hot weather days.
 Gerberas have excellent vase life and look very pretty when different colours are arranged together in a vase. You can also prepare a bouquet yourself with them and gift your near and dear ones.

