 Start by lining up the tape with the board so that you know the correct length and won't have it stuck on crooked. It's difficult to correct mistakes once it sticks. Make sure the grip surface is longer and wider than your deck—you will cut the excess tape away when you are done. If you have a design on your grip, arrange where you want it to be.


Some people don't like the "classic" grip, and they go for different ways of gripping. For example: you can cut your grip in half before attaching it so that you have a line of grip-less space across your board, or you can draw a "silhouette"and cut it out so that you have a icon on your board.
Imagine you have a grip tape that has a drawing/design on the center of it, and you don't want it to be in the center of your board. Just center the drawing where you want it to be (e.g. the nose or the tail). You'll probably have a part of your deck with no grip, but you'll also have a big extra piece of grip hanging off the other side. Cut this piece out and use it to fill the "missing grip area".
 Smooth out any small bubbles by pressing and pushing in the direction that you are lining the tape. If there are large bubbles that could eventually create a crease, you will want to pull back on the grip tape extremely carefully to remove these. Make sure that the adhesive doesn't stick to anything else.


Use two hands! This is a slow and patient process, and you don't want to rip the tape.
 Start slowly from one end of board and move your way across, pushing down on the tape so that you remove any air bubbles. Some brands already have small holes in their griptape to reduce the risk of air bubbles, but you should probably flatten the tape just to be safe. Flatten the griptape against the edges of the board.


You can always pull the grip tape up and try again. Try not to do this more than once or twice, or else the grip tape may lose its sticky backing.
 Make sure that the griptape covers the entire surface, unless you are leaving exposed wood in some areas for stylistic reasons. Some of the griptape may extend past the edges of the deck, but do not worry—you will trim this excess away with a knife or razor.

