 A diet that is high in complex carbohydrates and fiber will help ensure a steady release of glucose from the gut.Consider natural dog food. If you can find a natural dog food that is high in carbohydrates, you might consider this option. Natural dog food has the additional benefit of not having chemicals that are difficult for your diabetic dog to process.Diabetic dogs benefit from complex carbohydrates because they digest the food slower and the glucose is absorbed throughout the day.Feed your dog a diet with a low-glycemic index. Low-glycemic foods include fruits, vegetables, and whole wheat products.Simple carbohydrates should be avoided.If your diabetic dog eats a diet with simple carbohydrates or sugars, they will experience rapid spikes in their insulin levels.
 Many veterinarians recommend a diet that is higher in protein and lower in carbohydrates, although carbohydrates should remain in the diet. Your diabetic dog should be getting at least a regular amount of protein and a higher amount of protein if they are either overweight or experience muscle wasting.If you increase the amount of protein in their diet, you should lower the amount of fat and maintain the same amount of carbohydrates.Forty percent of your dog’s diet should be protein. The rest of the diet should be composed of healthy fats and complex carbohydrates, with thirty percent of the diet allocated to each of these foods.You might try a raw food diet with plenty of protein but make sure your dog isn’t getting too much fat with it., You should avoid feeding your diabetic dog a diet that is high in fat. If your dog has high cholesterol, lipemia, or is overweight, you should move to a lower fat diet.Look for dog food that is lower in calories than similar products, which will typically mean it is also lower in fat.Thirty percent of your diabetic dog’s diet should be healthy fats.The rest of their diet should be protein (40%) and complex carbohydrates (30%).
Keep in mind that the amount of fat listed on dog food is not always accurate., Talk to your veterinarian about possible prescription diets for your diabetic dog. Although a prescription diet is not always necessary for diabetic dogs, your veterinarian should be able to offer advice on whether this is the right choice for you and your pet.


Ask your veterinarian: Is there a prescription diet that would be good for my dog?
Inquire into the best quality prescription diets: Is there a prescription diet that is higher in quality than other brands?

