 Figure 8 ponytails look best on clean and smooth hair. Before you begin styling, brush your hair thoroughly to eliminate knots or tangles. If you wish, also use leave-in conditioner or other products that are designed to smooth hair and calm frizz.





;
, Once you have brushed your hair, pull it back behind your ears and onto your back. Hold your hair in one hand and use the other to brush or comb the top of your hair back to smooth down any bumps that may have formed when you pulled it back.
 Still holding your hair behind your head, split your hair down the middle into 2 equal sections. Try to make the sections of hair approximately the same size, but don’t worry about making them perfect, as your part won’t be visible in this hairstyle.
 Hold the left section of hair with both hands. With one hand, separate about ¼ of the left section of hair from the rest of the section. Take this portion of the left section of hair that you separated and cross it over both the rest of the left and the right sections.








Don’t let go of the section of hair after crossing. You will use this section of hair throughout the entire process of this hairstyle to make the figure 8 twists.
 Take the section of hair you are holding and loop it under the right section of hair. Keep the section of hair held in your hand.
 Still holding the same hair, loop the same strand of hair back over the hair that you just looped under on the right section.
 After you loop over the right section of hair, pull the strand of hair you are holding back over to the left and weave it under the hair on the left hand side.








This creates a single figure 8 twist, since you have returned the hair you were weaving back to its original side.
 Once you create this figure 8, give the section of hair you are weaving a pull. Pulling tightens the figure 9 weave in your hair so that the pattern is tighter and more distinct once you finish weaving your hair.








If you want a loose, casual-chic series of figure 8 twists that aren’t as defined, skip this step of pulling on your hair.
 Using the same strand of hair, repeat the steps of Part 2 to create more twists. Remember to tighten after each twist of the figure 8 to make the pattern more defined







, If you have shorter hair, you may come to the end of the strand of hair before you complete your desired number of twists. If this happens, take the strand and combine it with a new piece of hair from the left section, then use this section to continue making your twists.









Combining the hair will make a seamless transition that you shouldn’t be able to notice in your twists.
 Keep repeating the figure 8 pattern in your hair until you are happy with the number of twists in your hair. Three to six twists are generally a good range to fall into when you are making a figure 8 ponytail.
 Once you are finished making the figure 8 twists in your hair, use a hair elastic, preferably clear, to tie your hair in a ponytail right where your twists end.
 Some prefer to hide their hair tie to give the style a more polished look. To do this, take a strand of your hair about the same thickness as a finger and wrap it several times around the hair elastic until the tip of the hair. Then wrap the tip under the ponytail and tuck it into the hair tie to secure your hair.









If you wish, give your hair a spritz of hairspray. A figure 8 ponytail is a relatively secure hairstyle, but hairspray can help to tame flyaways.

