 You may have some of these supplies around your home, but if not you should be able to find them with little difficulty at your local hardware store. You could also check the home improvement section of general retailers, like Target and Walmart. You'll need:


Bucket
Diluted bleach (optional; for removing mildew and mold)
Drop cloth
Dust mask
Liquid deglosser
Mild soap
Primer (acrylic spray on primer)
Rubber gloves (optional; recommended)
Sponge
Spray paint (acrylic)
Stiff bristle brush (optional; recommended)
Vacuum (with dust attachment or crevice tool);
, Outside and away from your home may be the best location for your wicker painting. This way, you don't have to worry about spray paint spreading to items in your home or your home itself. You should also:


Always paint, prime, and stain in a well ventilated area. Fumes can build up in small rooms or in those with poor airflow and become toxic.
Lay down a drop cloth beneath your wicker furniture, even when outside. This will prevent grass, dust, and similar things from getting in the way of or sticking to your paint job.
Choose a location that is out of the wind. Wind can make spray painting more difficult, and could result in it blowing where you don't want it applied., Wicker has a tendency to accumulate dust and dirtiness in between its weaving. Use your vacuum cleaner to suck up all loose dirtiness. A dust or crevice tool on your vacuum can help you better get narrow spots and in between the weavings.


Dust and dirtiness left on your wicker will get in the way of your primer and paint bonding to it. Failing to clean your wicker first could result in a less than desirable finished result.
If your wicker chair is relatively clean, you may only need to give it a quick vacuuming before moving on to priming the wicker., Fill your bucket with warm water and add mild soap to it. The amount of soap you add will depend on the kind of soap you are using. Follow your soap's label directions for the best results. After your soapy water is mixed:


Use your stiff bristle brush to loosen dirt, flaking paint, and so on from the wicker. Use medium force; brushing too hard could damage the wicker.
Take your sponge and dunk it in the warm, soapy water. Use the sponge to clean any caked on dirt, ingrained dust, and so on.
Use a ½ cup of bleach diluted in a quart (.95 L) of warm water, rubber gloves, and a sponge wet with the bleach mixture to remove and cleanse any mildew and mold from your wicker., Allow sufficient time for your wicker to dry before applying your deglosser. The deglosser will remove finish which is often added to wicker to protect it. This finish can interfere with your paint or primer bonding to the wicker.


The best method for applying your deglosser will depend on the brand. Follow your deglosser's instructions for best results.
Generally, you should put on gloves, then wet a clean sponge or rag with the deglosser. Apply a thin layer of it to the chair from top to bottom.
When finished deglossing, allow your chair to dry completely before moving on. If your chair was especially dirty and required heavy cleaning, you may want to let your wicker dry overnight.