 Oftentimes, washing your dog with warm water and a mild liquid dish soap or a simple dog shampoo will kill most if not all fleas on the dog.This treatment is best done to treat mild to moderate flea outbreaks, but it may not be potent enough to kill fleas in large numbers.
Only use a mild dish detergent free from added dyes and perfumes and safe for use on sensitive skin. Stop treatment if your dog has a bad reaction to the soap. Follow the use of dish soap with a conditioner made for dogs to counteract its drying effects.
Lather and rinse the dog once per week. Washing a dog more often (particularly with dish soap) can cause damage to the dog’s skin by drying him out.
Soap traps fleas and lifts them off the dog. Additionally, it disrupts the cell membranes of the fleas and removes their protective waxes. As a result, the flea can no longer retain water and dies from dehydration.
 You can use a comb sold specifically as a flea comb, but you could also use any fine-toothed comb with very small gaps in between the teeth.


Flea combs physically lift fleas out of your dog's coat.
Comb your dog from top to bottom. As you comb, make sure that the comb reaches the dog's skin. If you only comb the fur without reaching the skin, some fleas may remain even afterward.
You should immediately dip your flea comb into a bucket or dish of warm, soapy water once you remove a flea. This soapy concoction should be able to kill the fleas.
 Applying diluted lemon juice to your dog's fur should help kill or fleas. Use caution, however, that you do not over-dry your dog’s skin with the lemon.


Mix equal parts lemon juice and warm water in a shallow bowl.
Alternatively, you could cut a lemon into quarters and cover it with boiling water. Let the mixture steep for eight hours or overnight before straining the liquid into a bowl.
Dip a dog’s brush or comb into the lemon mixture and brush the dog, coating the fur with lemon through contact with the brush. Be sure to brush the dog thoroughly, dipping the brush in the mixture with every other stroke or so.
Repeat this procedure once daily for three days., The apple cider flea remedy can be given to your dog topically.Mix equal parts apple cider vinegar and warm water in a spray bottle. Coat your dog with the repellant, spraying it all over the coat but focusing on areas where fleas are prone to gather, like behind the ears, at the base of the tail, and under the legs.
If you dog's skin becomes unusually dry or if you suspect that your dog is having a negative reaction to the vinegar, stop treatment immediately.
 Brewer's yeast is a natural preventative treatment and presents an alternative to harsher chemical remedies.There has been mixed evidence of its efficacy, but it seems as though active yeast has more of an effect on the number of fleas.Add a Brewer's yeast tablet to your dog's food once every day or two. Ask your veterinarian to determining the best dosage based on your dog's age and weight. Do not attempt to determine the dosage without approval from your veterinarian.
The Brewer's yeast eventually seeps into the dog's skin and gets excreted through the dog's pores. As a result, the skin and coat become less appealing to fleas, effectively repelling them.
 This approach has not been scientifically proven, but there is some anecdotal evidence that it may be effective in repelling fleas. Soak your dog with rosemary-infused water and let it dry naturally.


Steep 2 cups (500 ml) of fresh rosemary sprigs in boiling water for 30 minutes. Use enough water to cover the rosemary completely.
Strain the liquid and discard the leaves.
Add up to 1 gallon (4 L) of warm water to the rosemary water. Use less water for a small dog.
Let the temperature of the rosemary water cool slightly. It needs to be warm, but it should not be so hot that it burns your pet.
Pour the water over the dog, drenching him/her completely. Let air dry.
 This approach has not been scientifically proven, but there is some anecdotal evidence that it may be effective in repelling fleas. You only need to use a few drops of lavender oil in a few key places to take advantage of this effect.Wash your dog normally with warm water and soap. Dry the dog using a towel.
Apply a few drops of lavender essential oil to the base of the tail and a few at the back of the neck. Use your fingers to gently massage the oils into your dog's coat and skin.

