 Brushing your hair stimulates circulation and distributes oil throughout your head. If possible, brush with a natural bristle brush. Plastic bristles do not spread oils as effectively as those made from plant or boar fibers., Washing your hair more often than this will strip your hair of its natural oils. Washing less often will cause buildup to collect on the scalp and slow hair growth. If you have particularly oily hair, you can wash once a day with a gentle, sulfate-free shampoo.When you shampoo try to give yourself a scalp massage to clean off dead skin cells and encourage circulation. Spend a couple of minutes rubbing the shampoo into your scalp firmly.Everyone needs a different type of shampoo. Consult a hair stylist for recommendations about what might work for you.
 Conditioner can help moisturize your scalp. This is particularly important after you shampoo, because shampooing can dry your scalp out. Be sure to condition your scalp every time you wash and to massage the conditioner deep into the scalp., Essential oils, like tea tree oils, should be massaged into your scalp before you go to bed and washed out when you wake up. If you perform this ritual once every two or three days, it will help stimulate hair growth.Essential oils can be too powerful to apply directly into the scalp. Make sure that you purchase a mixture that is already diluted.
Rub the mixture vigorously into the scalp as part of a scalp massage.
Different oils are said to have their own distinctive effects. Basil is said to promote hair growth and treat oily skin. Lavender is a treatment for itchiness and dandruff., Over time, this can cause your hair to thin. For full, luxurious hair, you should purchase an exfoliating shampoo and take the time to scrub the dead skin away., Vigorously rubbing and applying pressure to your scalp can increase circulation, preventing hair loss. Performing a scalp massage with essential oils can provide even more benefits. You can try this procedure yourself or seek the assistance of a professional for greater benefit.