 Once you have found a rabbit, it is time to fill out the application. The application will ask you a variety of questions. Always provide honest answers. Typical information you will need to provide includes:The rabbit that you are interested in.
Household information (e.g. location, landlord permission, number of people in the house, children in the house, family allergies)
Why do you want to adopt a rabbit?
Who will be the primary caregiver for the rabbit?
Do you have everything you need for the rabbit?
Are there other animals in the home?
Is your home rabbit proofed?
How will you feel if your rabbit chews things and/or poops and urinates outside of the litter box?
Under what circumstances would you get rid of/return the rabbit?
Do you have a rabbit veterinarian in place?
If the shelter does not feel like you are ready to be a rabbit owner, you may not be able to adopt a rabbit yet.
 Be prepared to pay your adoption fee on the same day as the adoption. Some shelters will not hold your rabbit for you. If you are not prepared to pay, someone else may adopt the rabbit you have chosen.Adoption fees can vary widely. Some shelters just simply ask for a recommended donation while others have a set price. Some shelters will even provide you with a cage with a small donation.
Some places may offer a discount if you buy a pair of rabbits instead of just one.
 Many shelters offer post-adoption services. Take advantage of these resources because they can help you take care of your rabbit. Typical post-adoption services include reduced-cost medical care, rabbit training tips, and recommendations and referrals to other resources for your rabbit.During the first week when you bring your rabbit home, you may notice a health condition (e.g. parasite, infections, etc.) that was acquired while living in the shelter. Call the shelter immediately and let them know. They may treat your rabbit for free.Your shelter is always a resource if you have questions about your rabbit so stay in contact with them.

