 Your name is unique to you, so it's important that it is one of the first things you tell your employer. Make sure your name is always at the start of your resume title. This will make your resume much easier to manage and keep track of when it is in the hands of the employer.


When considering formatting make sure to pay special attention to the title and make it stand out, you want it to be the first thing the employer’s eyes are drawn to.
If your application is electronic don’t forget to include your resume name in the title of your document. The title should read something like "JaneDoe.doc".;
, So you’ve already put your own name in the title, which will help to differentiate your resume from other applicants. However, you still need something more. Creating a summary statement to add to your title will grab the employer’s attention by showing that you have read the job description thoroughly and have the skills or experience they are looking for.


A summary statement is a few words to sum up the information in your resume. For example, if an employer is looking for someone with experience and success in negotiating and your resume has told them that you have those skills, you can name your resume ‘Jane Doe Resume – Negotiating Expert’.
If you are applying for a job where the successful candidate must have a high level of Microsoft office skills you can name your resume ‘Jane Doe Resume – 5 years MS Office experience’

, Imagine yourself in the employer’s position. Wouldn't it be tedious to read endless pieces of paper all named ‘resume.doc’ and all following the same format? Unfortunately, most people aren't aware of the importance of resume title, so they tend to fall into a number of common traps, which include:



Generic Name: Don't send a resume to a recruiter or employer that's called "resume.doc". How many such documents do you think the recruiter already has with the same title? Wouldn't it just be easier for them to move on to the next candidate?

Resume Year.doc: When your resume carries a specific year you run the risk of appearing outdated. For example, sending a resume titled "resume2010.doc" will make it appear as if the last time you updated your resume was 2010. Even if the resume title mentions the current year, your job search may look like an annual activity, and you may not bring much stability to the table.

Prospective Employer Resume.doc: This option is better than the previous two, but when you save your resume file name with the company’s name that you are applying to, please make sure that you spell it correctly. Otherwise, the recruiter will not be impressed. The other important factor to keep in mind is that you remember to change the name before sending it across to another employer.
 Make sure the file name is of optimum length so that it can be viewed properly in all operating systems. For example, some systems only show the first 24 characters (o the including spaces); others may wrap it to the next line. So it is safe to keep the file name short so that it is properly visible in all systems.
 Use proper capitalized words to distinguish between words and also not give the recruiter the feeling that you are a little careless or lazy and couldn’t bring yourself to press the shift button.
 These will allow you to distinguish between the different words in your file name. For example, “Joe-Smith-Sales- Manager-Resume” or “Joe_Smith_Sales_ Manager_Resume."

, It is important to use the important pieces of information in your file name such as the file type (resume/ CV) your name, the key role. You must even use the right order to prioritize the most important words from a recruiter’s prospect.
 Along with the right name, the file extension matters too. Using most commonly used PDF files are a much better idea than a .docx or even a .doc file. This minimizes the risk of your document losing its smart formatting or looking garbled on the hiring manager’s computer.
 While you take care to send all your resume email attachments, remember to pay attention to your online resumes too. All job sites have a different method of storing and sending your resume, ensure that you name your file accordingly, to make the most of this opportunity too.
 Today’s job market is a tough one. You have to present yourself to potential new employers in a way that shows that you know what they want and you are the perfect person for the job. The first thing an employer will see about you is your resume title, so it's important to make it good.
 Including your name in the title will make administration easier for the employer and it will ensure your resume stays visible during each stage of the hiring process. Including a summary statement tells the employer you have the skills they want.
 A good file name for your resume is a great marketing tool which you can use to create your mark on the hiring manager’s computer. By naming your resume something like "Joe-Smith-Sales-Manager-Resume", you are drawing your recruiter's attention to your name and skills every time they scroll through their database.


When you do this, you are standing out, effectively waving to them, and not giving them a single opportunity to miss your resume. It also tells them that you are serious and clear about your career goal.
Additionally, if you are applying for a sales or marketing job, your resume marketing expertise might just earn you that extra edge over the competition. The employer may feel that if you can’t market yourself well, you'll be unable to sell their products or services effectively. By promoting yourself well, you are demonstrating good marketing skills.

