 If this person is depressed, make sure that the person has sought help from healthcare and mental providers. They may be too depressed to make a call. Reach out on their behalf and talk to a professional about what is going on with you and the person you care about. Be a healthcare advocate.Consider sitting and staying with them when they make the call and when an appointment is scheduled.
If they need help with getting to an appointment, assist the person in finding transportation, or go with them to the appointment.
While healthcare providers may not be able to disclose personal information to you about someone else, if you are present with this person, then they can give authorization to disclose.
 Remind yourself and the person you care about that you all are not alone. You are stronger together. When things are getting difficult, it is important to reach out to friends and family to let them know that you need help. Coping with suicide should not be done alone.


Talk with friends and family about how to cope with helping someone who is suicidal.
People's reactions or support may be different depending on if the person who is suicidal is a young child, teen, adult child, or partner. Regardless, helping someone who is suicidal should be treated with care and support.
Be open with someone you trust. Tell them that you are affected by this person's suicidal thoughts. Talk with them about what you have been doing for them and for yourself to handle this. Don't feel like you are alone in helping this person.
See if friends and family can visit the person who is suicidal. Get others involved in helping.
Being open and genuine about the situation will help to reduce the stigma associated with being suicidal.
 If the person's suicidal thoughts are triggering feelings of depression or anxiety in you, think about how you can get help for yourself. Avoid "toughing it out" and see how you can find support in your community. There are many support programs out there designed for family members of people who have depression or severe mental illness. Consider these:


Support groups either in your community or online. Consider the groups through the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI): http://www.nami.org/

Individual counseling
Counseling or spiritual support through your place of worship
Your healthcare provider
Your school or an employee assistance program through your employer

