 Each school is unique and has its own uniform style and dress code, and knowing the dress code for your school can help you accessorize, customize, and alter your uniform to make yourself feel more comfortable in it. Dress codes will also tell you what you can and cannot wear, and may cover topics such as:


How long skirts, shorts, or dresses have to beWhat kinds of jewelry, makeup, and accessories are acceptable (if any)
What colors you're allowed to wear
What type of shoes you can wear;
, Most school uniforms have multiple options, including dresses, skirts, pants, and shorts for the bottoms, which are often paired with a long- or short-sleeved dress shirt. But if you're lucky, optional uniform items might also include a blazer, vest, or sweater that can each be worn in unique ways.These different clothing items can be worn in different combinations to accommodate the weather and your own personal style, and there are different ways you can alter the look of each to make it look a little cooler.
 Wearing clothes that are too big or too tight isn't very flattering, so it’s important that you pick clothes in sizes that suit your body. But if your uniform is the wrong size for whatever reason, you may be able to:


Tuck in your shirt to make it less baggy
Wear a belt around your waist to give your uniform more shape
Tie the bottom of your shirt in a knot to make it fit better
Alter your clothes to make them slightly larger or smaller

, Whether you have to wear a polo shirt, blouse, or button-down shirt, your school’s dress code policy may allow you to wear other clothing overtop, and this could give you an opportunity to add some style to your outfit. For instance, you could:


Wear a fitted or oversized knit sweater over your shirtPut on a funky cardigan or vestWear a fitted blazer or jacket

, This works best when you can leave a few buttons undone at the top of your shirt, because you can wear either a neutral or vibrant shirt, tank top, or camisole under your shirt and let it show through around the neck area., Roll up the cuffs on a long-sleeved shirt so that it sits at elbow-level, and roll up the cuffs on a short-sleeved shirt to make it more of a cap-sleeve style. You can also roll up the hem on your shorts and pants.Don’t roll your shorts up too high if your school has restrictions about how long they have to be.
 For schools that are more lenient with their uniform policies, you may be able to get away with replacing drab and boring pieces of your uniform with very similar but slightly more flattering clothing items.


For instance, if your uniform requires you to wear slacks or dress pants, you may be able to get away with regular pants in the same color that are a bit better fitting or have a different cut., A funky accessory like this can be very helpful if you have to tuck your shirt into high-waisted bottoms. Even if you can't get away with a crazy belt, try adding some interest with a plain belt outfitted with a unique belt buckle.


If you're wearing a skirt with a shirt tucked in, try tying a sash or ribbon around the waist of the skirt.
You can also leave your dress shirt untucked over a skirt and pair it with a chunky belt at the waist.
 For schools that don’t allow uniform alterations, personalization, and additional clothing items, you may at least be able to get away with a few accessories here and there.


Scarves are great accessories for look and added warmth, and you might even be able to sneak some color into your outfit this way.
 Many school dress codes don’t mention what kind of bag you can carry, so you might have a little more room for creativity here. Unique ideas for schoolbags include:


Over-the-shoulder and messenger bagsRegular bags that are decorated with patches, pins, and badges, How much jewelry you can wear will depend on your school, but if you're allowed to wear it, jewelry can be a great way to jazz up a uniform.


Try wearing multiple bracelets on one wrist
You can also layer multiple rings on a single finger
Basic chains can add a touch of class, but a colorful necklace can completely change your look
If you aren't allowed to wear jewelry at all, try wrapping a headband or hair elastics around your wrist., Shoes can be a great way to add a personal touch to a uniform without breaking any dress code rules. But if your school does have a strict policy about shoes, try shiny black shoes with a slight heel or minor decorative feature.But if you have more freedom, why not try:


High-top or low-top Converse with high socksBoots with fun shoelaces
Flats or ballerina slippers
Trendy dress shoes
Bright or unique running shoes

, Even if you can’t get away with fun shoes, you may still be able to experiment with different socks, leggings, and tights. These can include patterned socks, knee socks, baggy socks, textured tights, fishnets, and other decorative leggings., There are many trendy hairstyles that will bring a whole new element to your uniform, and as long as you don’t try any crazy dye colors, you might be surprised at the hairstyles you can get away with.


If you have long hair, try a side braid, bun, or twist at the top of your head.
To add extra color or interest to your hair, you can also wear bright headbands, flowers, ribbons, and bows.For girls with medium-length wavy hair, you can either leave it loose and shaggy, bed-head messy, or combed back for a more professional look.
 Many schools have policies about cosmetics, but that doesn’t mean you can't sneak in some natural makeup here and there. For instance, try wearing:


Tinted lip gloss
Pale blush
Foundation to smooth your complexion
Some bronzer or neutral eyeshadow in the crease of your eye
A pale or metallic eyeshadow in the corners of your eyesNail polish

