  Greeting people even when they are busy means a lot.  We recognize their presence and most people want that.  (In case they look like they're too busy and can't be bothered just stop by where they are working and smile.);
,  Most people in our workplaces are always busy with something.  If you have spare time and you know you can be of help, don't hesitate to help.  We all need a helping hand in one way or another.
  Respect their time by making sure that you don't indulge in lengthy conversations with them knowing that you all have things to do.  Respect their things.  Yes, you may be acquaintances or friends already, but it doesn't give you the entitlement to open their drawers when you ran out of paperclips or A4 papers. 

,  Always address your coworkers appropriately.  You can use "Ma'am, Miss, Sir, Mister" regardless of their age.  Never forget the three most famous magic words, "Thank you, I'm sorry, and You're welcome."

,  Receiving encouraging words after doing something good boosts one's ego and confidence.  Most of us like being complimented so compliment them in return.  This world is a much better place with people who knows how to appreciate others.
  How easy it is to gossip about your boss, colleague, or anyone you see! But NEVER, EVER do that! It can tear people apart and break relationships.  If you find yourself in a conversation with other coworkers talking about this and that, walk out politely or respectfully tell them what you feel about gossiping.
  As you spend more time in your workplace you can become more familiar with people and their stories.  If you heard that someone is celebrating a birthday, greet them or even yet get them a card or a gift.  If someone lost a loved one, sympathize/empathize with them.  If someone gave birth, congratulate them or visit them.  It's great caring for others!

,  Yes, arguments can happen in our workplaces but even then we have to keep our cool and stay calm as we present our views.  Be careful with your words, even with your intonation as sometimes when we raise our voices most people think we are already mad.  IF, you argued or had a fight with a coworker, be quick to apologize.  As what Gandhi said, "Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong."

