 Under normal circumstances in Age of Empires, you want your villagers to go where there are resources (i.e., Food, Wood, and Gold) so they can gather them and provide the empire with the means to grow.


To do this, left-click the villager to select it. Right-click the resource you want it to gather.
For instance, if you want your villager to gather Wood, right-click a tree that is in a considerably well-forested area in order to make sure they gather as much of the resource as possible. If you try to gather from an area that does not have many trees, you will be forced to waste time reallocating the villager to a different forest when it has gathered all it can from that particular area.
If you want your villager to gather Food from hunted animals, direct it to an area with many animals by left-clicking the villager and then right-clicking one of the animals. That way they won’t go idle after they have gathered all they can from the first animal.
No matter where you are directing the villager, make sure you see red marks flash on the area you clicked, indicating that you have issued the command successfully and that the villager is on their way.;
, To save time, you can select multiple villagers to a specific location or to gather a specific resources.


Select the villagers by either double-clicking one of the villagers or by using the left mouse button to drag the mouse over all the villagers you want to move. Double-clicking selects all villagers that are in the current field of view. Clicking and dragging selects all the units you have dragged the mouse over, regardless of whether they are villagers or not.
Right click the location or resource where you want the villagers to move. Red marks will flash on the area you clicked, indicating that the villagers are on their way.
 A very useful strategy in Age of Empires is to designate a location or a resource that you want your villagers to go to after their training from the Town Center is complete. You won’t have to intervene and waste time that you could have spent doing more meaningful things.


To do this, left-click the Town Center to select it then right-click on the location or resource where you want your villagers to go after they are created. A small red flag will appear on the area you clicked.
Now the villagers will move to the area you selected immediately after they are created. If you right-clicked a forest, for example, the villagers will move to the forest and start gathering wood immediately after they are created.

