 You want to be outgoing, but you can't just suddenly one day suddenly get rid of your phobia, so just start small. Go out with your best friend, friends, mom, sibling or someone that you trust and are comfortable with. Go for a movie or any place that is not very crowded. If you start small you will 99% have a successful outing and if you do then this will encourage you to take a bigger step. Also this help reduce your phobia.;
, Be comfortable with what you wear, what you do, where you go. The main motto for you to go out anywhere is to enjoy. So if that dress makes you feel really that self-conscious just don't wear it. Plan it out in advance so that you wouldn't have to the worrying at the last minute.
 The next time someone invites you to a party don't refuse. If you really want to be outgoing you need to face your fears. Do not say no to any opportunity of going out. Put a full stop to your tongue before you utter a no.
 Believe in yourself. You have to realise that once you are happy to be you and are in complete harmony with yourself, you yourself will start enjoying going out. On the other hand if you do not believe in yourself every meeting with someone else will be filled with fear of going wrong and you will never enjoy going out. It is okay to not know something or to not be as smart/cool as others. You may not agree with everything the other person says or does but there will be many things you will agree on, that you will come to know only if you are ready to share your views.
 Faking your courage or fooling yourself that you already are free from your fear by constantly telling yourself the same is a great way of actually getting rid of the fear! Try it. At first it may seem like a lie but soon you will actually be free from your social phobia. Keep telling yourself over and over, "I am really outgoing. I love to be with people. I really enjoy being with and getting to know different people."

, One way to do this is to find out which is the place of which you are most scared of. You may be scared of many places but figure out which your worse nightmare. Now go ahead and do it. It may seem like something impossible but it isn't. Try going with someone who is a regular in that place. Even if it isn't such a successful outing the first time do it again! Do it again and again and again and again till you don't succeed, till you are not scared anymore.
 Take one step at a time but never forget to do what you actually went there for. Whatever you do never forget to enjoy your experience.

