 Instead of relying on the appearance of meat, fish, and poultry, check the internal temperature with a cooking thermometer.Insert the thermometer in the center of the thickest portion to check for doneness.
Visual clues tend to appear only after food has been overcooked. For instance, you'll know that salmon is safe to eat when white dots form on the surface, but it's technically overcooked at that point. Checking for an internal temperature of 122 degrees Fahrenheit (50 degrees Celsius) is a better option.;
, You can make oxtail and other cuts of meat more flavorful by cooking them in oil seasoned with star anise and onion.


Slice a medium-sized onion and break a star anise in half.
Brown them together in a little oil, cooking until they become more aromatic. This process creates sulfur compounds that are capable of enhancing meaty flavors.
Add the meat and cook as usual after these aromatic ingredients have been browned.
 Carve bone-in cuts of meat toward the bone, then run the knife along the side of the bone to slice the meat off.


Meat fibers run parallel to the bone.
Cutting the meat in this manner allows you to bite into the fibers, making the meat seem more tender.
 For every 3.5 oz (100 g) of pasta, use 1 quart (1 L) of water and 0.35 oz (10 g) of salt.


Salt enhances the flavor and improves the texture of pasta.
 Instead of pressing ground beef into patties, roll it up into a log and slice off patty-sized portions.Sprinkle the beef with salt and let it sit for three hours. Salt draws out a compound known as myosin, which binds together the beef like egg and breadcrumbs would.
Lay the minced strands of beef out in parallel lines. Roll the beef into a log using plastic wrap and let the log sit in your refrigerator for two or three hours.
This process creates a more tender beef patty.
 The next time you make chicken stock, sprinkle the chicken pieces with skimmed milk powder before roasting them.


Use chicken wings instead of whole roasting chickens or white meat. Remove the meat from the bones and chop it into rough pieces.
Dust the chicken pieces with an even, light coat of skimmed milk powder. You can add carrots, onions, and other vegetables or seasonings to enhance the flavor as desired.
Roast the chicken as usual and strain the liquid for stock.
The proteins and carbohydrates in the chicken meat react during the cooking process, creating the brown flavorful bits on the surface of the meat. The milk powder adds more proteins and carbohydrates, thereby creating more of those bits and more meaty flavor.



Too much flour can dull the cheesy taste of the sauce.
Grate the cheese into thick shreds and toss those shreds with a little corn starch. Use just enough to coat the strands lightly and evenly.
Simmer the milk or liquid called for in your recipe, adding the coated cheese in small amounts until the entire batch is melted.
You can finish the sauce with butter and other seasonings, if desired, but doing so is not necessary.
 Take the steak out of your freezer and remove any packaging. Let it sit out for two days in your refrigerator before you plan on cooking it.


Place a tray or plate underneath it to catch any juices, but do not cover it.
The air circulating around the steak will dry it out and essentially cure it. This means that the flavor will be more concentrated and the meat itself will become more tender.
 Two to three hours before you plan on cooking the steak, remove it from the refrigerator and set it out on your counter. Allow the meat to drop to room temperature.


Note that the exterior may seem notably dry at this point, so you may wish to trim away the dry crust with kitchen scissors or a sharp knife.
Room temperature meat cooks more evenly than cold meat. This tip can be applied to other cuts of beef and meat, as well.
 Season both sides of the steak with generous amounts of salt. Do not add pepper or any other seasonings at this time.


Pepper and other seasonings can become scorched when they come into contact with a hot pan, ruining the taste as a result.
 Place the pan on your stove over the highest heat setting for 10 to 15 minutes before adding your oil and your steak.


Heat the pan without oil.
When you add the oil, it should immediately start smoking.
Only add enough oil to coat the surface cracks of the steak. Using 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of oil for 1 lb (450 g) of steak should be enough. Groundnut oil and grapeseed oil are ideal choices, but other vegetable based oils can also work.
The extremely high heat will cause the proteins and sugars in the meat to react, forming a thick brown crust.
 When you place the steak in the pan, put it in so that it falls away from you.


The oil can splash when you add the meat. If the meat falls in your direction, that hot oil can splash onto you.
 Convention demands that a steak only be turned once during the cooking process, but Heston Blumenthal recommends flipping it every 15 to 20 seconds.The idea is to give the steak regular pulses of intense heat. This practice applies a more even heat to the steak.
Steaks are roughly 70 percent water, but when you cook the steak on the same side for a long time, the proteins contract and squeeze most of that moisture out. As a result, the traditional practice of searing a steak on one side for a prolonged period can actually dry the meat out.
This practice should also be applied when cooking beef patties.
 When the steak has reached the level of doneness you desire, remove it from the pan and let it sit on a wire rack for five minutes.


Do not place it on a plate since all of the heat will be trapped inside.
Letting the steak rest before you cut into it will keep more of the juices inside, thereby preventing the steak from drying out when you cut into it.
You can add any pepper, butter, or other seasonings to the steak right before slicing into it.
 Even if your refrigerator has an egg compartment in the door, you should store the carton of eggs in the main body of the appliance.


The door is warmer than the main body, so the eggs won't be preserved as well when stored in the door.
Eggs will rattle and shake when you open and close the door if you store them there. Even though the shells may not break, the walls of the yolk and white can weaken.
 When you need to crack eggs, do so by tapping them against a flat surface. Do not tap them against the side of a bowl.


This method reduces the risk of getting eggshell into the mix.
 Place the eggs in a small saucepan and cover them with cold water. Heat the pan on your stove and remove it as soon as the water starts to boil. Finish cooking the eggs in this hot water.


Use the smallest pan possible. The eggs should fit in one layer, but there should not be much room for them to slide around.
Heat the saucepan with the lid on over the highest heat setting.
Keep the eggs in the hot water for six minutes if you want them soft-boiled, 8 minutes for medium-boiled, and 17 to 19 minutes for hard-boiled.
 Instead of scrambling eggs over direct heat, use indirect heat to create creamy eggs instead of grainy ones.Lightly whisk together the eggs and a little dairy. Use milk, cream, and butter to give the eggs a rich flavor. For four eggs, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) milk, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) cream, and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) softened butter should suffice.
Set a saucepan of water over the stove and bring it to a gentle simmer over medium heat.
Place a separate bowl over the saucepan and pour your egg mixture inside.
Stir the egg mixture continually until it thickens like a custard and forms solid lumps. This process should take about 15 minutes.

