 Clearly, there are different reasons for providing a personalized gift and these reasons will direct the choice of gift and method of personalization. Some reasons may be:


You wish to honor specific firefighters. You may be honoring one specific firefighter or you may wish to honor the entire local station.
Perhaps some of your local firefighters are heroes after a specific incident and you wish to acknowledge that specific act.
A firefighter you know has been accepted to join the fire service or has been promoted with the service.
A firefighter has reached a particular anniversary within the fire service.;
, The gift can be made specifically for use by a firefighter or firefighting team, it could be made for the whole fire station or it could be purchased and have some form of customization added to it. In the first instance, making items that the firefighters or station could actually use in their daily activities would be the best option for personalizing the gift and in the latter instance, having an existing item engraved, printed, painted, etc. to show the logo, emblem, colors or names of the firefighters service and the firefighters themselves could be another effective form of personalizing the gift. In either case, you'll want to give something meaningful and heartfelt, something memorable and something that recognizes the achievement adequately.
 This decision will depend on your skills and the time you have available to make something. If you want to bake food, be aware that many firefighting organizations won't accept home baked items unless they know you personally, out of concern for health and safety issues and in this case, it may be better to purchase commercially produced food appropriately wrapped and labeled. Some of the things you might be able to make include:


Leather or metallic goods such as a keyring or belt and design a firefighter symbol or emblem on the item;
Jewelry with the fire service's emblem or symbol forming part of it;
A plaque or a board featuring the station's emblem or motto;
A photo album with action shots, people, the station, etc. or a large photo printed onto a canvas (a group shot would work well for this). If you have excellent photographic skills, offer to take the photo and frame it for presentation. And don't forget that making a web photo album and sharing it around social networking sites could be a fun way to celebrate your local firefighters' achievements;
A stained glass design with the fire station's logo or emblem embedded in it;
A collage, decoration, memorial craft etc. that uses elements of the fire service's colors, logos, symbols, etc. (it's totally up to your imagination) and reproduced in a form that the firefighters can display at the station;
A special flower arrangement using the flowers from your own garden, with a card or message attached;

Write a poem, story or speech of appreciation. Children might like to make drawings or posters that express their appreciation;
Build a coat stand or a hat rack for the fire station. Just be aware that there may be building and safety regulations involved, so ask first;
Offer your services as a masseur, aromatherapist, stylist, hairdresser, etc., depending on what you're skilled in. Only offers services you're qualified to provide though; this type of gift should be strictly professional and beneficial for the recipients.
 If you'd rather purchase something than make a gift, look for things that can be personalized or customized. You could add a specific firefighters name or use the fire station's name, logo, colors or emblem. Perhaps even a firefighting team's names would work on some objects. Some of the gifts you can purchase that can then be customized include:


Mirrors, coat racks and clocks;
Mugs or a kitchen set with tea, coffee and cookies included;
Massage items such as squeeze balls, feet massage rollers for under desks, etc. In fact, anything that can relieve stress can be a great idea!;
Specific gifts targeted to firefighters (check the websites that specifically provide these);
A watch for a specific firefighter;
Pens and other desk items;
Monogrammed clothing;
Certificates or plaques;
As above, relaxing massage, hydrotherapy, spa, etc. services but give a certificate where you don't own such a business or have such skills yourself.
 Since it's probable that you'd like the occasion to be momentous, avoid simply turning up out of the blue. The relevant personnel might be busy out on call or not available or on duty that day. Call ahead and explain what you'd like to do and why and make a set time to present the gift and to give a brief speech of acknowledgement for the services well done.


Be prepared to be flexible. Firefighters don't sit around waiting all day – they could be called out at any moment!
Alternatively, you might simply prefer to turn up and leave your gifts without a fanfare, happy in the knowledge that they'll receive your token of appreciation and know that the community cares about their efforts.
 One personalized gift you can give to a volunteer fire fighting service is... yourself! Why not join up? Even if you don't want to be at the actual fire front, there are always things that you can do such as preparing food, stocking supplies, helping with communications, etc. Ask about the options and see if you can find a volunteer role to suit.


Another way to give the gift of your time is to help organize visits of firefighters to schools and local communities to help spread the word about fire prevention and safety. Be the helper that coordinates for a safer community.

