 The underground is a pretty harsh place to live in, more so than above, and if you’re not prepared, you’ll die within the first day. Some renewable resources from above are not available underground, and if you plan on living there indefinitely, you’ll have to stock up quite a lot of those resources.


Some of the things you should consider bringing are: Grass Tufts, Saplings, Berry Bushes, Honeycombs, Bees, Pine Cones, Pigskin, Seeds, Fleshy Bulbs, and a Bird. These items are the most essential, since they’d give you the ability to maintain a steady supply of Grass, Twigs, Berries (with occasional Gobblers), Honey and Bees, Logs and Living Logs, and Pigskins once you set up camp and start building structures. The remaining resources you’d need when building your camp underground, such as Gold and Rocks, are already renewable and highly abundant there due to the Earthquakes that periodically shake down these materials.
Also, because followers can be brought down, you can lure up to 5 Beefalo using a Beefalo horn at a time into the opening and establish a Beefalo herd there. This would also make Beefalo Wool, Meat, and Beefalo Horns a renewable resource underground.;
, Because Gold, Flint, Twigs, Cut Grass, and Rocks are all renewable in caves, you can afford to make your tools, armors, and certain weapons indefinitely. As for ruins, you only need Grass Tufts and Saplings in order to make all tools renewable.


Nearly all the weapons, save for the Thulecite Club, are renewable in the caves, and in the ruins, all the weapons save for the Thulecite Club, Tentacle Spike, Bat Bat, and Ham Bat are renewable.
All armor except the Thulecite Suit and Thulecite Crown are renewable in caves. In the ruins, no armor is naturally renewable unless you bring down some Grass Tufts and Pine Cones, which would make Grass Suits, Log Suits, Marble Suits, and Beekeeper Hats renewable.
 Now all that’s left to do is to look for your way underground. Plugged sinkholes are basically craggy piles of rock scattered throughout the world. Normally, there are two of these found on the surface that lead to the first layer of the underground, the caverns, and another two found in the caverns (this time orange) leading into the ruins. To access it, simply start mining away with your pickaxe to reveal a hole and a rope, which you can then climb into.

If you find one on the surface early on and mined the rock, do not make your camp there or linger until dusk when unprepared. Batilisks spawn from the hole during dusk, and while they’re good to farm, they come in packs and could prove troublesome.
 Unless you're playing as Maxwell, your Sanity will constantly need replenishing due to the pervasive darkness of the underground, so it would be best to invest in many sanity-saving techniques and tactics. The first is getting sleep. Much like on the surface, sleeping can provide an instant, considerable sanity boost, but at the cost of a substantial amount of hunger. If you plan on using this as your main method of sanity recovery, make sure you have a good stockpile of food on hand.


Just a warning, though: a Miner Hat or a Lantern will still lose fuel, and all fires (including Night Lights) will be immediately extinguished whenever you go to sleep. If you sleep in an area where there are no natural light around, and your main light source doesn’t have enough fuel to last at least until the next day, the player will wake up in total darkness. This in turn would invalidate any sanity gain, as well as cause the Night Monster to attack unless you get to a light immediately.
In the caverns, the best way is to simply camp out in one of the light shafts, near some Light Flowers, or beside a Mushtree. In ruins, you can sleep near Light Flowers or an Ancient Pseudoscience Station.
 Clothes are another reliable way to restore sanity continuously, but unlike on the surface, some of the materials that make up the clothes that restore sanity are non-renewable in caves and ruins. For rarer clothing items, it would be pretty hard to keep them intact, because you’d need a Sewing Kit, which requires Hound’s Teeth from Hounds,. Hounds only spawn on the surface. However, you can still use certain clothes to raise your sanity without having to run back to the surface: Top Hat is a renewable item of clothing since it’s made from Silk, and spiders are abundant in the underground. The Thulecite Suit, which you can craft in the ruins and bring anywhere afterwards, doesn’t degrade when worn, unless you use it as armor.


If you brought some Butterflies underground, you can make a flower farm by placing the butterflies on the ground, which spawns a flower, then recapturing it to plant another flower. If you can get a few butterflies for your venture, you can make Garlands renewable this way.
 Cooking in your Crock Pot is always a good idea, since most dishes heal your sanity by 5 points, but to maximize your sanity gains, you’d have to consider using some of your more “valuable” or “filling” foods like Meat, Pumpkin, and Honey to get the most sanity out of your ingredients.


One of the best recipes, which increases all three gauges considerably, is the Meaty Stew. It costs about 3 Meats’ worth of meat products. You can simply use 1 Meat, or 1 Monster Meat, and 3 Morsels to make it.
If you have a Drying Rack available, you can simply dry out your assorted meats for Jerky and Small Jerky, which restore 15 sanity and 10 sanity each, respectively.
 While wandering in the caves, you might encounter a shaft of light illuminating a section of the cave. If you do, chances are that Evergreens, Grass Tufts, Saplings, and Berry Bushes will also be found nearby. Because of this, the light shafts would be the best place to camp in, since not only do they have ready resources, but also if you choose to sleep the “night” out, you won’t awaken to total darkness when your fire runs out.


Rarely, light shafts could also contain a version of the Cave Camp Set Piece, which includes a Frog Pond. It’s preferable to scavenge it of all supplies, since the frogs will definitely be a nuisance to you if you stay there.
In ruins, there are no shafts of natural light, and there are Nightmare Lights, which drain your sanity quite quickly, scattered around the areas, and Nightmare Fissures spread across the floor. Nightmare Fissures will spawn Shadow Creatures during the Nightmare Phase, a rather difficult and hazardous obstacle exclusive to the ruins. The camp should be placed as far away from any Nightmare Lights and Fissures as possible. A good camp location is by the edge of a Light Flower field. Walls (upgraded at least once) of any kind could be used to keep Shadow creatures from randomly wandering inside the camp during Nightmare Phases.
 Probably the highest priority in caves and ruins is to always have access to a source of light. Without a source of light, you’d be eaten alive by the Night Monster before you can even do anything.


For static light sources for your camp, a Fire Pit is still your best bet. If you’ve brought down some Beefalo with you, you can shave them for Beefalo Wool, which would give you a nigh-endless supply of fuel for your fire. If not, Logs from chopping trees would remain your most reliable source of fuel.
If you plan on camping in the ruins, which is the lowest layer of the game and found by breaking a pile of orange rock and descending into the resulting hole, the Night Light is a very efficient static light source due to the abundance of Nightmare Fuel you can acquire there. The ruins are much more hazardous, though, and is reserved only for the veteran players.
You can also camp next to some Light Flowers in a pinch, since they stay lit until picked.
 For a mobile source of light, the best ones are the Miner Hat and the Lantern. Both can easily be refueled with Slurtle Slime, Fireflies, or Light Bulbs, and both could be used while freeing up your hands so you can attack any opponents freely.


The Miner Hat keeps you from wearing head armor, but it keeps your hands free. The Lantern allows you to wear helmets, but need to be dropped on the ground before equipping a weapon to keep the light shining. This would, in turn, temporarily make your lantern a static light source until you pick it up and equip it again. It could also be stolen by Splumonkeys (underground-dwelling monkeys that steal items and sling manure as an attack) when it’s on the ground, which would take away what was probably your only light source, so be careful.
Fireflies are not renewable, so it’s not a very good idea to use them for fuel unless there really is no other alternative at hand. Light Bulbs and Slurtle Slime are both renewable—Light Bulbs from killing Tentapillars (absurdly large tentacles that spawn smaller ones when hit) and Slurtle Slime from feeding Slurtles (weird snail-turtle hybrids occasionally found roaming around the area) rocks or by killing them. A unit of Slurtle Slime grants 45 seconds of light and can be stored without spoiling. The Light Bulb grants 90 seconds of light, but spoils in 6 days.
 Camping underground is considered a challenge even for veterans, and all this is due to the constant darkness, the continuous decrease of sanity, and the abundance of hostile mobs found there. As much as possible, you should keep it safe and try not to agitate any of the hostile mobs unless completely necessary or if you’re very prepared.

