 Edema is defined as an excessive accumulation of fluids in the space between cells or the interstitial space. There are two main types of edema. These are localized edema and generalized edema. Fluids inside blood vessels are usually under the effect of two types of pressure.;
, These are:


the hydrostatic pressure
the oncotic pressure.


The hydrostatic pressure tends to filter water out of the arteries into the interstitial space.
the oncotic pressure tends to flow the liquids outside the arteries in the direction inside the arteries.
 If any of these two pressures is changed and in particular if hypertension occurs inside the blood arteries, it then tends to cause leakage of fluid from the blood arteries to the interstitial space.
 Hypertension, which usually has several causes is one reason for the etiology of edema.
 Edema is one symptom of acute inflammation. It is usually caused by increased permeability of blood capillaries due to the presence of vasoactive amines which function by increasing the permeability of blood arterioles.
 In addition vasoactive compounds cause dilatation of the blood vessels which causes increased hydrostatic pressure in the arteries through increased blood flow in the dilated arteries. This then causes edema.
 In addition increased hydrostatic pressure in the interstitial space due to the accumulation of fluid there tends to return this liquid into the blood circulation.
 Allergy can cause release of histamine and other vasoactive compounds into the circulation. This can in turn cause increased permeability of blood arterioles and its dilatation.
 This causes in turn edema. Edema due to allergy is in most cases localized to the skin. A common form of edema due to allergy is urticaria or hives.
 In rare instances of allergy the edema may involve other sites such as the larynx and the bronchioles of the lung. This can cause pulmonary obstruction. Other type of localized edema is due to lymphatic obstruction. Generalized edema is caused by retention of sodium and water in the body by the action of aldosterone and the antidiuretic hormone. Heart failure can lead to edema by inducing the sympathetic nervous system due to shock or insufficient blood circulation.
 This follows by renin and aldosterone secretion as a compensatory mechanism to hypovolemia. Aldosterone leads to retention of sodium and water in the kidney tubules which can lead to accumulation of fluid in the extracellular space and edema.
 This condition is called hypoproteinemia. Hypoproteinemia leads to escape of liquid from the blood capillaries into the interstitium due to the low oncotic pressure in the blood capillaries caused by the hypoproteinemia.
 This causes renal arteries constriction in addition to secretion of renin and aldosterone into the circulation. Subsequent conservation of sodium and water leads to the development of edema.
 Another cause of hypoproteinemia is the nephrotic syndrome in which excessive amount of proteins is lost in the urine.

