 You can grow four types of seeds in Minecraft Pocket Edition. Here's how to find them all:


Wheat seeds have a chance of dropping each time you use a hoe on a grass block, or use shears on tall grass.(Version 0.4 or later required.)To get beetroot seeds, harvest beetroot crops in village farms (Version 0.12.0 build 8+), or cut grass as described above (earlier versions).
Find pumpkins growing in plains, savannah or taiga biomes. Craft the pumpkin to make seeds. (Version 0.8+).Find melons growing in jungles. Craft the melon to make melon slices, then craft the slices to make seeds. (Version 0.9+).;
, Crops grow fastest in warm biomes, where green grass and trees grow naturally. Although crops can grow anywhere, the following are signs of an area where growth will be slow:Snow
Frost-covered leaves
Steep mountainous terrain
Sand (except for beaches)
Yellowish grass

, Equip your hoe and use it on grass or dirt to make farmland. You can identify farmland by the parallel lines on the surface.
 Wheat grows much faster when watered, and other crops require it to grow at all. Your farmland will become "hydrated" (and look darker) if there is any water block within four blocks, although crops may grow fastest within three.Early in the game you'll want to farm next to an existing water source. Once you have buckets, you can transport water to use space more efficiently:


Extra efficient: Prepare a 9 x 9 block of farmland, dig a one-block hole in the center, and fill the hole with water.
Less efficient but more attractive: Prepare three rows farmland, one row water, six rows farmland, one row water, then three rows farmland.
 Simply select your seeds and tap the farmland to plant them. Note that melons and pumpkins will grow to cover two squares, although the second square doesn't need to be farmland., Crops will grow on their own, going through several stages of growth. Here's how to tell when the crop has reached maximum potential:


Wheat is ready when tall and yellow-brown.
Beetroot is ready when it has tall, bushy leaves.
Melons and pumpkins are ready when the fruit appears on a block next to the stem.
 Just click and hold on the crop to turn it into the fully grown product. Wheat and beetroot has a chance of dropping seeds as well, so you can start a new farm.


Melons and pumpkins do not need replanting; just harvest the fruit and leave the stem, and it will grow a new one.
If you harvest wheat or beetroot before it's fully grown, you might get seeds but you will not get the food item.
 Gather bones from killing skeletons or fishing, then craft them into bone meal. Each use of bone meal instantly advances your crop by a random number of stages.


If you're short on seeds, this is a great plan for your first plant so you can harvest more seeds to plant.
 After you run out of seeds or water, prepare unplanted farmland in a border one block wide on all sides. In the PC version, nearby farmland significantly speeds up growth, and the same might be true of Pocket Edition., Wandering mobs can trample your crops. Build a fence around your farm to protect it.
 Crops only grow when exposed to light. Torches every four or five spaces will speed up growth by letting your crops grow at night as well as day. This won't have any effect if you skip nights by sleeping in a bed.Oddly enough, farmland is transparent. Dig beneath your farm (careful to avoid the water) and place torches there to make your farm glow.This does not happen on other versions of Minecraft, so it's likely that this will be removed in a future update.
 Walking through your crops doesn't break them, but jumping on the farmland can turn it right back to normal dirt.If you fall in to the water and are forced to jump out, you'll be losing food. Prevent this by covering the water with slabs or other "half height" blocks that don't require jumping to walk onto.


In cold biomes, covering the water will also prevent it from freezing.

