 If the crowds are thin and your energy is high, it's possible to do both parks in the same day. Try to arrange your schedule so that you're not constantly criss-crossing between the parks, or you'll end it with some sore feet.
 Instead of waiting in line to buy tickets at the park, buy them in advance online via Disney's official tickets website. If you order early enough, you can have your tickets shipped to your house before your trip. Or, you can download e-tickets and print them directly from your email.


Keep an eye out for deals. Disney will occasionally run promotions that add an extra day to a multi-day ticket at no cost.
Know what you're buying. If you only want to do both parks in the same day, buy a ParkHopper ticket.
If you plan on parking at Disneyland, you can buy your parking pass online as well.
 Early morning is the perfect time of day at Disneyland: it's mostly empty, temperatures are cool, and the kids are still happy. You can get FastPasses and knock out a few of the popular rides before the crowds get crazy. People start to queue up at the park gates about an hour before opening.


Both Disneyland Park and California Adventure open at the same time, so pick which one you'd rather do first. California Adventure used to be the emptier of the two early in the day, but that might not be the case anymore with the popularity of the new Cars Land area. Your best bet is to pick the park that has the rides you really want to go on first. California Adventure does close earlier than Disneyland Park.
If you want World of Color seats, it's probably a good idea to do California Adventure first. (More information below.)

, The system can seem a little intimidating at first, but it's easier than it looks — and worth skipping the standby lines. Here's a quick discussion of how the system works:


You can get new FastPasses every 90 minutes. Fast Passes are a completely free way to get the most of your time at Disneyland. Dispatch someone to get your first round as soon as you walk into the park. (He or she will need to take everyone's park tickets along.) If you're not sure when 90 minutes is up, the next time you can get FastPasses will be printed at the bottom of your most recent ones.
Each ride that allows FastPasses will have a little FastPass station with 4 to 8 FastPass machines to dispense the necessary FastPass ticket. You stick one ticket at a time into the machine, and it will spit out a paper fastpass below that has a one-hour window of time printed on it. They have to be used on the day you got them.
Once you have your Fastpasses and the first time printed has passed, you walk up to the FastPass line instead of the standby line, which should be clearly marked for each ride. The person at the front will check your passes to make sure they are valid, then you hang onto them and give them to a second person at the end of the line.

FastPass times are now being enforced! If your ticket says 1:45 to 2:45, you must show up between those times.
Some popular rides will run out of FastPasses. If you really want to Fastpass a certain ride (such as Radiator Springs, Soarin' Over California, California Screamin', or Midway Mania or Tower of Terror), do it early in the day. Some of the other rides that use FastPasses will have short lines at the end of the day anyway, and you won't need FastPasses.
 Food inside the park can be expensive, especially if you're feeding a family, though there are some unique dining experiences you can try. Here's a rundown of what might work for you:


Eat meals earlier than usual, or after the mad lunch rush of 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and the equally mad dinner rush between 6:30 to 8:00 p.m. This way, you can go on rides while everyone is eating and avoid lines when you're ready to eat.
Be warned that, for California Adventure, the Fisherman's Wharf and Cars Land eateries have the worst lines. Head over to Hollywood Land or Paradise Pier for shorter lines. For Disneyland, New Orleans Square is the busiest; hit Critter Country or Frontierland instead.
If you're eating cheaply: Pack lunch and dinner, and stash your meals inside a locker (near the park entrance). There are plenty of tables around the park for you to sit and eat. If you do need to buy food in the park, fruit is generally cheap and portions at the fast-casual eateries are large enough to split between two people.
Make advance reservations for any full-service dining. There are only a few sit-down restaurants inside Disneyland, such as the Blue Bayou and Cafe Orleans, but they fill up quickly. There are several more in California Adventure, such as Carthay Circle and the Wine Country Trattoria. If it's really important to you to eat at these places, make an advance reservation with Disney Dining at (714) 781-3463.
Plan ahead with character dining. Character dining is offered at the Plaza Inn (Disneyland), as well as Ariel's Grotto (California Adventure) — where costumed characters will roam the restaurant to take pictures and interact with guests as they eat. This is an easy way to get some character time if you have kids, but it tends to be expensive and fill up quickly. Your best bet is to make reservations in advance at (714) 781-3463.
 As with eating, there are a few different ways to manage souvenir shopping depending on your needs. Here are a few possible game plans:


If you want to wear the famous mouse ears (or any other headgear), consider buying them at the beginning of the day so they'll be in all your photos.
If you're not sure what you want, pass through a few souvenir shops during the heat of the day or when you need a break. If something catches your eye, return to buy it as you walk out of the park, so that you don't need to carry it around all day.
If you have little ones and you're concerned about souvenir whining, try this trick. Buy Disney souvenirs less expensively online and pack them with you. The night before you go to Disneyland, arrange your kids' souvenirs as if Mickey came and left them overnight, like Santa. They already have new fun things to play with, and you don't have to worry about shopping at the park. Problem solved!

, If you have kids, seeing costumed characters is probably high on your list of things to do. Though characters used to roam freely around the park, they're now found at designated areas. Here's what you need to know:


If you want to get character autographs, make sure you have a pen big enough for the characters to grasp — they won't be able to maneuver a small ballpoint pen as easily as a large marker.
Characters do still wander around California Adventure, most notably in A Bug's Land. If you want to up your odds of running into costumed characters, though, your best bet is Disneyland. See the section above for more information.
 If you'd rather see Fantasmic or the fireworks, see the shows section above for how to do so in Disneyland. World of Color shows exclusively in California Adventure, with two shows a night during peak season and only one during the off season. If you'd like to see World of Color, though, here's a guide to both general seating and dining passes:


Get a fastpass for general seating. World of Color seating is divided into different areas by (you guessed it) colors, and the color for your area will be printed on your fastpass. Grab everyone's park tickets, head over to Grizzly River Rapids to the World of Color fastpass machines, and get a ticket for each separate person. If the same color is on each fastpass, you're good to go.
About an hour before world of color starts, head to the general seating area on Paradise Pier, where a cast member will direct you to your seating area. General admission is standing room only, so if you want to be up-close and sit down, arrive extra early. (Though be prepared for some splashing in the front seats!)
Do World of Color Dining. If you want a meal and a sure ticket for the show, you have two World of Color Dining options. You can pick up a picnic meal at any time during the day and get a guaranteed general seating pass with it, or eat a full-service prix fix meal with prime seating and viewing. See Disney's World of Color Dining page for more information.
 The parks generally stay open later during the summer and on the weekends, closing earlier during the colder months and on weekdays. However, certain areas will close down sooner if shows are happening. Here's a quick rundown:

On the weekends and during peak season, California Adventure will close an hour before Disneyland.
If Fantasmic is showing, Tom Sawyer Island will shut down around sunset.
If there will be fireworks, Toontown will close early.
Fantasyland is one of the first areas of the park to shut down at the end of the night, so don't assume you'll just go on the rides there once the crowds clear out.
Specific closing times are posted on most rides.
 There will be a mass exodus out of the park right after fireworks (or about an hour before closing if there are no fireworks). The walk will be slow, and the lines for the tram back to the parking structure will be long. If you want to avoid the rush, you can leave halfway through fireworks or stick around until the park closes.


If you're leaving through California Adventure and you're at Paradise Pier or Grizzly Peak, consider taking a shortcut through the Grand Californian Hotel. Exit the park at the hotel, directly across from Grizzly River Rapids, walk through to the lobby, hang a right, and walk past the convention center, following the signs to Downtown Disney. Once you're outside, turn right again to walk toward the parking tram.
 Go back to your hotel and rest a bit. The crowds and heat can be overwhelming so it's important to cool off and have a chance to get out of the park. You don't want anyone getting grumpy.
 Using your cellphone for apps and picture taking, will burn down the battery. It's important to have a working cellphone in case you and a family member or friend get separated.
 If you've never been to Disneyland, gather everyone in your party and ask them one thing they want to accomplish while at Disneyland. Maybe it's seeing all the character houses in ToonTown or going on Splash Mountain. That way everyone feels accomplished.
 While it's necessary to get a little bit stressed about costs, carrying around a notepad and a calculator is not the way to go. Bring your own water and food, or bring a notebook instead of buying an autograph book. If you're stressed about money all the time, no one's really focusing on fun, but how much money they can save.
 Ask for rider switch pass! While one rider waits in line, the other rider stays back and watches the kiddos. Then when the rider has finished enjoying their ride. The other rider takes the past and zooms to the front of the line.

