 Strums are full, multi-string sounds that form an integral part of most guitar rhythms. Hold the pick between your thumb and index finger, and rest the tip of the pick gently atop the thickest, uppermost string (usually tuned to E). Brush the tip of the pick along the strings, from thickest to thinnest, and make sure to hit every string along the way. Strum quickly to blur the notes together, and slowly to enunciate each tone; strum gently for a quieter chord, and apply more pressure for a louder sound.


You can strum up-down (high, thin strings to low, thick strings) or down-up (low, thick strings to high, thin). You can strum any section of strings (say, 2-4, or open G to open E) for desired effect.
Try holding certain strings to form chords when you strum. The strum is a versatile part of any guitar player's repertoire, and the better you get, the cleaner your strums will get. Make sure to hold down strings tightly when you finger notes and chords, and don't be discouraged if your chords come out muted and sloppy at first. Build your finger strength and keep practicing.
Again: thinner picks generally make for a gentler, quieter strum, and thicker picks generally generate a heavier, more powerful strum.
 Sometimes, you'll want to pluck just one string at a time, whether you're playing a simple melody or just emphasizing a single note from a longer chord. Rest the tip of your pick on the string as if you were strumming, but only hit the single string. Strike the string with the pick, but sharply pull the pick away from the neck of the guitar so that you don't accidentally strike any other strings.


You can keep a chord formed with your non-dominant hand on the neck of the guitar, then pick a single note--or several notes in succession--from that chord. Try maintaining chord "forms" when transitioning between strums and plucks so that you don't need to shift your non-dominant hand so dramatically.
Plucking a note makes it more distinct. Especially on acoustic instruments, you may not be able to achieve the same volume or "weight" with a pluck that you can on an electric instrument. Use plucks to make space between your strums.
 As with strumming, you can pluck upward or downward. Try to create a flow between strokes: pluck down, strum up, strum down, pluck up. Make your playing efficient--it takes more time to strum down twice (returning up in between) than to strum down and then back up.

