 No one likes getting out of bed. It may even be the hardest part of your day. Playing soothing and cheerful music, such as birds chirping, instead of a blaring alarm can help you wake up in a calm and relaxed manner.Set your alarm time based on what time you need to get to school or work. You’ll also need to figure in your morning routine. For example, if you have to be at school or work at 7:30 and it takes you an ½ hour to get ready and a ½ hour to commute, you need to wake up no later than 6:30am. Try to have a cushion of 15 minutes in the event you want a few minutes to snooze or run late.Avoid listening to any loud, jarring or banging music when you wake up.;
, Instead of hopping right out of bed, give yourself a few minutes to open your eyes and let them get used to the light. Then gradually work yourself into getting out of your comfy bed to start a good day.


Take a few minutes to cuddle with your partner or your kids before getting up.A good hug or cuddle is a great way to protect against stress.Stretch lightly or do some yoga to get your blood flowing.You could also take a few deep breaths by inhaling through your nose and exhaling from your mouth to further relax you.Sit up and put your feet on the floor. Then stand up and do a couple more stretches if you want. Use the bathroom if you need to.
 There is a reason that people continue to use the phrase “breakfast is the most important meal of the day.” A healthy and nutrient-rich breakfast provides the energy and nutrients you need to get through the day.It also minimizes your risk of a mid-morning slump or low blood sugar that may cause you stress or make you cranky.


Choose 2-4 foods as a part of your breakfast. Include at least one item from the following groups: bread and grains, dairy, and fruits or vegetables. For example, you could have a slice of whole wheat toast with avocado, a cup of low fat Greek yogurt with berries, and a cup of coffee for breakfast. Another great breakfast would be a whole grain bagel with a piece of turkey sausage and/ or melted cheese, a cup of fresh berries with banana, and a glass of milk. Putting a small amount of sugar in your coffee or having a small glass of orange juice may also help your memory throughout the day.Set your coffee maker the night before so that you can wake up to the smell of good coffee. It can be like a fishhook to get you out of bed.Consider setting out what you need for breakfast at night to streamline your morning routine. Stock portable options in your kitchen like breakfast bars and fruit in case you’re running late., Let yourself take a short, warm shower either before or after your breakfast. A shower can refresh and rejuvenate you after a night of sleeping, and maybe a little sweating.Consider just rinsing yourself off if you took a shower the night before. Only shower in warm water that is between 36 and 40 degrees Celcius (or 95 to 105 degrees Fahrenheit).Use a thermometer or stick your hand and foot in the water stream for a second to check the temperature.
Alternate the temperature between hot and cold during the last few minutes of your shower. You can have 10 seconds of warm water and 10 seconds of cold water, for example. This can decrease stress and wake you up a bit more.Use an aromatic body wash or scrub in a scent you like such as lemongrass, lavender, or black pepper. The scent can help further refresh you.Conserve water by brushing your teeth as a part of your shower., Once you’ve dried your skin completely, apply any skincare you use as well as deodorant. Lotion or other skincare items can keep your skin soft and smelling nicely throughout the day. Deodorant also helps keep you smelling fresh so that others want to be around you.


Warm any lotions or moisturizers between your fingers or hands before you put them on your body. Not only does this feel better than cold lotion, but it may also absorb more quickly.
 As the last part of your morning routing to get ready for the day, put on your clothes. If you’ve set out your clothes the night before, you will save time and can minimize the risk that you are late because you don’t know what to wear.Release wrinkles if necessary by hanging your clothes in the bathroom while you shower.
Make sure you have a cardigan or light jacket with you in case it is chilly outdoors—or indoors.
 If you are going to school or work, make sure to take anything you need for the day such as your lunch, laptop or phone. If you get them ready the night before, you will save time. Keep a list in a place you can see so that you know exactly what you have to take each day. You might also make the list on your phone.


Gather your stuff the night before so you don’t have any undue stress or forget something.
 Depending on your schedule and family structure, you may be able to squeeze in a few minutes to yourself. You can use this to go to a local coffee shop or take a quick walk. This can reduce your stress and get your work or school day started off on the right foot.

Use your “me” time to do something you love such as reading the paper, catching up on social media, or just being in a quiet space. You could even squeeze in 30 minutes of exercise, which will produce chemicals called endorphins that can boost your mood throughout the day., Doing something nice for another person, such as giving them a small gift like a cup of coffee, can make you happy and help you stay healthy.

Once you’ve had a chance to settle in at school or work, consider doing something small and kind for another person to keep your good feelings going all morning.

Remember you don’t have to do anything grand. Getting a cup of tea or coffee for a friend or colleague who is struggling or offering a compliment can go a long way in making the other person—and you—feel great., You might find that your energy and mood begin to flag as lunch gets closer. Have a mid-morning snack to keep yourself energized and happy. In addition, try and drink about 8 ounces of water every hour you’re at work or school to stay hydrated, which can also keep you alert.Opt for nutritious snacks such as:


Almonds
Fresh or dried fruit
String cheese
Cottage cheese
Cut veggies and hummus
Boiled egg
Yogurt
Apples and peanut butter

, Allow yourself to take a break at some point during the morning. Breaks promote relaxation and can refresh your body and mind. They can also help reduce anxiety and stress.Do something you enjoy during your break. You could lay your head down for a few minutes, eat a snack, or go for a short walk. In fact, a short walk helps circulate your blood and push oxygen to your brain. It also lets your mind wander, and helps you relax.
 Gather anything you might need the next day. Knowing where everything is can help you have a stress-free and good morning.Iron and set out your clothing. Consider having a back up option in case you don’t like your choice the next morning.
Set out breakfast items and get the coffee maker ready. Pack your lunch and any snacks you want.
Make sure anything else you want to take, such as a laptop or books, is in one place so that you can pick it up and leave.
 The key to starting off the morning right is a good night’s sleep. Creating a comfortable and cozy room helps you sleep throughout the night.Check to make sure the temperature in your bedroom is between 60-75 degrees, which is the optimal temperature range for sleeping. Consider opening a window or using a fan to circulate air.Remove or turn off electronics because they can stimulate your brain and cause stress.Block out any sources of light. If you need a nightlight, consider a not very bright white night light.If you are able to sleep with minor light, consider leaving curtains and blinds halfway open. As the sun rises, it will signal your brain to wake up., A long day at school or work can wear you out a lot. Most people need time to relax and wind down after a hard day down before going to sleep. Take at least an hour before your set bedtime to start winding down, which can help you fall asleep more easily.

Avoid or limit use of electronics or devices. They can stimulate your brain, which makes it difficult to relax and fall asleep.Dim the lights in your home to signal your brain and body it’s time to sleep., Go to bed at about the same time every night if you can. Sticking to the same bedtime can regulate your body clock, or circadian rhythms. It can also promote more restful sleep, which may help you have a good morning.Set your bedtime so that you have a solid 7-9 hours of sleep. Remember to account for any time you need to wind down and switch into bedtime mode. For example, if you need to be up at 7, you should be in bed no later than midnight.

