 A common theme in Japanese style is having as little furniture as possible. Choose the amount of furniture that suits the size of your room. Do not put so much furniture into the room that you cannot walk around freely. The room should look minimalist, but not empty.To achieve this balance, choose only the necessary pieces of furniture and do not pack furniture tightly together.Start with the absolute basics and add furniture only if you really need it. Look at pictures of Japanese themed bedrooms online to get a mental image of how much furniture should be in a room.
 Ideally, mostly natural light will illuminate your bedroom in the daytime. Choose lamps in natural colors that give off soft light, rather than harsh light. Another option is to buy Japanese-style paper lanterns, or light fixtures inspired by these lanterns., If you want to divide your room into separate sections or perhaps block a drafty window, use partitions.These usually come in natural colors, bamboo, or rice paper. Be careful of breaking up the flow of a room to make it look smaller, though. You want to maintain the simplicity and sleek design of Japanese bedrooms.


You can also use the partition temporarily, such as when you have guests over or when you’re changing in the daytime. They are useful to have, even if you do not use them as a permanent fixture in your room.
 Select this artwork carefully. It should go with the natural color scheme of the room, perhaps adding in a splash of red or gold. You could put a vase filled with sticks on a table or or hang a Japanese-style screen print.Many Japanese themed rooms also have murals. Find a mural like this online or at an art gallery.
 Japanese design often entails a mixture of interior and exterior elements, as well as inclusion of the natural world indoors. Buy a small plant or tree and place it somewhere prominent in your room.The color green goes well with the Japanese-inspired color scheme of beiges, browns, yellows, and greens.. Don’t feel that you need to get an elaborate orchid. A small plant, such as a bonsai tree, a succulent, or a small fern, will suffice and add a simple natural beauty to the room.

