 Although your files and data will not be affected by upgrading to Windows 8.1, backing up your information can help prevent data loss if unexpected errors occur or if the upgrade process is interrupted for any reason. Save all important files and data to a disc, cloud storage service, or USB flash drive, or back up your data using Windows 8 File History.;
, If you're currently running Windows 8, you must have between 3,000 MB and 3,850 MB of available space to install Windows 8.1.


Click on “Settings” and select “Change PC Settings” from the Start screen.
Click on “PC and devices,” then click on “Disk space.”
Note the amount of free space below “Free up space on this PC,” then delete or move apps and files as needed to free up disk space.
 This will help prevent your computer from shutting down unexpectedly due to power loss during the update.
 Some antivirus software may prevent the Windows 8.1 update from installing on your system.
, While the update is running, you can continue using your computer to do other things.


If “Windows 8.1 Update” isn’t displayed in Windows Store, it’s possible your PC is experiencing one or more issues preventing you from updating to Windows 8.1. If this happens, navigate to Microsoft’s website at http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-8/why-can-t-find-update-store, click on the “Windows 8.1 Update troubleshooter” link in the first paragraph, then select the option to run the troubleshooter program. The troubleshooter program will help resolve any problems preventing you from upgrading to Windows 8.1.
 This prompt will show up after between 15 minutes and a few hours into the upgrade, depending on your Internet speed. You will have 15 minutes to click on “Restart Now” after the prompt displays on-screen so you can save and close any applications on which you’re currently working. After your computer restarts, a list of recommended “express” settings will display on-screen.
 Some features of express settings include the installation of automatic Windows updates and the use of Bing as your default search engine.


If you do not want to enable all express settings, click on “Customize,” then follow the on-screen prompts to set up and customize Windows 8.1.
 The new Start screen will display on the desktop, and you will now be upgraded to Windows 8.1.