 You will have to know your class in every way possible. For example, if you are a hunter your attacks are mostly ranged and using your pet is essential to combat. Melee will help a little but use your pet and traps while keeping a distance to avoid damage from casters. Having a melee class means you need to keep yourself on their ass right in their face while keeping them slowed and right by you.;
, This may seem obvious, but knowing your enemy is half the battle. Being able to call out what they are going to do is a big plus in pvp. Know what spells or what kind of attacks you have to deal with will always help you.
 Being able to identify the area you are fighting in will help you know the area where you can hide, get out of the line of sight, or best yet so you know where they will try to hide if they get a chance to run.
 People often like to toy with other players in order to show their superiority, doing this will give them time to call for help from other players that will bring you to your knees hoping that you will be able to spawn without resurrection sickness. So kill them fast because when those reinforcements come you will be prepared to take them down also.
 Having your character buffed will always help you. Even though having life and strength buffed up just a little bit it can help you in the long run. Going on long battles with that little bit of extra life can actually save you from a death that you do not wish to receive.
 Most classes have either some kind of random stun or stop ability like kick where it stops a targets casting. Use it when they are going with one of their big spells that they are focused on. Drain mana in anyway possible because taking away a caster's mana will destroy their focus. Making them have to preserve their mana will make them wish that they had potions on them.
 Never be afraid of your opponent because being scared of them will just make them come after you so that they get an easy kill. When you panic, this causes you to think you can't kill anything, when you start to go into a panic because someone has crazy looking gear that makes them look overpowered, Try your hardest and just do what you do normally when you Pvp. Looks can be deceiving because people are often lazy and just raid to get their gear to get the looks but they can't pvp at all. Also there are people who just refuse to get things on their own so they go out and buy accounts from someone who is already geared and they don't have a clue on how to do anything themselves. Just because they look badass doesn't mean they are.
 Being able to kill is one thing getting strategies after you get killed benefits you more. Just because one class is camping you and they do the same thing over and over, they are not invincible so plan ahead and make traps for them to walk into. Rogues by far one of the hardest class to counter with their stealth when they camp you, but they are easily killed. Devise strategies when you die so the next battle you shall win.

