 Some credit card companies make you use the same card to prepay for the vehicle and pick it up, but all don’t. You could borrow a credit card from a family member and friend, and pay that person back with cash.Budget is one company that allows this. Some companies require that the person whose name is on the card and the person who picks up the rental car are one and the same.
Clearly, you should only borrow someone's card with their permission, but perhaps you have a loved one who is willing to charge the rental car to their credit card if you agree to pay them back right away.
 Not all companies allow this. You will need to find a rental car company that allows you to use one card to prepay for the vehicle and other identification to pick up the car. Family-owned or lower-end rental companies, such as those specializing in used cars that aren’t that great, might have more relaxed rules.Don’t assume that all car rental companies are the same. Call around, and check on their requirements.You might be able to find an independent car rental company that will accept cash or someone else’s card. The big name chain companies are less likely to do so., Some people qualify for a credit card, but they don’t want to accrue credit card debt. If you are planning on renting a car, it would make your life a lot easier to break down and get one.


You could always set aside the cash to immediately pay the card off. Most car rental companies are still going to make you present them with some plastic, whether a debit card or a credit car, in order to drive the car away from the lot in the first place.
Look at it through their eyes. You’re asking to drive a very expensive machine that they own away from their lot, and they want to make sure you’ll bring it back (and that they know who you are if you don’t).
Improve your credit score. Maybe your problem is a low credit score, or maybe you have a debit card but can’t rent a car because you have a low score. Pay off your accounts, and make sure not to run them up to the limit.

