 Get a small journal, or maintain a log on your computer, in which you list everything that you drink and eat throughout the day. Try to write down both the portions and a description of the item itself. Then, on a daily basis, go through and track how many calories that you are consuming.If you are unsure about the nutritional profile of a particular food, you can go online and look for a free calorie or nutrition calculator. There are a number of food diary apps available for download as well, such as Rise Up and Calorific.Keeping a log can encourage you to eat healthy foods as well. It can also help you to identify if you have a tendency to eat poorly at certain periods of the day.;
, Gaining weight requires that you consume additional calories. To gain steadily over a month, you should aim for a 5 to 10% increase from a standard calorie intake, determined by your age and weight. To stay healthy, you’ll want to eat additional portions of good foods, instead of going for high-fat junk foods.A few examples of healthy, filling foods are: bananas, almond butter, sweet potatoes, and lean meats. If, for example, you are trying to bulk up and normally eat one banana a day, you may want to boost it up to three per day., A good rule to follow is to make sure that you eat a full meal or snack at least every four hours. This will keep your energy level balanced and will allow you to consume more calories over the day. If you skip meals, you are forcing your body to break down tissues in order to continue functioning, which does not promote healthy weight gain.If you are trying to gain weight, it may be a good idea to eat a filling meal right before bed. This will give your body the nutrients that it needs to repair itself overnight. A whole-grain pasta dish is always a good option.
 To gain weight in a healthy way, you’ll need enough protein to fuel your muscles, along with some excess. A good rule of thumb is to consume 0.8 grams of protein per pound (1.6 grams per kg) of body weight each day. However, be aware that eating a significant amount of protein can also make you feel fuller longer, so it is important to keep eating throughout the day.Examples of high-protein foods include nut butters, lean meats, certain dairy products, and eggs., Carry snacks with you throughout the day, such as bags of carrots with hummus. As often as possible, eat snacks that include three or more food types. For example, a piece of toast with peanut butter on it, topped with banana slices. This will guarantee that you stay full and get enough nutrients., Liquids are a good option as a snack or meal supplement, not a replacement, when you are trying to gain weight. Supplement drinks or smoothies are a great way to mix in plenty of calories. Try out various combinations in your blender until you find one that is both filling and appetizing. You can also drink 100% fruit juice or dairy products.For example, a filling smoothie recipe might include almond milk, protein powder, shaved dark chocolate, nut butter, and coconut milk.If you are adding supplement drinks to your routine, drink one or two a day in addition to meals to encourage weight gain.
Make sure to also drink plenty of water. Aim for at least eight glasses per day., It is quite possible that you will stop gaining weight at some point in the month. If this happens, you’ll want to take another look at your diet and make adjustments to your protein and calorie intake. Make sure to continue to make healthy food choices, perhaps including additional high-calorie days.