 This will give you more leverage as you try to start the weed whacker. Additionally, you want to make sure any object that could get caught in the spinning line is kept well away.


Make sure the gas tank is sealed before starting your weed whacker.;
, The location of this switch will vary depending on the weed whacker you’re using. You can usually find it somewhere on the shaft.


The kill switch controls the flow of electricity to the motor. It’s also referred to as a the “on/off switch”; if it’s kept off, the engine cannot start., This is only something you need to do if cold starting your weed whacker. A cold start refers to any time you need to start an engine when its temperature is colder than the temperature it usually runs at.The choke will restrict the airflow into the engine, making it easier to start it.If you’ve used the weed whacker in the past five minutes, the engine should still be warm enough. You won’t need to switch on the choke or use the purge valve.
 The purge valve is a bulbous piece of rubber, similar in shape and size to the tip of a finger. It’s also sometimes referred to as a “primer bulb”. Pressing this bulb will allow fresh gas to enter the carburetor.This step is only needed when cold starting the weed whacker.
 The throttle lock is a small lever usually found on top of the weed whacker’s shaft. You should only have to pull the cord two or three times before the engine starts to run.


Be sure not to pull on the trigger below the shaft; you don’t need to give the weed whacker any gas for it to start., If done correctly, you’ll then hear the engine stop working; it’ll essentially “burp”, running only for a few seconds.Make sure not to pull the cord after you hear the engine die down.
 Now that you’ve been able to start the engine, you don’t need the assistance of the choke. Resuming proper air flow to the engine will keep it efficient. While the choke allows for a cold engine to be started more easily, it will lead to higher fuel consumption if kept on while you use the weed whacker., Be sure not to pull on the trigger below the shaft; you don’t need to give the weed whacker any gas for it to start.Keep pulling the cord until the engine starts. It should now keep running, rather than simply burping. The weed whacker is now ready to use!


For a warm start, you should only need to follow this step. There’s no need to fiddle with the purge valve, and you should make sure the choke is on the run position.