 You’ll get a packet with forms in the mail, including the requests for background checks and screening that you must complete.;
, South Carolina requires all name change petitions be accompanied by a fingerprint card. Law enforcement agencies charge a fee of $10 for this service., Your SLED packet also includes a form required to get a report showing whether you are listed on DSS’s registry of child abuse and neglect.The address where you need to mail your request is included on the form, which must be accompanied by a check or money order for the $8 fee., You must include an affidavit listing the results of this records check with your name change petition.


Your request for a criminal records check must include a business check, cashier’s check, or money order for $25 and a self-addressed, stamped envelope so SLED can send the results of your records check to you. SLED does not accept personal checks or credit card payments., After you’ve sent your screening requests, you can begin drafting your petition that you will file at the clerk’s office of the family court in your county.


Your petition must state the county where you live, your age, your old name, the new name you want to use, and the reason you want to change it.Your petition not only asks for an order changing your name, but also can ask for an order allowing you to have your birth certificate amended to reflect your name change., South Carolina requires all the results of your records check, DSS screening, and fingerprints to be attached to your petition.You also must include a copy of your original birth certificate, although it does not have to be a certified copy.If the DSS screening shows you are listed on the department’s registry, the clerk of court will notify the department of the name change if the judge grants your petition.Your petition also must be accompanied by an affidavit signed by you in the presence of a notary that states whether you are under a court order for child support or alimony. You don’t need any additional witnesses of your signature apart from the notary.Keep in mind that the notary will charge a fee for her services.
Your criminal records report from SLED also will include a statement of whether your name is included on the sex offender registry. If it is, SLED will be notified if the judge approves your name change so the registry can be updated.If you have a criminal record and the judge approves your name change, SLED will be notified so that your name can be changed on your criminal record.You also need a hearing request form, which you will fill out and give to the clerk. This form provides the clerk with your contact information and the dates and times you’re available to attend a hearing.Along with all your documents and your petition, your family court cover sheet provides summary information about your case and is necessary for your hearing to be added to the court’s docket., Your petition and documents must be accompanied by a $150 filing fee.When you file your petition, the clerk will set a date and time for your hearing.
 Hearings aren’t always required for an adult name change in South Carolina, and the judge may grant your petition without a hearing., You must complete the application to have your name changed and present an official, certified copy of your order. 


There is no fee for changing your name on your Social Security card.
You must show your birth certificate or passport as proof of citizenship., You will have to show your name change order to get your name changed on your driver’s license.


Name changes cannot be done online or through the mail. You must go to your local DMV to have your name changed.
A name change on your driver’s license requires payment of a $10 fee. If you also need your name changed on your car title, you must pay an additional $15 fee., Once you have a Social Security card and a photo ID, you should be able to easily change your name elsewhere, such as on credit cards or bank accounts, or at your place of work.

