 Tea tree oil may be used as an effective topical antiviral. Dissolve a bit of tea tree oil in two or three times as much water and apply it intermittently to the area before the cold sore has formed for several hours.This could help prevent the lesion from forming and worsening once it has come up.
 The proteins in milk help to heal the sore, while the cold temperature of the liquid will soothe any pain you may be experiencing. Dab a cotton ball in milk and apply it liberally to the sore several times a day. This can be done at the onset when you realize a sore might be starting up as well.
 Keeping the cold sore covered up with petroleum jelly will help to block out bacteria and viruses that worsen the infection. Apply an ample amount of the jelly to the sore to keep it covered up and moist at all times. Be sure to do this with a clean q-tip or freshly washed hands to prevent the further spread of bacteria from your fingers to the blister., The vinegar works to dry out the blister, kill bacteria, and even out the pH of the sore. Applying the vinegar to an open sore may sting a bit. Use a cotton swab to dab on the vinegar to the sore several times a day.
 This classic antibacterial works to simultaneously kill bacteria that may infect the blister while drying out the skin in the area. Pour a little onto the sore or use a cotton pad to swipe some on multiple times daily.
 The nutrients and antioxidants in green tea work wonders on soothing cold sores and increasing the speed at which they heal. Make a cup of green tea, and then use the tea bag placed directly on the cold sore after cooling. For an extra bit of relief, refrigerate or freeze the tea bag before placing it on your fever blister.
 Garlic is one of those home remedies that seems to have ties to curing many minor ailments. Create a paste out of crushed or chopped garlic and apply it to your cold sore for 15 minutes. The antibacterial properties of the garlic will help to disinfect the area and increase the healing time. Be warned, garlic is potent and may sting a bit when applied.
 Although a slight sting-inducer, salt applied directly to your fever blister will help to speed up the healing process. Leave the salt on for a few minutes so it has time to set in, and then rinse off and follow up with a dab of pure aloe vera. The follow up with aloe will help to soothe the irritated sore and relieve any pain the salt caused.
 Do this 4 times a day until the cold sore is gone. Alcohol is used in the process of making the vanilla extract which could be the reason why vanilla extract helps to heal cold sores.
 Topical medications, such as docosanol and tromantadine can be taken to curb the outbreak. Although doctors do not know precisely how docosanol fights herpes simplex, they do know that it enter the cytoplasm of cells.Tromantadine works by changing the surface composition of skin cells.