 Be sure to gently cleanse the area affected with warm water. After making sure the area is dry, apply an antibiotic cream such as Neosporin or A&D Ointment and bandage the area., Oral antibiotics are most commonly used to treat cellulitis. The treatment plan chosen by your doctor will depend on several things. Your physician will take into consideration the location of your cellulitis, your overall health, the severity of your infection, and the kind of bacteria causing your infection.Taking antibiotics as soon as you notice any sign of infection will lead to quicker healing because the infection won’t have time to fester and worsen.
A 10 to 21 day antibiotic regimen is generally what your doctor will prescribe to treat your infection.
Be sure to finish your entire prescription even if your infection appears to have healed. After beginning antibiotics your symptoms are most likely to get better or disappear altogether in just a few days, so be sure to finish your entire prescription to reduce the likelihood of developing a resistance to the drug.Your doctor will most likely prescribe antibiotics to treat both staphylococcus and streptococcus bacteria.
Most of the time you can administer antibiotics to yourself in the comfort of your own home, but if your infection is severe enough to require intravenous antibiotics in order to deeply penetrate the infected area, administration must be done in a hospital.
 Acupuncture, in conjunction with antibiotics, is an alternative method of healing cellulitis by using needles to open intricate energy pathways within your body and improve your flow of energy.Physical pain can be caused by an imbalance of energy and acupuncture can help to balance that energy so the pain subsides.
Acupuncture can help to kick off your body’s natural instincts to manage pain and discomfort., Like any infection or illness, it is always a good idea to rest the affected area and try to keep still to help speed up your recovery. You can also elevate the area in order to reduce swelling, pain, and discomfort., One method of helping cellulitis heal faster is by taking vitamins, specifically Vitamin C and Vitamin E to boost your immune system and help attack bacteria causing your cellulitis infection., Common pain relievers such as ibuprofen and or Tylenol can be used to alleviate pain and discomfort caused by your infection. Medications such as Advil, Motrin or Nuprin can be used to reduce your fever and treat chills resulting from your cellulitis., Be sure to practice good personal hygiene and keep the affected areas of your skin extremely clean and dry. By doing this you can help to heal your cellulitis faster., Depending on the severity of your infection, antibiotics may not work. If this is the case, it may be necessary to undergo a surgical procedure to drain the affected areas., While these measures will not cure your cellulitis, they will help with the pain. Try some of the following techniques:


Immobilize the affected area
Apply moist heat (like a warm washcloth) 3-4 times a day for 15-20 minutes

, Some people are more at risk for developing this bacterial infection than others. Be sure you are aware of the following risk factors so you can watch out for cellulitis.Diabetes.
Skin disorders.
Recent trauma to your skin.
A weakened immune system.
Liver diseases like cirrhosis or hepatitis.
Intravenous drug use.
Infectious diseases that cause sores such as chickenpox or shingles.
Persistent swelling of your limbs.
Circulatory issues that directly affect your veins like varicose veins.
Weight issues like obesity

, Several things can cause the development of cellulitis. It is important to know what kinds of things can cause this bacterial infection to prevent its emergence and to stop it from advancing. Cellulitis is caused when streptococcus or staphylococcus bacteria penetrate your skin. The following things can allow bacteria to enter.Injuries that caused cracks or breaks.
Bites from spiders or insects.
Swollen, dry or flaky areas of the skin.
Areas of the skin disrupted by surgery.
Ulcers of the skin.
Fungal infections such as athletes foot.
Skin rashes like dermatitis.
Lasting skin conditions such as psoriasis or eczema.
Foreign objects in the skin.
Infections in your bones that are severe and ongoing.
 Being able to notice any signs or symptoms early on will help you determine if you are suffering from cellulitis so you can help your infection heal as quickly as possible.Starts with a small affected area.
Usually affects only one side of your body.
Redness or swelling.
Tenderness or pain.
A fever and warmth in the affected area.
Dimpling of the skin.
Blisters or red spots.
 Cellulitis is not contagious but can spread rapidly without quick and proper treatment. When not taken care of immediately, cellulitis complications can occur, potentially even more dangerous and possibly life-threatening.Once bacteria penetrates your skin it can spread very quickly, eventually entering your lymph nodes and bloodstream.
Your lymphatic drainage system can be impaired as a result of repeated bouts of cellulitis.
Once the bacteria spreads, it can travel deep into the connective tissue known as fascial lining, causing a very serious skin infection called necrotizing fasciitis.
 Well-fitting and sturdy shoes are ideal if you are suffering from cellulitis. You can help to avoid additional discomfort, infection, or irritation by wearing shoes that are structured to fit your feet well. Keep clean, cotton socks or shoes on at all times to stay clear of bacteria and maintain cleanliness of the affected area., Wash your hands frequently. Every day, use a daily skin cleanser with an antibacterial component, such as Dial, or an antimicrobial.
 Although cellulitis is a rather common skin infection, it can spread very quickly and turn dangerous even faster. Be aware of your infection so you know when seeking medical attention is necessary.You should seek medical treatment if:


You experience nausea or vomiting
Your infection goes from mild to severe rapidly
You experience terrible pain or numbness in the affected area
You are running a very high fever along with chills
The area of the cellulitis is very extensive
The area affected is around the eyes (periorbital cellulitis is a medical emergency because of close proximity to the brain)
You have diabetes or are immunosuppressed.
The affected with cellulitis child is under 2 years of age.
 Before meeting with your doctor, be sure to look for signs and symptoms of the infection and take notes to share during your appointment.Be sure to share all pertinent information regarding any recent surgeries, open wounds, animal or insect bites, or injuries.
Ask questions that will help you to determine the best ways to heal fast.
Divulge all the medications you’re taking, including the frequency and dosage.
Communicate clearly to your doctor about the symptoms you have been experiencing.
 Particular physical and medical exams can be performed to verify that you have cellulitis and rule out other possible infections responsible for your symptoms. These exams can also establish how severe your bacterial infection is to decide the best methods of treatment.Your doctor may suggest a wound culture to determine if a cut is infected and ascertain the type of bacteria that is infecting it.
Blood tests can also help to make a diagnosis and reveal if the bacterial infection has reached the bloodstream.
You may get X-rays to detect any foreign objects within your skin that could be causing an infection.

