 If the file you wish to read is a document you’ve written or received, or other format that Kindle can’t read, convert the file to a PDF. Certain files can easily be converted to PDFs depending on what the original file is, such as a .jpg pf .png. However, word documents require a bit more work.


Open the document you wish to convert to a PDF. On a Mac go to the ‘’’File’’’ menu and click on ‘’’Save As’’’ in the drop down menu. You should see a ‘’’Format’’’ section with a drop down menu. Click PDF, then ‘’’Save’’’. If PDF is not an available format, you may need to install a PDF conversion software or use an online converter service.
On a PC, in your word document, click ‘’’File’’’, then ‘’’Save As’’’. Under the “File Types” section you will see a “Create PDF/XPS Document” option. You will then have the option to save the file type as a PDF.
You can also try going to the ‘’’Print’’’ menu in a document or on a webpage to convert or save your file as a PDF. Go to the ‘’’File’’’ menu, click ‘’’Print’’’. Then, in the print menu, you should have the option to save the document as a PDF instead of printing it. Other applications, like photo viewers or editors will give you the option to export your document as a PDF under File, Export as PDF.
Additionally, there are a number of programs or web services that will convert your PDF to a native .mobi format for easier reading like Calibre, or PDF4Kindle.;
, Once you have your PDF ready to be transferred, it’s time to plug your Kindle into your USB drive. Do this using the Kindle's standard USB cord. Make sure that your Kindle is turned on.Not all USB cords will effectively connect your Kindle to your computer allowing you to transfer files. Some cords only charge the device. For this reason, it’s always advisable to use the cord that came with your device.Sometimes, you may have to install separate software to connect your Kindle to your computer, especially if you are using the Kindle Fire. If you are on Mac OS X 10.5 and above, it is recommended that you use the Android File Transfer application.For Windows, it is recommended that you have at least Windows Media Player 11 installed., Once your Kindle is successfully connected to your computer, open your Kindle drive. You can find the Kindle drive in the same place your external USB drives appear.


On a Mac, this is typically right on the desktop. If not, open your ‘’’Finder’’’ and locate the Kindle drive from the left panel.
On a PC, if you don’t find your Kindle drive on your desktop, you can find it in the ‘’’Computer’’’, ‘’’My Computer folder’’’.
 Right now your Kindle is acting like an external hard drive storing information such as your books, music, and any other files you may have.


Depending on which model you have, you will see a number of different folders and files. You want to locate your ‘’’Documents’’’ folder.
 This will bring you to where all your e-reading material is stored. You may see several folders within this folder and a couple different file types. You don’t need to click on anything once inside your document folder.


The standard file type for a Kindle e-book is either .mobi or .azw, but your Kindle will accept a variety of file types, like PDF.
 Your PDF should be stored on your desktop if you moved it, or in whichever folder you sent it to when you converted the file to PDF, like your ‘’’Documents’’’ folder. Click on the PDF file to select it. Now drag the file into your Kindle Documents folder. The PDF will now automatically sync with your Kindle. Close the ‘’’Documents’’’ folder.


You can also choose to right click on the PDF file and click ‘’’Make a Copy’’’. Then go back to your Kindle’s documents folder, right click inside the folder, and click ‘’’Paste’’’.
 If using a Mac, simply click the Kindle icon and drag it to the trash. If using a PC, click on the ‘’’Safely Remove Hardware’’’ icon, and select ‘’’Eject Amazon Kindle’’’. You may now disconnect the device from your computer.
 Each Kindle unlocks a little differently, so follow the unlocking instructions to get to your home screen. Your recently converted PDF will appear in your documents or books list.


If you have both cloud storage and local storage on your Kindle, make sure that you are viewing the ‘’’On Device’’’ section of your Kindle.
Simply click on or tap the screen to launch your PDF and enjoy.

