 Did she show signs that she may like you? Does she appear comfortable with her? Is it positive energy that is flowing from her when you interact with her, or is it negative energy?

, There may be something going on between her and you, and you need to awaken that!

, Don't be disappointed, however. There is a reason for this, and you'll find the right match for you in the future. Keep looking towards the horizon! You'll find her!

, Don't bombard her with too many, or she may panic and your relationship will fall flat. Show her in subtle ways that you like her.
 This move is not recommended if you are not confident with her feelings for you.
 If she responds positively, blushes or brushes her hands against yours, you might want to try holding hands. If she draws away or appears uncomfortable, now might not be the time; wait a little.
 However, never have a friend ask her if she likes you, or tell her that you like her. Not only will this make you appear as a coward and possibly ruin her opinion of you, but it will also make her feel intimidated, and she may refuse to say anything.
 Also add a reason or two explaining why you like her. Make sure those reasons are pure and genuine; if you tell her you like her only for her appearance, she may feel hurt and that will ruin her relationship with her. Tell her it's fine if she has no feelings for you, and that you would be willing to stay friends if she preferred it that way.
 You must also have proof that she likes you; don't pretend that she likes you, for this will only hurt you and it will not benefit your relationship with her.
 Not only are you hurting yourself even more, but you are also hindering yourself from finding that right person for you. She is merely blinding your eyes from seeing the sun rise in the horizon; in other words, she is distracting you from the true future!

, If she frowns or appears uncomfortable, or you feel her starting to pull away, she may not like you back. It's fine if she doesn't like you; you'll still have a good friend to turn to for help - if you have built your relationship firmly enough - and if you continue to maintain a good appearance in front of her, she may like you in the future! Don't give up - there's still hope!

