 Try to remember times you've helped others--especially if they offered to pay you. Consider if you could market those types of services for money. Do you know other people who would pay for those services


If you've ever mowed lawns in your neighborhood or babysat for a friend you likely earned a little money for your trouble.
 You will need to have a list of times you can be available to provide services. When you pitch your services to someone else, have these times on hand for quick reference.


If you are available during the day, you might consider cleaning people's homes. People love coming home to a house that's already been cleaned for them!

, You may find part-time work by asking family and friends about services they would like done for them. They may also have friends and relatives who need help as well.
 Making a single page flyer with your services and associated rates is a quick and easy advertisement tool. You can give these to friends and family so they can advertise for you.
 Eventually your friends and family will run out of things for you. You will need to expand your business. Remember to bring your own thumb tacks and tape.


Bulletin board flyers can be stand-alone or include tear-off tabs. Be sure to consult the board's owner before posting anything. Sometimes tear-tab flyers are not allowed to be sure to have an alternative flyer.
 This can be on your phone or in a notebook. Keep it with you at all times. You never know when one of your services will be requested.


If you decided to tutor for extra money you'd likely have multiple students to tutor each week. Keeping track of when you need to be where and when is an absolute necessity.
 Your services may be procured elsewhere. If you are prompt, kind, and courteous you will develop a rapport with them and secure future work.
 When people pay you for a service you should provide them a receipt. Carbon copy receipt books allow you to keep track of who paid what, when, and for what service.

