 There are a wide variety of ways that our behaviors are shaped by gendered expectations. You can switch these behaviors up, just in the same way you can change your appearance. Begin by exploring interests or hobbies that are gendered in a way that doesn't align with your sex.


Perhaps you have always wanted to play a sport that most people of your sex don't play. Search online for teams that will let you play or recruit some friends to play with you.
Take a class about something you have always wanted to know but didn't learn about because of your sex. For example, you could take a carpentry class, a sewing class, or a robotics class.
 Bending gender can be about appearance but it is also about the way you interact with other people in society. In order to change these gendered interactions, you will need to understand how your previous interactions and relationships were gendered. Once you understand some of the ways these relationships were gendered, you can begin to change them.For example, perhaps you do traditionally gendered chores around the house. Try doing something that would normally not be in your purview, whether it be washing dishes, fixing the car, or grocery shopping.
This can also mean that you change the way you interact with people. Maybe your sex is female and you only hang out with other females when you go to family gatherings. Perhaps you could try to spend some more time with the men in your family.
It may be that you already do things that are not traditionally associated with your sex. This means that you were already gender bending without knowing it!

, You can take gender bending to a more extreme level by developing a career outside of those usually associated with your sex. This can be difficult to accomplish, as there tend to be barriers to getting non-traditional jobs, but those barriers are getting weaker all of the time.Perhaps you are female and you would like to become a carpenter. By becoming a carpenter you are bending the gendered expectations placed on you and you are transforming the gendered expectations of that trade at the same time.

