 If you're prone to vomiting, you might want to alternate each alcoholic beverage with a glass of water during the night. In the event you get very drunk and perhaps a little nauseous, switch entirely to water. Drink water steadily, but never chug or drink water to excess, as this can upset your stomach.


Inexperienced drinkers sometimes drink too much water out of fear of becoming dehydrated. Drink water throughout the night, but not to uncomfortable excess.;
, Alcohol filters quickly into blood from the stomach, and most quickly from the small intestine to the stomach.If you don't have food in your stomach, the alcohol will absorb into your blood intoxicating you rapidly, which could leave your world spinning and your stomach heaving. A little food in your tummy can be the difference between a night on the town and vomit city.


Food high in fat content, like most bar food, takes a considerable time to digest in your stomach, making it the perfect choice for the start of your night out.Healthy pre-drinking foods include: nuts, avocados, and seeds., It is important to use a remedy that agrees with your system, so if chalky antacids don't usually calm your upset stomach, popping one of these might not be the best solution. If you have a default over the counter medicine you use for upset stomachs or nausea, take it preemptively when you begin feeling queasy., One of the biggest causes of both hangover and drinking related nausea is dehydration.Dehydration occurs when your body either doesn't have enough water in its system or else can't hold onto water because it doesn't have the right balance of electrolytes.As an important electrolyte, you might help your body retain water by eating a food high in potassium, like a banana.
 But be careful when considering a sports drink, as most sports drinks have modified formulas loaded with sugar, which are more palatable to the general population. These sugary drinks, however, could lead to more dehydration., Plenty of studies agree that ginger has powerful anti-nausea properties that you can enjoy when drinking ginger tea or ginger soda.You can add powdered ginger to food or drink, chew on a piece of raw ginger, or eat a ginger candy to enjoy ginger's stomach soothing influence., These have been found to aid digestion and lessen the effects of nausea. One tablespoon of crushed fennel seeds stepped in water for 10 minutes will create a sour stomach easing brew.


Chewing a teaspoon of fennel seeds, while maybe not the most appealing option, might also save you from throwing up.

