 You can get all sorts of low-carb noodle alternatives, made from everything from seaweed to mushrooms. In fact, many grocery stores now carry many veggies cut into thin, noodle-like strips. Further, spaghetti squash and stringed zucchini can easily be utilized in any dish as an alternative to grain-based noodles.For example, make a shirataki noodle salad. Get shirataki noodles made from tofu and/or yams, as these will contain less carbs than most types of noodles. Toss the noodles in a low sodium, low sugar sauce, such as a tomato-based sauce. Add veggies, greens, and beans or more tofu to make the dish more substantial.;
, The best part about salads if that you can get a lot of nutritional value in one meal — and you don’t have too worry too much about portions. Aside from leafy greens (the darker the better, generally), add good protein sources, such as hard-boiled eggs, smoked salmon, a can of tuna, lean chicken, or a handful of nuts.One specific salad that’s especially filling and enjoyable while staying low on carbs is a steak salad seasoned with herbs and a vinegar-based dressing.
 Pizza is one of those dishes that many people who try to cut out carbs end up missing. Fortunately, you don’t have to. Cauliflower can be mashed and used instead of flour in a low-carb alternative to pizza crust. Top the crust with tomato sauce, feta, and your favorite pizza toppings for an dinner that will give you a whole new dish to crave. , Cauliflower can be used as a great rice substitute as well. It also cooks much more quickly. For great dinner options, bake stuffed peppers or mushroom. Sauté some of your favorite ingredients, such as caramelized onions and lean turkey, with diced or mashed cauliflower. Add marinara sauce as well if you so desire. Use this to fill halved peppers or portabella mushroom tops and bake them for 20 minutes or so at 350°F (177°C). Another good filling for mushroom tops or peppers is a mix of kale, Swiss chard, and beet greens, pan-fried until wilted. Add lemon juice and white beans to flavor, and top with mozzarella cheese.

