 No matter how busy you are, how stressful your job is, or how many kids you have, you need to make time to spend a romantic evening with your husband. If you don't have kids, aim for once a week, and if you do, try to squeeze in a date once every two weeks or as often as you can. Though it may sound corny, dressing up and going somewhere nice and special can renew your romantic connection and give you a breath of fresh air away from your home.


Your "date night" doesn't have to be romantically-themed. You can go bowling, play mini-golf, or even go for a night run together. Just do whatever you can to connect and spend some time together.
 You may feel that sex has to be spontaneous, but if you don't add it to your schedule, you may start to neglect it. Without the frequent intimate acceptance and love that comes from your lovemaking, a person can become dissatisfied, grumpy, and ultimately suffer from feelings of rejection and even anger. Remember lovemaking gives an intimacy and physical release that is vital for both of you.


In most relationships, each partner has different needs and expectations regarding the frequency of physical intimacy. Find a happy medium with your husband. Couples who feel responsible for meeting the needs of their lover tend to be happier in their relationship., After a while, you make do with a peck on the lips instead of with full-on French kissing. Make it a goal to share at least one six-second kiss with your husband each day, or every morning and night, even if you don't have more time for intimacy than that. You don't want your husband to think that kissing you is no different than dutifully kissing his children -- the passion should still be present in your kisses.


When you do make love, don't go straight to sex. Make sure that kissing is an integral part of your love making. It's great foreplay.
 Ban television sets, laptops and work-related materials. Your bedroom should be dedicated to sleep and sex. If you bring in your children's toys, the nightly news, or the extra work you have to do, then you won't think of your bedroom as a special and sacred place. Maintaining an area of the house for sleep and sex will make your love -- and lovemaking -- feel more special and vital to your relationship.You and your husband can work together to remove any irrelevant items from your bedroom. This can also turn in to a fun couple's activity.

