 When these people are losing an argument, they tend to do little more than cut you off and then insult you. If you become irritated or enraged, they can continue to insult you as they know you are weak at that point. Your anger can fuel their anger as well. However, when you stay rational and calm, you can continue to prove their points wrong without getting into physical violence.;
, Often when he insults you, he may not realize that he is calling you what he truly is. Let's say he calls you a hypocrite, for some reason. If you've known him for a while, you can bring him back to a certain point in time that he was being a massive hypocrite and tell him that he himself was once a hypocrite, and indeed, is still a hypocrite for calling you a hypocrite when he once was one. If he commands you to do something absolutely impossible, like videotape someone's mind, then you can ask him, "If I asked you to do that, would you?" If he says yes, prompt him to. If he reluctantly says no, you could actually get him to accept that you won, for you can see that he conceded defeat on one point. Try to get him to accept defeat by convincing him that his other points are also wrong. If he does not answer your question at all and instead insults you, see the next step.
 Usually, these people will never see that you've truly won the argument. However, you can. At a certain point when you've backed him into a corner with no arguments left to say against you, the only thing he's got left is his insults. At this point, you know that you've won the argument, even if he does not accept this point. You can choose to walk away here, if circumstances allow.
 People have certain movements, facial expressions or gestures when they reach the point where they have lost. Some hide it well, some burst into tears, and, in the case of these people, some assume an apathetic face that ignores your rational argument. When you see that on the person's face instead of anger, contempt or sarcasm, you may have won. However, some people plaster an ignorant mask onto their face when the argument has just begun. They will have something to mark their loss, though. Look for it.
 The person may be trying to secure a rule that is completely unfair to one group of people while placing the other group in a superior position. Tell him that it's unfair, and explain why. He might dismiss your explanation with a wave and use some tiny justification by giving the lesser group a minuscule bonus to their pitiful status. In this case, you can inform him that it is still unfair. This can keep going on for very long, so you can tell him what you have in mind. Note that what you have in mind must be truly fair, or he can jump on the chance to insult you and your hypocrisy. Perhaps he will deny the unfairness of the rule, in which case you can prompt him to explain his position. After listening attentively to his explanation, you can decide whether it is correct in your mind or not.
 You can follow previous tips from this guide in this situation. If he is asking to obtain something impossible, ask him whether he could retrieve this item himself. If he says yes, ask him to, if he says no, try to get him to understand that you won, and if he insults you and tells you to "just get it," you can tell him that it is impossible and ask him if he can get it himself again. "Just get it" is never a reasonable argument, and you have to make him understand that. If he asks you to respect him more, ask why. If he simply places himself as superior, ask why he deserves that. Until you receive proper reasons, you should not respect him more than anyone else at his rank. Any other demands can be seen in much the same way.

What: The topic that you are arguing about, the request that you are considering, whatever you might be arguing about it very important. You have to consider all the facts about your topic as you argue, so you don't miss something important that the person can jump on and use against you.
When: Choose an appropriate time to confront this person, or for him to meet you if his first confrontation is at a bad time. You are better arguing when you are clear-minded than when you are clouded with emotions or tiredness.
Where: Pick a place where any shouting won't disturb many people, like outdoors where many people are shouting with fun anyway. However, if you know that your opponent can manage to keep a cool head, the location does not particularly matter.
Why: Always know his reasons. If he does not share them with you first, demand them. If he has no reasons, his argument has no base and will soon crumble.
 In the guide above, it has been stated what to do if a person came to you, led the argument until you took control of it, made the request and made the demands. However, you may be the person to confront another. It is not much different if you are making a request, but the one that would grant it simply refuses to. You must be the opposite of the person depicted above, presenting a fair request, giving proper reasons, etc. It's really no different. All you need to do is argue in the same logical way while staying calm.

