 And it's officially over. Many a times you might feel to call her and hear her voice or ask how she is doing and all that stuff. But do not do this mistake at all. It will just add to your misery.;
, The thing is that love is not the heart of life but a part of life. There is life ahead and you might find someone else more deserving than the one that left you.
 Its temporary that you don't like to do those things. But once over it you will again find that interesting. Hence start doing those things.
 They will come forward to be with you and help you in these difficult times. Be with your friends and family and you will find comfort.
 It eases your tensions and give life a new meaning.
 Find new friends. One girl has left you so make it a point to fill that place with at least 10 new person. Let it be friends, family etc but broaden your interactive circle.
 God punishes people for their sins in the world itself. So pray for your forgiveness and you will find peace of mind if you are spiritually connected to god.
 Always try to be with someone else. Let it be brother, sister, friends etc, but be with someone else always.
, Let it be small things also but make a list and try to achieve it one by one. It will give your life a motto.
 You will get peace of mind. Forgive her and let her live her life and don't poke into her life because that might irritate her and you will feel more pain. Remember its not going to be the same after breakup. The relation changes and the priorities changes. You are just a memory for him/her hence you don't try to be in their life as a friend or anything else.
 I have been experiencing this from the last 40 days. The cure to this is to do physical exercises so that your body is tired and you at least get a good night sleep which is very essential.
, This is the best method to overcome grief as you are bound to develop pseudo relationship. Watch series like Dexter,Full House etc. But beware to only watch it till you are normal or you risk getting addicted.

