 Ethyl chloride (Cryogesic) can sprayed onto skin right before a painful procedure. The liquid is sprayed onto your skin, which will then feel cold as it evaporates. Your skin will warm up within a few minutes. The spray is only effective as pain relief for as long as it takes your skin to warm up.This may be done immediately before a child receives a medical treatment that involves using a needle. It can be a good substitute for other topical anesthetics if the child is allergic to them.
Do not apply the cooling spray more often or in greater amounts than recommended by the doctor. It can cause frostbite.
Always read and follow the instructions on the packaging. Consult a doctor before applying it to a child or if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
Keep it out of your eyes, nose, mouth, and open wounds.
 If your doctor expects that you will need pain relief from a procedure you will be undergoing, you may be given an anesthetic to apply shortly before the procedure. Your doctor may ask you to cover the medication with a bandage while it is absorbed into your skin. Do not apply it to your nose, mouth, ears, eyes, genitals, or broken skin. Two frequently used types include:Tetracaine (Ametop Gel). This gel is smeared on the skin a half hour to 45 minutes before the procedure for which you need to be numbed. You can remove it right before the procedure. You will be numb for up to six hours. It may make your skin red where you applied it.
Lidocaine and prilocaine(EMLA cream). You can apply this an hour before the procedure and then remove it right before the procedure. It will be effective for up to two hours. A side effect is that it may make your skin look white.
 If your doctor thinks that local, topical anesthetics might not be sufficient, he or she may suggest numbing larger areas of your body. This is commonly done for procedures which may go below the skin, childbirth, or surgeries. Possibilities include:A regional anaesthetic. Regional anesthetics do not put you to sleep, but they numb a larger area of your body than local anesthetics. You may receive these as local injections. When a woman receives epidural anesthesia during childbirth, this is a regional anesthetic which numbs the lower half of her body.
General anesthesia. This is done for many surgical procedures. You may receive the anesthetic either as an intravenous medication or inhale it as a gas. Side effects can include: nausea, vomiting, dry or sore throat, chills, tiredness.