 Depending on the type of company for which you work, your employer may either offer a 401(k) or a 403(b) plan. You may be automatically enrolled in this type of plan and have employer matching (where your contributions are matched by your employer), depending on your employer's policies.These accounts are separate from individual retirement plans like IRAs or Roth IRAs, which do not involved your employer.

 Contributions are made pre-tax.  This means you only pay income taxes on the portion of your salary that you did not contribute to the retirement account.

 The funds you contribute to the account are then invested to allow them to grow.  Your employer may offer you a default investment.  Or, you may be able to choose how to invest the money.

 Your employer may also offer a matching program.  This means they may match your contributions up to a certain amount.

 You must comply with the limits for contributions.  The contribution limits depend on your age and marital status.

 As of 2015, for those under the age of 50, the maximum an individual can contribute is $18,000 per year or $1,500 per month.  Couples can contribute up to $36,000 per year.

 Those over the age of 50 can contribute up to $24,000 per year per individual, or up to $48,000 per year for a couple.

 You pay income taxes on the money when you collect it during retirement.  


, This is a bank account that allows you to save money for retirement in a tax-advantaged way. Also, age and the amount of contributions you are already making to retirement accounts at work affect the tax advantages of your IRA account.With a traditional IRA, you may be able to deduct contributions to your IRA on your tax return.  

A Rollover IRA is funded with money from a 401(k) or 403(b) from a previous employer.
 The tax advantages for which your IRA qualifies depends on the type of IRA account you open. With a Roth IRA, you make contributions to the retirement account post-tax. The money then grows tax-free over time. This means that when you withdraw the money during retirement, you don’t pay any taxes on it, but you cannot deduct contribution from income as made.
  An HSA account allows you to save for certain kinds of expenses, such as doctor visits, prescription medications, dental and eye care and related costs.  Then, these expenses become tax deductible when you are preparing your annual tax return.  Unlike other kinds of retirement accounts, you can use the money before you retire.  The funds roll over from year to year, and you must only use them on healthcare-related expenses.  However, once you are 65, you can withdraw the funds and use the money for anything.The maximum annual contribution is $3,350 for an individual or $6,650 for a family.  The amount increases by $1,000 if a family member is 55 years of age or older.


