 High end experience is vital to becoming a management consultant. Immediately upon graduate, you should be seeking out entry-level experience. Try to move up in a company fast, gaining insight into a variety of aspects of business.


Choose a field related to where you ultimately want to end up. If you're interested in management consulting for hospitals and health care companies, look into working in the business sector of a hospital or health insurance firm.Keep in mind you may have to work for a few years in a low level position, such as an administrative assistant or analyst, before you get a chance to do management consulting. Businesses run on hierarchies and you have to prove your worth through long term hard work in order to gain your dream position. Accept an entry level position if one is offered and work hard every day. Tell your boss and employees you're interested in management consulting. If they're impressed with your skills and work ethic, they'll come to you when a chance for management consulting comes up., As you start off in an entry level position, you should strongly consider pursuing certification in management consulting on the side. It is not required for the job but can greatly set you apart from the competition as you seek out work as a consultant.


The most widely recognized certification program is the Certified Management Consultant Program offered by the Institute of Management Consultants USA. You can complete their program online. In order to be eligible, you must have three years experience in consulting and a four year degree. While worthwhile, the program is challenging. There is a rigorous written and oral examination at the end of the program. Less than 1% of all consultants working in the field today have certification from the Institute of Management Consultants USA.Other, less rigorous certification programs are available online and at colleges and vocational schools across the country. Look into certification programs in your area. Talk to working management consultants about certifications, if any, they hold to get an idea of what programs to apply for., Becoming a management consultant is a diverse career path. As such, it provides you with skills relevant across the business world. Consider your longterm plans as you begin to work as a management consultant.


Many people work as a management consultant as a long term career. As nearly all types of companies need management consultants, work is stable. Pay is generally high. However, the job can be stressful. What you deal with varies greatly from one day to the next. Hours are long, up to 70 hours some weeks, and days off are sometimes interrupted by the needs of a business. You may crave, after some experience, a more stable, less high pressure position.Oftentimes, people transition into different roles after years of consulting. You could work in nearly any field of a company with consultant experience. If you're not sure consulting is right for you longterm, consider what other aspects of business and business management you may be good at. Talk to colleague and co-workers about other longterm employment options in the business world., If you want to stay in management consulting, consider specialization or independent consulting. If you have years of professional experience and a solid reputation, you may be able to take on clients in a specific field without any company backing you. Self-employments carries a significant risk but the independence can be highly rewarding. Keep independent consulting in the back of your mind as a potential longterm goal if you plan to stay in management consulting as a career.