 When you’ve found a station that you would like to work for, you need to send in your CV, application letter and a tape showing your on-air skills (personality pieces, interviews, news reading and weather, etc). It may help if you have some knowledge in the industry and have had previous work experience. If you have done so, put onto tape everything you’ve done that you think may sell yourself to the radio station/manager. If you haven't, put together a tape yourself using a stereo and microphone, recording yourself reading news and weather, and other things that are entertaining.;
, Before you actually get a shift on radio, you need to know about the station. This includes what music they play, their target audience, their programming, the station history and their audience. This is important because you need to know that what you're going to talk about on air is going to interest them. For example, if you are planning on working for a station that has an audience of ages 30+, you wouldn’t talk in modern slang (Sup, yo!) or talk about the latest Xbox game you're currently hooked on, and vice versa.
 It's very important that you know how to use the equipment that will be used during shifts. These include the phone system, computer system, main control board, audio editing programs, announcer desk, and what knowing the broadcasting system the station uses.
 Preparing a shift takes time. Here are a few things you need to know:


Songs played - You need to know what songs are going to be played during your shift, and when they are going to be played.
Artists - Find information on some of the artists you will be playing. Prepare artist news, shows, new albums etc.
Current Affairs - It's a good thing to mention what's happening, including local events and local, national or international news.
Entertainment - This can include things such as this day in history, celebrity news (remembering your audience), and things that simply occur in day to day living that we can relate to.
 Preparing a shift right before you're due to go on isn't the best experience. You need time to practice what you're going to say before you go on. If you don't have time to practice, this can lead to slipping up and making mistakes (see "Warnings" below).
 Practicing before you go on can give you more confidence, and less mistakes. For best results, practice what you're going to say thoroughly, then write short sentences and improvise around them. When you read directly what you've written it can often sound unnatural (like you're reading a story book). Talk like you you would to someone you know (your mother or your best mate).
 Try tongue-twisters and sentences that need a lot of intonation. By trying some of the following phrases, and slowly increasing speed, you get your mouth prepped and in working order before going on the air. It decreases the chances of you fluffing up by pronouncing things wrong, or spoonerisms. Try these phrases:


"There's a peacock on the car park."
"Red lorry, yellow lorry".
"The teeth, the tongue, the tip of the lips".
"She sells seashells by the seashore".
 Always make sure that you have enough information regarding anything that happens in the world, and in your community. This is very essential because a microphone can drain all your backup information.

