 One way to contract toxoplasmosis is eating meat that's not fully cooked. Pork, beef, and lamb are the most likely to carry this parasite.Pork should be cooked to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit. If you are reheating ham or other cooked meats, you should let it reach a temperature of 140 degrees Fahrenheit.Cook beef and lamb to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit. If it's ground, cook it to 160 degrees Fahrenheit.Cook chicken to 165 degrees, no matter what type.Allow whole cuts of meat to rest before cutting, as that helps kill the parasite.;
, Frozen meats are less likely to carry toxoplasmosis. Therefore, freezing meat before you eat it can cut down your risk.Freeze meat for a couple of days at least to help kill off pathogens.Your meat needs to be frozen below 0 degrees Fahrenheit for the best effect., Pasteurized milk has been heated to kill off the parasite. Raw milk can carry toxoplasmosis, so you should avoid drinking it.Other raw milk products can also contain toxoplasmosis.Some milk is ultra-pasteurized, meaning it is heated to an even higher temperature and stays fresh longer., Run the fruits and vegetables under water, rubbing them as you do. If you you're using root vegetables or firm produce like melons or cucumbers, make sure to scrub them with a brush.Even if you're peeling your fruits or vegetables, you should still rinse them. When you use a knife to cut into them, you're pushing the parasite into the fruit or veggies.Dry them off with a paper towel or clean dish towel, as that can also remove some bacteria and parasites., When you use your cutting boards for meat, you need to clean them thoroughly when you're done. Scrub with hot, soapy water to help remove this parasite.You should also wash them if you cut unwashed vegetables on them.You can get away with just rinsing if your just cutting vegetables, as long as they were thoroughly washed.
 After handling raw meats, fruits, and vegetables, be sure to take time to wash your hands. If you don't, you can still have the parasite on your hands, which you can transfer to your mouth., If your child has a sandbox, it can be tempting for cats to use the bathroom in it. Even if you scoop out the feces, the sand can still contain the parasite. Therefore, the best solution is to cover it so that animals can't use the bathroom in it., If you feed your cat raw meat, she is more likely to carry toxoplasmosis. Feeding your cat canned food or dry food is the best option to cut down on the possibility of her carrying this parasite.Also, try to keep her from going outside. If she has a chance to kill live prey, she's likely to eat it. In turn, she may carry the parasite from live prey.Additionally, if she's outside, she can pick up the parasite from the soil., Strays are more likely to carry this parasite than indoor cats.While you may want to give a stray a home, it's best to avoid them if you're worried about toxoplasmosis, especially if you're pregnant., If you're pregnant, it's best to have someone else change the litter. If you can't, you should at least wear gloves and a face mask to cut down on the risk.Make sure to scrub your hands under warm, soapy water once you're done., It can take 1 to 5 days for the parasite to become infectious after your cat uses the bathroom. If you keep up with your kitty litter box by scooping or changing it daily, you're less likely to have infectious parasites in the box., When you're working in the garden, be sure to wear garden gloves. Garden soil can be contaminated with toxoplasmosis, so it's a good precaution to take. Also be sure to wash your hands when you come inside., Don't drink water unless it has been treated by the city or you have treated it yourself. Untreated water can carry toxoplasmosis.If you have clean drinking water from your city, you shouldn't have to worry about the parasite in your water.
As cooking and pasteurization kills the parasite, simply boiling water kills the parasite., Insects can spread your cat's feces around the house. Insects like cockroaches and flies are the most likely culprits, as they will be drawn to that area.Put screens on your windows to keep insects out.Have your house exterminated regularly for insects.

