 To maintain momentum, it is important that you first identify when you are going to sit down and write. This could be at night after dinner or in the morning before work. You may also try writing on your one hour lunch break. Try to write at least once a day, even for a few minutes a day, so it becomes a habit. Having a set time for writing can help you stay motivated and build momentum, especially when you feel you are writing something worthwhile.You may try writing when you are at your most productive so you can get more work done. If you are a morning person, you may try writing in the mornings before work or school. If you are more of a night owl, you may write at night after work or school.
 Once you have decided when you are going to write, you should create a writing schedule that accounts for every day of the week. Put the times you are planning to write into the writing schedule and be specific.


For example, you may put in your schedule: “Monday: Working on Chapter 4” or “Wednesday evening: Polishing the love scene.” Specifying when you are writing and what you are going to write about can help you stay focused.
You may also include mini breaks in your writing schedule so you have a chance to stretch, get up, and walk around. You may plan for ten minutes breaks for every hour you write, for example, to help your brain recharge and to allow you to come back to your writing with fresh eyes.
 You should add writing targets to your writing schedule so you can stay on track and build on your momentum day by day. You may have writing targets based on page count or based on word count. You may also break your writing into chunks and set targets around completing certain chunks or sections. Add these targets to your writing schedule so you know what you are working on day to day.For example, you may put in your schedule: “Monday: Chapter 4, 500 words” or “Wednesday evening: Love scene, 20 pages.”

, Though you want to get into the habit of sticking to a writing schedule to build momentum in your writing and keep it, sometimes you may need to adjust it. Be willing to be flexible and adjust the schedule if you are feeling overwhelmed by your own deadlines or if you feel you are farther along in your project than you planned.


For example, perhaps you notice you have completed several chapters of your novel in a shorter amount of time than you planned in your writing schedule. You may then adjust your writing schedule so you tackle other chapters in the days or weeks ahead.

