 In a heavy-bottomed pan, heat some olive oil and brown your stew meat on all sides, over medium-high heat. You don't need to cook the venison all the way through, and in fact you should avoid cooking it through as much as possible. Rather, you want to create a good char on the outside of the meat to create a layer of flavor, and to build up good color on the bottom of your pan. If brownish stuff builds up, that's a good thing.

A good stew can be made with about a pound of good stew meat taken from the ham, neck, or rib section of the venison. It should be cut into bite-sized chunks.
To help brown the meat and also thicken the stew you make, it can be good to dust the stew meat with a little bit of white flour, as when starting a roux. You won't need to use much more than a teaspoon or two per pound of meat.
 After browning the meat, remove it from the pan and add in the vegetables you'd like to include in the stew, starting with the heartiest and moving to the lightest. You want to add the vegetables that will need the longest time cooking first, to make sure everything cooks at roughly the same time. So, you'd add root vegetables like potato, carrot, or turnips first, and add mushrooms, peas, and fresh basil last.

For a basic stew, start by adding two potatoes, chopped into bite-sized pieces, two medium-sized chopped carrots, and a whole small white onion. Turn the heat down to medium and stir until he onion starts to become translucent. Add three or four cloves of minced garlic and continue cooking for a minute or two. When the vegetables start to brown up, it's time to legalize the pan.
 The bottom of the pan should now be covered with good color and flavor, but you can only get it up by adding some liquid and stirring vigorously. To deglaze you can use two or three cups of dry red wine, dark beer, or chicken stock, which all pair nicely with venison. If you want, you can use a combination of liquids, or use half water and half of another liquid, to soften the flavor some.

After pouring in the liquid, it should bubble up vigorously and then calm down some. Stir the bottom of the up to get up the flavor from the bottom, then season the stew to taste. Dried thyme, salt and pepper would all combine nicely.
Return the meat to the pot and turn the temperature back up until the liquid just reaches a boil. Stir periodically to keep the broth moving. When the broth gets to a boil, reduce the heat to low, and cover the pot, removing it to stir periodically., Keep the pot covered and cook it for at least an hour, and as many as three or four. Longer cooking time and lower temperature will ensure in very tender and tasty stew meat, making it important that you save enough time to cook it. The meat will technically be "done" after an hour, but it'll be even better after a few, when the proteins get a chance to break down more and the meat becomes fork-tender.

If you want to add more vegetables, like mushrooms, or any kind of fresh green vegetables, wait until 10 or 15 minutes before you're ready to eat, or they'll cook down into mush. A sprinkling of fresh-chopped parsley finished a bowl of venison stew nicely. Serve with crusty French bread, or cornbread for a perfect meal.

