


A large saucepan is better for cooking rice than a smaller one as it has a greater cooking surface. This allows the water in the saucepan to heat more evenly, leading to a greater level of consistency in the cooked rice.
A tight fitting lid prevents steam from escaping when cooking.;
, One cup of uncooked rice will yield approximately three cups of cooked rice. Rinse the rice thoroughly in a sieve or strainer until the water runs clear. Add to saucepan.


For softer rice, soak the grains in cold water for 45 minutes to an hour before cooking. This allows the water to penetrate the outer bran layers.







Optionally, you can heat a little oil in the saucepan over medium heat and fry the rice for a moment before adding the water. This helps build flavor, but is definitely optional.
 Add 2 1/2 cups of water for every cup of brown rice. Lightly salt the water with about a teaspoon of salt. Stir once.


Other liquids, such as vegetable or chicken stock are also good for cooking rice and adding flavor.
It is important to accurately measure the correct amount of water or broth for the amount of rice you’re cooking, otherwise your finished product might turn out burnt or mushy.
 Then reduce the heat to low and simmer, covering the saucepan with a lid, until the rice is tender and the majority of liquid has been absorbed. Cooking time will vary according to the stove used.

Brown rice usually takes between 40 and 50 minutes to cook, however, you should begin checking it after 30 minutes to prevent it from burning.






Simmer the rice on the coolest burner on your stove, or on a simmer ring. The rice should be bubbling very slightly.
 Once the rice has finished cooking and all the water has boiled off, leave it to rest, with the lid on, for a minimum of five minutes. The rice will firm up as it cools slightly, allowing you to serve long, fluffy, unbroken grains of rice.


After the resting period, remove the lid and fluff up the rice with a fork - it should be light and fragrant!
Serve immediately, or let the rice cool for half an hour then refrigerate for future lunches.

