 You’ll feel more in control if you know what needs done and when. Start your list early so you can complete some things that can be done ahead of time. Don’t rush through your tasks, even though it may seem like you have a million things to do. Complete one task at a time, and be sure to give it your full attention.Prioritize what needs to get done, be it catching up on work at the office so you can spend time with your family or reading that book your teacher assigned over the break.
Some tasks may be able to wait or may not even need done at all, like folding your napkins into swans for your holiday dinner, or sending out personalized holiday messages to everyone on each of your social media accounts.;
, Don’t feel as though you have to do everything yourself. If you are having difficulty finding time to clean your home before a party, decorate that Christmas tree, or get cash from the bank to stuff red envelopes for the Chinese New Year, ask your family or friends for help. They’ll likely appreciate contributing to the holiday joy., If you have the time, volunteer over the holidays. You could make cards for deployed soldiers, bring gifts to a children’s hospital, sing carols at an assisted living facility, or pass out goody bags to the homeless. There are tons of ideas, and many don’t cost a thing. Helping others will undoubtedly bring you joy and help you feel as though you are doing something worthwhile.
 Financial worries are often one of the biggest holiday stressors. Making a budget and sticking to it can help reduce some of your anxiety. Keep in mind that you don’t need to make a 10-course meal or purchase designer gifts for everyone on your list in order to have a happy holiday.Consider making your own gifts to save some money. There are tons of unique ideas that people will love to receive.

Homemade decorations are also a great way to cut down on costs. They are also fun to make and could be a nice way to get the whole family involved.
You could have a potluck dinner instead of preparing everything yourself. Not only will this reduce the cost and workload, but it will also ensure your table is filled with a variety of dishes so there will be something everyone loves.
 If you’re constantly comparing your holiday plans to those of your friends, neighbors, coworkers, or celebrities, you may end up feeling inadequate. Remind yourself that you are unique, and your holiday should be as well. Do what works best for you and your family, and forget about social expectations or pressures., Consider taking a yoga class or meditating for a half hour each day. You could also walk through a park or garden, read a few chapters of a good book, or take time to simply sit quietly. Go out and enjoy the holiday lights, make a traditional dish or dessert with your loved ones, or even go to the movies. Your to-do list will still be there when you get back, and giving your mind a chance to rest can be a big boost to your spirits., Spending time with people you care about will be sure to brighten your holiday season. Don’t fret too much over the state of your house or the refreshments you will serve. Quickly tidy up and purchase or prepare a few quick snacks. Enjoy the company and the season!

, Getting out of the house can help you recharge as well as relax. Visit the local museum, meet a friend for coffee, browse a bookshop with a family member, or enjoy brunch with your coworkers.
 Many people are quite busy over the holidays, and an offer to watch their children may be just the break they need. It will give you something to do as well as a sense of productive goodness. Also, children are usually delightful creatures to have around, and their merriment is contagious.
 Spending time with others can be enjoyable, but it can sometimes be stressful as well. Don’t feel as though you have to spend every minute in someone else’s company, or invite everyone you’ve ever met to your holiday gathering. Don’t forget to take time for yourself, and to enjoy it!