 If you want to dye dark jeans with color, bleaching the area you wish to dye beforehand will yield the best results. If your jeans are light wash or white, you can skip the bleach., Start by wetting your jeans. You should wet the area you want to dye, but wetting the entire pair is fine, too. You can wet them anywhere—in the shower, with the hose, or in the sink., Lay a cloth or tarp over your workspace to protect the area from the dye.
 Prepare your water and fabric dye solution in a bucket according to the instructions on the dye label. Wear rubber or latex gloves when handling the dye.
 Wearing rubber gloves, dip your jeans in and out of the dye, holding them in the dye for a few seconds before pulling them out again. Continue until you have achieved the desired color. Make sure you are still wearing gloves.Alternatively, you can soak the desired area in the dye until you achieve the color you want.








When soaking your jeans, knead the fabric so the dye can absorb well.Keep in mind that the jeans will look lighter when they are dry., If you want to create an ombre or fading look, soak the entire desired area in the dye for 20-30 seconds. Remove the jeans and let them lie flat for a minute. Then, dip the upper or lower third of the area back into the dye, depending on the direction of your gradient. Let the jeans soak for 3-4 minutes, or until you reach the color you want.When you dip a small portion of the jeans back into the dye, you are darkening the area, creating a natural looking fade.
 After you have finished dyeing your jeans, let them rest for a minute before washing them in a bucket of clean, lukewarm water with a hose. Make the water colder as you rinse. Continue until the water comes off clear.
 Wring out any excess water and lay your jeans flat to dry. This will take a few hours. Then, feel free to add finishing touches, like fraying or rips!Check your dye label for any special drying instructions.
Wash and dry you dip dyed jeans by themselves for the first time. After that, feel free to wash them with other clothes.