 In DotA, you choose one hero to play as from a selection of dozens at the start of every game. Since each hero has his/her/its own skills and strategies to master, it's wise to start by picking just a few heroes to get good with at first. It's much quicker and easier to master two or three heroes than it is to try to learn every single hero's play style at once.


The official DotA wiki has roughly ranked the DotA 2 heroes in order of how easy they are for beginners to use. Among the easiest are Bane, Centaur Warrunner, Lich, Lion, Ogre Magi, Crystal Maiden, Treant Protector, and Warlock.It's a good idea to pick two or three heroes to start off (rather than just one) in case a teammate picks your preferred hero or your team contains too many heroes of one type (all magic users, all offensive characters, etc.);
, In DotA, not dying is just as important as killing the enemy. When an enemy hero kills you, the enemy is rewarded with gold and experience. Over time, this can add up, giving the enemy a big advantage over you. People who die often in DotA are often called "feeders" because their deaths "feed" the enemy team with valuable resources.


Though it's hard not to be a feeder at least a few times as a beginner, it's easier if you remember the golden rule of not feeding: don't "push" attacks all by yourself. If you run into trouble in enemy territory, your chance of survival is much higher when you have a teammate or two to help you out.
Try to always have an escape route from any battle. This can be as simple as having a few TP scrolls (see below).
 The huge selection of equipment and items in DotA can be intimidating to beginners. You can find a good guide to DotA items (including crafting recipes) here.While each hero's ideal item loadout is semi-unique, there are few items almost everyone should buy. You'll want to have the following:


Town Portal Scroll (or "TP"): An item that teleports you back to a friendly building. Great for escaping from dangerous situations.Courier: A unit that's used for taking items to and from the base.
Sentry Ward: Makes an invisible unit that can be used to spy on others and keep certain areas of the minimap "filled in." Great for keeping track of your enemies.
 Your goal in any game of DotA is to destroy the enemy team's ancient (the well-protected structure in the opposite corner of the map from yours). To do this, you'll need lots of gold (to buy items) and experience (to make your character more powerful). There are a few main ways to do this. Try to do these things (or at least help your teammates while they do them). At the same time, try to keep your enemies from doing the same:


Killing heroes.
Killing creeps. Creeps are the non-hero units in the game — for instance, the small soldiers that move down the lanes and attack each other. There are also neutral creeps in the spaces between the lanes that will attack anyone. Some of these neutral creeps are quite powerful. Killing easier creeps is a good way to get stronger if your hero isn't very good in one-on-one combat with other heroes.
 The DotA community uses lots of slang and shorthand that can be tricky for newcomers to decipher. Learning these terms is important for communicating with your teammates. A good glossary of in-game terms is available here.A few of the most fundamental terms include:


Aggro: The attention of an enemy unit. For example, if a creep or tower is attacking your hero, you have "aggroed" it.
Deny/last hit: Killing something to prevent the enemy to get the gold/experience from it. More on this below.
Farming: Killing creeps to get gold and experience instead of fighting enemy heroes or structures.
Ganking: Killing heroes by surprise or "gang-up" tactics.
Jungle: The spaces in between the main lanes where the neutral creeps are.
 DotA is just as much about planning and knowing how to react in certain situations as it is about reacting to your enemies. The game rewards players with extensive game knowledge, so it's valuable to take some time to acquaint yourself with the many, many aspects of the game. You don't have to memorize every single item and skill, but you should know the basics of all the heroes and the most important items.


A good resource for new players is the DotA 2 Wiki, available here.WikiHow also has numerous articles on DotA topics.
 DotA isn't a game that rewards honorable playing. Engaging the enemy team on fair terms is only making it easier for them to kill you. Instead, look for opportunities to surprise your enemies, trap them in unfavorable situations, and hit them when they're weakest. There are many different ways to do this — just a few ideas are below:


Attack enemies who are alone with a few of your teammates to help you. This is even easier if you bring a hero with a slow or stun spell.
Sneak behind an enemy by going through the jungle, then strike when she runs back to base to heal.
Lure an enemy near to one of your towers or some friendly creeps and continually dance out of his range, letting the creep or structures pick away at his health.
Ge the "last hit" on creeps and structures (see below).
 This is a crucial DotA skill — it's something that's super exciting when you pull it off and super aggravating when the enemy does it to you. In DotA, the hero who gets the final hit on an enemy before it dies gets the gold and experience for killing it. It doesn't matter who did most of the damage to the unit — whoever gets the last hit gets the reward. Take advantage of this to ensure your team gets as much money and experience as possible and your enemy gets as little as possible. A few ideas are below:


When an enemy is about to kill a creep, hit it with an attack so that you kill it instead. This is something you can do even for your team's own creeps. If you can pull this off for a powerful creep with a big reward for killing it, your team will love you and your enemy will hate you.
When the enemy is about to kill one of your towers or structures, hit it with a strong attack so you get the last hit. You won't get the reward for killing friendly units, but this keeps your enemy from getting it.
 Many rookie mistakes in DotA can be attributed to not knowing where your enemies are. The minimap is an extremely useful tool. While looking at the minimap distracts you from the action, it can give you valuable information about the positioning of the players in the game. Some higher-level players recommend spending up to 1/3 of your time looking at the minimap.


One great use of the minimap is to avoid confrontations with powerful enemies. Don't wait until they're on screen to run away — if you see them coming on the minimap, get out!

, No one is going to be great at DotA at first. If you're just starting out, you're bound to be called a n00b a few times. The important thing is to use your inevitable failures as opportunities to learn. When you do poorly, make note of what isn't working and figure out how to fix it. The DotA Wiki can be a big help here!


Remember: the definition of insanity is trying the same thing again and again and expecting different results. If you don't like the results you're getting, be willing to change your play style. Find yourself dying too much? Play more defensively or invest in defensive items. Not getting enough kills? Look for more opportunities to surprise your enemies when they're weak.

