 Start in a normal pushup or plank position. Keep your fingers pointed out and your hands slightly farther than shoulder width apart. Balance on your toes. Keep your hips low in relation to the ground and in line with your head and shoulders. From there, crawl normally.When learning the bear crawl and building your crawling muscles, you may want to use your knees to offer a little support.
Beginners at the bear crawl should start with relatively short distances. As it becomes easier, increase the distance little by little until you can crawl 10 to 20 yards (9.1 to 18.2 m).
Generally, you should do three sets of this exercise over the course of a workout. Allow yourself at least 30 seconds of rest time in between sets., Find a pullup bar or a suitable, level support that can support your body weight and be gripped onto easily. Adopt an overhand grip, with your hands slightly wider than shoulder width. Keep your back straight and your lower body extended, then pull yourself up until your chin is just above the bar. Lower yourself slowly until your arms are fully extended.Pullups can be very difficult, especially for beginners. Get some assistance with your pullups by having a friend grasp your legs and help you with the pulling up motion.
A variation of the pullup, the chin up, uses an underhand grip. This is another great climbing work out, and is performed the same as the pullup with the exception of the grip.
 Grasp a weight in each of your hands. Lean forward until your back is aligned parallel with the ground. From a hanging position, lift your arms upward as far as you can. Slowly return your arms to your side. Repeat this motion several times.


When your arms are fully extended, both arm should be reaching out to either side of you like wings. Try to keep your neck relaxed for the duration of this exercise.
If you don’t have weights, you can use household items, like canned goods, doorstops, or books as substitute weights., Position yourself on your hands and knees. Your hands should be slightly more than shoulder width apart and flat on the floor. Extend your legs and balance on your toes. Keep your body straight. Lower yourself until you’re almost touching the ground, then push yourself back into your starting position.


It’s very easy to lose good form while doing pushups. You may want to have a friend watch you to make sure you keep your body straight and even.
If in the beginning a traditional pushup is too difficult, rest your weight slightly on your knees for support. As you build strength, adopt the normal position., Even if you find the obstacles on your course a cinch, you’ll still have to run the entire distance to complete the course. Train on terrain that is similar to that of the course you’ll be running. For example:If you’ll be running on a traditional cross country course, trail running would be great practice.
Running up tall hills or mountains can be trained for by running through hilly country or running on a treadmill with the incline set to high.
Arid or sandy running can be simulated by runs on the beach.

