 Iceberg, romaine, and other lettuce with a stiff core last longer when this core is removed.Cut out the core with a knife, or pound the stem against a cutting board firmly, then twist the stem to remove the core by hand.Do not remove the stem from butter lettuce, or any lettuce with loose, tender leaves.;
, Sandwich the head of lettuce — or loose leaves in single layers — between two soft, absorbent paper towels. These will absorb excess water but keep the lettuce in the moist conditions it prefers.If the lettuce feels dry, dampen the paper towels.If the lettuce is wet enough to soak the towels, squeeze them out and wrap the lettuce again in the same, moist paper towels.If the lettuce is a bag of loose leaves, spin them dry in a salad spinner.
 This can be a zip-locked bag, hard plastic container, or even a salad spinner. If using a bag, press out some of the air before sealing, without bruising the leaves. If using a hard container, fill it at least halfway with leaves.The more air in the container, the faster you'll get brown edges.If you press out all the air and seal the container completely, the lettuce may develop off flavors due to poor respiration.Leaving a little air or cracking the container slightly may be a better idea, especially with leaf lettuce or a fridge that's on the warm side.
 This is the coldest part of your fridge, which is ideal for leafy greens. Most grocery store lettuce should last 3-7 days here, depending on freshness, while iceberg may last up to two weeks.Fresh lettuce from your garden or a farm stand may last longer.


Do not squeeze the leaves into tight spaces with other foods, which may cause bruising.
Do not store in the same drawer as apples, pears, or tomatoes, which release high amounts of ethylene gas that can cause spoilage.
 If water is running down the sides of the container, lower your fridge's humidity settings or open the crisper drawer's air vents wider. (You may also want to drain out the excess water.) If you see ice in the crisper drawer or on the leaves, raise your fridge's temperature.