 Jump roping develops your endurance, coordination, agility, quickness, and footwork. Use small wrist rotations instead of your entire arm to swing the rope around. Jump high enough so the rope slides right under your feet. You do not want to jump too high. Your landing is one of the most important parts of your jump roping. Stay on the balls of your feet and keep your knees slightly bent as you land.Once you can have mastered basic jump roping, you can try more advanced techniques like jump roping side-to-side and crossing your arms.
Get a jump rope that is long enough for your body. You should be able to step in the middle of the rope and pull the handles to your shoulder.
Start by jumping rope for 20 seconds without tripping. Build up your endurance until you can jump rope for 1, 2, or 3 minutes (rounds) without stopping. Take a 30-60 second break between each round., Jogging will build your endurance so that you can last through 12 rounds of boxing. Run at an easy pace where your heart rate does not go higher than 150 beats per minute. Try to run for at least 60 minutes, 5 times a week.If you are unable to run for 60 minutes without stopping, run for shorter periods of time and work your way up. If you have not been jogging regularly, work your way up to 5 times a week as well.


If you are a beginner, start with running for 10 or 20 minutes, 3 times a week.
You eventually want to build up to running for 2-3 hours, 5 times a week., Stretching before and after your workouts will improve flexibility, lower your risk of injuries,and increase your range of motion.Stretch all of the major muscle groups in your body (e.g. legs, arms, chest, shoulders, back, abdominal). Hold each stretch for 30 seconds. Try to stretch for at least 15 minutes every time you stretch.Never stretch cold muscles. You can stretch after you warm up (e.g. jump rope or light jog) or after your workout.Focus your stretching on areas that you use the most when you are boxing.These include your chest, hip flexors, calves, biceps, and abdominals.
 Weight lifting can improve your power and speed. Olympic style weightlifting is particularly helpful in your boxing training. Back squats, clean and jerks, dead lifts, and snatches are all great exercises. Lifting should not be done on the same days that you are doing your boxing training. For example, if you are in the boxing ring Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, then you would lift weights on Tuesday and Thursday.If you do not want to do Olympic style weightlifting, you can do more traditional exercises. Do exercises for your hips and legs (e.g. lunges, squats, mountain climbers), core (e.g. planks, back extension, etc.), and upper body (e.g. pull ups, push ups, chest press, shoulder press, etc.)Avoid strength training the week before your boxing match.
 Boxing requires a lot of stopping and starting. Interval training mimics the stopping and starting that your body will go through during a boxing match. Run for 200, 400, 600, or 800 meters as fast as you can, and then rest for 1 minute between each interval.Do interval running 2 or 3 days a week and never on consecutive days.


For example, do intervals on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday instead of Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday.
Adjust the amount of intervals you are doing based on the length of your fight. If you are training for a 5 round fight, run 6 intervals to prepare.

