 Sit in a hard chair, open the window in winter, blast loud music, slap yourself in the face, or whatever it takes to stay awake. Why would you do this? If you have an important meeting that you are preparing for or driving to a far away destination, you might have to stay awake for a long period of time.Go into the bathroom, run water until it is ice cold, and then splash it all over face.
Turn up the intensity of the light in the room to reduce sleepiness and increase alertness.
Pinch the end of your nose until your nostrils are completely closed and you feel discomfort.
 Caffeine has a dramatic impact on sleepiness. A single cup of coffee, for example, can give you a boost of alertness. About 100 to 200mg of caffeine will do the trick.Be strategic with your caffeine. Although helping you to stay awake, more than 500 mg of caffeine a day can cause headaches, restlessness, or anxiety.
If you have to stay awake for a long period of time, drink a 5-Hour Energy, which has lots of useful B complex vitamins. Red Bull and Monster, however, rely mostly on caffeine and sugar, and are not recommended.
 Be careful of eating too many sugary snacks. Although sugar will give you an immediate boost of energy it will quickly die down and give you a sugar low overall. Instead, try eating a healthier snack that will help you stay awake.Try spreading peanut butter on a whole wheat cracker or on celery sticks.
Sprinkle a handful of nuts or fresh fruit on top of your yogurt.
Dip your baby carrots into a low-fat cream cheese.
 Recent studies show that low intensity exercises significantly reduce daytime fatigue compared to medication or and other methods. Try to get at least thirty minutes of exercise a day. It will not only improve your daytime performance, but also it will help you sleep better at night.Make sure to refill your energy levels after exercise by eating a meal that contains both protein and carbohydrates.
Try not to exercise too late at night. Otherwise, your body will be too active to enjoy a good night sleep.
Low intensity exercises include light walking, stretching, yoga, and swimming. Also, consider household chores such as vacuuming, gardening, or washing your car as potential to get your light workout in every day.
 If all else fails then visit your doctor. If you find it impossible to either get adequate sleep or don’t have enough energy throughout the day, you might have a more serious condition that needs a professional diagnosis. When sleepiness begins to disrupt your personal and professional life go see a doctor.Insomnia, the inability to sleep, and narcolepsy, excessive daytime sleeping, are two of the more recognizable sleeping disorders, but cataplexy, sleep paralysis, and hallucinations can all occur if you are sleep deprived.
Narcolepsy starts between the ages of ten and 25 and is believed to be caused by a chemical imbalance. There are no known cures so it is treated with medication.
Insomnia is a disorder caused by stress, anxiety, depression, medical conditions, and age. Reducing these symptoms will help as will changing your sleeping patterns. If neither works, a doctor will recommend therapy or medication to treat the condition.

