 This is the only legitimate way to get an Arceus in Diamond or Pearl. Arceus was available for a limited time as a reward for attending a Nintendo event in 2009 and 29010. It is now no longer possible to get an Arceus unless you trade for one or cheat to get one.


Since Arceus is super rare, you'll likely need to offer up some big names to get your hands on one. Get ready to trade your most valued Pokemon, including Landorus or Deoxys. Shiny Legendary Pokémon such as a Shiny Mew can also make good trade offers.;
, If you can't trade for an Arceus, the only other option is to cheat to get it. You can use an Action Replay to cheat on your DS system, or you can use an emulator's built-in cheat tools to cheat when playing on your computer.


You can transfer your save file from your DS to a computer (and vice versa) by using a flash cart like an R4 or Cyclo. See Mod a Nintendo DS with an R4 Flashcart for details on using a flash cart to access your DS files.
 You'll need this in order to use the special item that gives you access to Arceus, even if you cheat for it. You can complete the National Pokedex by beating the Elite Four and seeing all 150 Pokémon from the Sinnoh Pokedex. You don't need to capture all 150, just encounter them.


See Select the Best Pokémon to Beat the Elite Four in Pokémon Diamond and Pearl for tips on building the best Pokémon party to take on the Elite Four.
 The process for adding codes varies depending on if you're using an actual Action Replay or an emulator:


Action Replay - Plug the Action Replay cart into your DS, and then plug the Pokémon cart into the Action Replay. Start Action Replay and tap the Code Select button. Tap "<Add New Code>" to enter in your code.
Emulator (DeSmuME) - Start the Pokémon ROM file in your Emulator. Click the "Tools" menu, select "Cheats," and then "List." Click the "Action Replay" button to enter a new code.
 This item is required to get to the island where Arceus can be found. Enter the following code into either the "<Add New Code>" section of your Action Replay, or into the Code field on your emulator. Click "Add" or "Save" after entering the code:, After adding the code, you'll see it in your list of codes. It will usually be enabled automatically after adding it, but double-check to make sure it is selected.
 After loading the cheat, play your game as normal. Head to the nearest Pokemart, but don't go inside yet.
 This will activate the code you entered after a moment.
 You should see a green man that isn't normally there.
 The green man appears during special events, which you triggered using the code above. He'll hand you the Azure Flute, which you'll be using to find Arceus.


The benefit of using this code as opposed to cheating to get an Arceus directly is that it will obey your commands and will be treated as a "legitimate" Pokémon since it doesn't have any hacked values.
 You'll have to fight Arceus before you can capture it, and Arceus is Level 80. This means it will be one of the toughest fights you encounter in the entire game. Make sure your team is up to the task, and that you have a large selection of Poke Balls to throw at it.


You may want to consider using your Master Ball on Arceus to capture it instantly.
Having a Pokémon with False Swipe can make it easier to lower Arceus's health without knocking it out. Having a Pokémon with Sleep or Paralyze can make Arceus easier to catch as well.
 Coronet. You'll be using the Azure Flute here to access Arceus.
 You can find this at the top of Mt. Coronet.
 When you reach the Spear Pillar, the game will prompt you to play the Azure Flute. When you use the Azure Flute in front of the Spear Pillar, a staircase will appear, allowing you to enter the Hall of Origins. You'll find Arceus inside.
 Saving right before the fight will make it easy to reload in case you accidentally knock out Arceus or you get wiped out.


If you enter the room before saving, you'll automatically start the fight and won't be able to save.
 You'll approach automatically when you enter the room. Use your strongest Pokémon to whittle down Arceus's health until it's red. Use False Swipe as the health gets low so that you can lower its health further without knocking it out.
 Once Arceus's health is in the red, start putting it to sleep or paralyzing it. Once it's asleep or paralyzed, you can start throwing Ultra Balls at it. Keep trying, even if it keeps breaking free. Eventually, you should be able to catch it.


If you accidentally knock Arceus out, or all of your Pokémon are knocked out, you can load your save and try again.

