 When you call your ex, notice whether they answer the phone or send you to voicemail. If they are regularly ignoring your phone calls (especially if this is a new behavior), this could be sign they’ve fallen for someone else.Wait and see if they ignore your calls three or more times in a row.
Be sure to spread out each of your phone calls by at least a day, if not more.;
, If you text your ex and they fail to write back (or wait more than a day to do so), this can mean they love somebody else. They might be out with that person (or even sleeping over) when they receive your text, and that is why they do not respond.As with calls, try and wait for them to drop text messages at least three times before you jump to conclusions.
Once again, be sure to spread you text messages out, as not to overwhelm your ex in the process.
 If your ex responds to text messages and phone calls, but never initiates any communication, this can be a sign that they’ve fallen for somebody else. This can show that they still want to be polite, however, they seem to have no innate desire to speak to you. Try ceasing your attempts to get in touch for a while (say, one week).
Notice whether or not the step up to get in touch with you instead.
 If you try to visit your ex’s Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram page, only to realize you are no longer among their friends list, this can be a negative sign. They may have deleted you because they don’t want you to see a change in their relationship status, or photos of them with their new love.If their social media pages are set to private, it will be immediately clear that they have unfriended you.
If they keep their profiles public, you may need to directly check to see if you are listed among their friends.
 A far more dramatic action for your ex to take (and a much more dramatic sign) is to change their telephone number. If you attempt to contact your ex and realize that they have changed their number without notifying you, there is a good chance they have fallen in love with someone else.Inquire to your friends about the change in number. If there is some kind of good explanation for the phone number change, a mutual friend may be able to clue you in.

