 Most mousetrap cars work as follows: the mousetrap is "set", a string tied to the arm of the mousetrap is carefully wrapped around one of the wheel axles, and, when the trap is sprung, the swinging arm of the trap transfers its energy to the axle to turn the wheels. Since the arm of the trap is fairly short, if the car isn't carefully constructed, it can pull on the string too rapidly, causing the wheels to slip and energy to be lost. For a slower, steadier pull, try attaching a long pole to the arm to act as a lever, then tying the end of the string to this, better than to the arm itself


It's important to use the right material for your lever. The lever shouldn't bend at all under the stress of the string — this represents wasted energy.Many guides recommend sturdy balsa constructions or balsa reinforced with metal to give a sturdy yet light lever.
 Assuming that your trap will be turning the rear wheels, you'll want your car's mousetrap to be far forward on the frame as it can be without touching the front wheels. The longer distance between the trap and the wheels, the better — more distance means you'll be able to loop more string around the axle for just a little extra slow and steady pulling power.
 For maximum distance, you'll want to be using as close to 100% of your mousetrap's power as possible. This means reducing the friction on surfaces of your car where points slide against each other. Use a mild lubricant, like WD-40, auto grease, or a similar product to keep the points of contact between a car's moving parts well-oiled so that the car "runs" as smoothly as possible.


Many mousetrap car building guides identify the axle as the primary source of friction on a mousetrap car.To minimize axle friction, rub or spray a little lubricant on each axle where it meets the frame, then, if possible, work it into the contact point by sliding the wheels back and forth.
 Most of the time, for mousetrap car assignments, all students will be required to use the same size of mousetrap so that everyone's car designs have the same amount of power. However, if you don't have this restriction, feel free to use the most powerful mousetrap you can find! Bigger traps like rat traps provide much more power than basic mousetraps, but they also require sturdier constructions or they may break the car apart when they're sprung, so you may need to reinforce your frame and/or axles to accommodate.


Keep in mind that rat traps and other large rodent traps can easily break fingers, so handle armed traps with extreme caution, even when you're confident that the trap is rigged up to your axle and shouldn't be able to close freely.

