 You can use your LG TV as your computer's monitor and speakers by connecting your computer to the TV via HDMI. Nearly all modern computers have an HDMI port, though if you're using a Mac you'll likely need an adapter.


The HDMI cable will transmit both the digital HD image as well as the audio from your computer to the TV.
 Make sure to measure from the HDMI port on your computer to the HDMI port on the back of the TV, accounting for slack so that the cable can rest.


This will obviously be a bit simpler if you are connecting a laptop instead of a desktop, as you can place the laptop closer to the TV.
You can use HDMI to connect a HTPC (Home Theater PC), which is dedicated purely towards playing media on the TV.
 Take your measurement and get a cable that is at least a few feet longer. This will ensure that you have enough slack to work with if things need to be moved around.


There is very little difference in an HDMI cable that costs $5 and a cable that costs $70. Since HDMI is a digital signal, its either "on" or "off", and the cable doesn't affect signal quality. The difference in quality only becomes apparent with longer cables.
HDMI cables are compliant with standards up to 40 feet (12.2 m) in length. There are longer cables available that will technically still work, but they are likely not complying with standards. If you need to run HDMI over extremely long distances, you'll likely need an amp to boost the power.,


If you have a graphics card installed on your PC, you may have two HDMI ports. Connect the cable to the same location that your monitor is plugged into. For example, if your monitor is connected to a DVI port on your graphics card, connect the cable to the HDMI port on the graphics card.
 This will let you know what input to select when you turn the TV on.
 The HDMI inputs should be labeled "HDMI" on your input menu.
 Once the TV is turned on to the correct input, you can switch your screen over to it on your computer.


Press ⊞ Win+P and select the method that you want to the image to appear. You can send the entire image to the TV instead of your computer monitor, you can mirror the displays so that the same image is displayed on both, or you can extend your display so that the TV becomes an extension of your computer's desktop.
 If your computer doesn't have an HDMI port, your best bet will be to get a USB-to-HDMI converter. This will allow you to plug the converter into your computer's USB port and then connect an HDMI cable from the converter to the TV.
 There could be a couple of different issues that are causing this problem:


Check the HDMI connection on both the computer and the TV. Make sure the plug is connected securely on both.
Ensure that the TV is on the correct input, and that you've properly sent your computer's display to the TV using the ⊞ Win+P menu.
 Sometimes when you switch displays over HDMI, the audio output settings won't change automatically. You can manually change them so that audio comes from your TV.


Right-click the Volume icon in your system tray.
Select "Playback devices".
Select your TV from the list and click Set Default and then Apply.

