 The most important point to remember is that you must make sure your dog associates your crate with positive sentiments. Start slow when introducing your dog to a crate. It may take anywhere from a few days to a few weeks to get your dog used to spending time in a crate.At first, leave the door to the crate open, so they can explore it whenever they feel comfortable doing so.
 The best place for your dog’s crate is somewhere they enjoy being, and somewhere they’ll be near you. Put something comforting in the crate, like a blanket. Your dog may simply start sleeping in the crate on its own., Bring your dog over to the crate and speak to them in a calm, happy voice. If they don’t want to go into it, drop some treats just inside the entrance to the crate. If they reach in and eat these, toss some further into the crate. It’s totally okay if they are hesitant to go in all the way. Don’t force them to do so.Try tossing its favorite toys into the crate as well. It may take up to a few days to convince them to go into the crate all the way.
 Once they’re willing to go into the crate to retrieve treats or toys, start feeding them its meals in the crate as well. This will cause your dog to feel positively about the crate. Once your dog is comfortable standing and eating in its crate, close the door while they’re eating. The first time you do this, open the door when they’re done eating.Next time you feed them and close the door while they’re eating, leave it closed for a few minutes after its meal. Increase the amount of time you leave them in the crate until they’re spending 10 minutes in the crate after meals.
If they begin to whine, do not let them out until they stop whining. Otherwise, this will teach them that whining gets them out of the crate.
 At first, do so only while you’re home. Choose a word to indicate that you want your dog to go in its crate, such as “crate.” Go to the crate, say the word, and offer your dog a treat. Praise them if they enter the crate, give them the treat, and close the door. Sit near them for a few minutes, then go elsewhere for a few minutes. Return and spend a few more minutes near them before letting them out. Gradually increase the period of time you’re out of your dog’s sight., Once you can leave your dog in its crate for 30 minutes without issues, you can crate them when you leave for short periods. Vary the length of time between putting them in the crate and actually leaving, between 5 and 20 minutes. Be relaxed when you put them in the crate before leaving. Avoid drawn-out “good-byes.” Simply praise the dog for obeying, give them a treat, and depart.Don’t act excited when you return home. This may increase the dog’s anxiety about when you’ll return when you leave the house.
Continue crating the dog for brief periods when you’re at home, or they’ll begin to associate the crate with you leaving.
Only crate the dog until they can be trusted not to destroy the house. After that, keep the crate as a place where the dog can go voluntarily.

