 If you’ve summoned the police, there’s a good chance that you are in the midst of an emergency. Nonetheless, collect your thoughts before the officer arrives. Think about what has happened to cause you to summon them, and organize the events into a coherent story.


While they are trained professionals, police are human. It is no easier or less frustrating for them to construct a logical narrative out of a disorganized, manic jumble of impressions than it is for you. Try to get the details straight. Locations, times of day, descriptions of suspects, and the makes and models of cars are often important.Think about the desired outcome. When you are collecting your thoughts, it will help if you ask yourself what you want to get out of the encounter. Do you want to feel safer, do you want your property returned to you, or do you want someone punished for a wrong done to you? Tailor your narrative to fit your goal.;
, Remember that the officer responding to the scene probably didn’t steal your car or stereo, vandalize your bird fountain, or make harassing phone calls to your home.


Of course you’re upset, but there’s no need to take out your frustrations on them. Treat them like you would treat any other person you wanted to help you under normal circumstances. Doing otherwise will only make your encounter and theirs more unpleasant.
 You want to try to give the officers enough information to make progress on the case. So start from the beginning—if some weird guy was taking pictures of all the houses in the neighborhood last week, and your house got robbed this week, let them know about the unusual stranger.Be thorough. You’ve organized your thoughts and you’ve started from the very beginnings of your suspicions. So make sure to follow through with your story. Tell the story to completion, of course, but if you notice anything else after your initial encounter with the police, call them up and let them know.Almost any detail can be helpful. If you find a tool that might have been used in a burglary or found the point of entry when you couldn’t locate it before, notify the officers working on your case.
 Even before you exchange any words with the officer who has stopped you, make efforts to put him or her at ease. Start by making no sudden movements. After you've gotten your license and registration, keep your hands visible and remain calm.
 To put it in terms everyone should understand, if a policeman stops you, they think you are a criminal. Virtually every question they ask and everything that they do is designed to get you to confess, wittingly or unwittingly, to the commission of a crime.Therefore, the two positive outcomes you should aim for are not getting ticketed or arrested.


For example, if a policeman stops you and asks you if you know how fast you were driving, don’t say “yes” and don’t say “no.” The question itself is a trick. If you don’t know how fast you were going, then you weren’t paying attention, which might be a violation in and of itself. If you say “yes,” then you admit to speeding, because he’s measured your speed in excess of the limit. Whatever the speed limit is, say you were going that fast.
 Listen carefully to what the officer has to say, and pay close attention to their requests. This will enable you to answer any questions they ask of you, but only give the minimal amount of information.


The idea is not to volunteer a lot of information. If you find yourself having to be less than honest, as many people dealing with the police do, the less information you volunteer the less of a chance that you’ll get caught in an untruth.
 Just because you shouldn't volunteer information doesn't mean that you should be rude or antagonistic. Be just as polite as you would be in church.


Say “sir,” “m’am,” “please,” “may I,” and “thank you.” Everyone likes to be treated with respect, but police can be more aware of formalities than an average person. Police forces are organizations with strict chains-of-command and rigid hierarchies; they are very conscious of rank, respect, and honorifics., Make it a point to comply with everything an officer tells you to do before arguing. Only ask the questions you need to ask to satisfy the command.For example, if the officer asks you to put your hands on the steering wheel, don’t keep your hands in your lap and say “no weapons here.” Put your hands on the wheel and then proceed with your denial.
 Whatever you do, don’t touch the officer in any way during the encounter, which could be perceived as threatening. Don’t try to push them off of you, don’t jab your finger into their chests, don’t even shake their hands when they pull you over. If it’s tough, just pretend you’re a germophobe., Sometimes the officer is going to say right away why they’re stopping you. If they do not, comply with their orders, such as asking for you to hand over your license. Then ask why they’re stopping you.


For example, if an officer approaches you out of the blue and says “Let me see your driver’s license,” give it to him. Then ask “Is there any particular reason you want to see my license?” If he says, “You seem suspicious,” or something similarly vague, ask how. An officer must have a reasonable articulable suspicion to make a stop.
 Ask for the officer to write down his name and badge number. Make a point to get the license plate number and car number as well.


Make sure that you record the date and time of the stop.
 You should almost never consent to a search.If you have something to hide and you let them search, they’ll find it. If you don’t have anything to hide, then they can get a warrant and find that out for themselves. Nonetheless, do not resist if they search you after you have refused consent. Simply restate, "I am not resisting, officer, but I do not consent to this search."They will probably tell you that they can “just get a warrant” and search you then. Fine. Let them get the warrant. If they are bluffing, they won’t get the warrant and you won’t get searched. If the officer lacks probable cause to search you, then the search will be illegal anyway. Even if they aren’t bluffing, they might not be able to reach a judge to get a warrant, or they might get called away to do something other than bother you.
Consider refusing a breathalyzer. If you’re suspected of a DUI, then the officer is most likely going to ask you to take a breathalyzer. There are penalties for refusing, often the forfeiture of your drivers’ license, but they are usually not as severe as the penalties for a DUI.However, some states have more severe penalties. If you refuse, the officer will have to get a warrant. You’ll have to take the breathalyzer then, but you also might have sobered up by then. Research your state's laws before you end up in this position.
 These are the magic words, and you should ask them often, because officers will often try to ignore the question. If they don’t have probable cause to detain you, then they are obligated to let you go. Ask this every time the situation appears to change, regardless of whether they have refused before. For instance, if they ask you if they can conduct a search and you refuse, ask them if you can go.
 If you should say as little as possible before an arrest, you should say even less after an arrest. You have a right to remain silent, and they plan on using everything you say against you in court.This applies to everyone you encounter. Don’t talk to the officer who is taking you to jail, don’t talk to the one that books you, don’t talk to the one who’s standing around the station twiddling their thumbs, don’t talk to any detectives after you’ve been booked.
Don’t fall for any vaguely worded tricks. If they ask you to “clear something up,” or “tell your side of the story,” all they want you to do is say something incriminating.
 When they question you, ask to speak with an attorney right away. They’ll leave the threat of having to stay in jail longer hanging over your head, but that won’t amount to more than a day or two extra at the most. If you’re convicted of a crime, you’ll be in jail or prison for far longer than that.Never submit to questioning without an attorney. No matter what, don’t let the police interview you or question you without an attorney present, even after your initial consultation with your attorney, even if they say “it would look better for you if you did.”

, If you haven’t been arrested, but were only treated roughly or rudely, you can complain to the police themselves. Since you have the name of the offer, their badge number, the license plate number and the car number, as well as the date and time of the incident, the police should have enough information to follow up on your complaint.Every police department is going to have different procedures for doing this. A lot of big city departments will have a dedicated section of the department for handling citizen complaints. In some small towns and rural counties, you might just speak with a high ranking officer about your experience.
Even if your complaint is acknowledged, don’t expect much more than an apology from the police department. If you’re lucky, the officer might get a reprimand.
 In most larger cities, there is a citizens’ review board (or citizens’ accountability board) that handles police complaints.Although these organizations typically don’t have a great deal of power, they do usually have the authorization to direct the police to do another investigation, and their findings can be very helpful when pursuing a lawsuit.
 Finally, you can bring suit against the police department seeking compensation for any injuries you may have suffered.Suits against police officers are often complex pieces of litigation, so you’re going to want to look for an attorney who is experienced in and successful in pursuing these types of claims.


Specifically, look for attorneys that have successfully brought suit against the police under Sec. 1983 of the US Code, which allows citizens to sue individual government employees., If your church is hosting a fish fry or your street is having a block party, it presents an opportunity for police officers in your community to get to know the citizens in the community in a non-confrontational, positive atmosphere.It's much harder to see an acquaintance as a threat than to see a stranger as a threat. Inviting police to stop by these types of events can give all parties an opportunity to learn more about one another and to get better acquainted. Forging these types of relationships can lessen the adversarial relationship between officers and communities.
 If the police know about the grievances your community has and how those problems personally effect the residents, it might help lessen tension between the parties. It can even lead to the police approaching their interactions with your community differently.You don't want a meeting like this descending into chaos. Don't let anyone heckle the police--and don't let the police talk over community members. Set time limits on speaking. Make everyone aware of the rules and make sure they agree to them.Invite all the stakeholders, including police, elected officials, church and community leaders, and young people.
Connect the findings of the community meeting with concrete actions the police and citizens can take to resolve the problems. It's important to try and come to a resolution, rather than letting an issue fester., This can be difficult, but it helps to reach out to police in your community on an individual and personal basis. The police are often your neighbors. The badge can act as a barrier between the police and the communities they live in, but in reality, the police are real people, with real concerns, fears, hopes, and dreams. With a little effort, you can develop meaningful personal relationships with the folks that wear it.

