 If you have workers handling your objects prior to shipping, remember to account for this when determining shipping costs. How long will it take to package the items and what do you pay your workers? To figure out handling costs, multiply how long it take your employees to package items and divide that by 60. Then, multiply that by their hourly wage. This should give you the average cost of handling per item.For example, say your employees take 15 minutes to package and send an item. Divide that by 60 to get .25. If you pay your employees $10 an hour, multiple that by .25 to get $2.50. This means your handling costs are $2.50.
 Think about what type of packaging you're using. Larger boxes can cost up to $5 to ship, while small envelopes cost only 25 cents. Lightweight boxes generally cost a dollar. Factor these costs in when figuring out your rough shipping costs for your items.Later, as you decide between a calculated or flat rate, you can decide what chunk of packaging costs you should pass on to your customers.
 If you don't already have a scale at home, buy one. Weigh your items and then use an online calculator to determine how much you'll be charged based on your carrier and the object's weight.Make sure to weigh your objects in their packaging.
 A calculated rate means you would charge customers shipping based on factors such as the product type, weight, and so on. A calculated rate has both pros and cons you should consider before adopting it.Use a calculated weight if you're selling lightweight items and/or offering different methods of delivery (i.e., standard shipping, two day shipping, overnight shipping). Lightweight items cost less to ship, so shipping costs won't add a lot to a customer's bill, and people are willing to pay more for quick services.
Calculated shipping rates have some drawback. If your shipping rates are expensive, customers may abandon their items at checkout when their shipping costs are calculated. Flat rates tend to make more sales.
 A flat rate means you charge one price for shipping, regardless of the item's weight, packaging, and so on. You should know the average shipping rate for your items. For example, if items cost around $8 to ship, a $4 flat rate shipping fee is reasonable.Flat rates reduce the likelihood consumers will abandon their items at checkout. Customers know shipping costs ahead of time and will account for these costs when making purchases.
The main drawback of a flat rate shipping fee is that you lose some profit. However, as flat rates generally generate more sales, the extra money may makeup for this.

