 Grab a one-piece swimsuit that fits the wearer and model it after that. Make a pattern by folding the swimsuit in half lengthwise to trace the front piece and then again for the back piece.


Cut out your front and back pieces out of something lime green and stretchy. Sew the front and back pieces together along the sides and bottom, with right sides together.






Turn under the raw edges of the leg holes and use a zig-zag stitch to allow for stretch. Then turn under the arm sections, and the top front and top back sections.;
, You'll need them at least 3 inches wide and 10 inches long -- about double the measurement of the arm. You'll need extra material for gathering. They look like half circles with the top and bottom squared.


Make a casing for the elastic by turning under the long straight edge, about a half inch. Then thread a piece of narrow elastic (to the length of the arm) through the casing.
Then sew the elastic along one end of the casing to secure in place, pull the elastic the rest of the way through, and sew along the other end of the casing to secure the other end of the elastic.
Pin in place and sew several times along the front and back corners of the costume. Repeat with the other shoulder.
 Measure the waist of the wearer and cut a length of material that's about twice as long -- you'll need the extra material for gathering. The length is up to you.


Cut triangle cuts out of the bottom of this piece of material. Sew the shorts ends together, to create a tube, one step closer to a skirt shape.
Create a casing in the same manner that you did for the sleeves and insert the elastic.
You may or may not have to hem the edges, depending on your fabric. If it doesn't fray, you're all set! If it does, take 1/2" (1.25 cm) and make a seam all along the edge.
 Do this only if you're worried about where the two pieces meet. Be careful if you are sewing on top of the elastic to stretch it as you go. Then if you let go, it will stretch back into place and will ruffle up your trimming a little bit more. Otherwise, if you don’t pull the elastic, you will sew your elastic in place and restrict its elasticity.


A thin length of ruffle can be bought at any fabric store very cheaply. For Tink, go for white or green.

