 Another way to add to the success, is to find something meaningful to your partner, a special place, or thing. Such as the place you first kissed, even play "your song" to add to the romance. No one can tell you exactly what your partner likes or wants, because they don't know them. It's up to you to get their favourite flowers or chocolates etc.;
, This is the foundation for the surprise, without it, no other steps to ensure a good anniversary will work, after all, you can't build without a foundation, otherwise the building will crumble, that building is your anniversary. Let's cut to the chase; Plan days or even weeks in advance depending on the circumstances of the anniversary surprise/gift and the scale of it, this can vary from a card with chocolates and a present, to a dinner at the best restaurant in town, with a nice table, champagne, you can even hire a person to play a violin. Make the arrangements of your surprise in advance, so that you get the perfect day for your partner. For example book a restaurant seat a few days or even a few weeks before you arrive, do this with everything for the set date, that way, you won't forget, it's done, its arranged, you just wait.
 Telling your partner anything of the arrangements can ruin the surprise, making the delivery less loving, and meaningful, however go ahead and tell them if they don't like surprises of course. Make sure receipts, returned calls...anything is hidden. You can even play dumb on the day, and walk them to the restaurant "pretending" to be last minute and get the total WOW factor.
 Being too expensive can lead your partner to "occasionally" believe that you may have to improve on the performance, putting you in a tough spot if you tried your best on your first anniversary, they may expect something even bigger the next time, gradually work your way up with expenses. This is all optional of course, because your partner may not be like that, or because you're not too bothered. But either way, to save time and money, don't go crazy straight off the bat.
 Timing can in some circumstances be everything, make sure it is all arranged according to your plans. For instance, you don't want a violinist to start playing music when you have "your song" playing in the background, this sounds although it can be tied with planning, true enough, you can avoid this step if you're an expert planner, but this is a reminder, don't let your "appointments" clash.
 Execution is the final step, this is meaningful, it can mean anything from blindfolds, to people jumping out to say surprise. The meaning is a wide as that, you must deliver your anniversary gift, with precision, with skill and finesse, with timing and with emotion and love. Make sure you execute it in a meaningful and special way, that adds to the surprise, your aim is to WOW your partner, you want to see a surprised expression of amazement or even, tears...tears of joy, that shows that you cared enough to go through the length to make that anniversary special, to remind your partner, you still care and always have done.

