 This is the Xbox Customer Service line.


The Customer Service hours are 6 AM to 10 PM PST.
If you are dialing from a cell phone from a country other than the US, you may be subject to additional charges. Instead of calling with your mobile phone, you can request a call from Microsoft which will prevent the charges. Follow this link to submit a call request.
If you're hearing impaired, dial (866) 740-9269 instead.;
, Before the support call can proceed, you'll need to indicate which console you are calling about.


Press 2 or say "Xbox 360" to select the Xbox 360 option.
 There are four main options on the Customer Service menu. Selecting the right option will help ensure that the support rep starts in the right place when troubleshooting.


For Xbox Live account and billing help, press 1.
For support with games and other software, press 2.
For hardware issues and console repairs, press 3.
For assistance with networking and connection problems, press 4.
 You'll need to verify that you are the owner of your Xbox 360 by verifying your Microsoft account. A code will be sent to your mobile device or emailed to you, which you'll then need to enter to proceed. If you don't have an email address or mobile number associated with your account, you'll need to add one in the Security section of account.live.com.If you don't have an account, or want to speak to someone without verifying your account, press 0# each time you are asked for your account information., Xbox 360 Customer Service is often very busy, and you'll typically have to wait to speak to someone. You'll be given the option to receive a call when it is your turn in line so that you don't have to wait on hold.
 Once you finally reach a real person, you'll want to describe the problem you're having as clearly as possible. Discuss any steps you've taken to try to fix it on your own. If the customer support representative isn't able to give you the answer you need, politely ask to speak with a supervisor or someone that can help.

