 Do not put the shoes in sunlight or next to a heater -- excessive heat can cause suede to warp and crack if you're not careful. Simply take them off and place them somewhere dry.


Do not try and remove stains while the shoes are still wet, as this can strip the soft, felt-like texture.;
, When leather or suede gets wet, it often contracts. It then dries in this shrunken position, cracking the leather when you later stuff your foot in it. To prevent this, lightly ball up some paper and stuff it into the shoe lightly, so that it looks like there is a foot in the shoe. You don't want it busting at the seems or stuffed to the brim, just enough to absorb the water and help the shoe hold its shape.


Make sure you get at least one piece all the way into the toe.
Newspaper ink may run on your shoes if it gets wet. This is not a concern for most shoes, as it will stay on the inside, but you should still be careful., You can also use a nailbrush or a toothbrush if it is all you have around. Gently, working with the nap (the direction of the suede hairs), brush away any major mud stains. Don't worry about getting them perfectly -- you don't want to to scrub suede while it is still wet if you can help it., Do not wipe, rub, or scrub your suede vigorously. When the soft, delicate hairs get wet they will tense up and become brittle, making them easy to rip off. When your shoes get stained or wet, resist the urge to start scrubbing until they are fully dry. With a little bit of patience you can fix most damage to suede shoes.


You cannot fix suede shoes if you've already stripped away the soft outer layer. Once you've ruined the felt, you cannot get it back., Once the shoes are clean and completely dry, grab a suede brush and massage the fibers back into position. Work in small circles, massaging each area of the shoe until the fibers are soft and glowing. While older shoes will never be completely returned to their former glory, you can still vastly improve the look of your shoes from their sad, damn state., Suede shoes can survive anywhere, as long as you are prepared. Most shoes will need suede-specific sprays or coatings, but the benefits are enormous. A protecting spray will keep your shoes dry, prevent watermarks and stains, and maintain the soft outer coating for years to come.

