 You should never merge with a business until you are confident that the business is healthy. Accordingly, you should ask for active status reports for the past three years., Talk with the other business owner and ask for relevant financial documents which will let you judge the health of the company. In particular, ask for the following:balance sheets
tax returns
accounts receivable schedules
accounts payable schedules
inventory listing
list of physical assets and real estate owned by the company
list of intellectual property (patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights)

, You should request a list of employees and a description of employee benefits.If you want to retain the employees after the merger, then you will need some idea of how much they are currently paid and what their benefits are.


You can certainly cut people’s salaries and benefits to keep them in line with what you offer your own employees. However, you should expect employees to head for the exits in that situation.
 If a company merges with you, then you merge assets and liabilities.Liabilities include lawsuits. Before choosing to merge, you should find out what lawsuits the company has pending, including lawsuits that involve intellectual property like patents or trademarks.You can find out this information yourself if you don’t think that the company is willing to give you it. For example, you could use Google Scholar and search for the company’s name. You can also search the dockets of state courts, which may be accessible online., You might not understand how to make sense of all of the financial information the other company gives you. In this situation, you may need to hire an accountant to help you understand whether merging with the other business is a good deal.


You can find a certified public accountant by contacting your state’s Society of Certified Public Accountants and asking for a referral., The intermediary, also called an “investment banker” or “business broker,” can represent either the buyer or seller. They perform critical tasks, some of which include:Value the business that the seller wants to buy.
Help arrange meetings between the buyer and seller.
Write offers to purchase a business.
Handle negotiations between the parties after an offer has been made.
Help the buyer get financing for the transaction.
Schedule and handle the closing of the merger.
 You probably don’t know any intermediaries personally. For this reason, you will need to get a referral. The following sources can typically give you a referral:accountants
lawyers
other businesses that have merged
other people in the business community

, You will want to understand both the intermediary’s experience as well as what services his or her firm provides. Before your consultation, sit down and draft a list of questions to find out helpful information:What types of companies has the intermediary worked with? What size were the companies?
Are they licensed? In what states?
Can the intermediary give you a list of references?
How many members at the firm will work on the merger?
Do you have to sign a confidentiality agreement? What will the terms be?

, During the consultation, you will provide the intermediary with a general sense of the merger and also ask your questions. Also pay attention to the following, which are important considerations for hiring the intermediary:How well did he or she listen to you? Did the intermediary seem legitimately interested in your situation?
Did the intermediary ask appropriate questions such that you could tell they understood the type of deal you wanted?
Did you sense that the intermediary would be effective at keeping client confidences?

, If you liked the intermediary and agree to their fee, then you should go ahead and hire them. Ask what documents they need and if you need to sign anything.


If you didn’t like the intermediary you met with, then consider scheduling consultations with other intermediaries.
 You will want to hire an attorney experienced in mergers and acquisitions (M&A). He or she should handle M&A deals as a regular part of their business. You can get referrals in the following ways:


Ask other businesses that have merged if they would recommend their lawyer.
Ask a lawyer you have used in the past. He or she might not handle mergers but could recommend another lawyer who does.
Get a referral from your local or state bar association., Once you have the name of an attorney, you can call and schedule a consultation. At the consultation, you can describe the merger and also ask questions to get more familiar with the attorney. Ask for the following information:The extent of the lawyer’s experience with mergers. How many has the lawyer performed? What kinds of mergers? How big were the companies?
How much the lawyer charges. The lawyer will probably quote an hourly rate, but you can also ask about any alternate billing arrangements, such as a flat fee.
 There will be many different legal tasks for your lawyer to handle. However, the most important will be drafting the merger agreement. A merger agreement will contain certain standard information:The name of the company once merged and what kind of business it will practice.
How the merger will be accomplished (cash purchase, stock transfer, etc.)
An explanation of how assets will pass to the new company.
Any conditions which must be met in order to close the merger and whether one party can terminate the deal if a condition isn’t met.
 Your lawyer, working with your intermediary, should handle the closing of the deal. Generally, you must take the following steps before two companies can officially merge:


The shareholders of each company must vote to approve the merger.You may need the government to sign off on the merger by determining that the merger isn’t anti-competitive.
Old stock is turned in and new stock must be issued for the merged company.Your lawyer will draft new corporate documents to file with your state, if necessary.
 Each company might have had a President, a Vice President, and someone in charge of marketing. If you only need one of each, then you should decide promptly who will fill the role in the new company.


If you drag your feet, then employees will start looking elsewhere for work and you will lose your best employees.Accordingly, you should fill key positions shortly after the merger takes place.
 You may find merging the businesses difficult. For example, each company might have used different suppliers, have invoiced suppliers differently, paid employees on different schedules, etc. You will want a team of people who will oversee the integration of the two businesses.


Remember to also appoint a lead person who will have authority to set deadlines and determine priorities. This person should focus solely on the integration efforts.If both businesses were small, then there may be no point in creating a “team.” However, employees from both businesses could meet regularly to hash out how to integrate the business operations. Come up with deadlines and work through checklists of issues you need to address.
 Each company has its own “culture”—its norms, assumptions, and values. When two companies merge, those cultures may be in conflict. If one business acquired another, then the acquiring company often assumes its own culture will remain the same. To help develop a common culture, you should do the following:Survey both companies to better understand their cultures. For example, one company might have had a top-down decision-making style whereas the other business thrived on consensus. You should identify any differences early so that you can address them.
Retain key people who you think will be committed to the common culture.
Role model for employees the culture you are trying to create. For example, if your culture involves little face-to-face contact, then you could model what kinds of issues should be discussed personally and what can be handled by email.
Explain the purpose of your decision-making style. Don’t mandate changes but always explain why you find your decision-making style effective.

