 It will provide some time for both of you to cool off. Also calm yourself and think about what you want to say to your friend that makes sense and accepts your share of the responsibility for the fight.


Keep an open mind. Despite any strong feelings you may have, it is always best to approach a resolution with an open mind.;
, it varies from person to person. Some people, although they try to avoid it, would prefer direct confrontation in order to get the issue resolved.
 Do this when you're relatively certain that both of you have had ample time to cool off. You must feel ready to talk to your friend again at this stage; if not, give it a bit longer before calling to reconcile. When you call, ask to meet up somewhere if possible, as it is better to apologize and sort things out face to face.


Be ready to apologize when you call or text. Keep it simple and save the big apology for when you meet up and discuss it again. However, also be prepared for the possibility that your friend wants to sort it out by phone, in which case, you'll just have to be ready with your apology.
 Apologize for your role in the fight. Accept that you had equal responsibility for the fight and don't try to blame your friend. Insisting that your friend apologizes for their part in it will only make things worse and isn't going to smooth the way to a harmonious resolution.


If your friend has very little reason to be mad at you and you have a big reason to be mad at them, be more mature than your friend. Feeling like the bigger person may even feel better than winning some petty fight.
If you have done something that has offended your friend, accept it, apologize and don't argue with whatever fair retaliation your friend wants. If they want time, give them time, if they want you to keep apologizing, do it.
Avoid repetitive use of the word "you". Doing this comes off as an attack on the other person and risks escalating the conflict.
 Read your friend's body language carefully. Ensure that your body language isn't communicating something you don't intend. Situations may not have been as they appeared and there's always room to learn.
 It is a form of lying to them because there is a point at which you aren't sorry but you are wanting this over and done with. If your friend accuses you of doing something you didn't do, tell them. If they say you did something you didn't, tell them you didn't. Don't get angry with your friend, just stay calm and repeat the facts as you understand them to be.


Don't try to balance things out between the two of you, it isn't a contest. Both of you have probably done things that have annoyed the other.
 Don't keep pushing for a resolution if it is obvious that your friend isn't interested in one. Find a temporary solution that allows both of your to agree to disagree for now, and agree to resolve the issue later.
 Don't start any gossip and do not get involved with any fights or rumors that could damage this friendship any further. Just continue to be nice and to keep trying to resolve the issue. Let your friend know that you're still there for them when they're ready.
 Don't hold any grudge against them after you've made up. Instead, work on strengthening your friendship, by hanging out, talking, or doing fun activities together. Conflict is a healthy element to every strong relationship and if handled well, tightens the bonds rather than weakening them.

