 All the the necessary items for this recipe should be available at your local grocery store. When finished, you should have enough filling for eight servings. You can easily double or triple this recipe in the event you are planning on making more than one pie.

Ascorbic acid (½ tsp)
Cherries (4 cups; pitted and halved)
Freezer bag
Heavy foil (or freezer wrap)
Label
Lemon juice (2 tbsp)
Marker
Mixing bowl (x2; one small, one large)
Mixing spoon
Pie plate (optional; 8" (20.3 cm))
Salt (¼ tsp)
Tapioca (3 tbsp)
White sugar (1 cup);
, Clean your countertops so you have an open space where you can work. Lay out your mixing bowls and arrange your ingredients so they can easily be added to you large mixing bowl.

If you plan on freezing your filling in a pie shape, line an 8" (20.3 cm) pie plate with heavy foil or freezer wrap. The foil/wrap should extend about 5" (12.7 cm) beyond the rim of the plate.
By freezing your filling in a pie shape, you can add it immediately to a pie plate lined with crust and bake it. Otherwise, you'll have to wait for the filling to thaw before adding it to a crust lined pie plate for baking., Take your sugar and add the ascorbic acid to it in a small mixing bowl. Mix it thoroughly with a spoon. After that, add your ingredients to your large mixing bowl, including the sugar/ascorbic acid mixture. Stir all ingredients thoroughly until the mixture is consistent throughout., Once the mixture is well mixed, it's ready for the freezer. Use your spoon to push the filling into a 1-gallon plastic freezer bag. Pour the mixture into the bag and squeeze excess air from it, then seal the bag. Then:

Write the name of the food and the date it was made on the bag. This way, you'll know when the filling is no longer good.
Put the freezer bag and filling into your freezer. Store it there until you are ready to bake your cherry pie., Spoon your filling from its mixing bowl into your foil/wrap lined 8" (20.3 cm) pie plate. Cover the top of the plate loosely with the foil/wrap. Put this in the freezer until the filling is firm. When firm:

Take the pie plate from the freezer. Spread thick foil or freezer wrap on the counter. Transfer the filling from the plate to the foil/wrap on the counter.
Wrap the filling tightly with your foil/wrap. Take a marker and write the name of the filling and the date on the outside.