 Making your bed will instantly make your room look and feel tidier. Your bed is a central figure in your room's space. If your bed looks tidy, the rest of your room will as well. Make a conscious effort to make your bed each morning after waking up.A good way to launch this habit is by completing it first thing. Before heading to the shower or the kitchen, for example, simply straighten the sheets and blankets right away.
Making the bed really only takes a minute or so, but if time is still an issue, pull the blanket right over your pillows to at least give the illusion of tidiness. You can skip tucking in the corners and such if you're pressed for time.;
, Before bed at night, you may quickly undress in your room and then slip on pajamas. To keep things neat, try to hang anything that can be worn again. If it can’t, drop it right into the hamper.


If you don't already have a hamper or laundry basket in your room, it's a good idea to move one into the bedroom. You're more likely to remember to toss dirty clothing in the hamper if it's sitting right next to you as a reminder.
If you don’t have the space to hang more items, folding works just as well. Neatly fold all items and store in a designated space like a drawer or closet shelf.
 Bedrooms accrue a lot of dust and dirt, as with any room in your home. Make a point of dusting and sweeping your bedroom a few times a week to keep the floors and shelves looking tidy.You can keep a small broom in your bedroom. You can use a broom with microfiber cloths, allowing you to simply run the broom across the floor to clean up excess dirt.
You should also strive to remove any dust from places like the bedpost, drawers, and bookshelves. To make things easier for yourself, keep a dust rag or brush in your room so you'll remember to periodically dust when you have the chance.
 If you incorporate cleaning into your daily routine, you're more likely to keep your room tidy. Add 15 minutes of nightly cleaning to your bedtime routine. Sometime before brushing your teeth and slipping into your pajamas, do a quick 15 minute clean of your bedroom.Pick up any items off the floor, like clothing or books. Put them in their proper space.
If a surface is looking dusty, quickly dust it off. You can also do a quick sweep before bed if there's any dirt or debris on your floor.
It may also help to set out the clothing you'll be wearing tomorrow. This way, you'll make less mess in the morning when getting ready to head out the door.
You may find you'll fall asleep better when you start cleaning before bed. You may feel more settled and relaxed going to bed in a freshly cleaned room.
 In addition to basic cleaning, you'll want to clean out closets and other hard-to-reach spaces. Closets can become messy and cluttered quickly, as you often neglect to clean space you cannot directly see. Floor spaces blocked by your bed and other furniture also get messy.Open up the closet and look for any clutter. Some clothing may have fallen off the hanger. You may have tucked an unwanted item in the closet temporarily. Put these items in their proper place. Vacuum or sweep the closet floor and dust off the shelves.
Clean under furniture. Move your bed, desk, and any other furniture aside. Retrieve any items that were caught under these pieces of furniture and put them away. Then, vacuum or sweep the floor space.
 If you want to keep your room tidy, you'll need to stay on top of cleaning. A good way to do so is to make sure you put away items as you use them. If you read in your room, put the book back on your shelf when you're done. If you had a snack in your room, put the dishes back in the kitchen when you finish eating. If you make an effort to clean up as you go, your room will stay tidy without too much extra work.

