 Listen attentively to your teacher at the beginning of class. This might give them the impression you’re focused. The goal here is to subtly encourage them to feel like they don’t need to worry about you or pay attention to what you’re doing.


Know that many teachers – especially those more experienced – won’t be so easily fooled.
Consider staying awake for a longer amount of time and offering to answer a few questions. Some teachers will feel satisfied with your participation and focus on other students from that point on.
 You can do this in two ways: pick a seat with someone larger sitting in front of you, or strategically observe the angle of sight from the teacher to your seat.


Find a classmate whose body would normally block you from the teacher’s sight even if you were sitting up straight. This way it will be less noticeable that you’re sleeping.
Sit in different desks and look at the teacher’s desk. Are you in their direct line of sight or their peripheral vision? Are there a number of angles that other students are blocking? You want a seat that is not easy to see.
 This is especially important if you snore. In order to stay covert you need to eliminate any noise coming from your desk; getting caught snoring could lead to an embarrassing situation. Choose a brand with clear or transparent material so that it is not obvious to your teacher.


Nasal strips are a small piece of self-adhesive tape that pull the nostrils apart, keep the nasal passage clear, and prevent snoring.Nasal dilators are also available should the strips not work for you., Don’t allow yourself to fully relax and go into deep sleep. Depending on how comfortable you are disrespecting the teacher, or potentially being embarrassed and/or punished, you need to keep half an ear open. This way you’ll be more prepared to jump to focus if the teachers calls on you.


Pay attention to how deep you are resting. If you start to forget the room you’re in, pull your awareness back and sit up for a brief moment.
If you are in serious need of sleep but have to be prepared to engage in class, change your position every 5 minutes to prevent falling asleep completely.
 Some postures – like the thinking and praying positions – will work better with a prop. Keep a textbook or notebook visibly in your lap to give the impression that even if you’re not looking forward, you’re focused on the studies at hand.


Make sure to use the textbook or notebook for the right class. When students study for different classes it annoys some teachers (i.e. having your chemistry book out in English).
The book should be placed so that your gaze appears to be directed at the book. For example, don’t have your book on the right leg while you are nodding off and looking to the left.
 This limits the amount of your face that is visible to anyone in the room. You’ll be able to hide the fact you’re sleeping more easily if your features are withdrawn into your clothes.


Some teachers do not allow students to wear hoodies, or hats in class.
 Different toy companies produce glasses with open, focused eyes printed on the lenses. These are a tad gimmicky, but if you’re farther away from the teacher, they may give them impression that you’re looking forward while behind the lenses your eye are closed.


Novelty toy stores, costume shops, and many online vendors sell the glasses.
Look at all your options and choose the glasses whose painted eyes most closely resemble your own.
 There are some medical conditions that necessitate wearing sunglasses all during the day to prevent overexposure to light. Without a Doctor’s note, some teachers may refuse letting you wear sunglasses in class. Nevertheless, if you are willing to try this method, you could pass unnoticed. If that’s the case, your eyes will be entirely hidden and you can sleep assuming you sit up and aren’t called on during class.


Reasons many people give for wearing sunglasses indoors center around light sensitivity and discomfort in bright light, know as photophobia. These include acute iritis, corneal abrasions, glaucoma, and meningitis.Although adults and children alike create fake Doctor’s notes, this is not advised.Don’t risk the trouble it could cause you.
 It is hard to know what the teacher is doing while you’re asleep. Ask a close friend to sit next to you or behind you so they can easily pinch you or get your attention. This will decrease the likelihood the teacher catches you.


If the teacher is walking near you, have the friend nudge you.
If the teacher has called on you, have your friend pinch you to communicate it’s more serious.
 Sometimes the best option is not to try and hide your fatigue, but instead approach your teacher directly. Explain to your teacher why you are tired and ask if you can please rest. If there is a legitimate reason you have to sleep, they may be understanding and allow it; or ask you to go sleep in the nurse’s office so as not to disturb class.


Some possible reasons may be, “I’ve had a really rough day and I need to put my head down for a minute to recover,” or ““my parents were yelling at me all night and I really need to rest for a few minutes. I apologize in advance if I fall asleep for a few minutes.”
When approaching your teachers openly like this, it’s also best to have a plan for catching up on whatever you miss while sleeping. You can set your smart phone to record lecture in class or organize with a friend to read their notes. Share this plan with your teacher.

