 Change does not come easy for some people.Your spouse has a difficult challenge ahead, especially if he hasn’t been aware of his behaviors or what triggers them. Patience is the key to a successful relationship. Convince yourself that although this is an extremely challenging time, it is temporary.


Things will improve if you remain focused on your goals.
If things aren’t going well, don’t give up. Discuss the matter and agree to move forward making adjustments if necessary.
 When you are pleased with how things are going, tell your spouse. If you see him catch himself being negative and then he corrects himself, acknowledge this as an accomplishment. Everyone needs to know they are doing a good job. It will help both of you stay motivated.
 If you can both find some way to laugh about the situation, it can be healing for both of you.A laugh is the shortest distance between two people.It is almost impossible to stay upset when you are laughing. Try it.
 Everyone needs a little coaching. Don’t criticize your spouse or yourself for making mistakes. Instead, focus on the efforts you both are making to be better people. A tiny step is still a step in the right direction.
 Whether your situation is more serious or you are dealing with a spouse who ignores your requests to take out the trash, it’s important to keep things in perspective. No one likes to feel small or diminished or ignored by a spouse or by anyone for that matter. You will find that once you feel heard and respected you will be able to release your feelings of upset and shepherd in feelings of relief. You can let it go.


If you try to let something go and it continues to eat at you, then you likely need to process more feelings about the situation. This may include additional chats with your spouse, or going for a hike to physically work out your emotions.
It can be upsetting if someone tells you to “just let it go” if you haven’t reached a level of resolve about the matter. Take a deep breath and say, “I’m working on letting it go, but I’m not there yet.”
Once you settle into a feeling of balanced perspective, you will see that some things are worth getting upset about, and some are not.
 Plenty of people decide to renew their wedding or commitment vows for various reasons. This may be a wonderful opportunity to ceremonially show each other that you have not lost interest in your relationship and you are still in love.


Making it through tough times together can result in a deeper desire for commitment.
Your spouse may realize the pain he has been causing and might feel guilty. He may want to show you that he is sorry for what he has put you through. Let him.

