 Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) is a medical process by which an embryo's genetic information is analyzed before implantation in the uterus. This often used to screen for genetic diseases to avoid pregnancy termination later in the embryo's development. However, it can also be used to determine the sex of the baby. If you're interested in pursuing this process, you'll want to begin by contacting a clinic near you that performs this type of procedure.


The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) publishes yearly data ranking fertility clinics in the U.S. on their success rates. This information is downloadable for free from the CDC website.PGD coupled with In-Vitro Fertilization (IVF) is one of the only ways to choose a baby's sex with absolute certainty. However, it's also one of the most expensive, resource-intensive methods available. Mothers undergoing PGD and IVF should expect to undergo numerous screening tests, take fertility drugs, receive hormone injections, and donate eggs in a minor surgical procedure. From start to finish, the entire process can take months and cost thousands of dollars.
 If the clinic agrees to perform this procedure, the mother will probably need to begin preparing to donate eggs several weeks to a month in advance. Generally, women undergoing PGD and IVF are given fertility drugs to stimulate the ovaries to release more mature eggs. The more eggs available, the better the chances of a successful pregnancy.


Usually, fertility drugs are taken for about two weeks via pill or injection.However, if the mother does not react well to the most common drugs, other alternatives can be taken for shorter periods of time.
Side effects for common fertility drugs are usually mild and can include include hot flushes, nausea, bloating, headache, and blurred vision., In addition to taking fertility drugs, women who intend to donate eggs usually also receive a series of daily hormone injections. These injections further stimulate the ovaries to release more mature eggs. These hormones include gonadotrophins follicle stimulating hormone and luteinising hormone (LH).Some women have strong side effects to these hormones, so first-timers are generally monitored carefully to ensure that the process is proceeding smoothly.


You may also be required to take progesterone, a hormone that thickens the uterine lining in preparation for IVF.
 As the mother's body is stimulated to release more eggs, regular ultrasound tests are used to determine when the eggs are ready to be donated. When the eggs are fully mature, the mother undergoes a simple, minimally-invasive surgical procedure to remove the eggs. A doctor uses a very fine, thin needle attached to an electronic probe to collect eggs from the ovaries. Most women are able to resume normal activities within a day or so of this procedure.


Though the mother is put under sedation for this procedure, it can be somewhat uncomfortable. Painkillers are usually prescribed to aid with post-surgery pain.
 If the father does not already have a stored sperm sample ready to use, he must now provide it. The father's sperm is processed to isolate the healthiest, highest-quality sperm, and combined with the eggs. Within about a day, the eggs are checked to see whether or not they have been fertilized. Any eggs that are fertilized are allowed to mature for several days.


As with all sperm donations, in this case, the father will want to abstain from ejaculating for about 48 hours before giving his sperm donation.
 After the embryos have grown for several days, a doctor removes several cells from each for testing and analysis. At this point in the embryo's life, this does not harm the eventual development of the child. DNA is removed from each cell sample and copied via a process called the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). This DNA is then analyzed to determine the embryo's genetic profile, including the sex of the child that would potentially grow from the embryo.
 After the cells from each embryo have been analyzed, the parents are notified which embryos are male and which are female, in addition to any other pressing information (such as the presence of genetic diseases). At this point, it's up to the parents to decide which embryos to attempt to achieve pregnancy with. For parents hoping to have a boy, male embryos would obviously be used, while female embryos may be stored so that children can be conceived later or discarded.


PGD is extremely accurate — by conservative estimates, to a degree of about 95-99%.Later testing can be used to confirm the results of PGD, bringing the method's accuracy to nearly 100%.
 When you've chosen which embryo(s) you'd like to attempt pregnancy with, the embryos are transferred into the mother's uterus via a thin tube passing through the cervix. Usually, only one or two embryos are transferred at a time. During a successful attempt, one or more embryos attach to the uterine wall and pregnancy continues as normal. Generally, the mother won't need to stay in the hospital after embryo transfer, as more than 20 minutes of rest after the procedure provides no positive benefit.In two weeks, the mother may take a pregnancy test to see whether or not the procedure was a success.


Don't be deterred by one unsuccessful IVF attempt. Generally, most women have a per-cycle success rate of about 20-25%. Success rates of 40% or higher are considered quite rare.It's often necessary for perfectly healthy couples to have to undergo multiple rounds of PGD and IVF to achieve their desired pregnancy.
 Together, PGD and IVF offer an actual scientifically-verified path to conceiving a child of the sex you desire. However, it's important to weigh your desire to have a boy against the expenses of undergoing multiple rounds of PGD and IVF. These procedures can be time-consuming and costly, potentially lasting months and costing thousands of dollars per cycle. In addition, the side effects of the drugs involved can cause stress and discomfort for the mother. It's important to consider all of these hurdles when making a decision about whether or not to pursue PGD and IVF. Only pursue this option if you are absolutely heart-set on the idea of having a boy and have the means to responsibly pay for these procedures.

