 The easiest and quickest way to cheat? Copy the answers from a friend who knows how to do the work. Whether you're working on a worksheet with short answers, multiple choice answers, or working the same math problems, the best way to get the correct answers is to find someone who did them right and get the answers safely.


First, you've got to make friends with the smartest kids in class, who always do the work correctly. It helps if you can share in the workload sometimes, alternating who does the homework and who copies, night to night. Don't be totally useless.
The best times to copy homework are on the bus on the way home, or on the way to school. It's usually better to do it on the way home, so you can still try to actually do the homework if you need to. Never copy homework in class before class starts. Never talk about copying the answers in public, to your parents, or to other students. Keep it quiet.;
, Doing an assignment in a big group in which everyone contributes is a good way to make sure that everyone gets the right answers and the assignment gets done quickly. Do it in the safety of someone's home, or on the bus after school to stay safe. Never try to do this in class.


To make the homework go faster, split up all the answers among the group. Have one person do the first five, another do the next five, and so on. You should be able to finish before the bus ride is over. Try to keep the group as small as possible.
Don't make the group too big. If everyone names the first president of the United States as "George Washington Carver" on the homework, your teacher might be suspicious that something strange was happening. After you copy it, go back over it once by yourself to fix any obvious mistakes and make little changes to make it your own.
 Whenever you copy answers from someone, whatever the assignment, change the wording of some of the answers, or change some of your answers slightly to avoid suspicion. You never want your answers to be completely identical to your best friend's.


Even just fixing the order of words in short answers can throw a teacher off the scent, if the answer is correct. Change "John Glenn was the first American in space" to "The first American in space was John Glenn."
To stay extra covert, try to copy off of someone that your teacher doesn't think you're friends with. The teacher may be more likely to look more closely at the homework for signs of cheating if you're neighbors with someone, or if you're sitting next to someone.
 Sometimes if a certain homework assignment has been used for enough semesters for a while, the solution may be floating around on the internet., If you're not a great student, it can seem kind of conspicuous if suddenly you turn in homework with all correct answers. If you're going to cheat, be smart about it, and get a few of them wrong. This will lower the suspicions of your teacher, making it more likely that you'll get away with it. Pick enough that you'll still get a good grade, but let some be wrong. If you've got a B+ without doing any real work, it's worth it.
 If your teacher catches you copying answers from a friend, you'll likely both fail the homework, might even fail the class, and might face stronger punishments. Is skipping a couple math problems worth a possible suspension? And think about your friend who did the homework correctly, was a good student, and will face the same punishment as you. Bad news. It's probably better to just do the work, and it'll take just as long as figuring out where to get the answers, finding the answers, copying the answers, and obscuring your answers.
 Many schools offer after-school homework help that will make the homework easier, by providing someone to help you figure it out, but without the possibility of getting into trouble over it. If you've been in trouble for cheating in the past, this can also be a great way of showing your teachers that you're turning over a new leaf.


Online tutoring even exists in some places. Some college students will sometimes answer homework questions or offer assistance online, sometimes for a price.If you can send copies of the questions, you might at least get some help figuring out the answer for yourself.

