 When you export a playlist, you are exporting the list of songs and their order. You can export playlists to transfer them from your iPhone to your computer, or from iTunes to another media player.


You can export any playlist in iTunes, including playlists on your iPhone, iPod, or iPad. Select your device in iTunes and then click the playlist name in the "On My Device" section of the sidebar.;
, This will display the menu bar. You can also press Ctrl+B to turn it on permanently.
 This will display a small menu.
 This will open the file browser so that you can choose where you want to save the playlist file.
 By default, iTunes for Windows will try to save the playlist to the "system32" folder, which is not a convenient place to find it later. Navigate to an easy-to-access location, such as your desktop or your Documents folder.
 Click the "Save as type" menu to see the format options. You have several options to choose from, and the format you pick will depend on how you intend to use the playlist:


Select "XML" if you're planning on importing the playlist back into iTunes, such as when you're moving a playlist from your iPhone to your computer or sharing it with a friend.
Select "M3U" if you are importing the playlist into a program like Winamp or MediaMonkey.
Select "Text files" if you want to save all of the data for each song into a tab-separated plain text file. This can be useful for importing the playlist into a database or spreadsheet program such as Excel., By default, the playlist file will have the same name that it did in iTunes. You can change it to whatever you'd like before saving it to your computer.
 If you don't see the menu bar in Windows, press Alt.
 The file browser will open.
 iTunes can import XML and M3U playlists. Select the file that you want to import into iTunes.
 You'll receive an error when you import a playlist that contains songs that aren't in your library. You'll need to transfer these songs to your library if you want the playlist to be complete, then you'll need to re-import the playlist.