 Perfumes and dyes may irritate your skin further, so wash your face with a mild cleanser that’s fragrance-free.Gently lather your face with warm water and rub your face with your fingertips, then rinse it off thoroughly. Avoid harshly scrubbing your skin – this won’t make it smoother, and it may irritate your skin more., Eczema can cause dry, flaky skin, so keep your skin as smooth and moist as possible by moisturizing regularly. Choose a rich, non-comedogenic (won’t clog your pores) moisturizer. Apply it to your face twice a day after a bath or shower while your skin is still moist., Invest in cosmetics that contain powdered silica, titanium dioxide, and zinc oxide. These mineral ingredients can help to hide the redness and inflammation associated with eczema.Mineral-based products are also less likely to contain water. Water-based products have to contain preservatives to prevent bacterial growth, which may irritate your skin., Some cosmetic products – familiarly called cosmeceuticals – include ingredients that reduce inflammation. This is a great option if you have eczema. Look for anti-inflammatory ingredients like niacinamide and antioxidants., Purchase products that are labeled hypoallergenic, or less likely to cause an allergic response. This is very important, especially for products that go all over your face like moisturizer or foundation.Select fragrance-free, dye-free products.
 Protect your skin from the sun without adding extra layers of product. Choose moisturizers or makeup that contain sunscreen of at least SPF 15., Shimmery products can enhance dry patches and problem areas, so stay away from products containing shimmer. Shimmer can also cause skin irritation, so is better avoided even on areas of clear skin., Because atopic dermatitis is like an allergic reaction, finding the right products may involve some trial and error. If a new product causes a flare-up in your eczema or redness, itching, or inflammation, throw it away. Note what ingredients it contained and try to avoid those ingredients. Try products one at a time until you find some that soothe your skin without causing irritation or allergic reaction.


Try to use only a few products at a time to reduce the risk of having a skin reaction. Choose moisturizer, foundation, and some accenting makeup and leave it at that.
If a product causes itching, redness, or irritation, stop using it immediately.

