 You should get a cage that is wider than it is tall. It should have plenty of room for the finches to fly from one perch to another.You can determine the size of the cage based on the number of finches you want to keep, since each pair of finches will need three or four feet of floor space.If your cage is twenty-four by thirty inches, you could keep two finches.
If your cage is three by three feet, you could keep four finches.
Avoid cages that are too narrow.
You can clean the cage with warm, soapy water., Finches enjoy a variety of different perches, which will help them exercise and stay healthy. Make sure the cage has perches of different sizes, shapes and textures, rather than all the same type of perch. Give them lots of little nests, but avoid giving them a big nest that will encourage breeding.If you want to encourage breeding, you can give them larger sized nests.
In addition, you’ll need feeding and drinking dishes, bedding, bird toys, bird feed and treats.
You’ll need a cage that has room for all of the perches and swings while still allowing room for your finches to fly around.
 You’ll want to place the bird cage in a room with a consistent temperature and without any drafts. You should pick a quiet room, since finches need adequate rest in order to stay healthy.Don’t put the cage in a room that has a television on all the time, since the finches won’t be able to sleep.
Keep the cage away from open doors and windows.
 You should feed them mostly pellet foods and some seeds. In addition, give them spray millet. Make sure they always have access to fresh water. To round out their diet, give them the following foods:

Egg food.
Carrot, lettuce, dandelion, apples and oranges.
 Although you may love avocado, chocolate and alcohol, these foods are toxic to your finches! In addition, you should never expose them to meat products or dairy.If you let them out of their cage for a bit, remember to properly store these foods.
 You can put a little bathtub in the cage so your finches can clean themselves. You could also spray them with a mister. Aside from bathing, finches don’t require much grooming.Never clip their wings because they rely on them for flight.

