 Don’t try to change who you are or what you like to impress a girl. If she likes you, let it be because you’re totally you. It’ll only disappoint you both if you pretend to be someone different to make her like you.;
, Approach your crush with confidence and say “Hi, my name is __! What’s your name?” Try to find common ground with her. For example, you could tell her about a movie you just saw, and then ask her what kind of movies she likes.
 Being genuinely funny encourages others to feel comfortable around you. Whether you're a jokester or a master of irony, approaching your girl with humor will help make you both feel at ease.


Using humor can also offset any natural awkwardness or shyness you have. For example, if you're kind of a klutz, play it up! Laughing about your own flaws helps others relate to you.
Stay positive with your humor. If you base being funny around tearing other people down, you hurt others and you damage your own image.
 Girls usually like to talk about themselves, what they like, what they hate, what they find super cheesy. Ask her where she got her cool shoes, or ask her to tell you about something she does for fun.


Once you've asked her questions, let her talk! You won't be able learn about her if you're always interrupting or zoning out. Plus, being respectful while she expresses herself is a good way to show her you're a nice guy.
 Before you take the plunge and ask her out for a real date, hang out with her in a group of your friends. Try suggesting you all go to the mall or to a movie. If you are both in the same club or society, that will give you even more time to hang out and lots to talk about.


Watch how she reacts with other people in your group. Does she try to sit closer to you? Is she flirty with someone else? This will help you gauge whether she's into you as more than a friend.
 It’s great to do these things in person if you can, like hanging out together at a mutual friend’s house. But you can also watch the same TV show together in your own homes and text or message about it. This will give you something to talk about.
 Once you’ve gotten to know your girl, talk to friends that you have in common. They may be able to tell you whether she’s expressed any interest in you., Once you get face-to-face with the girl you like, you might feel shy or so nervous that you forget what you want to say. Don’t rehearse it too much, but figure out in general how you want to ask her out. This will give you the confidence to go for it!


Practicing in front of the mirror can be a good way to make sure you don’t look too much like a dork when you ask her.
 Before you ask her out, you want to know what your first date will be like. It doesn’t have to be fancy or expensive. If she likes games, ask her out to the arcade. Sports events and movies are also good choices.


Make sure that you’ll have something to do together so that you have something to talk about. Just hanging out at the mall one-on-one could be a lot of pressure for a first date!

, It can be really embarrassing to ask a girl out, especially if you don’t know whether she’ll say “yes” or “no.” But it’s super important that you ask her in person, because otherwise, it could seem like you’re not really into her.
 If she says “yes,” great! But there are reasons why a girl might say “no” to a date. She might not want a relationship with any boy, or she may not feel like she knows you well enough. Or -- and it’s hard to hear, but it’s sometimes the truth -- you just may not be her type. If she says “no,” don’t take it personally!

