 Take a shower every (or every second) day so your hair doesn't look greasy, you don't want people to know you by that. It's gross, not awesome. Brush your teeth every night and morning (it's okay to forget sometimes, just make sure your teeth stay white). Don't chew with your mouth open. Wash your face. Keep your stuff organized and clean. Make your bed every morning. Stuff you seriously shouldn't have to be told, but should be covered first anyhow before you plan to consider yourself awesome.;
, Don't eat just because there's nothing better to do or you're procrastinating. You're going to get fat. Even if you have a major hyper metabolism, all good things come to an end my friend. So don't get used to eating just whenever. If you get a bit of chub after a while, that doesn't mean you can't be awesome. You just have to take into more consideration of what you're doing before you do it, and be more involved with being active. Might sound boring, but it depends how bad you want to be awesome.
 Being obnoxious, ignorant and loud is not awesome. Being calm and maybe even nonchalant is the way to go. Don't make huge reactions to things. It makes the people around you a bit awkward feeling. If you can't control your outrageous emotions to the point where you're recognized as overly dramatic, you need to work on that before moving ahead. Don't be so anxious and explore new places. Don't fret and worry so much. Stop talking so much. Just enjoy the ride. This doesn't mean you have to totally ignore your emotions, just mellow them down.
 Yes, it's easier said than done. But seriously, relying on your parents to buy you stuff all the time is not awesome. If you're 14 or younger, it's understandable. But around the age of 16 and up, you should really go and find something to do. School can be a real bummer around those times, so if you're really hardcore into school then that's understandable too. A lot of people aren't, though, so if you're one of those people still mooching off your parents and just hanging with friends in your spare time, get a job. Please. You cannot be throwing money around that's not yours just because you want something and be calling yourself awesome. In reality, it's not awesome. It's lame. If you're trying your best to get a job though, good job.
 Are you one of those people who constantly text through chat speak? Honestly? There are so many people out there who type like they have no idea what actual words are anymore as if they've never had an education. It's sad. You've read a book in your life span, haven't you? After all, you're reading this. First, stop short-forming words and learning how to spell correctly, then after that work on your grammar. It's a step-by-step progress most people learn when growing up.
 Expand on your brain-thesaurus if you want to impress people. You could even use fancy words if you want. Like those ones you see in movies that everyone knows eventually what it means but no one really says it. But you would say it. Because you're awesome. Just slip in some really great words in your every day sentences. Might seem like your IQ is a bit higher. Awesome.
 Scene, hipster, whatever... It's all right if you like them, or if you have friends like them or something, but if it's a type of trend, you're not being original by following it. And following behind people who make decisions for you is not awesome. Just wear whatever you think is cool, and what you don't see many people wearing but is still... you know, up with the times. Don't set any limits or codes to your own trends, but know what people are going to think.
 It's good to have things in common with people, that's usually how one would make friends. But after a while, for example, say you keep talking to the same people about the same job you do every day. They're obviously not going to care sooner or later, sorry. Even with music or TV shows you like. The more you reveal about your interests with out anyone asking, the more annoying it's going to be and the more obsessed you will seem. Which at that point you probably are. So if no one asks, they don't care enough to.
 Ever heard of free running? Look it up on YouTube. Just an example. Maybe you could get into spray-paint art or baking pastries. Just find something you like and start practising, it's a good time-passer and you could even get awesome at it.
 This doesn't mean you have to change, because only you can decide to change yourself.

