 Could it be that all its nations have had civilizations going back thousands of years? Europe is a continent rich in history, as well as geographic beauty.;
, Then you have another reason to be fascinated by Europe. Although today, most European nations are now republics, a handful of them still have royal families. The United Kingdom is the best known European monarchy, but others include Spain, Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Norway, Liechtenstein, Monaco and Andorra. So if you are a "royalty buff," do your research to find out about which European nations that still are ruled by kings or queens. And of the ones who no longer have monarchs, read up on the history of their royal families, and gain some knowledge of those countries. You may even want to visit the castles and palaces where the European royal families had lived.
 In fact, some are even a few millennia old. So, when you are studying European culture, and making your plans to travel, learn about their ancient cites which are so well preserved.
 A perfect example is pasta, which, as we all know, is Italian. Kebabs are Turkish. Of course both these foods have spread to many other countries, and it can be interesting to observe how they are adapted in different locales. This can teach you about European culture, too.
 Learn about how Christianity influenced European life. Churches and Cathedrals are a common sight throughout Europe.
, So, upon booking a trip to Europe, see to it, that you make time to visit a museum or two.
 Learn about the various heroes, and lives lost, during the last century, especially during the Second World War, opposing Adolf Hitler.
,, A perfect example is Greece. So brush up on your mythologies. Especially European mythologies.
 William Shakespeare was English; Victor Hugo was French. So, a great way to familiarize yourself with a particular European nation is to read the writings of the particular writers coming from that nation.
,, These people are fascinating themselves, in that they are a culture that exist all over Europe, and yet do not have a Nationality of their own. To learn about the food, language, and religion of the Romani people would add to your whole European education and experience, and make it absolutely complete.

