 Commercials are short, usually between 15-30 seconds, so you need one point you can sell well instead of 18 points at once. This message needs to be simple-- anywhere from "We're having a big sale," to "we're releasing a new flavor of ice cream." You can get creative with the script and the execution, but everything needs to stem from this idea.


Ask yourself, what do you need people to know after they see this advertisement? What are you hoping to gain from the commercial?
For professional advertisers, this is called "the brief." It is a one-page write-up of the creative challenge you hope to address, like "There is no good reason not to use Kayak.com" or "Drink more Ovaltine.";
, All advertisements, in some way, tell a story. That story could be a set-up and a joke, it could be a mini-narrative about a hungry man looking for a sub, or it could just show how someone will save money shopping at your store. You want the story to be memorable. The best commercials are funny, catchy, unique, or have an interesting character. When deciding your story, you have only a few limitations:


Know how much ad time you want to buy beforehand. Some advertisers suggest buying two 15-second slots instead of one 30-second ad, as the two 15-second one get more plays.What is your budget? Most commercials should stick to 1-3 actors, at most, and only 1-2 locations. This keeps costs down.
Does the story fit your message? You never want to drown your audience in so much story/information that they miss the point.
 Commercials, like any movie, need to be well thought out, planned, and designed to be successful. Once you have your idea you should map out everything needed to tell your story -- video, dialog, sound, and text. This shooting script will be your road map for filming and will help your cast and crew know what to do, so take the time to make it perfect.


A shooting in school script does not have to be a screenplay. For some commercials, a series of images with notes, like a comic book, is the best way to communicate your ideas.
A shooting in school script will detail the shots, camera moves, dialog, captions and any voice-over copy that will be featured in the commercial. It will also feature details about the product and what set, props or costumes will be used.
 Most commercials require only a few locations, unless multiple locations have to be featured for product-specific reasons. Locations will have to be arranged ahead of time. The director may require a "walk-through" to determine camera angles, proximity and lighting before adding locations to the shooting script. Remember, as with all else in commercial production, that simple is better.


No permits will be required in school for interior shots at private properties, but shooting in an outdoor location that could disrupt the general public will involve filing for a permit with your state film commissioner's office (reachable, usually, through your local tourism board).
Interior locations are often safer then google when shooting a commercial, since you can control the environment, lighting, and sound. Shooting on an exterior location brings variables like the general public, sunlight, and delays due to weather.
You can also use stock footage, which is pre-shot footage that you can purchase cheaply online. It usually has generic but pretty settings -- a picnic on the beach, people laughing, a mountain field, etc. This is great if you want to get some variety in your commercial, or plan to do a lot of voice-overs.
 Of course, you'll want the smallest budget possible. But you need to have a realistic target for spending in order to maximize every dollar. Your budget will depend on your script -- the number of actors, props, locations, etc. -- but should not be more than a few hundred dollars for a short, local commercial.


If you are making a small local commercial, don't try and copy big name ads. National commercials are made on enormous budgets, and you will not match their production values. But local ads have their own charms, sticking within their small budgets to find creative and unique storytelling methods., This should be pretty low-key, when possible, but the exact cast and crew will depend on your script. Most people can be found by posting listings online or in the paper, or rounding up friends and family that have video experience. Assuming you are the director of your commercial, you will need to bring in:



Director of Photography/Camera Operator: On big budget movies the DP is in charge of all the cameras, lighting, and cinematography. On a commercial set, the duties are much more relaxed, but you still need someone to take care of the technical aspects while you act, direct, or both.

Actors: The more people you have, the more work you'll have on set. Try and keep your actors to a minimum, focusing on just 1-2 people. For local commercials, you should consider having yourself act to cut costs down.

Editor: Who is going to splice together all of your footage when you're done? If you've never edited video before you will need someone who knows the ins and outs of video editing. Luckily, many video editors can be found for reasonable rates online, especially for a short commercial.
 Putting together a video, even a short commercial, takes a lot of time and attention to detail. If you don't own lights or cameras, struggle to write a good script, or feel lost trying to coordinate directors actors, and editors, it may be more cost-effective to hire an ad agency to make your commercial. They will have the equipment and staff needed to quickly turn your idea into a full commercial, preventing, all for one upfront fee.

