 Before you get started, you’ll want to make sure that there’s no water running to your toilet while you’re examining it or making adjustments. Find the shutoff valve on the wall near the base of the toilet and turn it clockwise to stop the flow of water. Then, flush the toilet to drain the tank.Prior to draining the toilet tank, test for possible leaks by squeezing a few drops of food coloring into the tank and checking back the following morning. If the water in the bowl has changed colors, it means you’ve got a leak.
Rotate the shutoff valve until it stops turning to ensure that the water is completely off.;
, Lift the lid carefully off the back of the toilet and rest it on a flat, stable surface. You should now have an obstructed view of the inner workings of the toilet. From here, you can start searching for the culprit of a weak flush or low overall water level.The majority of water flow problems can usually be traced to the components located in the tank of the toilet.Be careful not to drop the lid or handle it carelessly, or it could break.
 Take stock of each of the individual pieces in the tank. Look carefully for any signs of cracking, chipping, warping or tearing. Gradual wear can eventually lead to leaks and improper filling. When these issues occur, it can cause malfunctions in the toilet’s flushing action.While the toilet tank contains many small parts, your attention should be focused on the two main components: the fill valve and the flush valve. The fill valve is a narrow vertical tube that refills the tank, while the flush valve is an opening at the bottom of the tank fitted with a rubber or plastic flapper on a chain that releases water when the toilet is flushed.Pay particular attention to the condition of the ballcock arm (balloon-like rubber ball on the fill valve that gauges the water level), and the chain on the flush valve.
 After identifying the part responsible for the feeble flush, make a note of its exact specifications, then take a trip down to your local home improvement store to purchase a replacement. You can attempt to put in the new part yourself by following a basic instructional guide, or call a plumber, who will have the part you need along with the know-how to install it professionally.Broken and damaged parts should always be replaced as soon as they’re brought to your attention to avoid more extensive repairs later on.
Only buy parts that are compatible with the model of toilet you're repairing.

