


Stir until the sugar is uniformly moist.
If you can, use filtered water for your jawbreakers. While unfiltered tap water will work fine, the tap water in some areas has a subtle aftertaste that can very slightly affect the flavor of the final product.;
,


As the ingredients heat, they will start to boil and blend together into a syrupy solution. Stir frequently — the sugar can easily burn if it's allowed to stick to the bottom of the pot.,


As you boil the syrupy mixture, the water evaporates, making a thicker and thicker syrup. Your goal is to heat the mixture until almost all of the water is gone — this is called the "hard-crack" stage.
There are several ways to determine when you've reached the hard-crack stage:

Use a candy thermometer — the syrup should be at 300-310o F (149-154o C)

Use a cold water test — carefully drop a small dollop of the syrup into a bowl of cold water. Let it cool for a few moments, then take it out and examine it. The syrup should have formed hard, brittle threads that crack when bent (hence "hard-crack.") If it's still soft, it needs to cook longer.,


Don't let your syrup cook past the hard-crack stage — this will cause it to start caramelizing. Though the rich, complex flavor of caramel is great for some recipes, it's not typically used for jawbreakers.,


Add between 2/3 tablespoon to 1 tablespoon of liquid flavoring and stir thoroughly to combine. The more flavoring you add, the stronger your candy's flavor will be.
You may also add a few drops of food coloring at this point if desired. However, this will not affect the taste of the candy.



Though there's no "right" way to make jawbreakers, pouring your liquid more thickly will usually give a harder texture. Thin candies will be more brittle, making them easier to bite into.



Depending on the thickness of your candies, it can take anywhere from half an hour to two hours or longer for them to cool completely.Be patient — the cooler they get, the closer they'll get to the rock-hard jawbreaker texture.



To get the candies out, twist each muffin tin or candy mold like you'd twist an ice tray to release its contents.Enjoy!

