 When you're ready to hail a taxi, stand at the edge of the sidewalk away from oncoming cars. Make sure you're at a spot where cabbies can see you, like at a street corner with great visibility. If you make it easy for drivers to see you, you will hail a taxi faster.

Stand on the side of traffic moving in the direction you want to go.;
, Cabs usually have a light or sign on the roof to indicate whether they are occupied. Unoccupied taxi signs will light up or otherwise indicate that they're ready for service. Signs vary based on the area. If you're not sure what the cab signs mean, ask a local for help., Do not wave your hand frantically. Raise your hand firmly and confidently so cabbies know you want to be picked up. Keep your hand raised until a taxi driver spots you and pull over. Step back onto the curb once you have caught a driver's attention, and wait for them to park before approaching., Once your driver has stopped, approach the taxi and make direct eye contact as you do so. Open the backseat door and enter the taxi, where you can tell the driver your destination. Have your address ready (either memorized or on a piece of paper) so you can communicate with them clearly.

If you're traveling, you and your taxi driver might not speak the same language. Writing down your address is important so they know where to take you., Taxi stands are spots where cab drivers wait for passengers in an orderly line. Stand in line with other customers to wait for an oncoming taxi. When your turn arrives, approach the taxi and let the driver know where you want to go.Usually, taxi stands are located in places with lots of traffic, like airports, hotels, or popular tourist attractions.
Cabs working with taxi stands are a safe option because they have to be authorized by the stand company.
 If you cannot find any taxis in your area, search online for a local cab company. When you've found their number, call the taxi company and give them your current address. Wait outside until your cab arrives, and let the cabbie know where you want to go as you enter the backseat.

Call the taxi company 15-20 minutes before you plan to leave, especially during times of high traffic.
Although most cab companies are available 24/7, some are not. Always check their company policies before you call.
 Most cities have cab-hailing apps available in your area. Download one for your city and order a cab. Make sure your phone's location-sharing services are on so your cabbie knows where to pick you up. Stay where you are until your taxi driver arrives.

Most cab-hailing apps allow you to pay via the app using your credit card.

