 There are certain foods that can help you relieve or prevent bloating. These are typically foods that contain nutrients that reduce swelling and help digestion. If you have issues with bloating, add these foods into your diet more every day in any way you can, such as in recipes or as a snack. These foods include:


Cucumber, which removes accumulated pockets of old waste materials and chemical toxins, and also prevents constipationPotassium rich foods, such as bananas, avocadoes, oranges, pistachios, and kiwis, which help reduce bloating caused by salt-related water retentionPapaya, which contains papain, a substance that helps break down proteins in your intestinal tract to aid in digestionPineapple, which contains bromelain, a substance that help reduce inflammation and treat indigestionProbiotics, found in Greek and other yogurts as well as over the counter supplements, which help with digestion and gas reduction;
, Raw fruits and vegetables, especially cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli and kale, often cause gas and bloating. However, raw vegetables and fruits typically provide the best nutrients, whereas cooking them can destroy some nutrients. To find a happy medium, try sautéing, steaming, or baking your vegetables and fruits instead of boiling them.


Just make sure you don’t cook them too long, so you can avoid cooking too many nutrients out of them.
Some nutrients are actually increased when certain foods are cooked. For example, tomatoes have more carotenoids when they’re cooked., There are some herbs that can help reduce gas and indigestion, which can lead to bloating. These herbs include ginger, cardamom, cinnamon, fennel seeds, dill, basil, oregano, sage, tarragon, peppermint, and rosemary.


You can use these herbs normally in any meal, or you can try finding new recipes that incorporate them.
You can also make an herbal tea from them by steeping one teaspoon of dried herb or three tablespoons of fresh herbs in one cup of boiled water for five minutes. Avoid overly hot or spicy herbs, such as cayenne or black pepper, nutmeg, cloves, mustard, or horseradish. These herbs can stimulate the release of excess stomach acid, which can cause irritation.
 There are some foods that are known to consistently cause bloating issues for many people. These foods should be avoided if you want to prevent bloating or if you are already bloated. If you really enjoy these foods, eat them in small amounts to cut down on the chance of bloating. These problem foods include:


Foods containing raffinose, which is a complex sugar found in many cruciferous vegetables like cabbage, brussels sprouts, broccoli, cauliflower and in beansFoods containing sorbitol, which is a sugar found naturally in fruits including apples, pears, peaches, and prunes, and is also used as an artificial sweetener in many dietetic foods and sugarfree candies and gumsFoods containing soluble fiber, which slows digestion and is often found in oat bran, barley, nuts, seeds, beans, lentils, peas, some fruits and vegetables, and in psyllium, a common fiber supplementFoods containing insoluble fiber, which adds bulk to stool and can be found in cellulose, wheat bran, and whole grain, Large amounts of water can help flush out your system, which can help lower your gas level and keep bloating down. It also help you digest your food better, which will also make your stomach feel better.


This can also help with constipation, which often causes bloating., There are certain drinks that can cause bloating and stomach discomfort. These can make your stomach upset, cause bloating, or make your bloating worse. Avoid acidic beverages such as alcohol, coffee, black or green tea, and fruit juices.


Beverages of extreme temperature, either cold or hot, should also be avoided to help avoid bloating. 