 The internet has plenty of ideas! Don’t let the birthday girl see the list before the party. It will be unfair if the birthday girl knows all of the riddles and tasks. Here are some ideas:


A take-out menu from the food court- 50 points
A fortune cookie- 50 points (30 extra points if the word "love" appears in the the fortune cookie note
A perfume sample- 70 points
Go to a toy store and someone on your team yells "OH MY GOSH IT'S A BARBIE!!" really loud- 300 points
Hoo hoo hoo am I? I can fly so high with my big scary eyes. Can you take a picture of me on a necklace?- 400 points
Go to the fruitiest in the mall. Like they say, an apple a day keeps the doctor away. I hope you can find it and take a picture- 400 points. The party guests will be split up into two (or more) groups.;
, The team with the most points wins.
 Are you and your guests going to meet at the mall, or at your home? Is the party going to be a sleepover? Will food/cake be served? Make sure to include this information in the invite.
 Make sure there is an even amount of girls (including the birthday girl) so that the teams will be split up evenly and it will all be fair. It is a good time to create teams BEFORE the party instead of letting the girls do it themselves. That way they won’t argue over who is on whose team and no feelings will get hurt. But, when the party starts you can let the girls decide what they want their team name to be, for example, Team Pink.
 When they arrive at the party, give each team a tote bag that contains a notepad, a pen or pencil, a plastic bag, a map of the mall the party is at, the list of tasks/riddles, and a digital camera. If you do not have enough digital cameras for each of the teams to have one camera, you could ask the girls to bring their own (If they have one). Or, the guests could just use their cell phones to take pictures and video.
 Depending on the ages of the girls invited, you may want at least one girl in every group to have a cell phone with your number on it in case of emergencies. Also, make sure the guest’s parents are okay with this as well. If you or the guest’s parents are not comfortable with this, you can assign an adult chaperone to every group. This all depends on how old the guests are.
 You may want to send out Evites through Email instead of your daughter passing them out at school. That way no one will be upset if they didn’t get invited. Also, you could mail the invites to the guest’s houses or go to their houses and drop them off at the front door. There are also plenty of websites where you can print out invitations especially made for mall scavenger hunts. They are super cute and they are made to look just like credit cards!

, Remove any breakable/ valuable things from the rooms and designate any rooms that are off-limits, if the children are younger.
 Let the guests ask any questions they might have. Since your local mall is probably pretty big, before the scavenger hunt starts; tell the groups what time the scavenger hunt ends and where to meet up with the other groups. That way, the kids can come find YOU instead of searching the mall for all the groups. For Example, “The Scavenger hunt ends at 6:00 pm. At 6:00 pm, meet the other groups at the food court for dinner.” If the group gets there late, subtract 30 points from their total score. Also tell the kids who to call if they have a problem. Make sure the rules are all clear. If the groups do not have adult chaperones, you might want to wander around the mall and try to check in with the groups throughout the party to make sure everything is going smoothly.
 This should be a fun party. Not a fierce competition. Make sure your guests know that. If the party is a sleepover, take the girls to your home afterward. Make sure to provide snacks, movies and other activities for the girls to do!! This might be a good time to have cake, too.

