 Never raise your voice on most occasions. Even while angry, Severus remains calm and cold, so if you're put into a situation where you feel like shouting, do the opposite, answer calmly, but coolly instead.;
, It helps if you try not showing your teeth at all. Severus had mastered the art of speaking without opening his mouth much, so it will help the over all effect if you practice it too. Try doing it in front of a mirror, until you get it right.
 If you have a habit of talking really fast, this may be hard, but with time and patience, you can learn anything.
 Show it in your actions, words. Just try to be actually better than others, in at least one thing. Severus things is potions, but since that's hardly going to impress any muggles, how about you try the thing that's closest to potions by becoming brilliant at science?

, Snape has a cold, calculating way of speaking to others, and most of his conversations are based on sarcasm.
 Listen carefully before speaking. Think before you say something, always choose the best response. Severus never wastes words, and when he speaks, he usually has a very good reason to do so.
 Severus Snape, is very good at hiding personal things, such as he was a Death Eater and other facts like that. Be extremely secretive, don't even tell anybody what your favorite food is.
 Do things in such a way that it makes others curious to find out what you're doing, and when they try to do so, regard them coolly and avoid further interactions.
 That is Severus specialty, and it is a useful skill to have. So next time when someone asks you what are you doing, ask them the same thing without offering an answer.
 Severus Snape hardly hugs anybody, or even waves. When meeting someone new that your respect, merely offer a hand shake. If you consider that person to be less than you, regard them coolly.
 You do not want people to know what you are thinking. This may be hard to do when you're feeling emotional, but give it a shot. Practice your poker face in front of a mirror, until you get it just right.


Smiling or laughing is not acceptable. Not even a sarcastic smile can be traced on your face. If you really want to be like Severus Snape, lose your happy face and replace it with a rather glum one.
Do not express joy or sorrow with your expressions or face. You need to make sure that people do not have a clue about what's going on in that mind of yours. If you feel the need to cry, and you can't control it, excuse yourself and go to a place where nobody can see you, and then you can cry to your heart's content. Just make sure you really are alone.
 Do things that people wouldn't expect.
 If someone is rude to you, don't get angry, just calmly talk back to them.
, Severus has an extremely intimidating glare, and if you could master it, you would be able to scare a lot of people.
 Make little kids get out of your way and those older than you to keep their distance.
 Straight back, keep your head up, you want to let them know that you're not afraid of anything.
 This means not smiling much. Try to perfect a glare.
 Practice walking quietly and popping up in places where people least expect you to.

