 New couples can’t “get” a common law marriage. Instead, you can ask a judge to recognize an existing relationship as a marriage. It’s cheaper and faster for couples to just get married by applying for a license and having a solemnized ceremony. Nevertheless, there are some situations where seeking recognition of a common law marriage makes sense: You are separating and dividing property.
You want to bring a wrongful death action for the death of your spouse.
You want to claim insurance, retirement, survivor, or other benefits.
You want to inherit property.
Other reasons. Note that you don’t need a common law marriage in order to decide child custody or child support issues. Instead, you only need to establish the father’s paternity, which he can do voluntarily. Alternately, you might need to file a paternity suit.
 Only a lawyer can provide advice tailored to your circumstances. You should find a lawyer and schedule a consultation. Discuss whether you should seek a common law marriage or whether you should simply apply for a marriage license. If your partner has already died, then you should discuss opening a probate case with the attorney. This can be complicated, and you may want to hire the lawyer to represent you.


You can find a lawyer by asking friends or family for a referral. Ask anyone who has been divorced or dealt with a family law issue.
Visit the Utah State Bar’s attorney directory and search for a family law attorney. The bar directory is available at https://www.licensedlawyer.org/.
If you are low income, you can seek legal aid or use the state bar’s Modest Means Referral Program, which is available at https://www.utahbar.org/modest-means-lawyer-referral-program/.
 A judge won’t recognize a relationship as a common law marriage unless certain requirements are fulfilled. Make sure you satisfy the following:are of legal age and capable of consenting
could enter a solemnized marriage (e.g., you aren’t too closely related)
have lived as a couple
have treated each other as a couple
present yourself to the public as a couple so that others believe you are married

, You’ll need to show the judge that both parties consented to be married. You can use the following as evidence of consent:written agreement
testimony from witnesses that they observed an agreement
joint credit and bank accounts
joint purchase and ownership of property
filing tax returns jointly
using one partner’s last name, or having the children use the last name
speaking of yourself as married when talking to other people
declaring a relationship in a deed, will, or other document while living together

, You’ll need to file a Petition to Recognize a Relationship as a Marriage in the county where you live. If you are seeking recognition of your common law marriage at the same time as a divorce, then file in the county where you are divorcing.


You can find forms for filing this petition at the Utah Courts website: https://www.utcourts.gov/howto/marriage/commonlaw/.
You’ll need to serve papers on your partner unless you are both filing the petition together.
Both of you can also agree by stipulation that you are married. Complete the Stipulation to Enter Judgment and file it with the court.
 You may have to go into court after filing your petition or stipulation. Talk to your lawyer about what you can expect. Generally, the purpose of a hearing is to allow the judge to make findings of fact and decide whether a valid common law marriage has existed.Your hearing should be uneventful unless someone disputes that you were actually married. For example, your partner might want to avoid a common law marriage so that you can’t get any division of property.

