 This helps to ensure that it maintains healthy bones and joints while it is growing. The puppy should remain on this diet until it is around 18 months of age. It can then be considered an adult and gradually be switched to an adult food.
 This will give the American Bulldog the protein it needs and it will limit the amount of carbohydrates it consumes. Crude protein should be no less than 30 percent and crude fat no less than 20 percent. The fiber content needs to be 4 percent or less.
 American Bulldogs are large breed dogs and thus are susceptible to GDV.This is a life threatening condition and requires immediate veterinary treatment. To help prevent this from occurring there are several things related to feeding that can be done. Feed two or three smaller, non-fatty meals a day, not in elevated bowls, and don’t mix dry food and water.


Also, restrict your dog’s activity for at least an hour after feeding and discourage them from drinking large amounts of water at one time.
 It is always important to allow your dog access to a fresh, clean water source. This breed will need to drink as desired. Keep a hand towel nearby for wiping up excessive drool or slobber that, unfortunately, is a common occurrence for this breed.
 American Bulldogs tend to have short, smooth hair that rarely requires bathing. In general, their coat is easy to maintain. Just give your pup a bath if it rolls in something smelly or is physically dirty.
 American Bulldogs do shed much more than you would think.Invest in lint rollers for your furniture and clothes if shedding becomes an issue for you.
 Because American Bulldog's have short muzzles, which gives their face a "smushed" appearance, some dogs tend to have excess skin folds between their eyes and nose. It is easy for dirt and moisture to get stuck in these facial folds and cause irritation and odor. Be sure to clean or wipe in between the skin folds regularly with a damp paper towel or washcloth and a mild soap.


Try to avoid getting any soap into your dog's eyes. If this happens, rinse its eyes thoroughly with clean water.
Most veterinary offices carry wipes that are safe to use on the face and near the eyes, specifically for this purpose.
After cleaning between the dog's facial folds, use a new, clean paper towel or washcloth to dry the area. This will help to avoid any excess moisture from developing into an irritating skin issue called fold dermatitis.