 Dry cleaning can be done with a bulb device such as the Giotto rocket blower or with a statically & nbsp;charged brush like the Arctic Butterfly.


Cleaning is best done in a room that is as dust free as possible. You don't need to be in a room with a white suit on like the people who work on computer chips but at the other end of the spectrum, don't go outside while it's windy or to your coffee table while the kids are having a pillow fight in the room. Bottom line, the best place is probably somewhere like a dining room table while no one else is there and the house is relatively clean and quiet. In some houses the bathroom is also a good place. There should be adequate light. You will be able to see the dust on the sensor if you reflect an overhead light off it's shiny surface.
Consult your owners manual for "mirror lockup". This function, as the name implies, will lock the mirror up out of the way when you press the shutter release button on your camera and leave it there until the shutter is pressed again.






NOTE: You may choose to place your camera on "bulb" setting. This allows the cameras mirror to stay up until you choose to close it. Please consult your cameras manual to learn how to set a bulb exposure. Nikon cameras have a mirror-up for cleaning function which is the best way to lockup your mirror.





;
,, Switch it on and give the device a chance to build a static charge before brushing your sensor.
,


Pec pads are 99.99% lint free pads that are non-abrasive and won't damage or scratch your sensor.
The cleaning fluids are generally methanol based, flammable and dangerous so you have to be careful. Some places won't even ship these items in the mail due to regulations about mailing "hazardous materials". There are some alternatives to the methanol based products but not as good. Also, if you are going to be traveling by plane with your cleaning fluid, you may have a problem unless it's in a certified safe/non-toxic packaging. In all cases use these products in a well-ventilated area, don't breath the fumes and don't get them on your skin, clothes or any furniture.
 It doesn't matter which, because you will be using the handle end. You will also need some masking tape.


You are going to place the pec pad in your hand and lay the handle into your hand on top of it so that the very end of the handle (or Popsicle stick) rests about in the middle of the pad.






You then want to fold the left side of the pad over the handle, the top down over so that it rests on the top of the left half you just folded and then bring the right side over to the left and make it tight. (This sounds confusing so there are pictures available at the site listed above.)






Once you have done this you should tape the pec pad near the base (closer to the top of the utensil's "business end". You want the tape to be far away from the camera as scotch tape is abrasive and you don't want it to touch the sensor.






You want to end up with a flat end of pec pad with a relatively spongy feeling. It has to be soft because you're going to sweep this across your sensor VERY LIGHTLY. You want it flat because you are going to sweep across the sensor from one side to the next in about 3 to 4 passes, moving over about the width of the pad with each pass, in order to sweep the whole surface. Of course, prior to doing this you should add a couple of drops of the cleaning fluid to the flat tip of the instrument you just made.






This should go without saying but NEVER pour the liquid directly into the camera. NEVER push hard on the sensor. Just lightly sweep across it. You are sweeping dust after all and not grinding off nuggets of dirt. VERY, VERY light pressure.






Now you are done! Dispose of the pec pad (safely. i.e., no kids or animals can get to it) and make sure the rest of them are sealed in the zip lock bag they probably came in (if not, put them in one that is new so there will be no dust in it). Seal up the fluid bottle and put it all away in a safe place.






To test to see if your sensor is free of dust, you can put on a lens (that you are also sure is free of dust) go outside on a bright day, open your camera to its maximum f-stop and shoot a few pictures of the sky. When you go to review them at high resolution on your computer, you should see a nice picture with no dust.







