 Use a very small star-shaped (pentalobe) screwdriver to unscrew the two screws at the base of the phone. The base is right below the home button. Take care not to drop the small screws on the floor after you've removed them.A very small Phillip's screwdriver won't work to remove these screws. A pentalobe screwdriver has five points and is a security feature that Apple frequently uses for its products.;
, Take a small suction cup and place it directly on the bottom half of the screen. Press down firmly so it sticks to the broken screen. Your suction cup should have a metal ring extending from it, making it easier to handle.If the suction cup is having trouble sticking to the screen, slightly moisten the suction cup and press it against the screen.
 If your screen is so damaged that the glass is broken in several places, the suction cup may not be able to stick to the screen. If so, cut a strip of clear packing tape and cover your screen with one smooth piece. Apply the suction cup to the covered screen.Try not to cover up the home button when putting the tape on.
 Gently pull up on the suction cup while you hold the phone down. You may need to firmly pull up on the screen several times before it starts to come away from the frame. When it does, move the suction cup to the corner of the screen so you have greater leverage when pulling it away.Remember to avoid covering the home button with the suction cup. If you cover it, the cup won't be able to suction the screen away.
 Once part of the screen is starting to lift away at the bottom corner, take a thin pry tool and insert it underneath the screen. Gently take the pry tool and slide it along the bottom to loosen the screen.Your repair kit may have come with thin plastic sliders or guitar picks that you can insert once you've begun prying up the screen. Take care not to push them in too far or they could get stuck.
 Slowly slide the pry tool along each side of your phone's screen so that you loosen it evenly. Avoid pulling up a lot on one side since this could damage or split the screen or home button. Your goal is to loosen and then remove the screen in one piece.You might find it easier to slide a thin guitar pick instead of a prying tool when loosing the edges of the screen.
 Hold the bottom of the phone down by placing your fingertips on one side of the phone. Hold your other hand over the phone so that your thumb is one one side of the screen and your index and middle finger are on the opposite side. Gently lift the screen up about 90 degrees.








Be aware that the screen is still connected to wires in the phone so don't completely remove the screen.
 If you look at the top-right hand corner of the inside of your phone, you'll see a small metal plate with three screws holding it in. You'll need to remove those screws and remove the shield right to left. Lift the shield away.








Keep your screws and shield together but away from any other screws and parts you've already removed. This will make it easier to reassemble.
 Underneath the metal shield, you'll see three ribbon-like connectors that are keeping the screen and bottom of the phone together. Release each ribbon, starting with the one on top. You can lift the screen away.








You'll need to use your fingertips to gently pry up the ribbons.
 Once you've lifted away the screen, you should see a small metal plate near the top inside your phone. Take the pentalobe screwdriver and remove the two tiny screws so that you can lift the small plate away.








Set aside the screws and plate, keeping them separate from other screws and pieces.
 At the bottom of the phone, you'll see a metal plate covering the home button. Take your pentalobe screwdriver and remove the two small screws.If you find it difficult to unscrew the screws, adhesive may be keeping them in place. Continue using the screwdriver until the come out. While some people recommend using a hair dryer to warm up the adhesive, this can overheat and damage the phone's LCD.
 You should see two small screws on the back plate itself (near the home button at the bottom and the earphone piece near the top) and two along each side of the phone. Take your pentalobe screwdriver and remove the screws. Remove the back plate and set it aside.








Consider setting each screw near where it goes on the phone. This will make it easier to remember where each one goes when you reassemble the plate.
 Turn the phone over and push the button through the phone so that it falls out. Now you can slowly peel back the plate to remove it. Avoid pulling it quickly or twisting since this can rip it. You should also remove the connectors at the top of the screen.








You should have already removed the screws from the plate.
 Get your new screen out and place the home button screen into it. Set the metal home button plate over it and use the pentalobe and screws you removed earlier to secure it to the new screen.Make sure the sticker for the home button sticks down.
 Find the small metal tip of the connector that goes back into the top of the phone. Carefully insert this into its hole before you push in the rest of the connector.








The camera should sit in its exposed hole if you've done this step correctly.
 Set the metal back plate over the phone and screw it back in. Remember that there are two screws on the plate (one near the top and one near the bottom) and two screws on each side.








Since the screws are different sizes it's important to get the correct screws back into place.
 Set the earpiece back in the top right corner of the phone. Find the screws that you removed for it and screw them back in so that the earpiece is secured to the phone.








You should have two screws for the earpiece.
 You should have three ribbon-like connectors coming off of the new screen. Insert these into the phone near the top. Make sure to insert the bottom connector first so that you can easily put on the top connector last. Set the metal plate back over the connectors and screw it back in.








If your phone doesn't come on once you've completely replaced the screen, one of these connectors may not be inserted completely or correctly. Remove the screen and check the connectors.
 Once the screen and phone are loosely connected, lower the screen into place on the phone. Firmly press the screen onto the phone from the top to the bottom. Screw in the last two screws on the bottom of the phone (these are the ones next to the lightening port). You can now turn on and use your phone.








You shouldn't have any gap between the phone and the screen.

