 If you have a messy shed, it’s probably because you have limited storage options within the shed. Consider the following solutions to improve your storage and raise things off the floor of your shed:

Install shelves.






Install pegboard.






Install tool hooks or velcro tidy straps.






A cheap shoe tidy hung on the back of the shed door adds valuable storage for smaller items.






Consider hanging items from the ceiling. For example, overhead storage racks, hooks, bike pulleys or lifts, or even jelly jars attached by their lids to the ceiling offer increased storage.






Consider a fold-down workbench or get one with integrated storage cupboards underneath.
 Consider using old ammunition boxes or stout wooden crates to store your sharp hand tools.


You can also store them upright in a rigid plastic bin, such as an old dustbin. This will prevent any contact with the blade.
It’s best if you don’t jumble bladed tools together to avoid blunting the edges.
 There are a variety of ways, beyond shelves, to utilize the walls of your shed for storage. Consider these solutions:


You can nail lengths of Velcro wrap to the shed wall and use these to attach your tools directly to the wall.
Drive some hooks into the shed wall at a height just slightly above your knee. Take some bungee cords or ratchet straps with hooks on the end, hook them to the wall with fairly strong tension, and make elasticated wall storage that will hold your tools flat against the walls.
Peg board is a terrific way to store items on walls. Get some hooks to hang your tools from the pegboard, and you can hang boxes from them for smaller items like screws.
 Don’t neglect to hang things from the roof. Here are some ideas for roof storage:

Bikes can go on a bike rack or pulley system on the ceiling.






Ladders can also rest in a simple frame holder you can hang from the ceiling.






Also, consider hanging a length of rigid plastic pipe such as a water pipe length from the ceiling. You can slot long narrow items such as garden canes or lengths of dowling rod into this.
 Sheds are usually filled with all sorts of useful smaller objects that defy categorization, such as the fitting for a hose pipe, different sizes of screws, and tulip bulbs.


One way to store smaller items is to glue the external lid of a jelly jar to the internal roof of your shed. Just reach up and unscrew the jar lid to access the contents.
Avoid nailing through the roof as this will ruin the water seal. You can also nail or screw jars to the underside of shelves.
Clear jars help you see what’s inside.
Glue old cans or short sections of water pipe to the walls to make easy storage for small items like gardening gloves.






Cut the spout and the top few inches off an old plastic milk jug. These make good storage for smaller items and have a carry handle.

