 A balanced diet requires eating a variety of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy products, and lean protein (this includes beans and other legumes, nuts and seeds).Most of the foods you eat every day should fit into one of these categories.


Try to make plant-derived foods such as whole grains, vegetables and fruits the foundation of every meal.After establishing a basis of plant-derived foods for a meal, then add in a moderate amount of low-fat dairy and lean protein items.;
, Since calories, nutrients and fiber content of foods in the same food group can differ dramatically, good nutrition depends on getting a variety of different foods from within the food groups.


Mix up it by using an assortment of colors, shapes, flavors and textures.The diversity in your choices will also make meals more interesting and appealing for everyone.
 When people are faced with overly large portions, they tend to overeat.Check the packages of foods you’re preparing to about serving sizes and follow the guidelines. Unless you intend to make a lot of food so that there will be leftovers, try to follow basic serving size guidelines.


One serving of meat or fish is approximately 3 ounces.One serving of dairy is approximately 1 cup.
One serving of vegetables is approximately 1 cup raw and ½ cup cooked.
One serving of whole grains is 1 slice of bread, 1 cup of dry cereal, and ½ cup cooked rice, cereal and pasta.
One serving of fruit is 1 medium sized fresh piece (approximately the size of a baseball) and ¼ cup dried.
 While they can’t be eliminated completely, a healthy, balanced diet includes a very low percentage of these types of foods. Our bodies need fat, but try to mostly choose healthy fats for your meals.


A few healthy fat options are avocados, salmon, albacore tuna, nuts and peanut butter., Teenagers and adults over the age of 50 need a lot of calcium in their diets. Small children, adolescent girls, and women of childbearing age need plenty of iron, which you can get from lean meats and cereals (with added nutrients).Women trying to become pregnant need extra folic acid.
Elderly adults need to take in extra vitamin D.

