 If you wear contacts or glasses, pack supplies for these items. You should have contact lens solution, a contact case, and a few spare contacts if you wear contacts. If you wear glasses, keep glasses cleaner on hand as well as microfiber lens wipers.It's a good idea to have anti-bacterial hand gel on hand so you can use this to sanitize your hands if you need to change your contacts when you're not near a sink.
 If you like to smell nice, a small bottle of perfume, body spray, or deodorant can be great. You can use these products to freshen up between classes. It's a good idea to keep your perfume in a Ziploc bag. This will minimize damage in the event your perfume leaks.You can buy travel sized containers of perfume and body spray at department stores. These may fit better in a high school survival kit.
 If you have your period at school, you want to be prepared. Always have tampons, pads, or panty liners packed in your survival kit.In the event of a leak, it's a good idea to have a spare pair of underwear. You can roll up your underwear and keep them in a discrete pocket of your survival kit or somewhere in your backpack.
You also may want to carry painkillers if you end up with menstrual cramps at school.
 You may need hair ties for gym class. You may also simply want to redo your hair during lunch or between classes. Pack a hairbrush in your survival kit, as well as a few hair ties., If you wear makeup, you may need to touch it up at some point during school. Keep makeup in a small, sealable container and put this in your survival kit.You should also pack any brushes or other instruments you use to apply makeup.
Make sure to close containers of things like lipstick, lipgloss, and foundation carefully. You do not want such items to spill in your kit. If your lips get dry, add chapstick as well.
Add a compact mirror as well as you can use that while touching up your makeup.
 You never know when you may want to freshen up your breath or touch up your hair. Buy travel-sized versions of toiletries you commonly use. For example, have some travel sized dry shampoo, leave-in conditioner, mouth wash, and toothpaste. You can also add a small tooth brush to your kit.

