 If you have different plans and you want to discuss it with your members, narrow your plans down into 3 or 2. It will give less arguments to the group. People tend to think if they did the right decision after making one. By narrowing down the options, you are able to avoid confusion from people you work with.;
, If you assigned different tasks to your members, you should give them a specific deadline for that certain task. You should also give consequences if they accomplished their task before the deadline. People tend to think that there is plenty of time to work if you give them a month to do the task. By giving them 3 days, 5 days, or a week, you will be able to get results from them as soon as you need it.
 If you give trust to your members, your members will return it to you. People do what they are expected to do because they do not want to damage their reputation. One powerful statement will be surely make a person do what you want them to do. "I know that you are a very hardworking person, I entrust you the task of compiling these files and putting them in an envelop. I need it by Tuesday." This powerful statement will surely make that person to do the task, because that person has the inner thought that if he did not do this task, his reputation as a very hardworking person will be damage. You just have to trust your members and they will trust you back.
 Things that in motion, stays in motion. This law is also applicable to us people, this explains why we do not want to get up from our bed every morning when we have to go to work. We are at rest and therefore, stays at rest.

To make your members do their tasks, you'll need a starter. To make them start big tasks, ask first to do small tasks. If they did the smaller task, they would be likely to do the bigger task afterwards. See how it accelerates just like motion? It applies to human behavior too.
 Lastly, You should give them just the objectives and not how its done. You will be surprised by the results if you let your members do the task on their own way.

People work in their optimal state if they have confidence. When you give them freedom, you give them confidence. If your member doesn't really know how its done, then its the time you show it to him.







