 Girls like confident guys. Make it noticeable. When you walk, don't slump your shoulders; walk with your chest out and chin up. This displays that you are a strong person. When you talk, don't be timid, but be articulate. This shows that you are not afraid to speak your mind. Also, be careful not to be over-confident, as this can come across as cocky, and girls are generally not fond of overly cocky guys.;
, Girls don't like bad body odor. Keep yourself smelling and looking good. Shower everyday, brush your teeth often, wear cologne. Keep yourself clean.
 No girl wants to date the kid that's always last in gym. Keep yourself healthy. You don't have to be the star athlete but be able to pull your own weight.
 Don't be that guy who's always hanging out with other guys. Make friends with girls. That way you know who's out there for you. And if you're not sure ask them. They might have a friend who's right for you. If you find a girl you like, talk to her. Even if she doesn't know you exist, get to know her. Start off with a simple 'hi' and keep the conversation interesting and playful. No girl likes a boring guy.
 This cannot be stressed enough. Listening is something that is extremely important. When a girl is talking to you don't talk unless you know she is asking you a question or asking for an opinion. Also, try not to fidget. Keep your hands in your pockets or belt loops. When you fidget she may think that you are nervous and uncomfortable.
 A good sense of humor is something girls love in a guy. Find out what makes her laugh. Don't just make her giggle and be like "that was funny" but make her really laugh. That will tell her that you like to have a good time.
 Keep your relationship flirty and friendly to remind her that you are a guy not just a "good friend".
 Once you feel that you and the girl you like have something ask her to be your girlfriend. Don't be all "Ummm you know I've really liked you for awhile and was wondering if you would be my girlfriend?". Simply say I think your beautiful and I want you to be my girlfriend. Look into her eyes while you say it and hold your gaze when you finish. She may not respond immediately because she is shocked but don't let that phase you. If she walks away don't run after her as that will make you seem needy. Just let her go because she is probably thinking it over. If she says no than just say okay and walk away.
 This is the most important step. Make her feel wanted. I'm not talking about showering her with gifts 24/7 but surprise her, make her laugh, do things together. Don't be that couple who just talks in school. Keep things exciting. You want to make her fall head over heels for you.

