 The term credit insurance refers to any insurance plan that covers your debt payments in the event you are unable to make them. This coverage may be partial coverage or full coverage, depending on the type of plan. Credit insurance is usually offered together with a loan and may be offered to you when you purchase a car or home, for example.The cost of your insurance will be added to the cost of the loan and factor into your monthly payments across the life of the loan.


Credit insurance typically covers inability to pay resulting from death, disability, unemployment, or loss of collateral assets.
For example, if your car (which secures your auto loan) is stolen or destroyed by a natural disaster, credit insurance would repay a portion or all of outstanding loan balance to your auto lender.;
, There are four major types of credit insurance. They are differentiated both by what type of inability to pay they protect against. The major types are:


Credit life insurance. This type covers your debt payments in the event of your death.
Credit disability insurance. With this coverage, your debt payments are covered if you become ill or disabled and cannot work.
Involuntary unemployment/loss of income insurance. This coverages pays your debt payments if you are fired from your job (at no fault of your own).
Credit property insurance. With this coverage, you are covered against the loss of any property that secures your loan, such as a car or home., Like any type of insurance, credit insurance plans includes coverage limits. In some cases, the provided benefits may not be enough to fully make your payments, pay off your loan balance, or cover the loss of your property. The coverage level varies by plan and will be specific in the insurance agreement. Make sure to seek coverage that covers your payments or debts fully so that you aren't left with an outstanding balance at the worst time.


For example, credit insurance on a credit card may only pay the minimum balance, not your outstanding balance., Credit insurance plans make payments to the policyholder's creditor according to the term outlined in the policy. That is, credit life insurance plans make payments when the policyholder dies. Credit unemployment and disability insurance plans, however, may have a waiting period before benefits kick in and a defined benefit limit. In all cases, remember that credit insurance benefits are paid to your creditor, rather than to you directly., Specific types of claims are not covered under the majority of credit insurance plans. These claims are outside of the policy's terms and therefore will not be paid to the policyholder's creditors. Specific examples depend on your individual plan, but may include:


"6 by 6" exceptions. For many policies, if you file a claim within six months of buying insurance for a health issue that you were treated for within the six months before you purchased the plan, you are not covered. Your illness will be considered a preexisting condition in this case and is therefore not covered under the plan's terms.
Disability coverage after one year. After one year of receiving disability benefits from a credit insurance plan, the definition of "disabled" specific to your plan may change. Specifically, it may change from "inability to perform regular job duties" to "inability to perform any job duties for which the policyholder is qualified." This means that you may stop receiving benefits at this point.
Credit disability coverage after 5 years. Most disability coverage plans do not cover benefit periods of more than 60 months, or five years.
Balloon payments. Credit insurance usually does not cover balloon payments made at the end of a loan., Lenders are prohibited from requiring a borrower to have credit insurance. The only exception is private mortgage insurance (PMI), which may be required for borrowers who purchase a home but do not put at least 20 percent down. Any lender that tells you that you are required to have credit insurance is just trying to up-sell you.Credit insurance cannot be added to your loan cost without an insurance request signed by you., The cost of credit insurance can vary widely and depends on the amount of coverage, the type of policy, and the type of credit being covered. It is also paid in two different ways: single premium and monthly outstanding balance (MOB). Single premium credit insurance is due at the loan signing and is then equally spread out across loan payments. MOB payments are used for debts payments that may vary each month, like credit cards or revolving home loans, and charges a different amount each month.As an example, imagine that you buy a $15,000 car with a 4-year, 9 percent loan. Credit life insurance on this loan would cost you about $300 (spread out over the life of the loan) and credit disability insurance would cost you about $450., Your policy will clearly spell out the terms of cancellation and refund. In general, for a single premium policy, you will be refunded the unused amount of your insurance if you cancel within a defined cancellation period. The refund is given to your lender and applied to the outstanding balance of your loan. MOB plans typically do not offer refunds if cancelled.


Many plans will have a 10-day trial period in which you can cancel the policy without being hit with a penalty., Credit insurance may be redundant if you already have certain types of coverage. For example, you likely do not need credit property insurance if your property is already covered by homeowners or renters insurance. In addition, there may be other options for coverage life insurance needs that are cheaper than credit life insurance. For example, term life insurance is much cheaper than credit life insurance if the policyholder is below the age of 70., Whereas personal credit insurance defends the policyholder against their inability to make payments on a debt, business credit insurance protects the business from non-paying customers. That is, this type of coverage allows businesses to transfer the risk of customer default to the insurance provider. The buyer's account is settled by the insurance provider if a claim is filed.The sale of credit insurance is highly profitable since most borrowers do not default.
 Credit insurance will protect your business in a number of key areas. These, in turn, will allow you to conduct business confidently without fear of unpaid accounts destroying your cash flows. Depending on the specific policy, these area can include:


Losses from primary customers. The policy will cover your largest customers who make up the majority of your sales. This means that if one of them defaults, you will be protected from large losses.
Sales expansion. New customers may request credit or a higher amount of credit than you are ready to give them. Credit insurance gives you the freedom to extend larger credit lines and know that you are protected if the customer cannot pay.
Borrowing against receivables. If your business is borrowing against your receivables, the insurance provider can help to improve your borrowing ability by extending the size of advances allowed against insured accounts., Business credit insurance plans vary by the extent to which they will cover losses and which customers they cover. Plans may be general, covering all customers, or a few specific customers. These different plans may be used to cover a small amount of large accounts or a large amount of small accounts, depending on your situation. In all cases, your ability to qualify for coverage on a customer will depend on that customer's creditworthiness, not your own.