 Look in any craft store like JoAnn Fabrics or Michaels for suitable baskets. Ideally, you want a basket that is dainty and small with a sturdy handle. It should be large enough to contain the desired amount of flower petals, but small enough for a child to carry in one hand.


You should also make sure that it is a color that fits the wedding theme; if not, make sure that it is a neutral color or white. For example, if you are getting married on a beach, and your colors are yellow and lilac, you could try going with a white, wooden basket with distressed paint. Then attach yellow hydrangeas or roses and lavender to the basket.
Typical flower girl baskets are made from wood, however, you can choose any material like steel or wire. You can even go the non-traditional route and use a metal pail or felt for your flower girl basket.Depending on the season and location, you can even cover your basket in other materials like moss, sequins, beads, or river stones. For example, if you are getting married outside in a wooded area, a basket covered in moss and flowers is a perfect addition to the surrounding scenery.;
, You can use any type of ribbon - like satin, silk, or velvet - to tie onto the basket. You can also use a combination of wide and narrow ribbons that coordinate with the wedding colors. For example, if your colors are blush and gold, the ribbons on your basket should be the same.


About 4 to 5 yards (3.7 to 4.6 m) of narrow ribbon and 2 to 3 yards (1.8 to 2.7 m) of wide ribbon will be enough for one small basket.
For an added touch, try adding the bride and groom's initials or a message like "Here Comes the Bride," to thick, streaming ribbons attached to the basket's front., You will likely have gone through flower arrangements and chosen your bouquets before putting together the flower girl basket, which will make this process much simpler. For example, if your bridal bouquets consist mainly or roses or lilies, try ordering a few extra of these flowers to break apart and attach to the basket. If you don’t want to use fresh flowers, you can also choose artificial ones like silk.One of the benefits of decorating with artificial flowers is that the basket will remain as beautiful as it was on the day of the wedding. This makes a wonderful keepsake for the flower girl.
 There are several options when considering how to decorate your basket. For example, you can add silk, satin, or velvet ribbon by threading it around the handle. Or you can create a rosette or bow for each side of the basket where the handle meets the basket bowl.


You can also add ribbon roses around the edge of the basket. These can be purchased ready-made. Then you can glue them at even intervals around the basket top. You can even add some to the handle if you wish.
Consider adding greenery and artificial flowers to finish off the look of the basket. These additions are really up to your needs and imagination.
 Tie lengths of narrow ribbon at each base (or just one) of the basket handle, or use a hot glue gun to attach them if you prefer. The ribbons should trail approximately 6 to 10 inches (15.2 to 25.4 cm) below the bottom of basket.


You can also tie ribbon bows. These bows will cover any knotted portions of the narrow ribbon streamers.
 Either cluster the flowers on each side of the basket or attach flowers all along the basket's rim or edge. You can attach artificial flowers and greenery by weaving their stems through the open spaces in the basket. The ease with which this is accomplished depends on the structure of the basket. Alternatively, you can use a hot glue gun to attach artificial flowers.


If you’re using fresh flowers, try tying them to the basket with floral wire. Simply, position the flowers on the exterior of the basket, then pass both ends of a length of floral wire over the stem and through to the interior of the basket. Finish by twisting the wire ends to secure them and tuck them back into the basket so that they are hidden.
You can also try covering the entire basket with flowers and greenery, or cascade them down one side with hot glue., You want to save this part till the day of the wedding, preferably right before walking down the aisle if you are using fresh flowers. The number of flowers you place in the basket may depend on the length of the aisle. For example, if it’s a long walk, you will need more petals so the flower girl can throw them out consistently.

