 The mod style focuses on color blocking, black and white, and hints of bright yellow, orange, pink, and pastels. Bold, geometric patterns like British flags, polka-dots, and stripes were all popular mod styles.;
, Mini-skirts that sat several inches above the knee were a hot mod item during the 60s.Look for bold colors and bright prints, as well as staples like black and navy. Pick fun fabrics, such as tweed, wool, or velvet.
 Slim-fitting pants are a mod fashion staple, and ankle-length pants and capris were also popular. Choose neutral colors and pair with bold tops. You can also roll up the pants to show off your mod shoes.
 A-lines were just as popular as minis in mod times. They look great with a twin-set as well as a three-quarter sleeve blouse. Pair a neutral A-line with a color-blocked top, or choose a patterned A-line and a solid top., Shift dresses are loose and a bit boxy, so they look good on every body type. Choose a sleeveless shift in a geometric print for a fun and easy mod look. Add a pair of flats and a fun scarf, and you’re ready to go., Button-up shirts were popular for both men and women. Pair a men’s button down with a mini-skirt or slim-fitting pants for a mod look. Top off the outfit with a printed scarf and oversize sunglasses., Twin-set tops and sweaters are a must. Choose a few in different colors and pair with an A-line skirt for a totally modern style. You could also pair a twin-set with fitted pants and booties., This sleeve length was all the rage for mods. Consider dresses or blouses in bold patterns with three-quarter length sleeves to add flair to your look. Pair a top with three-quarter length sleeves with a mini-skirt and flats for a mod look.
 Bomber jackets and parkas were popular for both men and women. Add a bomber jacket over an outfit with an A-line dress or skirt, or pair a parka with a men’s button-down and trousers.
 T-strap shoes, flats, loafers, and booties were popular mod items. Choose t-straps to dress up an outfit, or loafers to add a casual feel. Pick booties for a more rockin’ vibe. Bowling shoes were also fashionable while mod styles were popular.Look for fun details, such as piping, buckles, colored laces, or patterns.
 The bob was huge during the mod era, and many women chose a pixie cut as well. Consider chopping off your locks if you are truly dedicated to mod fashion., Twiggy-style makeup is a mod staple. Heavy eyeliner and false lashes will give you a fresh, mod look. Don’t wear blush or bold eye shadow, and choose a nude lipstick to complete the mod look., Top things off with fun accessories such as scarves, bold jewelry, headbands, and big sunglasses inspired by modern art to accentuate your look. Choose items with patterns such as polka-dots and geometric prints.