 When you come into direct contact with a virus, it becomes very likely that you will develop an infection unless you wash your hands right away. When you touch something that has been exposed to a virus and do not wash your hands, you may accidentally touch your face and thus transmit the infection into your system.In order to keep this from happening, use soap and warm water to wash your hands after:


Touching door knobs
Touching commonly shared objects like the remote or the telephone
Touching handrails and other commonly used public objects
If you do not have warm water and soap available to you, you can use sanitizers, alcohols, or other disinfectants to clean your hands;
, As a preventative measure, try to avoid sharing personal items with other people, even if they don’t seem to be infected. This is particularly important if you have a weak immune system.Things to avoid sharing include:


Utensils, water glasses or bottles, and food
Towels
Toothbrushes

, If you have a friend who has come down with a URI, call them on the phone to give them your well wishes, rather than visiting them in person. A sick person can very easily transmit a virus to a healthy person (in this case, you), so take steps to avoid spending time with a sick person if you can.If you do end up visiting a sick person, or work in a health institute such as a doctor’s office, make sure to wash your hands with warm water and soap as soon as you leave the person’s side. You could also consider wearing a face mask to avoid coming into contact with any viruses.
 When you spend time in crowded places, you are more likely to come into contact with someone who is infected. Places that you should avoid, particularly during flu or cold season, include malls, parks, concert venues, community meetings, large office buildings, and local gatherings.


If your work involves spending time with large groups of people, consider wearing a face mask to lower your risk of developing a URI.
 Gargling water can help to keep your oral mucosa moist, which can help to prevent the development of infection. The water can also help to flush away bacteria, viruses, and microorganisms that may have become lodged in the lining of your throat.Try gargling water three times a day. You can also gargle warm salt water to get the same effect.
 There are vaccines that you can get that lower your chances of developing a URI. In particular, the flu vaccine is widely available and effective. These vaccines are usually given as a shot.You can usually get the flu vaccine at health centers, pharmacies, and at your doctor’s clinic.
 During cold season, consider placing a cool humidifier in your room. Humidifiers can help to keep the membranes in your nose and throat moist, which in turn can help to prevent you from developing a URI.


When you go outside when the temperatures have dropped, make sure to dress warmly.
 Dust can be harmful and can cause infection so it is advisable to avoid construction sites if possible. If you cannot, such as if you work in construction, consider wearing a mask to limit the amount of irritants that you are exposed to.Other irritants to avoid include:


Tobacco smoke, wood smoke, car exhaust fumes, pollen, and industrial pollution.
Check to make sure that your cooking vent is working properly, as cooking fumes can also cause irritation that can lead to a URI., When your immune system is functioning properly, it can help to fight off many infections that can lead to a URI; however, keeping your immune system strong can take a little bit of work, but there are many things you can do that can boost your immune system’s strength.
 When you exercise regularly, you can keep the neutrophil function in your white blood cells running properly. This function is partly responsible for fighting off infection. Moderate exercise includes brisk walking, jogging, biking, or swimming.


Try to exercise for 30 minutes five times a week when possible., These vegetables, which are also called cruciferous vegetables, can help to make your immune system stronger by regulating intra-epithelial lymphocytes in your body. These lymphocytes are stimulated by aryl hydrocarbon receptors (AhRs), which are responsible for the first line of defense in your body against foreign substances that enter your body. They also help with wound repair.


Try to eat four to five servings of green leafy vegetables every day., This vitamin is an antioxidant that may help to strengthen your immune system. Vitamin C can help to kill free radicals in your body, which can lead to infections if allowed to develop unchecked. You can take a vitamin C supplement each day; aim to get roughly 500 mg to 1,000 mg of the antioxidant per day.


You can also eat foods rich in vitamin C. These foods include citrus fruits like oranges, lemons, kiwis, mangoes, cantaloupe, papaya, pineapple, berries and watermelon., When you do not get enough sleep, it reduces your immune system’s ability to function as well as the functions of many other systems in your body. When you sleep, your body grows and repairs damaged cells and tissues, making your body stronger when it comes to fighting infection.


Everyone needs a different amount of sleep, depending on your age, lifestyle, and a variety of other factors; however, in general, adults who are 18 years and older need roughly seven to nine hours of sleep, while school-aged children need between nine and eleven hours of sleep., When you inhale cigarette smoke, the chemicals in the cigarette can cause the lining in your nose, mouth, and throat to become inflamed. When this lining becomes irritated, your body produces more mucus, which in turn can trap bacteria and viruses, thus increasing your chances of developing a URI.Other substances to avoid include chemical smoke, fumes from car exhausts and cooking, and wood smoke.
 If you have developed a URI, keep yourself at home for at least two or three days (you may need to stay at home longer depending on your symptoms). Keep in mind that every time you cough, sneeze, or even talk, you run the risk of infecting someone else.
 Because URIs are very contagious, it is important to cover your mouth and nose whenever you sneeze or cough; however, you should not do this with your hand. If possible, sneeze or cough into a tissue or the crook of your arm.The reason you should avoid coughing into your hands is because you use your hands for a variety of activities, including touching objects that others may touch, which means that you are very likely to infect others. If you do cough or sneeze into your hands, wash them with warm water and soap.
 Viruses and bacteria can be easily transmitted by touching an object that an uninfected individual also touches. Because of this, it is important to clean any objects that you touch while you are sick. You can use a 70% alcohol disinfectant to do this.These objects include:


Remote controls, keyboards, telephones, refrigerator door, stair railings, and door knobs.

