 Living off-campus will mean having to keep track of expenses you have not before. Even if your parents or other funding source will pay your way, you will likely need to get a sense of what living costs will be. Asking others who live off campus can be helpful. Items to research will likely include:


Rent: This will include (at least in many areas) a security deposit of first and perhaps last month's rent, plus the monthly rent.
Utilities: Electricity, gas, water, trash, snow plowing, etc.
Food: Even if you eat meals on-campus, you will usually have to go grocery shopping or budget for "take-out" meals, stopping by the coffee shop, parties, and so on.
Transportation: This may mean car, gas, insurance, maintenance, tolls, taxi fare, bus fare, or the like.
Laundry: Well, at least some things never change!
Other expenses: If you do not have household items like a bed, pots and pans, dresser, and the like, you will likely need to purchase or obtain some.
Some living situations, such as fraternities, co-ops, and the like may have additional fees, dues, or other financial obligations.
Many colleges and universities have resources for off-campus housing information.;
, Having a bank account will make financial transactions easier. Also, some landlords will not rent to someone without a bank account.


Be sure to have checks, a check register, a checkbook, and a binder or other method to save paperwork such as receipts, bank statements, and other paperwork. If you are not sure how to organize your finances, many banks and credit unions, on-line tutorials, or your parents, can show how to manage your checkbook and bank statements.
It is possible to pay rent and utilities with just cash or on-line payments, but even in this time very often you will still need to write a check.
Checks are usually safer to pay landlord and utilities than cash. Checks have some points of security that cash does not, like having to be signed in your handwriting, the bank will save information on your check, and so on.
An example: Say your landlord says you did not send payment for March's rent. You can present the landlord or a judge a physical or bank image of your cancelled check.
You can use cash for utilities and rent, but if you do, always get a receipt. Save them for legal, tax, and checkbook balancing purposes.
If you use on-line services, always print out and save payment information, and place in designated filing system. Utilities make payment errors all the time; do not count on the cable company to keep track of your payments.
 Very few people just out of college can afford an apartment of their own, so get used to the idea of living with a roommate, or two or more!


In university settings, often finding a group of people who get along well is the best way to go. You do not necessarily have to be best buddies, but having some level of trust, and knowing you can get along can count for a lot.
For some people, moving in with a boyfriend or girlfriend is a logical step. But keep in mind that this live in significant others is often much different than dating them. For one, if the two of you have a fight, you cannot simply head to your own dorm room. If the relationship sours, you may have to suddenly find a new apartment.
Craigslist.org and school bulletin boards are also a source of finding roommates. Of course, be careful and take reasonable precautions when meeting strangers.
Other living situations. With a little research, you may be able to find situations such as "house-sharing." For instance, you might live with an elderly woman for very low rent, and in return, you help care for her cats, do some housekeeping, and help her grocery shop once a week. You may not be able to have loud dance parties at your living situation, and you would share your space with the homeowner, but it can be a cost-saving and fulfilling situation.
 If you do not find an existing group of people who need a roommate, you may need to find roommates and also a rental.


Craigslist.org will usually have a lot of apartments and so on that are available.
Network. If you find out that your lab partner is planning to move out of town at graduation, that could be an your "in" with an available roommate situation.
Have the funds for rent and security deposit (if needed) available ASAP. You can be perfect roommate, but if you don't have the money to give the landlord on time, you will likely be passed over. Money talks.
Be prepared to provide a credit check, background check, and have references. Landlords today often require prospective tenants to submit to these things. Keep in mind relatives like Mom or your sister will not likely count as references. Instead, ask people like your professor, RA, your work supervisor, or student adviser.
Make sure your lease or rent is valid. It is not enough to simply have your friend say, "Yeah, no problem, just bring your stuff over." For your own legal protection, you should have your name on the lease. (Or, if applicable, a sublet). If not, it is possible you could end up in a legal limbo in which if things do not go right, you are possibly not legally entitled to be in your rental. Or you could be in an illegal situation in which ten people are in an apartment which is supposed to be for no more than four. Having your name on the lease gives you legal protection.
Be respectful of landlord rules. If your lease states "no pets", harboring a dog could get you evicted. If you are not to paint walls, don't do it.
 Life will likely go smoother if everyone agrees to a set of rules and guidelines. Some things to consider:


Chores / Housekeeping. Who will take out the trash? When will dishes be washed? Does vacuuming have to be done every week?
Deadlines for Rent and Utilities. Usually, one person has to manage the check cut to the landlord. When is the money due? Who will be in charge of it? What happens if it's late?
Shared Community "Stuff". Usually, all roommates don't have an individual roll of toilet paper for each person; everyone uses the supply. Sometimes it works out well to have a group "coffee fund". But how will it be funded? Who gets more when it's out?
Visitors. If you get a boyfriend, how often is it OK to have him over? Is it all right to invite five high school friends for a weekend, or is that just too many?
Inter-personal stuff. There's no RA to negotiate disputes anymore. If there's a problem, how will the roommates settle issues? It can also be helpful to note any rules that help make things go smoother. For instance, close the bathroom door to keep the cat from drinking from the toilet, and if it starts raining be sure all windows are closed, and make sure Chico's bike isn't blocked in by stuff in the hallway.
Parties. Usually, this comes down to how much notice to give, and who is invited. Also, when are late night parties OK, and when would it be a problem?

, This will vary from country to country, state to state, and are often very different from town to town. Since you are also now a resident in a neighborhood, you will also experience rules different than campus. For instance, know such things as:


What is the landlord responsible for / What are tenants responsible for?
When are "Noise Ordinance" hours? Many cities have laws regarding noise levels during certain times. Your 1 a.m. house party might land you a fine if neighbors complain.
Parking rules. If you have a car, motorcycle, scooter, or the like, be aware of parking ordinances. During a snowstorm, for instance, you may not be able to park on the street. Or any guests may have to park at the parking garage because if a car doesn't have a resident sticker, the tow truck will get them.
Experienced renters in a given town usually can give you insights.
Sometimes colleges or universities have resources helping students with housing issues.
Some cities and towns may have a government or non-profit organization to help people with housing disputes, such as clarification on ordinances and even legal help and advice.

