 If you notice that the soil around the onions is dry, then you should water the area. Sprinkle your spring onions with water from a watering can or with a hose set to a light shower setting. Be careful not to overwater or water log the seeds. This can result in larger onions with a weak flavour., The more weeds your garden has, the more your onions will have to compete with them for nutrients and moisture. The strongest spring onions will grow in a weed-free space.To remove weeds, pull out the roots or snip the weeds by hand instead of applying a broad chemical weed-killer.
Alternatively, you can gently rake the soil periodically to prevent weeds from taking root.
 Mulch will retain moisture and prevent the soil from drying out too quickly. It also chokes many weeds, preventing them from competing for resources. Apply the mulch around your bulbs, but do not cover them completely.
 Ordinarily, spring onions mature quickly enough and heartily enough to avoid fertilizer use. If the weather is particularly dry and uncooperative; however, you may need to apply a fertilizer to provide them with a boost of nutrients.
 Spring onions mature quickly, so they do not suffer from pests as frequently as other onion varieties do. If you do notice pests, apply an organic pesticide to the infested crop to kill or ward them off., Spring onions do not fall victim to disease very often, but neck rot and white rot can occasionally grow on the bulbs. If these molds develop, remove the infected onions to prevent the disease from spreading to healthy ones.
 Spring onions are usually ready to eat once they reach 6 inches (15 cm) in height with a thickness of about 1/2 an inch (1.5 cm). This usually takes approximately 8 weeks, but some may take a few weeks longer.You can allow your spring onions to continue growing past this point, but you should pull them once they reach a diameter of 1 inch (2.5 cm). Otherwise, the flavour will be weaker.
 Grab the onion at the base, close to the top of the soil and gently pull the onion out of the ground. Alternatively, you can use a small shovel to dig out the entire onion.Alternatively, you can cut the tops off of the onion and leave the root planted. This way you will not actually remove the plant and the onions will continue to grow.

