 Compression fabrics are tightly woven to help increase the circulation in your legs. If you're engaging in an intense workout such as running or kickboxing, they can help reduce your soreness following your workout.Compression leggings tend to be more expensive, so unless you're engaging in high-intensity activities they may not be necessary.
However, they have an added benefit of making your legs look taut, your muscles more defined. So if money is no object, you may prefer them for this reason alone.;
, You don't necessarily need a compression-style legging if you're going to be wearing them mainly for yoga, and you may find compression leggings a hindrance. You do, however, need to choose a fitted style that won't interfere with your poses.Remember that in yoga, you may very well be bending over with your butt in the air, so before buying leggings, make sure you can bend over completely without exposing more than you want, and make sure the back of the leggings aren't sheer when stretched over your backside.
Wearing fitted leggings also will allow your yoga instructor to check your form, which they may be unable to do if you're wearing looser clothing that conceals the position of your body.
Additionally, many yoga poses require you to balance one foot on the other leg, or grip parts of your leg. This can be difficult if you're wearing loose clothing.
While your yoga leggings should be fitted, they shouldn't be tight or constricting. Pick breathable fabric and an elastic waist that allows you to breathe deeply and doesn't pinch.
 If you're going to be wearing your workout leggings when lifting weights, hiking, climbing, or other activities where your freedom of movement is paramount, a relaxed fit will be an asset.Looser fitting leggings will allow you to move comfortably without worrying about a possible "wardrobe malfunction."
For activities that might involve abrupt movements, you don't want your leggings to get in the way or restrict your range.
Looser fits also may be more flattering for these kinds of activities. Keep in mind "relaxed" or "loose" doesn't necessarily mean "baggy." Pants that are too big and don't fit properly can trip you up and cause significant problems.
 The time of day you plan to work out may impact the types of fabric you choose, as well as the weight of the fabric. If you exercise outdoors, the time of year also may be a factor.The time of day can affect the colors you choose if you intend to run or exercise outside. If you're out when there's not much light, you'll want to wear lighter colors or leggings that have reflective stripes or patches.
You also want to avoid wearing black, which can heat you up, if you're going to be working out in the middle of the day with the sun beating down on you.
If you live in a climate where it is cold for a good portion of the year but you still jog or exercise outside, you need a fabric in a heavier weight that will wick moisture away from your body.
On the other hand, if you exercise outside in a warmer climate, you need light, breathable fabric that won't add a lot of weight to your skin.
Breathable, lightweight fabrics also are important if you exercise outside in a humid climate, or if you're doing activities such as hot yoga that take place in a warmer, more humid location.
 You're going to choose different leggings if you plan only to wear them at the gym than you would choose if you know you'll also wear them elsewhere.If you plan to wear your leggings out in public or to run errands as well as to the gym, you'll likely want a more versatile, subtle design such as a solid, neutral color.
However, if you're just going to be at the gym, you may not mind large, loud logos and crazy patterns.
Your preferences for the thickness of the fabric and the overall fit also may change if you plan on wearing your leggings out in public. What passes in the gym or yoga studio might not be a good choice for work or dinner out.
 The longevity of a garment can affect not only the type of fabric you choose but also how much money you spend on a particular garment. Regardless of the brand, certain fabrics simply hold up better over time.You'll also want to consider how often you need to launder your leggings and how convenient it is o wash them.


Cotton is soft and moderately breathable, but it has a tendency to stretch out and lose its shape over time. Bright colors also may fade.
Synthetic fabrics such as nylon or spandex will retain their shape and may have important moisture-wicking properties. They are quick-drying and generally can be washed in a machine (though you should try to wash them with other synthetic fabrics). The fabric also will pill over time, however, and sweat will actually smell more pungent on synthetic fibers.Look at the care instructions on the label of the pants before you buy them and consider how often you'll need to wash them. If you perspire a lot, your leggings might need frequent laundering. Some fabrics fare better washed by hand, or in cold water and hung to dry. Some fabrics handle bacteria better and can tolerate sitting in a laundry basket for a few days and others will need rinsed right after use. Check to make sure they won’t shrink in the dryer, or fade in the wash. Specialty dying on some leggings requires hand washing with delicate soap not detergent.
 If you're thinking about investing in name brand or designer workout leggings, take some time to go online and look at reviews of the product from experts as well as other consumers.Look at the background and any other information you can find about the person writing the review.
Prioritize reviews by professionals or avid practitioners who are pursuing the same activities for which you want the leggings.
Take anonymous reviews with a grain of salt. If there are a significant number of them that have the same complaint, you may want to take that into consideration; however, keep in mind that anybody can write an anonymous review for any reason.
 Workout leggings have a number of features that may or may not be important to you, depending on when, where, and how you plan on wearing your leggings.It's worth thinking about features before you go shopping, because many of these extras also increase the price of workout leggings. You don't want to pay for features you don't need and aren't going to use.
For example, some leggings come with pockets for your keys. If you only work out at the gym and keep your keys in a locked gym locker, chances are you're never going to use those pockets.
However, if you run at a neighborhood park and have to drive to the location, having a pocket for your keys would be a tremendous asset.
Similarly, reflective stripes or patches probably aren't going to be necessary to you unless you plan on running outside in low light – either early in the morning or in the evening.
 If it's your first time buying workout leggings, you typically will save time and effort by going to a store in person rather than trying to order your workout leggings online.Typically the best place to start is a large department store, a discount store, or a sporting goods chain.
You may be able to find workout leggings cheaper online, but you don't have the benefit of being able to try them on immediately.
Even if a website offers free returns, you'll still have to make the effort to repackage your purchase and take it to the post office or shipping service and you will often have to pay return shipping fees. Then you may have to wait a week or more before your money is refunded.
 The size on the label won't necessarily correspond with the sizes you wear in regular clothing. Typically exercise clothing runs smaller, but regardless you should be focusing on how the leggings fit, not the number on the tag.If the leggings pinch or pull anywhere, or if you find you have to adjust them frequently, they aren't going to be good for you to wear when exercising.
Ideally, your workout leggings should virtually disappear from your mind from the moment you put them on. If you're thinking or worrying about your leggings, you're not focused on your workout.
Pay attention to seams as well. If you can feel a seam digging into your skin, it may have a negative impact on your performance.
 Part of fit is understanding how the leggings are going to move with you and what's going to happen when you stretch and bend. Make movements similar to those you'll make in your exercises to get a general idea of fit and comfort.Doing deep bends and leg lifts can help you determine how the fabric will move with you. If you're flexible enough, doing a split will give you a good indication of whether the leggings will be constricting on your upper legs and hips.
As you move, take note of whether you feel the need to pull your leggings up or adjust them. Keep in mind that if you're spending all your time adjusting your clothing, you're probably not going to get a very good workout.
If the leggings feel tight or uncomfortable after doing a few moves in a fitting room, they probably will give you even more trouble when you're deep into a 20- or 30-minute routine.
 Most fitting rooms come equipped with multiple mirrors that allow you to view the garment from all sides. Check carefully to make sure you're comfortable with how the leggings fit in different positions.It's natural for your leggings to move a little as you move; however, if you do a deep bend and your leggings slide down to expose half of your rear, you probably need to go up a size or two.
On the other hand, if the fabric pools at your joints when you move in them, they may be too large.

