 Practicing on its own is not enough. Your practice should be focused, meaningful and individualized. The skills and areas that you practice should be unique to the areas you need to improve in. What scenarios or shots make you nervous or uncomfortable? Those are the areas you should be practicing.Spend more time on the things that you do not do very well versus the things that you excel in.
Your deliberate practice should also be high volume as well. Repeatedly doing the same thing over and over creates memory in your brain.
 A coach can help you refine your skills and evaluate your golf game in a way that you can not do on your own. You are unable to see how you look when you hit the ball. You are only able to see the final product. Whether you hit a good shot or a bad shot, knowing what you did to achieve that result is critical for your improvement.A coach can not only identify any mistakes you make, but also offer adjustments and corrections. You will improve much faster when you have this type of feedback.A coach is helpful for new and established players. Coaches can teach fundamentals as well as tweak the game of experienced golfers., It can be easy to think about your next shot or still be bothered about a shot that you just missed. Instead, focus on the shot at hand. When you step up to the tee, only think about how you want to hit that current shot. Once you have taken that shot, you accept the outcome and then move on to your next shot.Keeping a running tally of your score in your head will distract you from giving each shot 100% of your attention.
It is easier to do this when you are playing well and making shots. When you are not playing well, you may become discouraged and think abut your mistakes. You will have to try harder to focus when things are not going your way.
Talk yourself through your shot. To help yourself focus, ask some questions such as: What club do I need for this shot? Where do I need to make contact with the ball? How should I position my hands?

, The majority of your practice time should be spent playing rounds of golf instead of hitting shots at the driving range. At the driving range, you are only focused on your technique. However, golf is much more than having good technique. Playing rounds of golf will help you improve your scoring and reduce the number of strokes you play per round.The majority of shots you take while playing golf are actually shorter shots and putting.
Only one third of your practice time should take place at the driving range.