 Think about what it is that is worrying you about undressing at the doctor’s office. Once you’ve identified the root of your anxiety, you can start the process of dealing with your worries.You might find that your anxiety is dramatically reduced simply by identifying the cause.
If it isn’t, consider talking with a counselor to help you work through your anxiety.
 It’s normal and perfectly acceptable to feel nervous about undressing at the doctor’s office, especially if this is a new experience for you. If you’re nervous, remind yourself that your doctor is a trained medical professional that is there to give you a routine examination, one that they’ve given hundreds of other patients. Take a deep breath, try to relax, and your appointment will be over before you know it., Meditation helps regulate breathing and calm the mind. Learning a few simple meditative techniques will help calm your anxiety, will help you focus when you’re nervous or uncomfortable, and will help you control noisy thoughts that might be distracting you. Fortunately, there are books, websites, videos, and local centers that can teach you a variety of meditative techniques.If you find yourself feeling uncomfortable, close your eyes and breathe. This simple action encourages you to stop, quiet down, and instantly diffuses anxiety.
This is especially helpful during any uncomfortable procedures, too, such as a pelvic or rectal examination.
 Medical personnel are obligated to treat you with respect and dignity, and with that, address you as the gender with which you identify. You might be uncomfortable undressing at the doctor’s office because you identify as a gender other than cis-male or cis-female and do not want to be in a vulnerable position of undress. Remember that these are medical professionals who are not there to make judgment, only to assist you medically.As always, you have the right to ask for alternative solutions to undressing or stop the appointment should you become too uncomfortable.
Communicating about your medical needs and issues with your doctor may be uncomfortable also as some of the conversation may use verbiage that relates to biological sex. Your doctor should understand this and be appropriately patient.
 You may have experienced physical, emotional, or psychological trauma in the past that makes undressing or disrobing in front of others an anxiety-producing experience. Communicate this, as you are comfortable, with the intake nurse so that they can pass along to the doctor that you will require accommodations, such as not undressing.Medical personnel are bound by confidentiality rules, so they will not share what you tell them with anyone other than those in the office that must know, such as the doctor.

