 When you are packing, you can't pack long before the trip because you need most of that everyday stuff. Make a packing checklist, here's an example of one:


1 or 2 shirts plus the one they wear on the way to your destination
1 or 2 pairs of pants including what you are wearing
a few pairs of underwear, socks, bras
sneakers
diapers, baby wipes, pads, deodorant, hairbrushes, toothbrushes, etc
activities for the car ride or in case you get bored
medicines
comfort items;
, One or two days before the trip, you can pack clothes and maybe some entertainment items. The morning of the trip you can pack the rest like hygiene things.
 This is also a great time for them to have o clean out their backpacks! If you have any toddlers who are not in school yet, get them a backpack or travel backpack so they can also carry their own things in there. If you don't have a lot of room and feel like you can't have all the kids bring individual bags, then have a few big bags, or suitcases not for clothes but for the things listed like at the beginning of this step.
 Some people say travel during nighttime or during kids nap times but it doesn't make much of a difference either way.
 Make sure they don't get too sweaty though because otherwise they will be uncomfortable. Also make sure everyone has gone to the bathroom. Before you leave, go through the luggage once more to make sure you haven't forgotten anything.
 Also brinks snacks and some drinks. But make planned bathroom stops so that the kids can know when they should have their drinks so they won't have to hold it for a while. Some entertainment items that kids can bring are iPods/mp3 players, portable DVD players if you have one, books and magazines, snacks will definitely keep them busy too. You can also play easy games that don't have a lot of pieces. You can play car games like each person decides a color and they count how many cars drive by that are that color. There are many other games you can play that I will explain down in the tips and anyone else is welcome to add any games that they know of.
, The kids will really need to cooperate. Also tell them what will happen while you are there.
It is their house so you won't be able to have too much control over what happens and the way you do things.
When putting the kids to bed, do the same routine that happens at your house, like if you read a story to them, make sure to do that. Have them do whatever they usually do to get ready for bed.

Tell them what will happen while you are there
Bring swimsuits because there will probably be a pool
See what amenities the hotel has
If the kids are bored or don't want to be in a small hotel room then go outside, get some air, take a walk.
Do the same bedtime routine that you usually do with your kids at home.

