 Launch a web browser on your computer and go to the Facebook website. Type in your account username and password in the text fields provided at the top right corner of the welcome page, and click the “Sign In” button to log into your Facebook account.;
, Type in “survey” on the search bar on the upper portion of the web page. Check the results that drop down if there’s a Survey application there. If not, click “See more results” at the bottom. On the new page, select “Apps” from the left panel to filter all results to show only applications. The Survey app will appear at the top of the filtered search result. Select it from the list to go to the Survey maker application.
 Click the “Get Started” button you see on the welcome page of the app to go to the first step and begin creating your Facebook survey.
 The first step in creating your very own survey is by putting some basic details about it such as:



Survey Title—Enter a short title about your survey. Make it witty, like “Hey, car lovers! We want your thoughts,” to help catch the attention of readers and increase the chance of them answering your question.

Survey Language—Click the drop-down list and select the language you’d like your survey to be in.

Description—Type in a short description about your survey on the text box provided. Though there’s no limit on the number of characters to use, it’s recommended to use a short description that can be quickly read by people.
Once you’re done, click the “Next” button to proceed to the next step.
 The survey app will ask for your permission to access your profile and your email address. Just click the “Okay” button to allow the app and continue to the second step.
 The second step is to add the inquiries you want to put on your survey. Click the “Add Question” you see on the web page to bring up the New Question pop-up window. Type in your survey question and choose the question type you’d like to use:



One-line text box—Participants can enter a one-line answer on a text box.

Multiple lines comment box—Participants can type in their answers using as many lines as they want.

Multiple choices—Participants can pick out one or more answer from a list of choices.

Drop-down list—Participants can select only one answer from a drop-down list of choices.

Scale of 1 to 5—Participants can pick any number from 1 to 5 as their response.

Picture upload—Participants can upload and use pictures as their answers for the survey.
 If you chose a question type that lets users pick between answers (Multiple Choice and Drop-Down List), you may enter the survey answers you’d like to put in the survey on the text field, provided on the lower portion of the New Question pop-up window. Once you’re done, click the “Save” button to save all the details you’ve entered.
 The last step will be to share the survey you created. Click the “Share” button you see on the app page, and click the “Post on Timeline” to publish it on your Facebook profile.
 You’ll receive a notification on the top right corner of your Facebook page whenever someone answers your survey. Just click the notification to view the answers to your survey post.

