 One sure-fire way to freak people out is to casually say things in public that are bizarre or troubling to the average person. You can experiment with speaking directly to people or purposely allowing them to overhear personal conversations. Below are just a few ideas:


Go to a take out restaurant and ask for your meal to go.
Have a troubling conversation on a phone or headset. Be loud enough for nearby people to hear you. Say sketchy things like, "Keep eating it! I don't care how many pages there are!" or "Take the shot. Look, I'm paying you to do this."






Talk in funny voices, like the voice of Darth Vader, Yoda, or Kermit the Frog.
Develop a strange affectation. For instance, you might say "stranger" after every sentence in an old-fashioned wild west accent.
Ask strangers for help with bizarre problems. Try asking someone randomly "what year is it?", and, when you get an answer, act surprised and/or worried. You can try other questions, like "what country" or even "what century", "what continent", "what planet" and "what galaxy", etc. Alternatively, you can try asking something really weird that they probably won't have an answer for, like "what section of the universe" or "what coordinates".
Ask for bizarre advice. For instance, go into a gardening store and ask an assistant "How long do I need to cook potting mix for?" or "How long will I need to water the asparagus before it sprouts its wings?".
Have conversations with inanimate objects. For instance, in a department store, go up to a shirt and say "Oh, hi Fred! So how’s the building going? Really? Aw, that’s sad. I hope your wife gets better soon! Bye!"
Surprise people with completely random outbursts. Run up to people on the street and say "Hi", or "I like cheese", then ask them what they prefer - green bums or silver cheeks.
Say things like "The end is near," "They are watching us," or "They're coming for us."
Make random noises. Say nonsense words such as "Eeeee!" or "Mmmm!" for no apparent reason.
Whisper a lot, or all of the time. Whisper random things to someone or hum random creepy things.;
