 If you are growing marigolds indoors, you can start growing six to eight weeks before the last frost date. Because you are growing the flowers indoors, you do not need to worry about the soil being too cold for the plants, which is why you can start growing them earlier.


If you are growing marigolds in a pot outdoors, you should wait until after the last frost to begin the process.
 Use a pot filled with soilless potting mix. Soilless potting mix is made up of materials like peat and bark. You can find it at gardening stores or stores like Home Depot and Lowe’s.Make sure the pot you are using has drainage holes in the bottom. This will allow water to pass through the pot naturally as it does in the ground.
You may want to put a board or plate underneath the pot to catch any excess water or soil that comes out of the drainage holes., Marigolds grown in containers can be planted closer together, but you want to make sure to give the seeds a couple inches of space in between them. Cover the seeds with ¼ inch of soil., Use about a teaspoon per plant of slow-acting granular fertilizer. This will give your marigolds the nutrients that they need to grow, and are active over a long period of time, about 8-12 weeks., 70 degrees is a good temperature to aim for in your home. Check your thermostat and make sure that your marigolds are being kept around this temperature. If needed, you can buy a heating pad to put under the pot to keep it at this temperature. Also make sure that you start growing your marigolds away from direct light until germination., Your marigold plant should start sprouting within 5-7 days. Once the plant has started sprouting, you will want to place it in direct light for at least 6-8 hours everyday. Either place the pot by a window if you live in a sunny climate, or put the pot under a grow lamp.If you are growing marigolds in a pot outdoors, keep them in direct sunlight.
 Marigolds do not generally require a lot of water, so water every few days. You want to let the soil partially dry out between watering. Too much dampness in the soil can over stimulate marigolds and isn’t good for the plant.Water at the roots, and avoid getting the blooms, leaves and stems wet.

