 Because spending time in a shelter is a traumatic experience for most animals, you need to help your dog transition to your home. You can do this by creating a friendly and inviting environment for it. Before you bring your dog home, purchase a crate and place it in a quiet part of your home. Be sure to ask your family members or roommates to try to be quiet over the coming weeks as your dog acclimates to its new surroundings.Keep your dog’s crate in a place where it can interact with everyone. This will speed up its socialization. Do not put the dog’s things in the garage or closet.
 Because your dog may suffer from a congenital health issue, you should be on the lookout for any health concerns. Dogs, like poodles, that may suffer from deafness will exhibit a number of behavioral problems like increased aggression, skittishness, or a failure to respond to commands.Short-nosed dogs, like bulldogs, have a host of respiratory issues that cause it to wheeze, pant, and generally have difficulty breathing.In addition, your dog may experience seizures or be more prone to illness due to a weakened immune system. If you notice any of these symptoms, be sure to talk to your veterinarian right away.


If you dog is behaving strangely or improperly, be sure you visit a veterinarian right away. Changes in temperament are often the first indications of a serious health problem.
 After a few days at home, you should take your dog to the vet. You will want to have the veterinarian evaluate the dog’s overall health and make sure that it has received all of its vaccinations. You should also talk with your veterinarian about how to best care for any congenital health concerns that your dog may have.Many dogs develop ear infections and other minor diseases while in a shelter or rescue home.
 Over the first few weeks, gradually introduce your dog to new things. Allow it to explore your home at its leisure. If you have other pets, introduce them one at a time. It will likely take a few months and a significant amount of training to get your dog accustomed to living with other pets.Try not to have any major social gatherings at your home for a few months after you adopt your new dog. This could overwhelm it.
 Start your dog’s new routine as soon as possible after you bring it home. Take the dog on walks at the times when you intend to walk it. More importantly, feed it during regular feeding times. Establishing a routine will help your dog relax and feel more at home.If your non-sporting breed dog is taking any medications, make sure that it continues taking those medications regularly.
To help regulate its digestive tract, consider feeding your dog the same food that it ate at the kennel. This will help it feel less anxious and avoid developing any digestive issues.

