 Being the best student in a class is about more than just getting good grades. You should also work on being a good person. You don't want to be a bully or a class clown; that will not make you the best student in the class. Focus on making people feel good by giving them compliments and telling them when they do a good job. Don't be mean to people and tease them or say hurtful things.
 Be a good person by helping people when you can. If you know how to do something or you have an easier way of doing it, show them how. Don't make yourself seem smarter or better, just be nice and friendly. You can also do small nice things, like holding a door open for them or helping them carry something heavy.


For example, if someone was gone for a few days, offer to help them get caught up and share your notes with them.
 Even when people are mean to you, you should still be respectful. Don't shout at them or physically hurt them. Don't call them names or cut in front of them in line, just to spite them. Simply ignore them and treat them like you would treat anyone else.


Be respectful to people by not talking over them and definitely giving them a chance to talk if they want to. Respect their opinions and don't worry if they think a little bit differently than you. You should also let people be themselves and don't make them feel bad for being unique or different.
 When you're in class, stay as calm as you can. Don't run around and disrupt people. You should also try not to get stressed when school gets tough. This is bad for you and it might also cause you to lash out at other people.


Help yourself calm down by breathing slowly. Remind yourself that everything will be okay. You're strong enough to do this!
Avoid worrying about perfect grades. Perfect grades really only matter your last year and a half of high school and then when you're in college (if you plan on going to graduate school later). Otherwise, just focus on learning the material as well as you can and don't worry about the numbers or letters that your teacher assigns. Knowing the material is more important than getting a grade.
 Try to help everyone have fun. Be enthusiastic and positive when you're in class. This excitement to learn will make everyone feel more okay about learning. It might even get some people to show excitement when they wouldn't normally let other people see that they care.


For example, you might start learning about the planets in your science class. Find a cool picture of your favorite planet and show it to other people, then challenge them to find a cool picture of their favorite planet.
 Most importantly, be yourself. You can't be the best person you can possibly be if you're pretending to be someone else. Do the things that make you happy. Share the things that you love. Be friends with the people that get you and make you feel good about yourself. Don't worry about what other people think. The truth is that years from now, you won't even remember half of their names. If they don't think you're the coolest person now, you're not going to care in five or six years. What you will care about is how unhappy you are that you didn't do things that made you happy.

