 Buy them in circles or sheets that you can roll out, rather than already set in a foil pie pan.;
, Remember to make a double batch if your recipe only makes one 12-inch (30.5 cm) pie crust base.
 When you cut your ribbons, the dough will need to be rolled at least this wide.
 Roll out the first section into a 12-inch round. Set it into your pie plate and ensure it extends past the top edge of the ceramic or glass plate.









Dough that is slightly cooled in the refrigerator will be easier to roll and cut.
 Roll it onto a piece of parchment paper, so that you can pick it up easily later. Aim for one-eighth-inch (0.3 cm) thickness.








Using a rectangle instead of a circle will allow you to make all the strips long enough to reach across the diameter of the pie. You can cut off extra after you have woven it.
Make sure to flour your parchment paper before rolling out the dough with a rolling pin.
 You can use it to help you create straight ribbons. Set the ruler across the shorter side of your pie dough rectangle, at the center.
 The smaller the ribbons, the more you can make and the tighter the lattice will be. You may way to start with thicker ribbons on your first lattice pie.
 Use a paring knife. Continue until you get to the other side.
 Align it with the first slit. Cut across the long side of the rectangle, across the edge of the ruler, with a pie cutter or pastry wheel.









A fluted pastry wheel will make wavy ribbons for your lattice., Repeat until your whole pastry dough is cut into ribbons.
 Place it inside the refrigerator while you fill your pie crust. Slightly cooled strips will be easier to handle.









When you fill the pie crust, try to mound it slightly in the middle. It will even out as the pie bakes and keep the center from falling.
Now is a good time to preheat your oven according to your pie recipe.
 Place them next to the filled pie.
 Lay them parallel to each other with one-fourth to three-fourth’s inch (0.6 to 1.9 cm) space in between. The closer you set them together, the more work you will need to do to weave the pie.









It is important that you space all the strips an equal amount away from each other. For example, if you choose to set them close together, at one-fourth-inch, the vertical and horizontal strips should be spaced one-fourth inch apart.
 Fold back every other ribbon, until the ends of the dough meet on the left side. Grab a new pie ribbon and lay it vertically in the center of the pie.
 You have begun to weave the dough.
 This time they will only fold back until they catch on the parallel strip you just laid. Place another strip of dough to the right of the last strip.









Make sure it is evenly spaced.
Unfold the strips and lay them flat.
, When you finish weaving your lattice, you should have strips of dough hanging over the edges around the entire pie.
 Press in a small “v” to make a crimped edge and repeat around the entire pie.
, (14.8 ml) of milk and a sprinkling of sugar (optional). Brush the surface of the pie with an egg wash. Bake it according to the recipe directions.








