 Cell phones are a convenience but they can easily be an annoyance especially to other people. Rule #1 is to know if you are in a place where your phone should be off as in off rather than on mute or buzz. The short list includes: church, a court room, a concert or public performance such as a play, a movie theater, medical facilities. If in doubt ask. And if you think you are too important to ask, turn the phone off.;
, If you are in a public place where you are going to be close to others, turn your ringer to a level where you can hear but which shouldn't disturb others. Use "vibrate" as well. In public use an appropriate "ring tone" rather than have you phone blasting your favorite pop hit. Nothing makes you look immature as much as having a Lady Gaga tune blasting out of the pocket of your pricey Armani suit.
 When the phone rings, and you are not otherwise engaged, answer the phone quickly. If this is a call that you want or need to take, separate yourself, if possible from other people by turning your back or stepping away from the group. Even when you take these steps, try not to engage in a yelling match or overly demonstrative conversations romantic or otherwise. Remember, the phone has a microphone and your voice will be heard by your caller.
 If the phone rings when you are engaged in conversation with another person, ask to be excused from the conversation you are having before your respond to the phone. And, when you respond to the phone, consider whether you need to answer immediately or let the call go to voice mail.
 Arrange to return the call at a mutually agreeable time. Then end the call quickly.
, If the call that you answered is a true emergency, let those you are meeting with know that the call is urgent. Then move away from the group or individual and attend to the phone call.
 When you return to the in-person conversation, be honest about the seriousness of the situation and decide with the person or people you are speaking with if your business with them can be postponed.
 If you are starting a cell phone conversation, while in public, try to avoid making any calls that you know will be very emotional or highly charged. Remember to keep your voice at a quiet conversational level, the phone has a microphone. Avoid making discretionary calls if you are sharing a seat or you happen to be a standee on public transportation. If calling from a restaurant, remember not to disturb your near neighbors. Also, don't make a call when you need to be speaking with your waitperson.
 It's also not a good idea to be on the phone when shopping and interacting with a salesperson or clerk.

