 If you've always loved adventure, retirement is a great time to travel. You now have all the time you need to visit the places you always wanted to see. Plus, seeing the world will keep you engaged and interested in the worldUnfortunately, as a retiree, money may be a problem for you. If it is, try traveling on a budget. For instance, some websites allow you to do travel exchanges; you allow someone to stay in your home for the opportunity to stay in someone else's home in another location.Similarly, think about other cheaper places to stay, such as hostels and even dorm rooms. Some hostels limit their guests to young people, but others accept people of all ages and even offer semi-private rooms. Also, some universities offer dorm rooms up for people to stay in for cheaper than a hotel.
Another option is to explore places close to home. Most people don't take the time to see the attractions within an hour or two of their homes, so take day jaunts to nearby places.
 You are a skilled individual who has extensive experience--put that experience to use. If you have accounting skills, small nonprofits would love your help. If you are a writer, maybe you can assist with newsletters for the library. Your skills would be much appreciated, and it keeps you involved in the community and seeing people., Your library is a well of information. It offers free resources to help you pursue your interests, from books on guitar playing to computers. Most libraries also have free programs that you can attend and enjoy., While that number seems arbitrary, it's not. With just one or two hobbies, your schedule won't be very busy. However, having more hobbies will create a busier schedule and make you happier overall.Think about what you've always wanted to do. Maybe learn the violin, or take a dance class. You could also learn how to play chess or take up gardening.
 For instance, if you love to knit, find a local knitting club to join. If you enjoy soccer, find a local group in your age range. Check with your local library or the parks and recreation department to find groups. You can also use websites such as Meetup., Whether it's work friends or just neighbors or church friends, make it a point to have social engagements with your friends. Try to schedule an evening or afternoon out at least once a week.