 The first thing to be aware of, if you have gotten dirt or another substance into your eye, is not to touch it or rub it with your hands. This can make it harder to get out, and it also poses the risk of infection by getting the dirt and germs from your hands into your eye.Note that even if your eye is sore, itchy, or otherwise irritated, it is very important not to touch it at this point.
Oftentimes the irritation will settle once you get the dirt or foreign substance out.;
, Prior to clearing your eye (which you will do by washing out your eye), it is important to ensure that your hands are clean. Even though you will not be touching your eye directly with your hands, you will be using your hands to collect water for cleaning so it is important that they be sanitized.Washing with soap and warm water will do the trick.
 If you are wearing contact lenses, it is important to remove them prior to washing your eye. Also throw them out, as you will not want to re-use these contact lenses.
 As you prepare to wash your eye, you will want to make sure your head is facing downward, and not straight or tilted backward. Otherwise, you risk having the foreign substance wash further into your eye, rather than coming out when you rinse it with water.


With your head facing downward, start by blinking a few times. Blinking releases some natural lubrication from your tear ducts that may be enough for the object to fall out (as long as you are still facing in a downward position).
 Assuming the foreign object is still lodged in your eye, the next step is to cup both of your hands under the sink faucet and to fill them with warm water. Then, lower the affected eye into the water in your hands, keeping the eye open. Just let it sit in the water, and hopefully this will be enough for the object to dislodge and come out.


Again, be sure to face downward the whole time so that the object or dirt comes out of your eye, rather than going further into it.
 Oftentimes, in places such as chemistry labs, there is a specific eye-washing station available. The "faucet" is designed to directly shoot water into your eye, so that you do not need to use your hands to cup the water. This is more effective than a regular sink at removing dirt or debris from your eyes, so if one is available your best bet is to use it.
 If you look in the mirror and see a foreign object on your cornea (the transparent front part of your eye that covers the iris, pupil, and anterior chamber), you can try using a cotton swab or a piece of tissue and pressing it gently onto the affected part of your eye. Oftentimes, the foreign substance will stick to it, and it can be removed in this way., If you cannot get the foreign substance out of your eye, it is very important to see your doctor promptly (normally this means going to the Emergency Room so that you can be seen right away). Especially if you have metal stuck in your eye, or any other sharp substance that may have punctured the surface of your eye, it is very important to see a doctor and not to try and remove any sharp objects on your own.The doctors have special equipment where they can see your eye close-up and use special tools to remove any foreign objects.
Be sure to never try and use "tools" yourself - such as tweezers, toothpicks, or other sharp objects to get something out of your eye - as you risk causing further damage to your eye., Your doctor will start by examining your eye using something called a "slit lamp."This looks like a very large microscope, and it will be used to look into your eyes and to magnify the view so that your doctor can see better and take note of any small objects or debris that may be lodged in your eye.


During the slit lamp examination, your doctor will use an eyedropper to put a dye on your eye. The dye will change color if and when it comes into contact with foreign material on the eye, so it is a very helpful tool for doctors to locate which areas of your eye need treatment.After identifying the location of any foreign substances, your doctor will use a special sharp tool that is designed to remove objects from your eye.It may look intimidating, but physicians have been specifically trained how to use it in safe ways.
Your doctor will also use anesthetic eyedrops prior to removing the object, so that the affected eye will not feel pain., After the doctor has removed the foreign body from your eye, your eye should heal and begin to feel better within a few days. If it does not - and if you develop any symptoms of increased pain, redness, or unusual discharge from your eye - do not hesitate to book a follow-up appointment with your physician.