 Place the oven rack in the lower third of the oven to get ready to cook some tasty fudgy brownies.
 (20 x 20 cm.) baking pan. Line the bottom and the sides of the pan with foil or parchment paper, leaving an overhang on two of the opposing sides.
 (2.5-5 cm.) of water into a medium saucepan. Heat up the water until it just reaches a simmer.
 Make sure the bowl is heat-safe. Stir the ingredients together until they're fully incorporated. You should rest the bowl over the simmering water to heat up the ingredients a bit and to make it easier to combine them and make the mixture nice and creamy. Continue to stir the ingredients until the mixture is nice and warm. Don't worry if it's still a little chunky; it'll get smoother after you add the flour and eggs.
 It should still be warm, but not hot, when you're ready to use it again.
 Use a spatula or wooden spoon to add the vanilla, which will impart a unique flavor to the brownies.
 Now, add the eggs to the mixture one at a time. Stir in the first one completely before you stir in the second. This should help the mixture become smoother.
 Now, stir the flour until you've fully incorporated it. This should take another minute or two at least. Your batter will be pretty thick, probably thicker than you're used to when you make brownies -- this is where the fudge-factor comes in.
 Stir in the walnuts, pecans, almonds, or any other kind of nuts you want to use. This is optional, but adds a nice kick to the brownies.
 Make sure to spread it evenly into the pan to create brownies that are all about the same thickness.
 After 18 or so minutes, start checking on the brownies. When they're ready, you should be able to put a toothpick into the center, making it come out nearly clean. If they aren't ready, even after the time limit, then keep baking them.
 Give them at least five minutes to cool down before you cut into them.
 This recipe makes for 16 normal brownie squares. However, you can cut them to be bigger or smaller, depending on what you want.
 Enjoy these tasty fudgy brownies as they are. For an extra kick, drizzle them with caramel sauce.

