 There are some common ways to prove residency, but the types of proof vary greatly from state to state, and across different organisations. The first thing to do is research the particular requirements that are relevant to you. Look on the website of the state, school or other organisation you need to prove your residency to.


If you are struggling to find the information on a website, it can be quicker and easier to phone up directly or go into a local office or city hall.
There is an online database that provides details of state requirements for different universities and colleges that you can use.
Often you will find that residency requirements are indicated within the state statute. You can search for state statutes online.;
, Some of the most commonly accepted proofs of residency include a dated utility bill which includes your name and address, or a tenancy agreement with your full name and all the information about how long you have lived in your current address. In some cases a tenancy agreement may need to be notarized. A valid voter registration card for that state may also be accepted as a proof of residency.


In all cases you will need to provide more than one proof of residency, often two, and sometimes four.It is best to have at least two government issued pieces of evidence to use to prove residency.If you are using a utility bill, bring one from a year ago and one from within the last month so you can demonstrate long-term and current residency.
A utility bill could be water, electric, gas, garbage, bank statement or landline phone service., Just as there are proofs which are commonly accepted across states, there are documents which are rarely accepted that you should make yourself aware of. Fishing and hunting licenses may not be accepted, as well as cellular phone bills and pay stubs.Personal mail that is not a utility bill or from a government agency is unlikely to be accepted as proof residency.You should always remember to check with your local requirements as some of these documents are accepted in some states.
If you are unable to research the requirements in advance, it's prudent to bring as many items as possible when you go to apply to give yourself the best chance.

