 First impressions are important. Especially if you are the new girl at school. Here are a few tips on first impressions.


Don't try to be like somebody else. If you do, then you have to act differently around that person all the time or worse. They'll find out that you're faking.
Always be friendly. If you're rude or mean, the person will look back at you in a negative way, and that is not what you want.
Don't talk too much. When you talk too much, that sends a message to the other person that you're a very self-centered person.;
, Wear something that looks good on you. Just because it's "in trend" doesn't mean you should wear it especially if it doesn't suit you. If your school has a uniform, check out these fun ways to shine out from the crowd.


Don't always wear sweats and a sweatshirt. Dress up one day, it will make you stand out.
For dress code, try and jazz up your school uniform as much as you can, if you want to.
Get your nails painted. You can paint them silver, pink, red or keep them simple with a French manicure.
Add accessories! Charm bracelets and bangles are cute, but don't add too many accessories or they might weigh you down during the day.
Shoes are important. Don't get a size too big or small because comfort beats fashion any day.
 Make your clothes more individual and fit just the way you like by tailoring them yourself if you can or by getting a professional to do it for you.
 Don't use too much hair gel, hairspray or mousse, or too much blush, lip gloss, and mascara. It might be tempting to use more makeup than you already have on, but remember that less is a lot more sometimes.
 That gives to the advantage to learn about what you like to do, and meet some people that have the same interest as you. Plus, you always have something to talk about with them!

, You might become friends with them. If you don't, don't worry! You can get some other nice friends and if you have good friends, you're considered popular in many people's eyes. If you do become friends, maybe they will introduce you to some of their friends, and that's a huge opportunity to becoming popular.
 Don't go too far though; if you seem too clingy or a friend pusher, chances are they won't want to be best friends with you. Give people personal space. Just don't push the friendship you have with these girls.


Try not to only have girls that are friends. Try to get a guy friend. They are way less full of drama. Just experiment with it.
 You don't always have to act and look like the popular girls to be one! Just be you. It's better that way. Though, at the same time try and be one of them too. It's hard to explain. If the girls think you are just like the other girls in your grade they'll not wanna hang out with you. Just don't let them take control of you, or make you feel like you're not better than them.
 Even if you don't like a person, remain civil and pleasant toward them. Popularity is mostly about how you treat others. You don't want to be known as the mean popular girl. Instead, be nice and proud, so people can look up to you and make you their inspiration.


Don't be mean, even if that person is mean to you or annoys you. Just don't do it. If it gets out of hand, politely tell the person to leave you alone.

