 Both men and women are expected to dress with an appropriate level of discretion during the month of Ramadan. Show as little skin as possible, within reason. Cover your knees and shoulders, wear only modest makeup, and do not wear revealing necklines. Wear comfortable, loose-fitting clothing.If you are female, consider covering your head with a scarf or pashmina. The stated purpose of this garb is to reduce the risk of temptation.
It is most important to dress modestly if you enter a mosque or another sacred space. This holds true even when Ramadan is not in effect.
 People will be abstaining from all food and water from dawn to dusk each day, and they will be actively trying to resist worldly temptations. If someone is trying to abstain from a certain habit or practice, avoid doing that thing in front of them. At best, you will offend the locals – and at worst, you may find yourself in trouble with the police. Be modest and respectful, and do your best to keep the peace.


Do not play loud music; in general, do not make a lot of noise in public spaces. Do not swear in public. Ramadan is a time for prayer and spiritual reflection, and loud or vulgar noises may disturb this peace.Fasting can wreak havoc upon a person's eating and sleeping habits, so some locals might be "hangry" or more irritable than usual. Understand that this is part of the experience. Try to be patient with everyone that you meet.
 Charity is a huge part of the ethos of Ramadan, and giving money to a good cause can be a great way to get into the holiday spirit. If you want to help an organization, look into the various volunteering and donating options in Dubai. On a simpler level, consider tipping service workers extra., The working hours are two hours shorter than usual during this month. In order to handle their hunger, people tend to stay up very late at night, then nap in the afternoon. All public restaurants and coffee shops are closed from dawn to sunset. Bars, clubs, and live music venues typically close down, so you may need to find another way to keep yourself busy.Be careful on the streets. The roads will be busier, especially when the fast breaks at sundown and people are going out to dinner. Drivers are generally more tired, and the rate of UAE traffic accidents increases dramatically during Ramadan.
Do not worry about finding food. Restaurants at hotels, airports, and other traveler-specific spaces tend to remain open during the day, and food and drinks are freely served in those areas.
 Smoking is prohibited in almost all public areas during the month of Ramadan, and you may even draw attention if you smoke in private spaces. Most importantly, do not smoke around practicing Muslims, some of whom might be trying to abstain from cigarettes for the month. Eating and drinking in front of fasting Muslims is not illegal, but it is usually considered disrespectful.