 To best talk like Stitch, you’ll have to familiarize yourself with his voice and manner and speaking. Watch Lilo and Stitch a few times or if you’ve already seen it, seek out clips of Stitch on YouTube. This will give you an opportunity to focus on his mannerisms and manner of speaking. What differentiates Stitch’s voice from that of the other characters?, Based on your observations while watching Stitch in the movie and online, write down some notes about what makes Stitch’s voice distinct. Is his pitch high or low? Is his voice nasal or throaty? By distilling the characteristics that make Stitch sound like Stitch, you can best try to emulate him., Stitch uses some Hawaiian words in the movie that may be unfamiliar to you. Work on pronouncing the two he uses most often, ohana, meaning family, and aloha, meaning hello and goodbye. By breaking these words down into their individual syllables, you can sound them out and master them in no time., To best emulate Stitch’s voice, pull your tongue back against your back molars, closing some of the space near the back of your throat. Then, speak from deep in your throat, creating as much vibration as possible. This will force more air out of your nose to create Stitch’s signature nasal sound., The pacing of Stitch’s speech slows down when he talks about happy topics, like family. When you’re mimicking dialog where Stich expresses happiness, slow your cadence to sound more like he does.
 The pacing of Stitch’s speech picks up when he is being cheeky. If you’re reciting a mischievous line of dialog, rush your speech and shift your voice to a higher register, just as Stitch does. Your enthusiasm will naturally come through.
 Stitch has a distinct, toothy grin. To best speak like Stitch, make your mouth as open and wide as possible, exposing your teeth when you talk. You may find that doing this alone makes you sound more like Stitch.Practice speaking like Stitch in front of a mirror so you can tweak your expressions.
To make your impersonation most convincing, incorporate body language. Stitch often uses his claws to emphasize his points. Bend your fingers to shape your hands into makeshift claws.
 To practice your impression use a voice recording app, such as Voice Memos, to create mini recordings of you speaking as Stitch. What parts of your impression are most or least successful? By recording yourself, you can track your progress in mimicking Stitch’s speech over time.If there are words or phrases where your impersonation seems to consistently fall short, go back and review more clips of Stitch saying those key phrases.
 Your impersonation will improve the more you practice it. Work on speaking like Stitch a few times a week to polish your impression. Over time, you’ll get closer and closer to sounding just like him!

