 Let the hot water run for at least 10 minutes. The hot water will open the tile’s pores, making it easier to clean., Mix the ingredients together in the bowl until they are well-combined. Then fill a spray bottle with the solution., Make sure to spray more solution onto dirtier areas, as well as the spaces in between the tiles, i.e., the grout.Since you will be using this solution later on, do not use up all of the solution at this point, or make more solution as you clean.
 This will loosen the soap scum. Depending on how dirty your tiles are, you may need to let the solution set for 30 minutes or longer., Use a stiff bristle brush or a grout brush to do this. This will further loosen the soap scum, making the tiles easier to clean., Do this by turning your shower on again. Use a lower temperature setting. However, the water should still be warm.


Alternatively, you can use a bucket or a pitcher to rinse the tiles.
 Mix the baking soda and water together until it forms a thick paste. The paste should have a toothpaste-like consistency. If the mixture is thin, then keep adding more baking soda until it reaches the desired thickness.For tough stains, add hydrogen peroxide to the mix by substituting half of the water with peroxide.
Alternatively, you can use a tile cleaner to clean your tiles if you do not want to use a baking soda paste.
 Do this by spreading the paste over the tiles. Make sure to apply a generous amount in between the tiles and on tough stains., The vinegar will react with the baking soda, making it bubble. The vinegar helps the paste eat through the soap scum., Use a stiff bristle brush or a grout brush. Scrub your tiles in a circular motion. Use pressure to remove tough stains and mildew from the tile, as well as when cleaning in between the tiles.For small crevices, use a toothbrush.
 Use a bucket or pitcher to rinse your tiles. Pour the water over the tiles until all the soap and residue are removed.


You may need to rinse your tiles three to five times.
 This will prevent water from pooling in corners and crevices, which will help in the prevention of mold and mildew growth., Do this after you finish showering two to three times a week. This will help keep your shower tiles clean for a longer period of time.Keep a spray bottle labeled “shower spray” in your shower for easy access. If you have children, keep the bottle up high and out of reach.
 Do this by keeping a squeegee in your bathroom. Squeegee your bathroom tiles five to seven times a week after showering.Make sure to squeegee corners and crevices.
 Keep a specially designated towel handy in your bathroom to do this. Dry your tiles off five to seven times a week after showering.