 If patience, basic home care and alternative therapies are not real helpful in alleviating your lower back pain, then make an appointment with your doctor. They will examine you to see if your pain is caused by a serious spinal issue: herniated spinal disc, entrapped (pinched) nerve, bone infection (osteomyelitis), osteoporosis, stress fracture, advanced arthritis or cancer.For pain control, your doctor can prescribe stronger NSAIDs or painkillers.


X-rays, bone scans, MRI, CT scans and nerve conductance studies are all methods of viewing and diagnosing spinal problems.
You may also be sent for a blood test in order to see if you have rheumatoid arthritis or a spinal infection (osteomyelitis or meningitis).
You may ultimately be referred to a medical specialist (orthopedist, neurologist, rheumatologist) to better figure out your lower back problem.
 If your lower back pain is chronic (bothering you for many months or years) and related to weak muscles, bad posture and/or degenerative conditions ("wear and tear" osteoarthritis), you should consider spinal rehabilitation therapy — you'll likely need a referral from your doctor. A physiotherapist can teach you specific stretches and strengthening exercises for your lower lumbar spine, which can relieve pain with time.Physical therapy is usually recommended 3x per week for 4-8 weeks to make a significant impact on chronic lower back issues.


For spinal rehabilitation, physiotherapists tend to use a variety of exercise balls, weighted medicine balls, elastic tension bands, electronic muscle stimulation and/or therapeutic ultrasound devices.
Effective strengthening exercises that you can do on your own for your lower back muscles include: swimming, rowing, certain yoga positions and back extensions.
 Your back pain may be related to muscle injury or strain at a trigger point, which can lead to referred pain, or pain that extends to another area. So, though you may be experiencing pain in your lower back, the trigger point may be located elsewhere on your body.Locate a practitioner who is trained to identify and treat myofascial pain. He may use a variety of techniques to release the trigger point., If stronger prescription drugs and/or back rehabilitation don't prove effective, then an injection of corticosteroid medicine into the joints, muscles, tendons or ligaments of your low can quickly reduce inflammation and pain, and allow better movement.Corticosteroids are based on natural human hormones, which have strong and quick-acting anti-inflammatory properties. The most common ones used by doctors are called prednisolone, dexamethasone and triamcinolone. Your family doctor will likely refer you to a back specialist (orthopedist) for the injection if she thinks it will help.


Potential side effects of getting steroid injections include: local infection, excessive bleeding, tendon weakening, muscle atrophy, nerve irritation / damage, and reduced immune system function.
Pain relief from steroid injections can last anywhere from a few weeks to many months. Doctors don't like to give more than two injections per year.
If corticosteroid injections don't give much relief for your lower back pain, then an operation (there's many different surgical procedures) should be explored with your doctor as a last resort.

