 This will save you time when you arrive at the park - you won't have to wait in any queues at the ticket offices!;
, Try previewing each attraction or show on YouTube, or take a peek at the ride through photos from others. Learn from what others see. This can help decide which rides and attractions will take priority during your visit.
, The address to SeaWorld is 500 Sea World Drive, San Diego, CAThe cost to park your car at the SeaWorld San Diego resort will run you about $16 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle).
 SeaWorld San Diego doesn't have "lands" in the way that some theme parks do, but it has many prominent attractions to help you navigate through the park.


Follow the park outline by taking a left and follow clockwise around the park.
 If you'd like to touch sting rays and other aquatic animals, this is the place to go. This attraction was also built to commemorate SeaWorld's 50th Anniversary.
 Get to know a lot more about his habit and a little more information about how powerful his fins really are.


Find out what times the Shamu show is showing on that particular day. It normally only has a few shows per day.
Be careful of the Splash Zone at the Shamu zone. Sit back in the upper deck if you don't want to get super soaked. If you're game to get soaked, you can try out the bottom row of seats.
 You'll be able to see dolphins and otters in these two little areas.
 It's a wild ride, much like Grizzly Peak White Water Raft Ride at Disney's California Adventure park, Kali River Rapids at Disney's Animal Kingdom (Lake Buena Vista, FL), or Rio Loco at SeaWorld San Antonio.
 Here you'll see a whole bunch of types of fishes in an aquarium-like setting.
 Some of these are truly interesting, and highlight some really neat recycling projects.
,,, To get there from the Manta roller coaster, you need to take a left. It's a little ways up, but the ride is cool and relatively easy and can definitely take a load off of any tired feet that may exist.
 If you've caught the Bat Ray feeding and have taken in SkyTower as well, you'll most likely have missed the Sea Lion's feeding. But if your timing is just right, you can catch them in the act!

, You can catch the Otter show here.
 You'll learn a lot about the solitary life of a flamingo and its biome.


There are two places you can see flamingoes. The other one is to the one side of Animal connections near the Dippin Dot's Sundae Shop on the other side of the Arctic Plaza. (Arctic Plaza is a special events-only area across from Pets Stadium down a small pathway).
, This Skyride is an out-and-back skyride that takes you out over the Bay and back around and back to the entrance house.
 Look at how these clean fish and aquatic creatures live in such a secluded place.
 Young children might be afraid of the sharks, but for most, this is an interesting stop.
 It's definitely a less scary exhibit!

,, You'll be able to see many different turtles up close.
 Although the ride vehicles look like life-boats, and the center column has an aquatic feel and a blue painted floor, it's actually not a boat. If possible, take in at least one preview, as there are some differences between other Scrambler rides and this ride.
 It is only open as a special events venue seating area.
 Get a good glimpse of the habitat of a penguin. This exhibit is walk-through and is exactly like the former Penguin Encounter at SeaWorld Orlando.
 This is one area that is not to be missed.
 Much like Universal's Animal Actors at Universal Studios Hollywood, this show is super funny and a good time for all.
 Ride the Journey to Atlantis log-flume for an out-of-this-world experience.
 This building offers a walk-through exhibit, so no need to fear you'll be taken quickly through this - it's completely at your pace, and you can take your time.
 It's official entrance is near Dolphin Treasures and directly across from Pinapple Pete's Island Eats and nearby Dolphin Stadium.


Take in SeaWorld's version of the teacup ride at Abby's Sea Star Spin in the Sesame Street Bay of Play area.
Ride the hub-and-spoke ride styled to Elmo's world at Elmo's Flying Fish ride. Push the lever up to raise the fish high and release it down to descend downwards again.
Ride the rather tame version of a pirate ship-like ride at Oscar's Rockin Eel ride.

