 Consumer debt is a widespread problem, so you might want to begin your search by talking to those you know who have already used a credit counseling service.


Some people are hesitant to talk about financial matters, but it doesn't hurt to ask around, especially if you know someone who has been through credit counseling.
Friends, family, and other trusted associates provide a wealth of advice on financial issues, so don’t hesitate to reach out to those around you, when you’re starting to form a list of possible consumer credit agencies.
Remember, these are not necessarily the most unbiased or reliable resources at your disposal, but friends and family members are generally happy to help.;
, Many universities, credit unions, military bases, housing authorities, and local agencies (such as the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau in the U.S. and Citizens Advice Bureau in the U.K.) offer free or low-cost debt counseling. Beginning with resource you already trust is a great way to avoid some of the blatant scams and less than ethical consumer counseling agencies.Additionally, these agencies often offer the most affordable and convenient options. , This may seem like an embarrassing proposition. No one wants to talk about their financial troubles at work, but actually, if you work for a large company, your employee assistance plan (EAP) may offer credit counseling or referrals.


While these EAP credit counseling organizations typically don't offer debt management programs, they do provide a wide range of other services including budget planning
EAP credit counseling services help evaluate a debt management program and determine whether this option is right for you.
EAP resources are typically provided to employees at a reduced price or no cost at all., Choosing a non-profit agency for credit counseling can help you minimize the cost, but non-profit status is no guarantee of an agency's legitimacy. It's also no guarantee that their fees will be reasonable. Many credit counseling agencies are non-profits, and some are better than others. The longer an agency has been in business, the more likely it is that the non-profit is legitimate. Try to find a non-profit that has been in business for 5-10 years. , Like non-profit status, accreditation is a good sign, but it's no guarantee of an agency's quality. For the best results, look for an agency that is a member in good standing with an association of credit counselors, accredited by a trustworthy third party, and approved by the U.S. Department of Justice.


Make sure the agency is a current member in good standing with one of the two professional organizations for credit counseling agencies. Check with the National Foundation for Credit Counseling (NFCC) at https://www.nfcc.org/ and the Financial Counseling Association of America (FCAA) at http://fcaa.org/.
In addition to membership in one of these two organizations, an agency should be accredited by either the Council on Accreditation (COA) or the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
Finally, search the list of accredited agencies approved by the U.S. Department of justice., Not all states in the U.S. or specific jurisdictions worldwide require credit counseling agencies to be licensed, but if your jurisdiction does, make sure the agency you're considering is currently licensed. There are also agencies that are exempt form licensing regulations, so don’t disregard an agency you like based purely on their licensure.The qualifications and licensure of employees are also important when selecting an agency.In the U.S., all people considering bankruptcy must receive credit counseling from an agency approved by the Department of Justice. You can locate an approved agency on the DOJ's website.
If you need assistance with mortgage debt, find an agency that is certified by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
Student loan debt is a growing concern in the U.S., and the National Foundation for Credit Counseling website is great starting point to find counselors well versed and certified to provide counseling on student debt.
 You can always use the old standbys like Google or Yelp reviews, but more complete and authoritative information on any issues or consumer concerns, with a specific agency are available from the Better Business Bureau and the National Association of Attorney General’s.


Alerts for specific a specific agency found on the Better Business Bureau site will be carefully documented from the initial report through all follow-ups from the business, giving a clear picture of how the business operates. Search for the agency you're interested  in at https://www.bbb.org/

You may also want to look into complaints or positive reviews from the National Association of Attorney General’s office at http://www.naag.org for consumer feedback regarding specific agencies.
 Reputable credit counseling agencies provide free information about their services without asking you for money or requiring that you provide them with personal financial information. If a company wants an upfront fee or won't talk about their services without seeing your credit card statements or other information, they are less likely to be a reputable agency.
 Some agencies are only able to offer advice and referrals whereas others are able to provide debt consolidation, debt management plans or programs, and other resources., Financial information will be shared with the agency as well as your addresses and other personal information. A trustworthy agency will protect this personal data, and have evidence of their security and privacy measures., Building up your credit score will take time, and this extended effort proves to credit agencies and businesses that you can pay your bills and debt off in the long term. The longer you maintain good financial standing the better. There are many ways to start down the road to improving credit, and your counseling agency may recommend any number of options.Consolidation is an option that makes it possible for those with debt from multiple sources to get one, low payment for all of their outstanding debt.Debt management programs are another way credit counseling agencies help consumers manage their debt and keep payments within individual budgets.Disputing false negative reports to credit agencies and creditors with documentation is another great way credit counseling agencies can help you improve your credit., It is normal for an agency to charge a small fee, but you should never have to pay exorbitant fees. In most circumstances, fees should not exceed $50 for all of your counseling needs. You may also be eligible for at least one or two free consultations (or about an hour's worth of free consultation). If you are truly unable to pay the fees, ask the agency if they can be waived. Once fees are established, get this information in writing, and read it carefully to make sure you don't receive any additional monthly fees or charges after the initial fee.It’s important to fully understand credit counseling fees, but most credible sources offer low or no fees.Sometimes, fees are based on how the employees are paid. Some consumer credit counseling providers offer their employees incentives if they gather more fees for specified services or convince consumers to donate to certain organizations or programs.
 If you can benefit from participating in a debt management program, be sure to do some extra research before enrolling. These programs differ from counseling in that they require you to actually entrust your debt payments to the counseling agency, which then disburses payments to your creditors. See the related WikiHow article Choose a Debt Management Program for guidelines on what to look for in a debt management program, and be very careful when choosing such a plan., Many people don’t know that the majority of services offered by credit counseling agencies can be completed independently. This includes negotiating with creditors, consolidating debt, and reporting false negatives. Seek guidance if you need it, but don’t be afraid to handle the legwork on your own.