 In order to identify unwanted dog behaviors, you will have to define what you enjoy and do not enjoy in your dogs. Some people might enjoy the sound of their dog’s endless barking, but others might not.You might think it’s cute when your dog begs for food at the table, but you might also find it irritating.
Realize that sometimes personal preferences must be adjusted for the safety of others. Some people might like the fact that their dog jumps up on visitors enthusiastically, but a dog that does this could end up harming an elderly person or small child one day.;
, In addition to your own personal preferences, you should consult other dog owners and veterinarians about what they consider unwanted dog behavior. They might have some insights about what qualifies as desirable or undesirable behavior.For instance, you might say to a fellow dog owner, “I am trying to identify unwanted dog behaviors. What sort of behaviors should I be on the lookout for?”Behaviors that are dangerous for you, your dog, or others should always be considered unwanted behaviors.
In addition to conversations, you should spend some time reading profiles about your dog’s breed. This information can help you better understand what to expect when identifying and correcting unwanted dog behaviors.
For instance, collies, golden retrievers, and German shepherds are easy to train, so correcting their unwanted behaviors will be easier than doing so with hard-to-train breeds like Beagles, Pomeranians, and Basset hounds.
Learning more about dog behaviors might help you realize that what you see as a normal behavior is in fact unwanted or even dangerous, and behaviors that you might consider unwanted are actually normal.
 Instead of phrasing the dog’s unwanted behavior as a problem (“I don’t want my dog to bark endlessly”) think of the situation in terms of what sort of behavior you wish your dog exhibited (“I want my dog to sit quietly”). This important change in perspective will help you devise a plan for action, Correcting your dog’s unwanted behavior (that is, replacing an unwanted behavior with a desirable behavior) should be the long-term goal, but the first step in doing so is to end the current behavior. The easiest way to do that is to starve your dog of the motivation to continue its unwanted behavior.For instance, if your dog barks by the door when it wants to go out to play, then you open the door to let it out, you’re rewarding your dog for barking.
To correct the behavior, you should ignore the dog when it barks and only let it out when it sits at the door quietly, even if it can only maintain this good behavior for a moment at first.
 The desirable behavior you should replace the unwanted behavior with varies depending on the behavior you are correcting for. For instance, if you wish to correct your dog’s barking by the door when it wishes to go out and play, you could train your dog to be ready to play at regularly scheduled intervals that you decide., If your dog is quiet, responsive to your commands, or otherwise well-behaved, reward this behavior in order to ensure it continues. Use a combination of verbal praise, physical affection, and treats when rewarding your dog.For instance, if you ask your dog to sit and it does so, reward it with a treat.
If you tell your dog to be quiet and it stops barking, say, “Good dog!” and pat it on the head.
 You might be unable to adequately identify and correct unwanted dog behaviors simply using a step-by-step guide or a conversation with another dog owner. Every dog is different and unwanted dog behaviors may develop due to a variety of causes. A dog behaviorist expert can help you develop a plan to combat your dog’s unwanted behavior, and can be vital when dealing with dangerous behaviors or in helping older dogs with deeply ingrained habits.Ask your vet for advice in locating a reputable dog behaviorist.

