 You were wounded in some way and you created a set of beliefs. These are the beliefs that you can now explore by looking at the story you tell yourself about your wounding. When young and/or inexperienced, you would have had limited understanding of life and your environment, and survival was paramount. As such, you lacked the experience and knowledge needed to interpret the events that you would likely be able to deal with in a reasoned way now. So, you can use the person you are now, the person seeking to understand better, to look back on the story you tell yourself, so as to work out how to change it.


What are your beliefs around the particular issue or event? It’s important to understand this so that you can start to get some space from the past event the next time your wound is triggered in the present, and the emotional charge comes up. The charge may still overwhelm you, but now, there is a little, but growing part of you that is watching.;
, Everyone has stories, beliefs and emotional charges wrought from the pain that accompanies them. You were young and you created these beliefs to help you to survive, to protect yourself. There’s nothing wrong with that response, as it’s a normal human thing all human beings do to self protect. Have self-compassion and accept that the reaction to the pain was a form of your self-care. And now you are in a position to be kind to yourself, to undo the wounds and to become stronger, to be healed.
 When an emotional charge comes up, don’t push it away with your thoughts, don’t resist. Just feel the energy in your body. Be with it. Get out of your head where the story about your pain is going on. You have been telling yourself a pain story to keep you safe in your head and to protect you from actually feeling the pain. You also do it to remind yourself that you don’t want another similar wound happen again. What’s really going on, though, is that the story is perpetuating the pain, leaving you vulnerable, and even attracting similar events. So, it’s not working, is it?


Remember that the story about your pain is not in the present moment. The story is about your past or how it will affect your future. ‘Now’ is the place of power, the place where you have the power to heal. So, feel the energy in your body and this brings you into the present moment. Without the story, it’s just energy, it’s not pain. Be with it. Breathe. It’s okay, because magic is going to happen and every wound has an amazing gift. You want to heal and find out what that is.
 As you get out of your head, breathe, and feel the energy of your wound, something amazing happens. You are giving yourself the love and attention you really needed when you were young, the tender love that would have prevented the wound in the first place and has the power to heal it now. Through the power of your awareness and your love, the energy will start to dissolve. The charge will lose some power and you will feel a shift. Now you are the one loving and healing, not the victim.
 These emotional charges contain a lot of energy that has been fed sometimes for years and years, so repeat this process as necessary. It’s not how many times you fall down that counts, but how many times you get up. Each time you do, you dissolve it some more and your healing, loving, present moment awareness increases. It may take time, or it may happen in an instant, but your awareness and love will set you free.
 There is always a gift. Is it compassion? Strength? Love? A shift in perception? That is for you to discover and enjoy. The ultimate gift is freedom! To be able to see the world as it is, and to see yourself as you truly are.

