 Your hair needs to be long enough to braid. If you can pull the hair at your crown into a short, stubby ponytail, it is long enough.

If you already have a fade or undercut, you can skip this section; click here to continue.
Set yourself up in front of a 3-way mirror. This will allow you to see everything that you are doing.;
, Use the handle of a rat-tail comb to create two deep side parts just above your eyebrows. They should be aligned with your temples. Connect the parts at the back-crown of your head. Gather your hair into a bun and secure it with a clip of hair tie.

Do not include the first ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters) of hair at your front hair line; leave it out of the bun.
Make the parts as neat as possible.
 If your hair is the same length all over, you will need to trim down anything not gathered into the bun. Don't worry about making it perfect; you will be fading it in a moment. Plan on getting the rest of your hair down to ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) long., Start the guideline at eyebrow level on one side of your head, and continue it along the side of your head and towards the back. Stop when you are about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) above your nape. Repeat this step for the other side; make the guidelines as even as possible.Hold the clippers horizontally against your head so that you get a neat, thin line.
Tap the clippers lightly. If you tap them too hard, you'll have a harder time evening out the fade.
 Open the clippers and switch to a #1½ guard. Shave upwards from your guideline, towards the deep side parts you made earlier. Next, remove the guard (but keep the clippers open), and shave up from the guideline by about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). Close the clippers partway, then finish cleaning things up.Keep the blade flat against your head, then lift it away.
 Close the clippers the rest of the way. Shave upwards along the guideline using short to erase it. Open the clippers partway and switch to a #1/16 guard. Continue to work your way up. Keep the clippers flat as you work on taking out the guideline., Switch to a #1 guard and keep the clippers open part-way. Go over your fade using short, upward strokes. Take your time and check in the mirror often. Make sure that the sides and back match up., By now, you should have everything faded, except for your hair in the bun and the ¼ to ½ -inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters) at your hairline. Close your clippers and switch to a #1½ guard. Clean up the hair at your front hairline until it matches the top part of the fade., All that shaving and buzzing will have lefts lots of tiny, itchy hairs along your neck and shoulders. Take a quick shower to rinse all of that off. You can leave your hair damp, or you can dry it.

Some people find it easier to braid damp hair than dry hair.
 Use a hair pick or a wide-toothed comb to do this. Start from the ends of your hair first, and work your way to the top., You can do this with a misting bottle filled with water. You can also use a moisturizing spray meant for cornrowing hair., Choose something intended for braiding cornrows, or something that contains the following ingredients: flax seed, shea butter, coconut oil. This will help prevent your hair from drying out while it is in the Samurai style., Slide the handle of a rat-tail comb through your hair, from your hairline to the back. Brush the left side to the left, and the right side to the right. Clip the right side out of the way., Go to the hair on the left side of the part. Grab the long hair from the hairline and split it into three smaller sections., Cross the left strand under the middle one, then cross the right strand under the middle one. It is very important that you cross the left and right strands under the middle one and not over, otherwise your braid won't turn out right., Use your thumb to scoop some hair from your hairline. Add it to the left strand, then cross the now-thicker left strand under the middle one., This time, take the hair from the part. Add it to the right strand to make it thicker, then cross the right strand under the middle one., Keep adding hair to the left and right strands before crossing them under the middle one. Keep the braid centered between the two parts (side and center) and the stitches tight. When you reach the middle, begin to angle it towards the center-back of your crown., When you reach the crown of your head and you have no more hair left to gather, stop. Tie the braid off into a ponytail with a clear hair elastic.

If you have ethnic/textured hair, finish off with a regular braid. This will keep you hair from poofing out., Again, keep the stitches neat and tight, and the braid centered. When you reach the middle of your head, angle the braid towards the back so that it touches the other braid.

If you have ethnic hair, finish this off with a braid as well. You are done at this point., Instead of tying the second braid off into another ponytail, add it to the first one. Gather all your hair together, then tie it off into a single ponytail. Use a clear hair elastic or a small hair tie that matches your hair color.

You can remove the hair tie from the first ponytail for this, or you can leave it on.
If you want a bun instead, pull the ponytail half-way through the hair elastic. This is ideal for those with longer hair.

