 A safe location should be away from traffic and stores entrances, in a spot that allows for extended or overnight parking. Some locations have strict rules in place and prohibit overnight parking, so you may become towed or fined if you park in these locations.


Whether or not sleeping in your car will get you a ticket is totally dependent on where you are. Check local and state regulations whenever traveling. Never sleep on the side of the road or highway.
Park at a designated rest stop, or 24-hour parking lot. Many interstates and highways have overnight rest stops you can park at and sleep in overnight while on road trips. This is really the best option to avoid interruption either by the public or by law enforcement.
Find a 24-hour store. Walmart is the big name in this category. Some locations have explicit rules against over-nighters, however, so check online or in the store before you shut eyes for the night.Park somewhere reasonably well-lit. Though it might seem counter-intuitive to trying to sleep, it’s best for your safety to park in a lot with plenty of light.
 Leave the keys out of the ignition. There is the possibility of breaking the law if you fall asleep with your keys in the ignition; you may be considered "in operation" of your car while asleep. Keep your doors locked and your keys in your pocket.


If you're traveling in very cold temperatures, you may need to wake up periodically to run the car for warmth. Be sure to stay awake while the car is running.
 By allowing air to enter or circulate throughout the inside of the car, you will sleep more comfortably and avoid waking up feeling hot and sticky, or with condensation on the windows.


If you end up somewhere relatively populated or crowded, this might not be the best idea. The noise level might be too much to bear with cracked windows. You’d also like to avoid anyone looking in on you.
This is also not necessary or even advisable if you’re traveling in very cold temperatures.
 Luckily when the car isn’t in motion you’ll have a variety of options. Hopefully you won’t have anyone to share the car with for optimal space. Depending on the type of car you have, you might end up in several different positions.Ideally you’ll have a hatchback or some other type of car which opens into the trunk from the back seat. If you can put the back seat down and open up trunk space for your legs, this will be the best way to stretch out.
When driving a pick-up truck, clear space in the bed of the truck (appropriately named here) to sleep in. You'll want to consider a tarp over the bed to keep out insects.
If you're on the shorter side, an empty back seat can make for a usable bed. You'll most likely need to curl your legs for the night so if you're prone to move while you sleep this might end up uncomfortable.
At the very least sleep in a fully reclined seat. Being able to lie down at least partially mimics the usual environment of sleeping in a bed.
 This practice will help you wake up feeling fresh and more comfortable, especially if you have a full day of driving ahead of you. Sleeping in a car can sometimes make you feel especially dirty or cramped, so take the time to stretch and clean up.


If you were fortunate enough to stop at a rest stop, take the time to have a shower and brush your teeth at their facilities.
Keep some bottled water handy for the exclusive use of these morning ablutions. When you’re stuck with nothing else, it’ll come in handy to wash your face or brush your teeth.

