 On your scanner tool, set the PPI (Pixel per inch) to 350 so that it will create a high-quality image.;
, Click on the program’s shortcut icon on your desktop or programs list to launch it. Wait until the program starts. Any version will do, but the latest one is better because they have additional useful functions.
 On the Menu bar located at the top of the screen, go to File and click “Open.” Locate the image, select it, then click “Open.”

, To change it, go to “Image” on the Menu bar then click “Mode” and choose “RGB.”


To turn your scanned image fully grayscale, just in case you didn’t change it on your scanner setting and the image has traces of colors, change the Adjustment, under “Image” on the Menu bar, into “Black and White.”

, On the Layer panel on the palette dock located at the bottom left of the screen, create a new layer by clicking a small paper-like icon beside the folder icon.
 Change the layer name to “Skin” as this will be the first part of the image that you will add a color to.
, Press “B” on your keyboard or get the Brush tool on the toolbar located at the left side of the screen. The icon is a brush.
 Pick a nice skin tone color on the Swatches, which are also on the Palette dock.


You may also set the foreground color to get more colors on the Toolbar, below the Zoom Tool, which is the two square that indicates as foreground and background color.
A skin tone color is the lightest Orange or Yellow Orange.
 Drag and move your mouse to the skin tone of your image.


To avoid misplacing the colors, use the Zoom tool or simply press CTRL + Z.
Use the Eraser tool, which is also located on the toolbar, to delete some misplaced part; but change the Brush Preset, which is on the Palette Dock, and choose “Soft Round” so it will create pixelated color when you erase them.
 Once you’re done with the skin, repeat Steps 1 to 6 with other parts of the body.


For example, if you want to color the clothes, add a layer and rename the layer “Clothes.” After renaming, proceed with selecting the right tool and color, and coloring the clothes.
Continue with other parts, like lips, hair, background, etc.
 To merge all layers, go to Layer dock, right-click, and choose “Flatten Image” or “Merge Visible” on the options.
 Adjust the image tone, level, or brightness on the Image Menu to enhance the photo.
 Press CTRL + S, choose JPEG as file type, add a file name, and click “Save” when you’re done!