 Open the Facebook app on your device and then navigate to your profile. The process is a little different for Android and iOS:


Android - Tap the Menu button (☰) in the upper-right corner and then tap your name at the top of the screen.
iOS - Tap the Menu button (☰) in the bottom-right corner and then tap your name at the top of the screen.;
, If you cannot find "Update Info" tap on "About" option.
 On Android, this will be located at the bottom of the first section of the "About" screen. On iOS, you'll have to scroll a bit to find it.
 Tap the "V" button and select "Edit relationship," or tap the "Edit" button, depending on the version of Facebook you're using.
 Tap the current status to change your status. You can choose to be “Single”, “In a relationship”, “Engaged”, “Married”, “In a civil union”, “In an open relationship”, “In a domestic partnership”, and more.


To remove Relationship Status from your profile, select the “---“ option.
 If they are a Facebook user, their name will appear as a clickable option below the text field.
 If you want to display your anniversary, click the Year dropdown menu. Once you pick the year, the Month menu will appear, followed by the Day menu. Entering your anniversary is optional.
 You can choose who can see your relationship status by tapping the Privacy menu in the bottom-left corner of the relationship editor section. By default, your friends will be able to see your relationship status, but you can change this to Public, Only Me (hidden), Custom, or you can choose from your various Lists. Tap More Options to see these choices.
 Once you have finished filling out the information, tap the Save button. If you’ve set your relationship status with another Facebook user, they will be sent a message asking to confirm that they are in the relationship with you. Once they confirm, your status will appear in your profile.


If the person is already in a relationship with someone else, Facebook will not let you make the change.
Currently, Facebook will not allow an individual to be in relationships with multiple people.

