 Observe the puppies as a group first. You can learn a lot about a puppy's temperament by watching how they behave during group interactions.


Puppies who are timid are a bad sign. Even if only a few puppies seem shy, bark, and avoid contact, there's a good chance such behaviors are part of their genes. This means that even if certain puppies are friendly now, the tendencies towards skittishness might come out later.Normal puppies will be friendly and trusting of strangers. They should greet you by jumping and nibbling on your clothes or shoelaces. Many people bulk at such behaviors as they worry the puppies are disobedient or hyperactive. This is probably not the case. They simply have not learned boundaries yet, which is a good thing. They're naturally trusting.Watch for the puppies that seem neither too timid nor too bossy. You don't want to end up with a skittish puppy but you also do not want an alpha who might be hard to train., After you've observed the puppies as a group, ask to see the ones you're interested in individually.


You need to get a sense of how a puppy behaves when separated from her littermates. Ideally, the puppy will continue to be calm and friendly even away from the pack.While interacting with the puppies one on one, take the opportunity to ask questions. Your breeder should have insights on each puppy's personality that you might miss in a short visit.
 Once you've selected a puppy, you should request to see the health certificates of that puppy as well as her parents.


Siberian huskies are generally pretty healthy, but certain genetic health issues should be a warning sign. Siberian huskies are prone to chronic conditions that require longterm, costly treatment.Hip dysplasia is a condition in which the thigh bone fits improperly into the hip socket. Severe cases require surgery and can cause other problems, such as arthritis. Hip dysplasia can be devastating for dogs who love to run and pull. If you see a history of hip dysplasia, be wary. Seriously consider the possibility your puppy may eventually develop the condition and whether or not you could financially and emotionally handle the situation.Eye problems, like juvenile cataracts and corneal dystrophy, can also be a problem in Siberian Huskies. These tend to start early, sometimes before the age of 2, and cannot usually be corrected by surgery. Blindness is a potential result and while most Siberians can get around all right blind, if you're nervous about raising a blind dog you might want to go to another breeder if eye problems run in your puppy's family.Remember, most dogs will have some kind of health problem documented on their medical records. If it's not a chronic condition of the joints or eyes, your puppy is unlikely to inherit it. However, even if your puppy's parents do not have a history of certain health conditions, this is not necessarily a guarantee your puppy will be free of longterm health problems. Even without a genetic predisposition hip and eye problems can develop, but having healthy parents does reduce their likelihood., After visiting the puppies, you should take some time to consider which puppy you want.


Even if you have your heart set on a particular puppy, give it at least a day. You want to be completely sure of your decision when you purchase a new puppy. Having to return a pet is an emotionally difficult experience.
If possible, see if you can visit the puppies again if you're unsure which one you want. A good breeder is unlikely to pressure you into a fast decision. They're invested in making sure their puppies have happy, healthy longterm homes.

