 Families often have that one person who holds everyone together. If you want to be that person, great. If not, you’ll need to let everyone know. Otherwise, you’ll be the person who is expected to set up get-togethers, resolve conflicts, keep in touch with everyone, and so on.


For example, if you have a relative who always expects you to have Thanksgiving dinner at your home, you could say, “I really like that you feel comfortable in my home and like to celebrate Thanksgiving here. Unfortunately, it’s a lot of work and I don’t think I’ll be able to do it this year. However, I’d love to help you if you want to host it at your place.”
Saying this sets up a clear boundary, but also won’t ruffle too many feathers as you are volunteering to help out., You know your family loves you, but you also know that some members resort to guilt in order to get what they want. Your mom may talk about how much her sister’s kids do for her, and people ask her why you don’t do the same. Let them know you do what you can, and you won’t bend because of a guilt trip.


When a relative is thickly laying on the guilt, try saying, “I understand where you are coming from. However, I don’t appreciate you trying to guilt me into doing something I don’t want to do. I am only willing to help as much as I feel comfortable with. If you continue, I won’t help at all.”
While you are being stern, you are also staying respectful. You are also letting them know that you expect the same kind of respect., Going from raising a child to only seeing them every so often is difficult for some parents. They may still want to have dinner with you every night like they did when you were growing up, but you may only want to share a meal once a week. Let them know what will work for you, and what won’t.


For instance, you could tell them you would like them to call before they stop by. You could also tell them that some parts of your life, such as your personal life, are off limits.
Also let them know that you won’t tolerate any negative comments about your choices in life, who you are dating, your appearance, or anything else. Setting these clear boundaries may cause some backlash, but it will likely be worth it in the end.