 If you do not know your e-mail provider’s website, look at the domain name of your own e-mail address. In most cases, the domain name will be your e-mail provider. For example, if you email is bob@gmail.com, you would go to the website, “www.gmail.com”. If you are using an application, open it up.


Some e-mails, like business e-mails, will have domain names of the company website instead of the e-mail provider’s website. Contact your company’s IT or tech support and ask for your e-mail provider’s website.
 There should be an option or symbol that gives the ability to create a new e-mail.



In Gmail: On the left hand column, click the red bar labelled “COMPOSE”. A blank message should pop-up.

In Outlook: In the blue bar located at the top of the page, click on the option labelled “New” with a symbol of a circle with a plus beside it.

In Yahoo Mail: Click “Compose” on the left side column of the page.

In Mail on Mac: Click the icon with the pencil and paper located on the left corner of the window. It should be beside an icon with an envelope.

In Outlook Express: Click the icon labelled “Create Mail” located in the top left corner of the window. It should have a picture of an envelope beside a blank piece of paper.
 Most e-mail providers and applications will allow you to send any type of file as long as it is within their size limit. Just click “attach file”, locate your ZIP file from your computer, and wait for it upload successfully. Once your ZIP file is located, the attachment field should be show the name and type of file you uploaded. You can even click the attachment to view it.



In Gmail: Click the paper clip located on the bottom of your message. When you mouseover the paper clip, it should read, “Attach files”. A window will pop up for you to attach your ZIP file.

In Outlook: In the blue bar at the top of the page, click “Insert”. A drop down menu should appear. Click “Files as attachment”.

In Yahoo Mail: Click the paper clip located on the bottom of your message.

In Mail on Mac: Click the paper clip located at the top right corner of your message.

In Outlook Express: Click the paper clip labelled “Attach” and browse for the file.
 Be sure to include the recipient’s e-mail address, a subject for your e-mail, and a message.


It may take a while for your message to send, especially if the ZIP file you are sending is quite large. Check your outbox and sent mailbox to ensure your e-mail has been successfully sent.

