 You do not need a prescription from a doctor. Condoms can be obtained easily and for free at clinics like Planned Parenthood.Clinics like Planned Parenthood are sensitive to the need for confidentiality, especially if you are a teen who does not want your parents know that you are thinking about using birth control.Condoms are an effective form of birth control and prevent pregnancy 98% of the time if they are used correctly every time. However, they are rarely used perfectly and 21% of women experience a pregnancy in the first year of use. Condoms are highly effective in preventing the sexual transmission of HIV and many other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) like herpes or chlamydia when they are used consistently and correctly. This type of birth control does require a responsible partner who is willing to help you prevent an unplanned pregnancy.Websites like http://www.condomfinder.org/find.php can help you find places near you, anywhere in the US, that give out free condoms. Some websites list sites only in a certain area or are for teens only.;
, The services offered by the clinic associated with your local health department will depend upon where you live. It is a good place to find out about your options for getting free birth control.


Some of the clinics will offer you birth control at a reduced price. Other clinics will help you apply for programs that allow you to get free health care like family planning and birth control. Once you are accepted into a program, you can get your free birth control at the clinic. The healthcare workers at the clinic will tell you what methods are available free., The staff that works at a sexual health clinic like Planned Parenthood, your local free clinic, or a clinic for adolescent health can help you get the birth control for free. You could have access to a wide variety of birth control methods such the pill, the patch, an intrauterine device (IUD), or a diaphragm. It depends upon clinic you go to and the state in which you live. You can call your local health department to see There are many programs out there that will help you get birth control for free, but you must sign up to take advantage of the benefits. Adults will have to see what the income requirements are and most minors under the age of 18 will qualify. The staff at your clinic is there to help you through the process.In most states, adolescents are able to consent for themselves for contraception, and do not need a parental consent.
If you are a college or university student, visit your health center. These centers often offer free condoms and sometimes they even offer free birth control pills., After the Affordable Care Act (ACA) went into effect in 2010, some states gained access to funds that would allow them to provide certain individuals with free family planning services and supplies. This plan provides birth control for both women and men.This is a good option if you are uninsured, have a limited income, or have Medicaid. There is no age limit to apply. Each state is different in terms of what services the plan offers. In general, this option does give you access to a variety of birth control methods like an intrauterine device (IUD), a diaphragm, or getting your tubes tied. But, it seems like over-the-counter methods like spermicides and the sponge are covered less often.Unlike private insurance, your partner can be covered to undergo a vasectomy. This is a surgical procedure which involves having his vas deferens cut and tied off to prevent sperm from being released during sexual intercourse., Drug companies like to give healthcare professionals free drug samples to help promote their products. Your healthcare professional may give you some free samples if you tell her you are having trouble paying for birth control.


It cannot hurt to ask for help wherever you receive medical care. You can talk to your doctor in the office or at the clinic. If you have a health center at your school, university, or college, talk to someone there. Your school counsellor may not have access to birth control, but her advice may direct you to the right place to get free birth control.You will not be able to get an unlimited amount of free samples. Pursue other ways of getting free birth control.
 Because this government website is associated with the Affordable Care Act (ACA), you will be able to find an insurer which will provide you with one type of free birth control from each of the 18 Federal Drug Administration (FDA) approved categories. The website can help you find an affordable plan that meets your medical and financial needs. Even if you cannot find a plan, you may qualify for Medicaid. Under ACA, many states expanded their Medicaid services, including providing free birth control. Specifically, some states allow you to get the free birth control from Planned Parenthood even it is not an “officially approved” provider for Medicaid.If you can get private insurance, your options for free birth control are increased. The 18 FDA-approved categories offer you a wide range of birth control methods. This includes being able to use a barrier method, like a diaphragm or a sponge, during sexual intercourse. You could use a hormonal method like birth control pills or a vaginal ring. The use of an implanted device like an intrauterine device (IUD) is another one of your options. You even have access to emergency contraception, like Plan B® and ella®, to stop you from ovulating after unprotected sexual intercourse. If you want a permanent form of birth control, you can choose to undergo a sterilization procedure like having your tubes tied. The best part is that you are offered patient education and counseling to help you figure out which method of birth control is best for you.One difficulty is that this application must be filled out during a specific period of time each year (the annual open enrollment period) unless you qualify for a special enrollment period. This period is the 60 days following certain life events that involve a change in family status (marriage or the birth of a child) or the loss of other health coverage.