 This is a very important step to take because beating yourself up is not going to reverse the eavesdropped phone sex that you had. It is not easy to not beat yourself up for something that you didn't know was going happen, (the eavesdropping) but you have to do it for the sake of your sanity.;
, This is another crucial step to take because there are so many good things that have happened to you and/or will happen to you and you cannot let what one person did to you without you knowing ruin you or your life. You are more than the phone sex situation. No matter how devastated you are, it's important for you to know that.
 It's important for you to understand that this having happened may make you feel like you're less sexually desirable and it may make you feel ashamed of your sexual fantasies and desires if you're not sure enough or strong enough to deal with situation. Don't let the incident make you have low self esteem. Don't let that phone situation make you ashamed of your appearance, figure, sexuality, attractiveness or any physical body part that you have.
 This is crucially important. Having low self esteem because you were exploited unknowingly is giving the people who eavesdropped and the guy or girl who let the people eavesdrop you having phone sex power. It's giving them something they don't deserve. Karma is going to get them, that's what you must believe. That's just how life works. You reap what you sow and what they and the guy or girl you did it with reaped is going to come right back around and bite them in the butt. It may not happen when you want it to happen, but it's going happen when you ain't thinking about them anymore or what they did to you.
 Revenge is karma's job, not yours. Because if you try to seek revenge on them whether it be doing what they did to you to them or by putting them on blast, you're going to look like you still care about what did they to you. And even if you still care, don't broadcast that to them, the person you did it with, friends, family, associates, Facebook, twitter, Tumblr or anybody at all for that matter. Because they'll know that they hurt you and might laugh at you for that and may feel like they won.


Phone sex is an intimate conversation and a sexual activity in a way and it's one of those sensitive topics that shouldn't talked about with people who are not your significant other or therapist.
If you want to talk to somebody on how to get over it, google this article or get therapy if you can afford it.
Another reason why you don't want to broadcast what they did to you is because unfortunately everybody is not compassionate like Dr. Phil or Ellen. Some people will blame you for what you did and say it's a lesson.
Another reason why not to talk about your eavesdropped phone sex situation to people is because it can make you a target for exploitative people to do that to you or to start false rumors about you, or to start telling everybody that knows you what happened to you. #*Also because people might judge you as having a lot of issues and pity you a lot if you go around talking about that situation happening to you and everybody isn't going to want to remain your friend if you tell them what happened to you.
You can tell your boyfriend or girlfriend if they mention having it with you, say that you had a bad experience with phone sex but don't voluntarily tell them that you had a eavesdropped phone sex experience.



Living your life is more important than being depressed and is a better idea than killing yourself. Because once you're dead, that's it. Suicide is a permanent solution to a temporary problem.
The temporary problem in this case is depression and suicidal thoughts. Both suicidal thoughts and depression are treatable. Also drinking water, exercising daily for 20 minutes (moderate to high intensity aerobic work is best if you really struggle with depression because of this) eating healthy helps too.
 There are a lot of men and women who want to build you up and not tear you down and who want to love you for who you are and want to be faithful to you. If you have never been married or engaged, know that you will find Mr. or Mrs. "Right" one day. You have to claim and know that you are worthy of love and to prove to yourself that you can attract the right person for you that loves you for you and doesn't want to take advantage. Don't let the bad phone sex situation that you endured make you feel like you'll never find the right love or your dream love you've always wanted.


This same rule applies to friends. Don't let that phone situation make you feel vulnerable around people and if you don't have friends or as many friends as you want or if you don't the right friends then find some good-hearted friends to prove to yourself that you can get the right people in your life that want build you up and not tear you down and don't want to take advantage of you.
 And forgive the people who eavesdropped on your phone sex conversation. Because not being forgiven is like a disease that can start affecting other areas of your life whether it be school, work, relationships with family and friends, etc. or if you have a boyfriend or a girlfriend since this happened to you it can affect that relationship and it can affect your relationship with yourself if you don't forgive them. Forgive them and don't contact them or answer their calls, even if the person who let others eavesdrop or if an eavesdropper calls apologizing and/or crying. Hang up on them and let them know nonverbally that they hurt you and that you don't want to have anything to do with them ever again by ignoring their calls, texts, and Facebook, Tumblr and/or Twitter messages and by blocking them on Facebook, Tumblr, and/or Twitter.
 Pray to God daily to help you and ask Him for strength when you feel yourself slipping mentally. God knows what happened to you and He feels your pain and He feels it more than you may think He does sometimes. He can heal your wounds. Trust Him if you believe in God.
 Masturbate as much as you want to when you want to. Don't let what the person you had phone sex with and their eavesdroppers make you feel ashamed to masturbate or make you ashamed to use a sex toy. Because more than likely, they're not letting you stop them from masturbating and using a sex toy when they get a sexual urge and are in private. Also if you read erotica books or watched adult movies and/or had sex before that situation happened to you, you keep on reading erotica and watching adult movies and having sex (with a significant other not with random people or more than one person). The same goes for if you bought sexy bras and underwear before that happened to you: keep buying it.
 You are beautiful/handsome in your way and you are more than that situation. Love you. Embrace you. Love your body. Love and embrace your sexual being and your sexuality in spite of this having had happened to you. Don't let this situation make you scared of the opposite sex or make you filled with hate towards the opposite sex or your own sex. Don't let this make you scared to have sex when you feel emotionally and mentally ready to. That's giving the people who betrayed you power. You are perfect the way you are.

