 Decide how you want to fake it. Map out the event on paper to better flush out your ideas for the prank. Plan to “die” in front of people you know can handle it. Gather any supplies like fake blood or a trick dagger from a local costume shop.


”Dying” in front of someone will take a lot of convincing and dedication from you. Be prepared to go the extra mile in selling your “death" to your peers.
Try to decide a good location to “die.” You probably don’t want to be somewhere too public or else a bystander could call an ambulance.Night is a good time because there won’t be as much light on the scene.;
, Pick out one or a group of your friends to witness your faux death. Begin telling them clues that you aren’t doing so well. Decide if you want to “die” from an injury or disease. If you’re are planning a disease induced “death,” tell them about your failing health. Be dramatic to the point of them believing you.


Choose symptoms like headache, nausea, jittering limbs, or fainting.
If you are planning to “die” from an injury, make up a person who is angry with you. Build up a story about how someone shady is anxious for you to pay them.
 Pretend to be in extreme, sudden pain. Fall to the ground holding your side. Place an open packet of ketchup in your mouth so that once you hit the floor it looks like blood is oozing out of your mouth.Make yourself as limp as possible after having a brief convulsion. Control your breathing. Don't let them see your chest rise and fall.


Having too much of a spasm can give away your act.
Do everything in subtlety when it comes to tricking your friends or the camera.Lay there until people start to get scared. Never let a “trick” get taken out of context. Come forward if the audience becomes too distraught.
 You can do this in several different scenarios and most of which can happen out of sight from your audience. You could have gotten into a car accident or been severely beaten while being mugged. Roughen up some of your clothes to appear as though you were severely injured. Add blood smears and tears to parts of your outfit.


Apply charcoal to parts of your face to look like you’ve been beaten up.Break an old pair of glasses for an added effect.
 It’s best to have a set time of meeting and show up late for dramatic effect. Make sure your audience is in the location you planned them to be at. Wear the clothes and makeup from your “injury.” Limp onto the scene and begin to mutter audibly what happened like, “a . . . a . . . car crash” or “he sa. . .sa. . . said give me the ma. . .money.”


Collapse just before you reach your audience. As mentioned earlier, have an opened packet of ketchup in your mouth for when you fall. Once you hit the ground, bite down on the ketchup and allow it to ooze out of your mouth.Once they start shaking you, asking you if you are alright, say, “gotcha!”

