 The flip side of the sit-up is the back extension, which uses a hyperextension bench. This is a piece of equipment that holds your body at an angle (about 45°) and securely holds your feet and ankles. Begin by lying face-down on the bench with your ankles under the footpads. Your upper thighs should hit the large, upper pad (if they don't, adjust the bench until the pad is at your thighs).Keeping your body straight, cross your arms over your chest.
Slowly bend forward at the waist, lowering your upper body as far as you can without rounding your back. It is essential for your safety that you keep your back straight during this exercise. If your back begins to round, then you have gone too far forward and should stop.
Raise your torso back to the beginning position. Repeat.
If you’ve been doing a lot of crunches and sit-ups, make sure to start including back extensions in your routine as well.
Don’t extend your upper body backwards too far past a straight spine.
Shoot for three sets of as many back extensions as you can handle.
Back extensions can also be performed without equipment. Lying flat on your stomach, simultaneously lift your arms, chest, and legs off the floor. You should use your back muscles to lift yourself off the floor. Hold for two to five seconds if you are a beginner, hold for up to a minute if you are more advanced. Then release and lower back to the floor. This is similar to the Superman or cobra pose.
 Every few months, change up your core workouts extensively. Otherwise, your body will acclimate to the specific routine you’re doing and it will be harder to gain further strength from the same workout.There are many core-specific workout routines available online. Many sites even offer printable core workouts, some of which are designed to strengthen your core according to the physical activities you most enjoy.
One of the best ways to vary or expand a workout routine is by including or focusing on a new muscle group. In particular, incorporate new exercises that focus on your back, as people tend to favor exercises that focus mostly on their abs.

