 How long is your ride? How much did you drink? How badly do you need to go? If the result is that you have to go, then follow the steps bellow. If not, hold yourself and wait.;
, If you are on a bus that stops at gas stations, it is probably wise to go there if you are uncomfortable with the restrooms on board. You also want to be careful that you don't disturb other passengers, especially if it is during the night and they are trying to sleep.
 It is important that you don't disturb other passengers, so if you are planning to brush your teeth, wash your face or do other things in the bathroom, bring all your materials with you. It is always a good idea to bring hand sanitizer on public transport so you don't have to use the restroom.
 It can be rather embarrassing to have the door opened on you as the bus or ship is moving along and you are mid-business with a line waiting out there. Push or pull on the door to check it's properly locked.


You can touch the door by holding toilet paper if you're worried about germs.
 If you're moving, there is risk of falling or being tossed if the vehicle hits something, goes over something bumpy, hits turbulence, crashes on a wave, or whatever. It's a good idea to find any form of handle or device meant for hanging onto in the event of such a happening. For the most reassurance, hang onto it anyway.
 Some people aren't bothered by germs, but it is always a good idea to wipe off the seat on the toilet, or avoid touching too many things in the restroom. Take a piece of paper towel or toilet paper, put a bit of water on it (maybe soap) and wipe off anything you will be touching.
 Use the bathroom as intended and be quick about it. There is no point hanging around too long, it subjects you to an uncomfortable situation for a longer time and it can prolong the wait for other people outside.


It is probably a good idea to avoid touching too many things. In fact, if you can squat rather than sit on the seat, that's the best option.
 Wash your hands completely with soap. If there is none, at least wash them very well, rubbing your hands vigorously.


If you made a mess somewhere, be polite and clean it, imagine if you had to clean up after someone else before you used the bathroom. Pass on cleanliness, not germs.
 If you didn't mind it, well then it's your choice.

