 Use toothpicks for where the holes will be. Ensure your shapes are completely dry before applying the ART CLAY SILVER paste. TIP: Make your shapes a few days before you make your beads. To dry out the cork completely place the shapes in the warmest place you can find, e.g the dash of your car is a good place. The shapes will feel very light when dry. (See image cork forms.)
, Use the hairdryer to dry paste in between each layer. (See image painting on clay paste)., This depends on how thick you are applying each layer. Bead should have a nice weighty feel to it. TIP: Make sure you keep your coats even. You don’t want thin areas as these may sink in when firing. Make sure you paint the clay right up to the toothpicks., Leave the area you want syringed uncoated. (See image Filigree heart), TIP: Don’t sand to much as you will thin the layers you have applied., This is where your imagination takes over. Using the syringe and the synthetic stones decorate your bead. To set the stones form a donut the size of your stone using the ART CLAY SILVER syringe. Place the stone onto the donut making sure it is sitting straight. Apply another donut using the syringe on top of the stone.(See image Setting Stone)., When you have completed decorating the bead use the hair dryer to completely dry your bead. TIP: To tell if your bead is dry place it on a small compact mirror. If there is condensation on the mirror then your bead is not completely dry. Continue drying until there is no condensation., Remove toothpicks from your bead before firing. If you are using a portable camp hotplate take it outside to fire as the cork gets very smoky when firing away. If firing indoors on your cook top have the range hood on hi and keep the room well ventilated. The cork will take a little longer to fire away than firing just clay. Approx. 5-10 minutes. (See image Firing)., You now have a hollow bead., (See image Brushing), This brings out the bright shine of the silver. On this heart bead I have only burnished the syringe work and left the remainder with the matte finish for contrast. (See image Heart Contrast).