 This will give you more motivation for the rest of the day. Make sure the next slot is something heavier so you don't put off your worst subjects until the end.
 Some people study best in the morning, whereas other people like to burn the midnight oil. If you know when you can concentrate best, you can use that time of the day to focus on your revisions., At the start of your study session, consider the specific goals you would like to achieve. Take two minutes to write down a specific goal you hope to achieve, such as completing the reading up to a specific page number in the textbook.

If you are memorizing dates or events for a history exam, write down a goal to memorize a particular number of facts for the exam.
 Consider whether you are using the most appropriate study methods for specific subjects, such as flash cards for a history exam or rhymes for an oral French language exam. It is important to tailor your study methods for the type of exam material.If you need to identify parts of the human body, you may want to use biological illustrations or pictures.
If you need to perform in an algebra exam, you should practice doing equations.
 Instead of studying for hours and losing concentration, it is best to study for thirty or forty minutes at a time. If you still feel fresh after forty minutes, you can always get back to work., If you are going to study for the day, it is important to give yourself breaks between periods of studying. Go for a short walk or grab a cup of coffee and then come back to your revisions later., At the end of a study session, you should quickly review what you have accomplished during the session. Give yourself a pat on the back if you have accomplished any of your study session goals, such as finishing preparation for a particular topic or subject. If you haven’t yet achieved your goal, write down what you need to accomplish in order to get closer to the goal during your next study session., It will feel great when you can tick off a subject from your study list. You will have one subject less to worry about. That said, it is important to come back to the subjects you studied first towards the end of your revisions period., As you move further into your revisions schedule, you may need to remind yourself about particular subjects or topic areas that you covered weeks or months ago. So, it is wise to periodically revisit the subjects that you covered earlier in your revisions timetable., Sleep is important for cognition, which is necessary for exam performance. To ensure a good performance, getting a solid rest is really important.For instance, you should try to get between eight and ten hours of sleep per night.Unfortunately, not getting sufficient sleep will limit your concentration and learning. If you are prioritizing study time over getting adequate sleep (i.e., 8-10 hours), it could negatively impact your ability to concentrate and learn during your study sessions.