 If you have chronic acid reflux, you may need to adjust your diet so you are not having any foods or beverages that could trigger acid reflux. Start a food diary (either on paper or on your smartphone), recording foods that you ate within one to two hours that then lead to symptoms of acid reflux. You can then remove those foods from your diet so your body is not triggered by them.


For example, maybe you eat breaded chicken, broccoli, and pasta in tomato sauce for dinner. Within an hour, you develop acid reflux. The trigger could be the chicken, the breading on the chicken, the broccoli, the pasta, or the tomato sauce. Start by eliminating tomato sauce from you next meal. If you do not develop acid reflux after eating the tomato sauce, the tomato sauce is likely the trigger. But if you still have acid reflux, the issue may be the other foods you ate. Eliminate each food until you no longer have acid reflux.
 Eating smaller meals puts less stress pressure on your stomach, allowing your digestive system to function properly and reducing the amount of stomach acid disruption in your stomach.


You should also eat slowly by chewing your food several times before swallowing. This will help you digest more easily and quickly, leaving less food in your stomach and putting less pressure on your digestive system.
Try to have your meals two to three hours before bedtime. Eating earlier in the night will allow your stomach to digest the food properly before you lie down in bed.
 Smoking can increase the acid in your stomach and increase your risk of acid reflux. If you are not able to quit smoking, try not to smoke at least two hours before your bedtime.
 Chewing sugar-free gum after meals can help to stimulate your salivary glands. This can then release bicarbonate into your saliva and help to neutralize the acid in your esophagus., This will allow gravity to help keep the acid in your stomach and prevent it from rising into your esophagus. You will need to actually raise your bed frame or the top section of your bed. Piling pillows on your bed and laying on them will not help as much as this will cause you to bend your neck and body in a way that will increase the pressure. This can then make the acid reflux worse., The “heel drop” is used to treat a hiatal hernia but it can also be used to relieve acid reflux. This method can help to realign your stomach and your diaphragm.Start by drinking 6 to 8 ounces of slightly warm water. Then, stand up and bring your arms straight out to your sides. Bend your arms at the elbows and bring both hands to meet your chest.
Stand on your toes so your heels are lifted. Then, drop your heels down to the ground. Repeat this 10 times. After the 10th drop, keep your arms up and pant in short, quick breaths for 15 seconds.

