 You may feel a lot of pressure and anxiety around an in person date with someone you like. You can calm your nerves by choosing a setting where you feel comfortable and able to be yourself. Suggest a restaurant you like and go to often or a spot in a public place that you find soothing and calming. This way, you are less nervous and able to be yourself during the date.For example, you may ask the person to go out for a coffee at a local coffee shop near your home so you have an out in case the date goes south. Or you may suggest that you meet at a bench in a quiet park so you can have a quality conversation and feel relaxed around each other.
 If you get nervous before a date and worry that you will be too introverted, you may practice before the date to loosen up and relax. Ask a friend to practice with you. Think about how you will start a conversation with the person and how you will keep the conversation going on the date. You may practice some conversation starters and remind yourself to be calm and be yourself.For example, you and your friend may pretend to go on a date. This will allow you to try out some conversation starters and get used to chatting with someone in a casual setting. You may then find it easier to chat on your date once you are in the mindset of being social around others.
 You may find it easier to be honest with the person about your introverted nature so you do not have to pretend or be more outgoing than you really are. Sometimes, being transparent and honest can break the ice and make you both feel more comfortable around each other. You may be surprised to find out that the person is just as nervous as you are and they may appreciate your vulnerability, especially on a first date.For example, you may tell the person, “To be honest, I’m pretty introverted so it takes some time for me to come out of my shell. But I’m glad we could get together.”

, Many introverts struggle with making small talk, where you talk about surface level things and don’t really get to know each other. You can try skipping small talk by asking the person thoughtful questions instead. This may allow you to get to know each other on a deeper level and feel less pressure to talk about superficial things.For example, you may ask the person, “Why did you leave the country for school?” or “What was it like living on your own?” Try to ask follow up questions once they answer you so they can tell you are engaged.
 Though you should ask the person thoughtful questions, you should also try to answer their questions with honesty and sincerity. Work on opening up and coming out of your shell. You may find this difficult at first but as you get more comfortable around the person, it should get easier to do this.You may need a few dates with the same person to feel you can be yourself and be less shy. Be okay with this and be patient with yourself, as it may pay off if you end up finding someone who accepts and appreciates your introverted nature.
 Introverts sometimes feel more comfortable when they are with people who they know and trust.If you are worried about having a first date with someone on your own, then you might consider setting up a double date with a friend.


For example, if you have a close friend who has a boyfriend, then you might consider arranging to go on a date with her and her boyfriend plus your date.

