 If you point out good examples of positive behavior, your students will learn to recognize these behaviors and seek to emulate them. Without acknowledgement, your students won’t know which behaviors to aspire to.


When a student engages in a positive behavior such as helping another student or peacefully resolving a conflict, acknowledge the behavior by either bringing it to the individual student’s attention or to the attention of the entire class.
For example, if a student steps in to support a student who is being bullied, you might acknowledge the student later and say, “this is the kind of positive behavior that helps make everyone feel happier and more comfortable.”

, Praising your students when they engage in positive behaviors provides a positive reinforcement for the behavior beyond simple recognition. It lets the student know that they’ve done a good job and helped the class move in a positive direction.In order to be effective, praise should be specific, sincere, and culturally-appropriate.
For example, if a student writes a good paper, praise the student’s specific use of lesson material (“Excellent job segueing from the introduction to the body of your paper”), make sure the praise is sincere, and don’t praise the student in front of the class if it will make them feel uncomfortable.
It’s important to praise effort as well as outcomes. If a student is trying hard to accomplish a task, praise their efforts and encourage them to keep trying.
 Negative reinforcement involves punishing undesirable behaviors instead of praising desirable behaviors. Negative reinforcement, used alone, tends to build resentment and distrust between the student and teacher, and lowers students’ self-esteem. Substitute positive reinforcement for negative reinforcement whenever possible.For example, if you have an unruly student, make a concerted effort to use positive reinforcement techniques when the student behaves well instead of only calling them out when they behave badly.
If you do need to discipline a student, do so privately so as to avoid embarrassing them. This will let the student know you respect them as a person even though you’re upset with them at that moment.

