 Eat whole grain cereals and breads, yogurt, and fresh fruit.Use whole milk for your cereal and to drink, since it keeps you fuller than low-fat or non-fat milk, but make sure to have only 1 cup at each meal.Have fun with breakfast and try different foods. Ask your parents to help you make new dishes on weekends.
Go grocery shopping with your parents to help pick out new things to try and to find a healthier alternative to sugary cereals. Look for whole grains on the label and low-sugar options.
Eggs are a great breakfast food, as well as a snack. Make hardboiled eggs in the mornings alongside your breakfast egg dish and take them for lunch or a late day snack., A lot of school lunches are full of processed foods and fat. Pack a lunch instead so you know what you are eating. Ask your parents to buy low-fat meats for sandwiches and make them with pita pockets instead of of thick bread. Don’t forget a piece of fresh fruit and low-fat milk., Help your parents make dinner most nights. Even if you have lots of activities after school and get home later, there are so many good, quick recipes for salads that you are sure to find one you like and can help whip up. Or prepare as much as possible ahead of time to make cooking dinner faster.


Help your parents prepare fresh ingredients on the weekends so they are ready to put together on busy evenings.
Make cooking for the week a family fun activity by preparing several meals on Sundays and freezing some for the end of the week.
 Instead of sugary desserts, have some berries with yogurt or a little whipped cream. Ask for sorbet or juice bars instead of ice cream.Dip oranges in melted dark chocolate for a rich, chocolaty treat.Find fun recipes for healthier versions of your favorite desserts online. Sometimes just substituting a couple ingredients makes a huge difference.For example, you can make a healthy version of strawberry cheesecake with yogurt, cottage cheese and pretzels., Put some mint and cucumber slices in your water, or a few blueberries and orange slice. Use sparkling water and an ounce or two of fruit juice instead of drinking sugary juice alone. Put chopped fruit in ice cube trays with a little water and freeze for later.Even 100% juice is mostly sugar because pressing the fruit into a liquid strains out the fiber—the healthiest part!
Soda is so sweet that it triggers your body to crave more sugar, and makes you need more to taste it. Even diet soda isn’t good for you, since it still tastes very sweet to your body.Try green tea with a little honey, hot or cold. Tea provides a lot of antioxidants that make it healthy for you, and you might even like it plain., Low-fat cheese is a great snack and is also portable. Incorporate fruit by eating sliced apples with peanut butter.Or put some fresh fruit in low-fat yogurt for a refrigerated snack. Try a pita with hummus, or a handful of nuts.


Check labels on peanut butter to find an all-natural one without added sugar.
Buy plain yogurt instead of the kind with fruit or flavors added since they contain a lot of sugar. Add your own fruit and, if you need a little more taste, some locally produced honey.Use almonds or walnuts to make a trail mix with dried fruit and granola. Just make sure not to eat more than a couple handfuls a day to avoid overdoing it on calories.