 Cold sores need arginine to develop. Arginine is an amino acid found in foods such as walnuts, chocolate, sesame seeds, and soy.To prevent additional cold cores, avoid these foods. Instead, eat foods with the amino acid lysine, which counteracts the influence of arginine with cold sores. Foods high in lysine include red meat, pork, poultry, cheeses, eggs, and brewer’s yeast.Pay attention to your lysine to arginine ratio to help prevent the appearance of more cold sores in the future.


You can also take an oral supplement of lysine daily. Dosing will depend upon several factors, so discuss your intentions with your physician., You can help prevent yeast infections by brushing your teeth twice a day, flossing once a day, reducing or eliminating the use of mouth wash, and not sharing any eating utensils that may pass the infection from one person to another. If you have diabetes or wear dentures, take special care of your oral hygiene as these are possible triggers for a yeast infection.


Limit the amount of sugar or foods that contain yeast that you eat. Yeast requires sugar to multiply and grow. Foods with yeast include bread, beer, and wine, which can encourage the growth of yeast., There are situations when your mouth sore is more than a canker sore or cold sore. If they are persistent, the sores may be cancer, which is an uncontrollable growth of the cells that invade other areas and cause damage to the surrounding tissue.Oral cancer can occur on the tongue, lips, floor of the mouth, cheek, and the hard and soft palate of the mouth. This is life-threatening if undiagnosed and untreated.


Look for a lump or thickening of tissue in the mouth, a sore that doesn’t heal, a white or reddish patch in the mouth, tongue pain, loose teeth, difficulty chewing, jaw pain, a sore throat, and feelings of foreign objects stuck in your throat.Treatments to heal inflammation from this type of trigger requires the immediate intervention from a physician. Treatment protocols may include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation treatments.