 This can yield mail order shops and places that are local to you for the clothing you need. Don't be afraid of mail order,a s things can be returned. But remember, mail order is just like a store. Things that may fit from one manufacturer may not fit from another, and even things from the same manufacturer may fit differently. Order a few things at a time until you get an idea how the sizes run. If you find something basic you like, like jeans, get more than one pair.;
, When you go to local shops, if you're not comfortable with your own decisions, take someone with you whom you trust. Women are great for this. Women love to shop, and usually won't let you go too far wrong.
 They're there to help you get a good fit.
 Use that information as a basis for purchases you make on your own.
 This doesn't mean what fit when you were in school, just worn lower under your tummy. Tight clothes ARE NOT attractive. And remember, unless you're talking about 501s, your size probably isn't on your label.
 Again, not what you wore in school, what you wear now. A big pile of fabric around your ankles is not what you want. With things that shrink, like jeans and chinos, do allow some length for shrinkage. Nothing is more frustrating than pants that were the perfect length that now show the world your ankles because they shrank.
 Discount mass retailers like K-Mart, Target, etc. can be a God send. These store carry larger sizes, at reduced prices, and you can try things on to your heart's content. You can also buy things, take them home to try, and return what you don't like at your leisure.
 They will make sure you get the right fit. Try to get some things from this kind of shop, even if it's only one or two items, like a dress shirt, or, if you can afford it,a suit. Yes, it will cost more, but consider it an investment.
 This is something dry cleaners often specialize in, and it usually isn't very expensive. Getting less expensive clothing altered can make the difference in looking shabby and looking sharp.
 Mid-range retailers like JC Penney, Macy's, etc. are really good for big and tall sizes. Stores like this combine a level of customer service you don't get in less expensive stores, and a price range you can often afford even when you don't think you can. Shop the sales. You'll surprise yourself at what you can get, at really good prices.
 Finally, if you're getting a bit older, say over thirty, give up on the bright Hawaiian-type shirts. Yes, your friends may find them amusing, but you don't want to date your friends. If you have to have one, wear it out when you go to the bars, not on a date.

