 You can curl your hair just after you washed it, but it needs to be perfectly dry.Steam rollers will work the best on straight hair, but you can try using them to define curly or wavy hair. If you have natural or kinky hair, however, you will need to start with a blow-out., Even though steam rollers are much gentler on your hair than regular hot rollers, they still use some heat. Apply your favorite heat protectant evenly throughout your hair. If you need to, use a comb to help distribute it.
 Fill the tank with cool to room-temperature water up to fill line and replace the lid. Set it down on a stable surface and plug it in. Turn the tank on and wait for the steam to form. It will take about 1 minute before you start seeing steam come out of the lid.


How much water you use depends on the size of the tank.
 Wait 3 to 5 seconds for it to soak up the steam. Some manufacturers may recommend up to 7 seconds. It's okay if you go over that time, but be aware that it may take longer for your hair to dry.If you have natural or kinky hair, choose the largest roller and leave it on for 30 seconds. This ensures that it is saturated enough for your hair type., Grab a 1 to 2-inch (2.54 to 5.08-centimeter) wide, horizontal section of hair. If you are using a smaller hair roller, can use a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) section of hair.If your hair is natural or kinky, take a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) section and smooth your hair with a comb., Place the roller under the strand of hair, about halfway down. Wrap your hair around the roller, finishing off with the ends. Next, roll the roller downwards, towards your scalp., This will help make the cap more pliable. It will also help set the style further.Hold the roller in place while you wait for the cap to steam.


If your hair is natural or kinky, leave the cap on for 10 seconds., This will secure the roller to your head and keep it from moving. You are now ready to move onto the next roller and section of hair.
 Work your way from the top of your head towards the nap of your neck, then down the sides. Use neat, even rows. You can use the same size of rollers, or you can play around with different sizes. Be sure to use smaller sections of hair for the smaller rollers.The smaller rollers will give you tighter curls while the larger ones will give you loose waves and lots of volume.For natural or kinky hair, continue to use the largest roller size in the kit. If you use the smaller rollers, your hair will turn out too frizzy., If you can't wait that long, you can blow dry your hair using a cold setting for about 1 minute. Your hair must be completely dry and cool before you move on, otherwise the curls may come out. Keep in mind that the longer you leave the rollers in, the tighter the curls will be.For natural or kinky hair, let the rollers sit for 2 hours. You can use a hooded dryer for 20 minutes to speed up the process., Begin by pulling off the clamp. Unroll your hair to loosen it. Once it is completely loose, you can pull the roller out, and let the strand of hair fall naturally., Do not brush or comb your hair.If you do, the curls may come out entirely or turn frizzy. The more you run your fingers through the curls, the fluffier and looser they will turn.
 Great choices include shine sprays, serums, and creams. Gently scrunch your curls in an upward motion while applying the product. This will help further define them. Set the style with hairspray, if needed.Apply a shine/smoothing serum to the ends of your hair., Gently comb through them with your fingers to detangle them. Your curls should last a few days; if you wash your hair that day, however, the curls will come out. Keep in mind that if you have natural or kinky hair, the curls may not last as long.