 If you are using soft wax in a pot, depending on the kind you use, you may need a wax pot to warm it, or you can simply warm it in the microwave. For a full jar, heat it about 15 to 20 seconds. For a half jar, heat for about 10 seconds. The consistency of the contents should be a little thicker than maple syrup.Make sure to follow microwaving directions to the letter to prevent the wax from getting too hot and burning your skin. Make sure it's not too hot, as it can burn you.If you have the tub of wax, you would need to get yourself some wax paper (which you can find at pretty much any grocery or dollar store), and a popsicle stick or two, preferably the thicker variety.You will also need muslin or other fabric strips to use with the wax. Always test your wax by applying a bit to the inside of your wrist to make sure it's at a comfortable spreading temperature. Too cold and it won’t spread; too hot, and you'll burn yourself.
Be sure to follow the instructions carefully, heating and stirring at intervals to avoid boiling the wax, as overheating can cause it to break down and not work as well for future uses.
 This usually comes with the wax kit. It looks like a tongue depressor. Or you could use a popsicle stick to spread some of the now warm and liquid wax on your body part of choice.


Apply a thin layer to the skin in the same direction of the hair growth. Quickly apply the cloth strip, and smooth down in the direction of the hair growth; you should have these ready so that the wax doesn't harden on your skin while you are fishing around for your strips.
The wax shouldn't be too thin or too thick, but the more the hair, the more wax you should use. The more wax you use, the more painful the process can be, though.
 Smooth the strip down with one hand. Pull the skin taut and quickly rip off the strip. You want to rip it off in the opposite direction of the hair growth.


You may immediately apply pressure to the skin with your hand to help soothe the nerve endings. Use another cloth strip to remove any leftover wax from the skin.
Don't go slow, as that's one of the worst things you can do. Brace yourself and yank fast.
If the hair does not come off, possible reasons include short hair (too short for waxing); too hot wax; or wax pulled in the wrong direction; not enough wax applied

