 The Vietnam War was very unpopular. As more and more U.S. soldiers died, Americans began to question the validity of the war. Many Americans dodged the draft by going to Canada or getting married in order to avoid military service in what they considered a pointless conflict. Others protested the war by marching and engaging in anti-war actions. College campuses were hotbeds of antiwar activity.


Many people publicly burned their draft cards in opposition to the war.
At Kent State University in 1970, Army National Guardsmen fired on students during an anti-war protest. Four students died and nine were wounded.Try to imagine yourself being shot at by your own country’s military simply for exercising your freedom of speech. How would you feel?
In order to understand the Vietnam War, it is important to consider why it was so unpopular. Compare reactions to the Vietnam War to reactions to World War II. How were they different and why?

, The war was equally unpopular in Vietnam. America gave support to the government of South Vietnam, but that government was very unpopular. One of the most visible symbols of Vietnamese opposition to their own government -- and, by extension, their allies and the war – was when Thich Quang Duc burned himself alive in Saigon in 1963., The war was unique in a few ways. It used new kinds of weapons (napalm and Agent Orange) and was fought against a different kind of enemy.To fully understand the civilian response, it is important to understand these unique aspects.


Napalm was a flammable liquid that caused massive burns across anything it touched. During the Vietnamese War, it was used extensively by the U.S. to burn forests where enemy soldiers were hiding, but it also caused many civilian deaths.
Agent Orange was a chemical weapon developed by two companies, Dow Chemical and the Monsanto Corporation. This chemical caused widespread birth defects, immune deficiency, and an increased rate of cancer for the Vietnamese people. It also produced adverse health impacts for U.S. soldiers who were exposed.
Traditional wars involve two armies facing off on a battlefield. This rarely occurred in Vietnam. Instead, American soldiers had to contend with guerrillas – soldiers who did not wear uniforms and who would attack small groups of soldiers from a distance, rather than engage them in direct battle. Many of these guerillas moved freely between North and South Vietnam. Guerrillas also used traps and mines to cause damage to American soldiers without confronting them directly.
 Unlike prior conflicts, Americans saw the impact of the Vietnam War directly each night on TV. As the war dragged on, support declined as audiences saw firsthand the horrors of the war. Understanding the war requires recognizing the impact of TV footage on American attitudes.