 When wanting to know whether a support group is benefiting you or not, ask yourself, “Am I feeling better?” If yes, then it’s likely worthwhile. If no, you may need to either give the group more time or find an alternative.Ask yourself what has changed in your life since beginning your support group. Do you feel like you can cope with your mental health better? How do you handle stress? What is it like to go to meetings?
A support group should offer you support. Do you feel supported by the people in the group?;
, Especially if you enter the group feeling low, you might feel motivated and encouraged by people further along in their treatment and recovery. Hearing other people’s stories and how they’ve been able to cope can help you feel hopeful in your own treatment. Having successful examples of other people’s journeys can make a successful recovery feel attainable to you, too.Do other members inspire you? How have their stories affected you and encouraged you in your own coping and recovery?

, A support group should be a safe place for you to talk and discuss your experiences and your feelings.When you speak, you should feel comfortable and able to express yourself. You should not feel judged or criticized for your experiences.


If you don’t feel safe to express yourself, a support group may not be an effective outlet for you.
You should have permission to grieve and you should have permission to feel happy.You should feel supported in your successes and also supported when you make mistakes.
 A big part of attending a support group is feeling like you are not alone in your struggle.Some people feel like they struggle and can’t talk to others about it, and a support group can help lift the feelings of isolation or that something is ‘wrong’ with you. An effective support group should help you feel welcome, included, and part of the group.If you still feel alone or like you cannot relate to the people in the group, you may benefit from more participation. Otherwise, may not feel like the group is benefiting you much.
 Ask your therapist or a close friend for their opinion on your support group. They might see things from a different perspective or be able to see how the group has affected your life. Ask the person, “Have you noticed any changes in me since I’ve started the support group? What positive things do you think it adds to my life? Are there any benefits to continuing?” You can also ask someone from the group about any concerns you have.


Sometimes, people leave support groups because they feel fear. You might feel pressure to change or confront difficult things that you’d rather avoid. Getting a second opinion can help you see a different viewpoint and decide how to continue.
 Do you feel like an active participant or someone in the background? While you may benefit from people’s advice or sharing your experiences in the beginning of your group attendance, you may want to offer advice and support once you become established in the group. It can be nice to know you feel helpful and support other group members. On both sides, you likely want to feel heard and part of the group.If you’re new and feeling uncomfortable or unsure of your role, you may want to stick it out and notice how things change the more you attend. If you continue to feel unimportant or not included, you may want to reconsider your group membership.
 A support group should be a place to seek and exchange help and support. You should be able to ask questions about obtaining treatment and care for your mental health. You can gain practical skills for how to live with mental illness, how to cope with medications, and seek advice for coping strategies.Ask yourself if you feel like the group is helpful and whether you find the discussions helpful during meetings.
 Some support groups are professionally run by a therapist while others are peer-led. A professionally led group may facilitate sharing. A peer-led group may have no formal leader or specific format. If you like the format of your current group, stick with it. If you don’t, know that other formats are available that may work better for you.One type of group generally isn’t ‘better’ than another. It’s up to you which type of format feels best.
 While many people obtain support from a local support group in their community, others choose to reach out for support via the internet. Internet support groups can help you feel more connected to others with your same mental health. However, they do not appear to help minimize symptoms.If you want social support and a sense of not being alone, an internet support group can be helpful. However, if you want to decrease your symptoms and build skills, the internet may not deliver these goals.
Internet support can be great depending on your goals. You can also choose to do an in-person support group and internet support as well.
 If a support group isn’t quite meeting your needs but you’d like to continue with the group format, consider attending group therapy. Group therapy is led by a psychologist or social worker trained in mental health. Each meeting may discuss coping strategies or learning skills to manage your mental health. Many groups are skills-based and offer opportunities to practice your skills during group sessions and between meetings.Ask your insurance provider or mental health clinic whether there are any groups near you. You can also obtain a recommendation from a friend or family member.
For more information, check out How to Attend Group Counseling.
 If going to support group isn’t helping you, then consider what other alternatives you might benefit from. You might work better with an individual therapist if you’re struggling and need more individual attention and support.An individual therapist can work with you weekly to create goals and work on specific coping mechanisms to help improve your mental health. Sessions typically last 50 minutes and focus on your healing and recovery.


Check out How to Prepare for a Session With a Therapist for more information.
 If you feel like the support group has served its’ place, it may be time to let it go. While some people enjoy staying in the group to be a mentor, others may feel it’s time to leave. If you feel like it’s your time, you may choose one of several ways to exit the group. Depending on your relationships with the other group members, you may want to express a formal goodbye. You may also want to gradually decrease your involvement in the group or your attendance to meetings.


Be grateful for the role your support group had in your life. What did you find most helpful? How did it help you when you needed it? Express your gratitude to the other members.

