 If you already have a bird, keep their new housemates quarantined for about two months. During this time, have the new birds tested for PBFD at least twice (once per month). This is because of the possibility of false positives and false negatives.

If you decide to release your bird(s) into the wild, have them tested first. Otherwise, you could start an epidemic that could spread to endangered species., However, Virkon-S can deactivate it. First, clean affected surfaces of all organic matter. Then, apply a 2-percent concentration of the compound to all affected surfaces. Let it stay on the surface for at least 10 minutes to be effective. After the 10 minutes has passed, rinse the surface with water to prevent corrosion.

The 2-percent concentration of Virkon-S is safe for humans and birds. However, if the affected area has poor ventilation, play it safe and move the birds to another room.You can buy Virkon-S at many online retailers. Simply enter “buy Virkon-S” into your favorite search engine.
 PBFD can be transmitted by inhaling infected dust. Install a pleated filter on your furnace and place an electrostatic precipitator on the nearest return air duct. Use room-size air cleaners and vacuum cleaners with HEPA filters. Standard filters won't control dust as effectively., Australian vets have seen promise in an experimental vaccine involving a dead virus. It works best in birds age 14 days and younger. Take your bird(s) to the vet as soon as possible to test for strains of the virus. If they test negative twice, return to the vet in one month for a booster.Have adult birds vaccinated one month before you plan to breed them, as PBFD can be transmitted from mother to offspring., PBFD in wild populations is most common in Australia and New Zealand. If you live in these or other area where exotic birds live in the wild, be alert for deaths of parrots, cockatoos, and budgies in groups of three or more. Report them to your local government provider of environmental protection.