 If you choose to apply for an SS number for your baby at an SSA office, you will need to fill out an Application for a Social Security Card (Form SS-5), available here. This form is a fillable PDF and can be filled online before printing or printed out and filled in ink. The forms are also available at SSA offices and can be filled out on the day of application. The information required on the form includes:Your baby’s name;
Your baby’s place and date of birth;
Your baby’s citizenship status;
Voluntary information about your baby’s ethnicity and race;
Your baby’s sex;
Yours and your spouse’s names and SS numbers. If SS number(s) are not known, mark “unknown”.
Your mailing address;
Your relationship to the baby (e.g. natural, adoptive parent or legal guardian);
Your signature and the date the application is submitted.
 Along with your application, you will need to present supporting documents that prove your baby’s identity, age, and U.S. citizenship, as well as documents proving your own identity.For proof of U.S. citizenship, the acceptable documents include a U.S. birth certificate, U.S. passport, Certificate of Naturalization, or Certificate of Citizenship.Note that all babies born in the United States (with a few minor exceptions) have a birthright to U.S. citizenship.To prove your baby’s age, you need to provide her birth certificate if she was born in the United States. If a birth certificate is known to exist, you must provide it with your application. However, if a birth certificate does not exist, the SSA may be able to accept a religious record showing the baby’s date of birth, a U.S. hospital record of birth, or a passport.If the child was born outside the United States (but is still a U.S. citizen through parentage), then you need to provide a foreign birth certificate (if you have one or can get a copy within 10 business days). If that is not possible, the SSA may be able to accept a Certificate of Birth Abroad, a Certificate of Report of Birth, a Consular Report of Birth Abroad, a Certificate of Naturalization, or a passport.The SSA will only accept certain documents to prove your child’s identity. The document must be current (not expired) and show your baby’s name, other identifying information and, preferably, a photograph. A non-photo ID may be acceptable in general if the document has enough information to identify the baby without the photo (e.g. the child’s name and age, date of birth, or parents’ names).To prove your child’s identity, the SSA generally prefers to see your child’s U.S. passport, but if that is not available, you can provide a state-issued ID card, an adoption decree, a doctor or clinic or hospital record, a religious record, or a school or daycare center record.To prove your own identity, you will need to provide a U.S. driver’s license, a state ID card, or a U.S. passport. If you do not have any of these, then you will be asked to provide an Employee ID card, a School ID card, a Health insurance card, a U.S. military ID card, or a life insurance policy. Note that these must be originals or copies certified by the issuing agency; notarized copies or photocopies are not acceptable.Note that you must provide at least TWO documents in total to fulfill requirements of proving age, identity, and citizenship. One document can be used more than once (e.g. your baby’s U.S. passport can be used both to prove citizenship and identity, or a birth certificate can be used to prove both age and citizenship) but you need a minimum of two documents for your baby.
 Take the supporting information and the application form if you filled or printed one out already. You can use the SSA office locator, available here, to get a list of SSA offices near you.


Forms are also available at the SSA office and can be filled out at the time of application.
Once your forms are checked and your supporting documents verified, your application will be submitted and you will receive your baby’s SS card with her SS number printed on the front in the mail usually a few weeks after submitting the application.Remember that your baby’s name may be required to appear on your mailbox in some localities for the Post Office to deliver mail in your baby’s name.