 Ankle circles are a simple motion that will stretch out the muscles around the ankle and get it ready for exercise. Use the following motions to do a proper ankle circle stretch:Sit down with your legs straight out in front of you.
Place one leg over the other.
Start drawing a circle in the air with your toes using the elevated foot.
Make circles going both clockwise and counter-clockwise.
Switch legs and do the same motion for the other ankle.
 The calf raise is a simple move that can help you learn how to keep your balance while in motion. It can also help build strength in the lower leg which may help prevent injury. Use the following motions to get in a good calf stretch:Stand up straight with your feet at about shoulder width apart.
Shift your weight onto your toes.
Slowly lift your heels off the ground.
Maintain balance as you raise your heels up.
Lower your heels back down before repeating the movement.
 Shin raises will help improve your sense of balance, much like a calf raise. This simple motion can also help you to build strength in your lower leg muscles. Use the following motions to perform a proper calf raise:


Stand straight up and place your feet about shoulder width apart.
Keep your weight in your heels.
Slowly lift your toes up into the air.
Focus on keeping your balance as you lift your toes up.
Lower your toes back down to the ground and repeat the motion.
 An easy exercise you can use to build strength and balance in your legs is to balance on only one leg. Shifting the balance to one leg places your entire body weight on that leg alone. This increase in weight will engage your muscles and sense of balance, improving both. Use the following motions to practice the single leg balancing exercise:


Stand straight up with both feet on the ground.
Pull one foot slightly off the ground and shift your entire weight onto the other leg.
Slightly squat down using your one leg only.
Hold the squat for around 20 to 30 seconds.
Stand back up straight and put your other foot back down.
Repeat the motion on the other leg.

