 Apply your favorite deep treatment hair mask to wet hair. For example, you might rub mashed avocados or bananas, honey, or mayonnaise into your hair to add moisture. Once your hair is covered in the hair mask, put on a shower cap and let the treatment sit for 30 minutes. Rinse out the hair mask with warm water.If you're short on time, you can skip the deep treatment, but your hair won't get as much moisture.;
, Fill a plastic squeeze bottle with liquid coconut oil. Squirt the coconut oil directly onto your scalp. Use your fingertips to massage the oil into your scalp and the hair closest to your scalp. This will immediately add moisture to the hair.If you're worried about squirting too much oil onto your scalp, you can squirt the oil onto your fingertips instead. Run your fingers through your hair to moisturize the hair and scalp.
 Fill a spray bottle with fresh water and spray all over your hair until it's wet. Apply your favorite leave-in conditioner. To do so, squirt the conditioner on your hands. Rub the leave-in conditioner closer to your scalp and work in through your hair. Ensure that you rub the leave-in conditioner to the very tips of your hair.Spraying your hair with water adds instant moisture to your hair and makes it easier to detangle., Portion your hair into 4 or 5 parts using hair clips. You should have one section of hair near the front of your head and 3 or 4 sections of hair near the back of your head. Moisturize each section of hair by rubbing olive oil through the hair and scalp.If you don't want to use olive oil, you could use another preferred oil or conditioner. For example, consider using castor oil, almond oil, jojoba oil, or shea butter., Squirt a cream moisturizer (like a curl defining cream) into the palm of your hand and rub it through your hair. Ensure that each section of hair is evenly moisturized. Take a rubber brush and slowly brush from the tip of your hair towards your scalp to detangle the hair. This will prevent damage to your hair.If you have dry curly hair, consider detangling your hair with a Denman brush. The rubber can help spread moisturizing products evenly through your hair as you brush., If you have curly hair, twist each hair section on the back of your head tightly. You should be able to make a couple of twists from each section of hair. This is a protective style that will keep your moisturized and detangled hair out of your face as you moisturize the front of your hair.For an even tighter twist, consider twisting the very tip of each strand of hair so that it's tightly wound around itself.
 Bring the front section of hair down onto your forehead. Rub edge control gel into the edge that separates the front section of hair with the back sections of hair. Work the gel into the edge along your scalp. Brush the hair back and apply edge control along the edge of hair where it meets your forehead.Edge control will help smooth and hold any flyaway strands of hair and will add moisture to the hair near your scalp.
 Once you've applied edge control gel to the front section of hair, twist it into a protective side plait or braid. The end of the twist should be one one side of your face. This way, you can tuck it behind your ear, if your hair is long enough.


If you want the plait twist to lay flat, ensure that you twist it under rather than over itself.
 Use bobby pins to pin the front plait or braid twist of hair to the side of your head. Take the edge control gel and use your fingertips to carefully lay your edges down. Dab the gel with your fingertips to the small wisps of hair along your scalp and forehead.Laying down your edges will prevent flyaways and keep the small hairs along your scalp moisturized.
 Keep your hair moisturized throughout the week. Try to moisturize your hair every 2 or 3 days or as soon as you notice your hair drying and frizzing. For a quick moisturizing routine, just remove your hair from the twists and spritz it with water. Rub through a leave-in conditioner and brush your hair. Rub through olive oil for extra moisturizer.You can leave your hair down or re-twist it into a protective style.
For the most moisture, do a deep moisturizing treatment once a week.
 Dry hair is often caused by removing the natural oils from your hair. If you currently wash your hair every day, start waiting a day or two in between shampoos. This will give your hair a chance to stay moisturized from its own oils.When you do shampoo, choose a gentle shampoo that contains aloe vera or apricot kernel oil. These ingredients can help your hair stay moisturized.
 Your hair may dry out more quickly if it's exposed to wind, sun, chlorine, dry air, or saltwater. If you'll be encountering any of these, cover your hair with a scarf or hat. You should also increase your conditioning before and after coming into contact with these damaging elements.If you'll be in the sun, you can also spray your hair with a protective spray that blocks UV rays.
 Even the most moisturized hair can dry out if you use too many drying treatments. Coloring your hair or getting perms, relaxers, and chemical smothers can all dry out your hair. Consider doing these rarely to avoid drying out your hair.If you do color or highlight your hair, choose chemical-free or ammonia-free treatments since they're less damaging to your hair.

