 To make liposomal vitamin C, you will need some special ingredients and tools. You can find most of the ingredients in a well-stocked grocery store, but you may also order them online. For example, lecithin may be difficult to find in a grocery store. To make liposomal vitamin C, you will need:Distilled water
Vodka (40% alcohol)
Vitamin C powder or tablets (also sold as ascorbic acid)
Powdered lecithin derived from soy or sunflower seeds (make certain the product you buy does not contain GMOs)
High power blender
Scale that measures in grams or ounces
Large glass container, such as a measuring cup or beaker
Large mason jar;
, It is necessary to use steam-distilled water for this recipe. Do not use regular tap water. Measure and pour the water and the vodka into the glass container. If you have a measuring cup with measurements on the side, then this is ideal., Measure out 6 ounces of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) powder and add it to the vodka and water mixture. Stir the vitamin C into the water and vodka until the vitamin C is completely dissolved.To make sure that the vitamin C powder is fully dissolved, you may also want to heat this mixture in a ceramic pan until it reaches 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
If you are using vitamin C tablets, then you will need to crush them first. You can use a mortar and pestle if you have one or put tablets into a plastic bag and use a rolling pin to crush them.
 You will need to weigh out 7 ounces of lecithin and add it to the vitamin C, water, and vodka mixture. You may use soy-derived or sunflower-derived lecithin for this recipe. Then Pour the vitamin C, water, vodka, and lecithin into the blender.Blend the ingredients on high for about four minutes and then put the blender in the refrigerator for a few hours. Then take the blender out and blend the ingredients for four minutes again and then return the mixture to the refrigerator for a few more hours. Continue to blend and refrigerate five or six times over the next 24 hours.
 At this point, you have created liposomal vitamin C that you can store and use. It is not necessary to do anything else. Using an ultrasonic unit will increase the number of liposomes that you create, but it is not absolutely necessary since you have already created some liposomes by blending the ingredients., Keep in mind that improving your liposomal vitamin C with an ultrasonic unit is optional. If you do not already have the materials that you need to improve your liposomal vitamin C, then you will probably have to order some tools online, such as the glass beaker and ultrasonic unit. You will need:One recipe of basic liposomal vitamin C
High powered blender
1-liter glass beaker
Ultrasonic unit
Plastic wrap
Wooden spoon

, Blend the liposomal vitamin C until it feels warm. This may take several minutes. Feel the blender to detect the temperature. The temperature of the ingredients should be about 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 degrees Celsius).
 After you have blended the vitamin C until it is warm, then transfer it into your glass beaker. The beaker that you use will need to be large enough to hold all of the blended ingredients and still fit into your ultrasonic unit. You may want to check before you transfer your liposomal vitamin C., Pace the beaker with the liposomal vitamin C into the ultrasonic unit for about 30 minutes. The ultrasonic unit will push the bubbles to the surface. After 30 minutes is up, cover the beaker in plastic wrap and place the beaker into the refrigerator for about an hour and then use a wooden spoon to skim off the bubbles that have collected on the surface.Make sure that you follow the manufacturer’s directions for how to use your ultrasonic unit.
 Let the ultrasonic unit run until the temperature of the vitamin C mixture reaches 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius). This will help to kill any bacteria that might be present in your liposomal vitamin C., When your liposomal vitamin C is ready, you can transfer it into a glass jar. Make sure that the jar has a tight-fitting lid so that you can close it and not worry about it leaking. A mason jar works well for storing your liposomal vitamin C.
 Keeping your liposomal vitamin C will help prevent spoilage, but keep in mind that it has a short shelf-life. Your liposomal vitamin C will only keep for about three to four days, so you will need to make a batch twice per week if you want to use it regularly.
 Liposomal vitamin C is a potent supplement, so you only need to take one tablespoon per day. For best absorption, you should take it on an empty stomach. You may also want to mix it with juice or water because Vitamin C is quite sour.
 Vitamin C increases the amount of iron that you absorb from foods that contain iron or from iron supplements.For this reason, do not exceed your daily allowance of iron from food or supplements.


Some sources say to wait at least an hour after taking liposomal vitamin C before eating red meat.
 Vitamin C can alter the results of a blood glucose test, so you will need to stop taking it about two to three days before a blood glucose test to prevent this from happening.You should also let your doctor know that you have been taking liposomal vitamin C.
 Liposomal vitamin C may not be recommended in certain situations. Talk to your physician before taking liposomal Vitamin C if you:Have diabetes or kidney disease
Are on a sodium-restricted diet
Are taking blood thinners

