 You can carry and transmit the virus even if you have no symptoms. Get tested for Hepatitis C if any of the following apply to you:You had a blood transfusion or organ transplant before 1992.
You used blood products to treat hemophilia before 1987.
You have had long-term dialysis.
You’ve had many sexual partners.
You have ever used intravenous drugs or shared other drug equipment.
You have evidence of liver disease, like an abnormal liver test.
You were born between 1945 and 1965. Even if you have no known risk factors, baby boomers should be tested at least once.
You were born to a mother with HCV.
You work in the health care profession and have had contact with contaminated equipment through a needle stick.
You have HIV.
 There are two types of Hepatitis C—short-term, or acute, and long-term, or chronic. For acute infections, doctors often recommend bed rest, increasing fluid intake, maintaining a healthy diet and avoiding alcohol.Chronic infections typically need antivirals and/or other medications.Chronic infections are defined as lasting 6 months or longer. About 70%-85% of people with HCV develop long-term infections that can lead to serious health problems, including death.Treatment depends on the extent of any damage caused by the virus, other health conditions, and the strain of Hepatitis C you have.
 Cover any cuts or blisters with bandages and dispose of them carefully. Wash your hands and any objects that come into contact with your blood with soap and water., Mix one part bleach with 10 parts water to make a cleaning solution. Wear gloves to prevent direct contact and absorb any liquid with paper towels. Apply bleach solution to object or area and let stand or soak for 20 minutes. Wipe with paper towels and let dry.


Dispose of paper towels and anything else used to sop up contaminated materials in a sealed container.
 Don’t share hygiene equipment with family or roommates. Tell those you live with about your infection to avoid accidental contact. If you get services using this type of equipment, like manicures, pedicures, haircuts, make sure the salon or business follows appropriate sterilization techniques.
 If you have hepatitis C, always use a condom when engaging in intercourse.


If you have HIV, the chances of getting hepatitis C are higher, so make sure you get tested and tell all partners about both infections before engaging in intercourse., You can resume breastfeeding when they have healed.A baby can contract hepatitis C from their mother. Talk to your doctor if you have hepatitis C and are pregnant.

