;
, This link will take you back to the main Facebook page where you can create a page for your business.
,

, You can choose from a local business or place, a major company or organization, a brand or product name, and more.
,, You will be prompted for your email address and password.


The Facebook page you create is required to link up to a personal profile. If you already have a personal profile for your life outside of work, you may want to create a new Facebook account for professional purposes.
If you create a new Facebook account, you will be required to click on a Facebook registration link sent to the email account you specified in order to complete the registration process.
 This picture will represent your business and display on your public Facebook page.


Click on "Upload an Image" to select an image stored on your computer or click on "Import a Photo" if you want to use an image from your company's main website.
 This will allow Facebook to send an email to every contact in your email account inviting them to visit your Facebook page.


Click on "Import Contacts" to upload a contact list or to enter the details of your email account. If you do not want to import your contacts at this time, you can click on the "Skip" link to continue with creating your page.
 Facebook will prompt you for your company's website address and a description of your business.
, The Wall can be viewed by your Facebook fans and other visitors to your page.


On your Wall, you can write status updates about your business, share photos, website links, videos, and more. For example, if your business just launched a new product, you can inform your fans and visitors by posting information about the product on your Wall.
 The Info tab will display your company's contact information, any awards your business has received, your company's mission statement, and more.
 For example, you may want to post pictures of your products, or the faces of people in your organization.
 This feature can be useful if you take time off work or want to delegate your responsibilities for the Facebook page.


Click on "Edit Page" from your company's page, then select "Manage Admins." Enter the names of the people you want to add as admins, then select "Save Changes."

, Ads will allow other Facebook users to become fans of your page or participate in events that you promote.


Click on "Promote with an Ad" from your Facebook page and enter the information for your ad into the fields provided. Fees may vary depending on the advertisement details you specify.
 This feature will allow you to see the amount of Facebook users who interact with your page on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis.


Click on "View Insights" from your Facebook page to view data on user trends for your page.

