 When signing up for your courses each term, be sure to choose times that fit into your routine and preferences. If you are not a morning person, scheduling an early class may not be the best option for you.Make sure you can commit to that time slot and allow yourself enough time to get to campus. Being mindful of these factors will help you keep your academic commitments.


Use time between classes wisely. Make sure you have enough time between classes to meet with a study group, socialize with fellow classmates, or meet with a mentor or professor.;
, Life is busy, and it is important to consider your other commitments when scheduling classes. Ask yourself how many days per week you want to commute to campus. Scheduling courses for 2-3 days per week rather than every weekday may be a better option for your lifestyle.
 Be mindful of the morning and evening rush hours as traffic is typically congested during these times. Remember that you have to factor in time spent driving, parking, and walking to class, and that these times will likely increase during these peak-travel times.Tune in to your local morning news station or radio station to get a traffic report and plan accordingly.
 Many campuses have parking lots that are exclusively for students or faculty. Find out how many parking lots are accessible to you, and be sure to obtain a parking permit when necessary.
 Many schools offer a variety of services for their commuter students. These can include commuter tips, opportunities for connecting with fellow commuters, information on campus security, and off-campus housing options. See what services would be beneficial to you to make the most of your time on campus., Communicate with your professors early in the semester and let them know that you commute to campus. There may be times when you arrive late to class due to traffic, car trouble, or weather conditions. Tell your professor that you will do your best to avoid these circumstances when possible. Your professor will appreciate having this information in advance!, Make a list of what you need for class the day before. It is not always possible to run home if you have forgotten something, so planning ahead is crucial. Be sure you have all your books, assignments, devices and their chargers, snacks, and any other items you may need throughout the day.