 Your child may hear politicians talking about negative things such as a bad economy, job loss, home loss, or other scary things that may make your child fearful. Gently reassure your child about their concerns. Provide some perspective about the problem in an age-appropriate way. If the problems do affect your family, let your child know what you are doing to handle them.For example, say, “I know it scares you that the politician was talking about job losses. I want you to know that both of your parents have jobs and don’t worry about losing them. We will do everything we can to make sure you are taken care of.”
If your job is up in the air, say, “Yes, job loss might affect our family. I know you feel worried, and sometimes I worry, too. Yet, I will always do what I can to make sure you are okay.”

, When you and your child see an ad, spend some time decoding it. Talk about how the music, visuals, and claims are used to try to persuade people. Talk about how music and pictures can influence people.For example, a politician may use a photo of an unhappy family or run-down neighborhood then follow it up with a happy family and pleasant neighborhood when talking about themselves.


For a younger child, say, “What did the music sound like? Did it sound friendly or scary?” For older children, say, “How is that person trying to persuade others? Did they bend the truth at all? How did the visuals add to their message?”

, You might feel upset by a commercial or ad. Since kids can sense feelings but may not know where they come from or what caused them, they may feel like your upset is their fault. Let your child know that the commercial was upsetting to you and it has nothing to do with them. If you mute the television or change the radio channel, tell your child what’s going on.Make it clear that your reaction has nothing to do with your child.
 Some politicians use their air time to slam their opponents. They might call their opponent names or attach a label to them or to the campaign. Some children may begin to use this type of speech by parroting the speech or by bullying others. Remind your child that politicians do this to gain some kind of advantage or to change the subject. Make sure your child knows that it is not okay to bully others at home, at school, on the playground, or during activities.Even if your kid disagrees with someone else, teach them how to disagree respectfully and not use bullying or name-calling.
 While there are regulations regarding political ads, your child may still be exposed to content that is not appropriate for them. For example, some politicians point out their opponent’s scandals or draw attention to personal life matters. If your child begins to ask you about things that you deem inappropriate, have a response ready. You don’t need to answer the question, but do address your child’s concern.


For example, if your child finds out about a candidate’s infidelity scandals, say, “Yes, that person likely did some bad adult things. Sometimes, a person’s personal life gets talked about during elections. I’m sorry you had to hear that.”
if an ad comes on that you deem inappropriate, turn it off or mute it.

