 A good way to get over shyness is to be comfortable with your dancing. Practicing in a room filled with friends or family might be intimidating, so look for an empty room. This could be your bedroom, living room when nobody is home, or a dance studio that is not being used.Look for a room that is not filled with furniture or junk. If you can’t find one, try to temporarily move things around to make space.;
, This gives you the chance to see what you look like while dancing and get comfortable with that image. It also gives you an opportunity to see what changes you’d like to make to your moves to improve them. A full length mirror is ideal, though a smaller mirror will do.It may feel uncomfortable to see yourself dance in a mirror at first, but it will feel more comfortable over time.
 It’s easiest to dance to music you really enjoy. If the music you enjoy is difficult to dance to, put on something with a beat that inspires movement. It is also an option to put on music that is likely to be played at places you would be dancing, like at a school dance or club. Close your eyes, feel the beat and rhythm, and move in a way that feels natural to you.Try dancing to a wide variety of music to practice variety in your dancing.
 Watch dance steps from clips on the internet, on T.V. shows, or movies. Only watch first to take in the way the dancers are moving, interacting with each other, and carrying themselves. Look at what the dancers are doing to project confidence in their movements, like facial expressions and posture. Once you have watched the clip a few times, try to replicate the way the dancers move. You don’t have to do the exact steps the dancers are doing. Just try to move in a similar way.
 You will grow more comfortable with your dancing the more you practice. Keep improving them until you feel confident, and you can do them without thinking about it. Take a few minutes out of every day or every few days to dance. Keep it fun and light as you practice. It shouldn’t feel like a chore. To help with practicing often, come up with a schedule that you can follow. For example, set aside thirty minutes of your time every night.Try to continue learning all the time. Practice new steps to new kinds of music when you get tired of your current practice routine.
Once you have practiced for a while, try developing your own style. You can do this by picking and choosing from the styles of other people that you like.

