 The federal government makes its spending records available to the public thanks to the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act, passed in 2006.The website provides information on federal financial assistance and expenditures in a searchable database.


Some of the most tracked federal spending are housing assistance, research and development contracts, and construction contracts.
To search the website, go to the main page and type in your search words in the search box located on the top right corner of the page. You will receive a list of relevant results and you will be able to click on any results you want., Most states have an agency or initiative to achieve transparency in state government. This means that the states will show their records to the public. To find your state’s transparency agency, type in your state’s name with “transparency” and “spending” into a search engine.


State transparency agencies can typically be used to search for information on a specific state employee, vendor, or agency.You might also try searching on your state’s department of finance website, which keeps track of government spending at the state level. Type in your state’s name with “department of finance” into a search engine to find your state's information.
 Public information websites like www.opensecrets.org track how much money is donated to individual politicians’ campaigns and by whom. It also tracks lobbyists, or those individuals or groups who try to influence government to support certain policies.Search the database by looking for a particular politician, interest group, lobbyist, or PAC (political action committee). Do this by typing your search terms into the search box located in the top right corner of the homepage.
 The Library of Congress publishes congressional hearings, bills and resolutions through the THOMAS project. The THOMAS database will eventually be phased out and replaced by www.congress.gov, but until that time, THOMAS will continue to exist as a searchable database.


Use THOMAS to search by word, phrase or bill number. You can then locate text from hearings and policy debates.
You can also search the Congressional Record for information on congressional activities. The Congressional Record is the official record of all proceedings, legislation, and debates that take place in the US Congress.

