 The icon is a multi-colored “W.” The first time you open the app, you will be shown some welcome screens. Simply swipe the screen three times from right to left, and then tap on “Finished” at the right bottom corner of the last welcome screen.


You can setup and access Google Wallet from a computer as well by visiting wallet.google.com. The process is very similar to the app.;
, After the welcome screens, you will be asked to set up your wallet. Enter your name and postal code in the spaces provided, and check the “I agree to the Google Wallet Terms of service and Privacy Policy” box below. Tap “Continue” to proceed.


Currently, Google Wallet is only available in US, so you must provide a US postal code. Once you’ve provided a valid code, you will be taken to the PIN Setup screen.
It takes a few seconds to create your account. You are then automatically signed into Google Wallet using the Google account that has been associated with your phone.
 Once your account has been created, you will be asked to make a 4-digit PIN. Enter the PIN into the box, and on the next screen, enter it again to confirm. Once you’ve made a PIN, you will be taken to the app’s main interface.
 Look for the app menu icon, which consist of three lines, at the top left of the screen. Tap this to open the app’s main menu.
 This will open the Google Wallet Settings menu, where you can add your bank and card information.
 Tap “Bank account” from the options to add your bank account to Google Wallet. In the next screen, enter your bank details—Routing Number, Account Number, Name on the Account, and then retype the account number. Click “Next” at the right top corner of the screen to save the information.
 Tap the "Cards" option in the Settings menu. To add a credit/debit card, tap on the + icon. Enter the details of your credit/debit card in the fields provided. You will need to enter your card number, expiration date and CVC number. When you’re done, tap “Save” at the bottom right corner to save and add your card.


You can use your device's camera to scan your card's details so you don't have to type them in.
 Once you've added a bank account or a credit/debit card, you can use it to add funds to your Google Wallet account. These funds can then be used to send money to others, or to pay where Google Wallet is accepted.
 This option is directly beneath your balance.
 You can select from preset amounts of $20, $50, and $100, or you can type in any amount you'd like. Tap "Review" when you're finished.
 If you're using a card, you'll be charged a fee to complete the transfer. If you've linked a bank account, you won't be charged this fee.
 The funds will be taken from the account you specify and transferred to your Google Wallet account.
 If you aren't on the main screen, open the Menu and tap "Home".
 In the center of the screen, type in the amount you want to send to someone.
 You will be prompted to select who you want to send the money to.
 Common contacts will be displayed. You can search for a specific contact, or type out an email address.
 If you don't have money in your Google Wallet balance, you can select the card or account you want to use.


You can add a message in the bottom half of the screen.
 The recipient will be able to receive the money in their Google Wallet account, and can set one up if they don't have one., You can request money directly from the main screen. Open the menu and tap "Home" if you aren't on the main screen.
 In the center of the screen, type the amount of money you want to request from someone.
 This will prompt you to chose who you want to request money from.
 You can select from your contacts, or type in an email address.
 When requesting money, it's usually a good idea to specify why. Add a brief message to inform the recipient why you are requesting money.
 Your request will be sent to the recipient. They'll be able to open the request in their Google Wallet account and send you the money.
 Look for the app menu icon, which consist of three lines, at the top left of the screen. Tap this to open the app’s main menu.
 The Google Wallet Settings menu will open.
 A list of billing cycles will appear.
 The statement will download in PDF format. You'll be prompted to select an app to open it in if you don't regularly open PDF files.
 Look for the app menu icon, which consist of three lines, at the top left of the screen. Tap this to open the app’s main menu.
 The Notifications menu is where you can change options for Notifications like notification type, sound, and vibration.


To enable notifications, tap the toggle button adjacent to “Receive notifications” to turn ON/OFF all notifications. If the toggle option is blue, it means that Notifications has been enabled. If it is grey, it means option is has been disabled.

You can set notifications for “Money received,” “Recurring transfers,” “Wallet card purchases,” “Nearby items,” and “Updates.” Just tap on its individual toggle button to turn them ON/OFF.


Set the notification sound by tapping the “Sound” option. A list of different sounds will be shown. Scroll down and select the sound you want to use for your notifications. Tap “OK” at the bottom to set it.
If you want your device to vibrate upon receiving a notification alert, tap the “Vibrate” option. You will then be able to select if you want Vibrate to be on “Always,” “Only in silent mode,” or “Never.” Save this setting by tapping “OK” at the bottom.
 In the Settings menu, tap “Wallet PIN” to change your Wallet PIN if you need to. On the new screen, tap “Change PIN.” You will be asked for the old PIN, enter it into the field.


Next, enter the new PIN you want to use and then reenter it for confirmation. This will also change and save the new PIN.

