 Before you begin removing a splinter, wash your hands and the skin around the splinter with warm water and soap. This can minimize the risk of spreading bacteria that may cause an infection.You can wash your hands with a mild soap and some warm water for 20 seconds.You can wash the affected area with mild soap and water or use an antibacterial wash.
Dry your hands and the area around the splinter well before you try to remove it.;
, Before you use your tweezers, make sure that you disinfect them with rubbing alcohol to reduce your risk of infection or any bacteria that can spread inside the wound. Having bacteria in the wound can cause an infection..









To sterilize your tweezers with rubbing alcohol, let them sit in a bowl or cup of rubbing alcohol for a few minutes, or use a sterile cotton ball to wipe the tweezers with rubbing alcohol.
You can get rubbing alcohol at pharmacies and many medical supply stores. Grocery stores and large retailers also sell rubbing alcohol.
 Consider using a magnifying glass when removing the splinter. This may help you see the splinter more clearly and reduce the risk of injuring your skin further.








At the least, make sure that you remove the splinter in a well-lit area to help you see it better., If the splinter is covered by a flap of skin, then you can use a sterilized needle to break the skin and lift the flap. Sterilize a needle by soaking or wiping it with rubbing alcohol. Then, use the needle to break and lift the skin flap that rests over the splinter. This will make it easier for you to grab the splinter and remove it.








If you have to dig deeply to break the skin or see the splinter, consider going to the hospital or your doctor to reduce your risk of injury.
 Once you’ve exposed the splinter’s tip, grasp it near the surface of your skin with your tweezers. Gently pull out the splinter in the direction that it entered your skin.








If you have to dig deeply with your tweezers to get at the splinter, you may want to see your doctor to remove it.
If part of the splinter breaks off, you may need to either see a doctor or try re-grasping it with your tweezers.