 Scoop the cream cheese into a microwave-safe bowl or dish. Set the microwave to "High" and heat briefly. For a medium-sized (eight ounces or less) container of cream cheese, you'll usually need about 15-20 seconds of cooking time.








If the cream cheese isn't soft enough, continue to heat it in ten second increments. Check its texture after each heating session.
If the cream cheese is too soft, let it sit in a cool bowl on the counter for five minutes (or in the fridge for two minutes).;
, Take the cream cheese out of the fridge. Leave it on the counter top for half an hour in its original container. It should noticeably soften once it reaches room temperature.









After 30 minutes, open the packaging and check the texture. If the cream cheese still feels cool to the touch and isn't soft enough, let it sit another 20-30 minutes. If it's room temperature and it still isn't soft enough, use one of the other methods to soften it.
 Fill a bowl with lukewarm water. Place the cream cheese into the water in its original packaging. Let it sit for 10 minutes. The water will gradually transfer its heat to the cream cheese, softening its texture.









If the cream cheese has already been opened, put it in an airtight plastic bag or wrap it tightly in cling wrap to prevent water from getting in.
If the cream cheese doesn't soften enough, give it an extra five minutes. If it still isn't soft enough, use warmer water (but not hot water, which can melt it).
If the cream cheese was frozen, use cold water instead of lukewarm, which can cause it to heat unevenly.
 Once you've warmed the cream cheese, take a few seconds to check that it is the right consistency. Press a spoon into the cream cheese (either through the wrapper or directly into the cheese itself). If it gives way easily and offers no resistance, it should be plenty soft. On the other hand, if it's still firm, you may want to warm it a little more.
 Cream cheese has a fairly long shelf life: in the fridge, it can sometimes last for up to a month and in the freezer it can easily last twice that.However, like many dairy products, it spoils fairly quickly at room temperature. After warming your cream cheese, try to use it as quickly as possible, returning any leftovers to the fridge.









Cream cheese shouldn't be left at room temperature longer than 1-2 hours. Consider throwing it away after leaving it out this much time., It's possible to warm cream cheese too much when trying to soften it. In this case, you can start to melt the solids in the cream cheese, leaving you with a soupy, runny mess that isn't easy to cool back to a "normal" texture.









Prevention is the best cure here. Use gentle heat and short warming periods to prevent over-heating, increasing the temperature and time gradually if you need a softer texture.

