 You can get away with a bit of pattern on a tie or scarf, but you should wear mostly solid colors. Avoid large stripes or any especially loud patterns. Even if they look good in person, patterns will dominate your photo and distract attention away from your face.Avoid wearing anything with a visible brand or other decals.
Avoid any especially bright or neon colors.
 Choose clothing colors based on your skin. Light brown skin and hair pairs best with shades of brown, orange, or soft yellow. Dark hair and skin match wonderfully with bright colors like strong blues, greens, or red. Especially light skin and light hair is often complimented by pastels, including blues, purples, and greens. Light-skinned people should minimize the red they’re wearing.If you can’t decide, think of the shirts you wear that get the most compliments. Frequent compliments may indicate a good color match between the shirt and your skin tone.
 For men in particular, a suit is an integral component of a professional business portrait. Blue suits are usually better, especially when paired with a light blue shirt. White shirts and black suits, though they great in person, often appear less attractive in digital photos.You have a bit more freedom regarding the color and design of a tie. Red is said to convey power, while yellows are another popular set of colors for ties.
 Ladies, pay particular attention to the fit of your shirt. You want to avoid anything too baggy or too loose. Opt for a fitted blouse or dress that compliments your figure. If you're going with a button-down shirt, make sure none of the buttons gape when the shirt is fully buttoned.


A collared button down that fits well is the ideal choice for most women. Wear a tailored suit coat as well if you usually do so at your job., A few subtle accessories can liven up your portrait. However, it’s best to keep accessories low-key. Definitely leave large hoop earrings at home the day of your shoot. Similarly, don’t wear an oversized watch or ring if your hands may be in some of the shots. Opt for simple, elegant jewelry, if any. , Exposed arms may look great, but they will distract attention away from your face. This applies to both men and women, though it can make clothing selections a bit more challenging for women in particular. Regardless of gender, it’s best to dress conservatively for business professional portraits. Button your shirt most of the way up, perhaps leaving only the top button open if you’re not wearing a tie., The person you hire to take your portraits will be happy to give you advice on what to wear. Call them or shoot them an email with any specific questions. They can also provide general tips on what to look for or avoid.