 You will never be able to attract the girl if you are unable to talk to her. Nearly all men have an irrational fear of approaching females, you are not alone. The good news is that it can be controlled quite simply!


This is the most simple step. Despite the fear that you may have, know that approaching is the easiest part.



What is Attraction Material? Attraction material is primarily banter and teasing so asking what they do or where they are from doesn't fall into this category. Most of it does not and should not mean anything. Think of it as conversation content which has little meaning other than to create amusement for you. In others words random nonsense coupled with some statements.
 There is a caveat, attraction material should have a hint of sexuality, otherwise you become the dancing monkey... With the added sexual element it becomes flirting. Nice guys are just... nice. Sleazy guys are... disgusting. What do they have in common? They both feel ashamed of or as though it's wrong to demonstrate their sexuality and desires. The nice guy pretends it is not there while the sleazy guy acts on it anyway, but in a way that attempts to hide embarrassment or in a way that allows them plausible deniability when called out on it. Picture the sleaze whistling or grabbing ass in a way that if (when!) he gets blown out he still gets to high five his mates. Conveying strong masculinity and ownership of your sexuality is essential, as well as being more emotive. Being around you should have that little hint of risk and intrigue. You should spike the conversation with sexual innuendo, but it is much more than that. It is proximity, body language that dominates space, kino (touch) that shows you are comfortable with your own sexuality as well as taking the lead. It is being calm and collected in a charged moment tingling with tension and occasionally spiking the interaction with some very dominant kino.
 It is not the material itself that is attractive to women. Instead, it is what the material sub communicates about you that women find attractive. When you are comfortable enough around females to banter, tease and throw out statements (cold reads) you're sub communicating a number of things:


Whilst you may want her, you certainly do not need her. Neediness in any form is kryptonite. When you are being try hard with a girl, asking her questions and hanging off her answers (Wow, you come from London, that is so cool!!), or even just trying to build rapport suggests way too much interest for someone you know nothing about. Attraction material allows you the pretense of not being that bothered about her.
You do not know her yet and as such you are not THAT interested in her. Unless she just blew you away with some serious eye from across the room, in which case create a bubble around the two of you, own the space and her and assume familiarity and that the sex (which will be mind blowing) is so obviously going to happen it does not need mentioning. For every other occasion be the high value guy who has a bunch of attractive options. In other words, her looks got her a foot in the door but what else has she got because that is not enough. So spike her emotions positively and negatively. It is having a healthy amount of disinterest, or not always allowing her to hold your entire attention. Which of the two depends on how much you want to spike and how far along in the interaction you are in terms of her investment.
You are confident. If you are confident around her than you must be used to talking to girls, therefore you have a lot of beautiful women in your life. This is called being pre-selected and it tells her that you are safe to be around, not likely to be needy, fun to be with and a high value male. In other words you're the kind of guy girls want to get with.
You have real (inner) strength. In talking in a way that serves as self amusement (bantering and having fun), you convey that you don't need the validation or approval of others to feel good about yourself. You're content being you and you're not trying hard to please others for the purpose of having them like you. Having that kind of inner strength, knowing who you are and not allowing others to put you in a box and say "no, this is who you are" with their opinions of you, that is the foundation of attraction and it's what makes you great. If you have that true inner strength, you know who you are, you know what you want, you have a healthy sense of entitlement, and you're unaffected by the opinions of those around you (you don't need their approval to feel good about yourself is a part of this) then you are probably very successful in other areas of life. You're likely to be very well socially adjusted, popular, charismatic, a leader of others, stands for what he believes in, someone who takes risks and reaps the rewards, who has a story to tell, and blazes his own trail. The list goes on, the point being all of those qualities are what women are attracted to. Being able to convey those, well the outcome goes without saying.
You are not afraid to be silly. This ties into the above in that it shows that you do not take life too seriously, you are not wound tight so you most likely find that success comes easy, and the trials and tribulations that make life worth living don't faze you. It also suggests that if she were to be around you, she would have a great time.
;
, It can be really tough getting out of one frame of mind and into another, especially if you work in a stuffy environment. The easiest way is to pretend you own the venue and act accordingly. This allows you to get comfortable in your surroundings. So walk around short setting, open, bounce, open, bounce. Ask people if they are having a good time, how they are doing, etc. Or it can be as simple as walking through a really crowded venue clinking glasses with everyone and saying hi. Just get the conversational juices flowing and start having fun interacting with people. Look to increase the length and playfulness of the interactions as you go along. It's very easy to then go back and re-open girls or to find yourself in set without planning it. Now for some more specific aspects:


Transitions (moving from one topic to another). Another area a lot of guys seem to struggle with. This can seem tricky but it's something you already do with everyone in your life and in almost every normal conversation you have without realizing it.

Conversations do not have to follow a logical path, they often go off on tangents or jump to new topics that have nothing to do with anything you were previously talking about so do not worry too much about finding ways to link conversations together. Learn a few transitions from here or the routines manual and use them. Once you find yourself getting more into the conversation you will stop needing them. Just throw stuff out there that has nothing to do with what either of you are talking about and watch how quickly the randomness is forgotten.


Teasing. This is one of those things that a lot of guys struggle with and often think that they just cannot do it. The best way to learn if you don't already know is to write out sentences girls might say and find the words in it that you can ping off, or trigger words.

Find ways to tease effectively off of them and spend some time every week just practicing doing it. Do it on your phone when you are sat with nothing else to do. When you're infield (in a club, bar, street, etc) try to find not only her words but also situational cues or observations you can tease and banter off. What she's wearing, her drink, etc.
Remember that teasing should be done in playful manner. It should not come off as mean spirited or as an insult.


Routines and cold reads. Many men are afraid of "running out of things to say". The biggest fear is that the dreaded awkward silence will inevitably creep in. To avoid this, you should memorize and practice a couple of stock routines and transitions as a fall back option.

The great thing about cold reads and routines is that they allow you to fill the awkward silence with the kind of things that you are maybe used to doing but in a way that generates intrigue based attraction. So saying "you look like a stripper or an accountant, I can't tell which" is akin to asking "So what do you do for a living?". Practice reframing questions as statements and use the attraction forums and Love Systems routines manuals to find some great examples of both cold reads and routines. Some more specific examples will be included in a bonus section at the end of this wiki.


False Disqualifiers: Statement that display a healthy level of disinterest, while also acting as a way to convey interest in a flirtatious way. For example, "I can already tell you and I aren't going to get along" or "If you weren't so dorky I'd probably be trying to get into your pants right now, shame you're a nerd".
 It can either reinforce the calm, cool, collected, fun loving, etc persona that you are attempting to portray, or betray you and expose it as an act.


Keep your back straight, shoulders back, chin up, even leaning back slightly and with a smile on your face or a shit eating grin as though you know something they do not. Own your space and be aware of your presence, which should be bold and large.

To understand what it looks like, try to imagine you have a piece of string attached to your head and you are dangling from it, your spine is as straight as it can be in this situation, that is how you should be.


When you are walking down the street in your day to day life, keep your head up. You will notice how uncomfortable it feels and how you have to fight the desire to look down or away. Don't! Stay strong and witness the outcome. Keep a smile on your face and maintain eye contact, girls will smile back, guys will look away or nod nervously. In the eyes of strangers you must be very high value to have that confidence.
When seated take up space, relax, and try to be as horizontal as possible without it seeming weird. Be James Dean.
Movement should be slow and deliberate, never fidgety or erratic. Imagine you are shoulder deep in water, now walk.
Never face the girl completely until she is facing you. This can telegraph significant interest. Only give her your full bodily attention when it's on. Like all things game, play with this until it feels comfortable, and study your friends and others as they interact with each other. Watch how one person will be trying for the attention of the other. Two people talking will rarely have both parties facing each other directly. Don't be the one trying for the attention.
Lock in or lean on something to make yourself comfortable. For most guys (you included) locking is important and you should do it as soon as you can. If that means moving people around then just do it, remember bullshit baffles brains so keep talking random banter while you move them.

As a concept it doesn't seem to feed into the progression model as you cannot be dominant, Kino escalate or create a bubble around the two of you with proximity and vibe whilst trying to look cool leaning against a wall. These things should occur in spikes only. Whenever you are talking normally try to find something to lean against.


Use takeaways to show some disinterest. A takeaway simply means taking away your attention, or interest, in order to spike her emotions. You can do this in a number of ways that starts with very subtle glances down at your finger nails or at your cigarette as she is talking. There are more medium plays such as getting your phone out to read a text quickly. Very blatant takeaways include turn your back when she says something stupid or that you fake disapproval of. What you are doing is giving her the gift of missing you and spiking that emotion that makes her want to cling on to you and keep you around.

Some other takeaways are crossing your arms, looking over her shoulder, re-organizing something at the table (not fidgeting), etc.


Kino (touching). The topic of Kino is very extensive and covered elsewhere so this will be brief. When you begin, you should push yourself faster than you think is possible. Go way beyond what you think the girl will positively respond to and be completely unashamed doing so. No, this does not mean you should be foundling her breasts or pinching her ass while introducing yourself.

Take her hand, lead her around with confidence and she will follow. Gently rub your hand down her forearm and hook her hand with two fingers whilst talking. Hold it like that for a few seconds then let go.
Put your hand on the back of her shoulder and lean in to talk into her opposite ear, whilst applying gentle pressure to the shoulder to make her feel as though you are bringing her to you (done when very close already). The next time you do the above, put your hand with your thumb touching her neck.
Put a hand on her hip whilst talking to her.
Move her around, literally. Move her body with your hands. Make her stand to one side, push her up against a wall or the bar (covered below in Dominance).
When talking into her ear, after the 2nd or 3rd time, gently caress the hair from her ear and hold her head that way.
Bump heads gently as you come away from her ear.
Stand really close (covered below in Proximity)


Proximity: You do this when the girl shows you some signs that she is attracted to you, which can happen instantly if you approach positively. It can help to create the kind of chemistry most interactions are lacking. For example, step in close, deep into her personal space and create a sense of excitement by not saying anything. Look her in the eye, look away over their shoulder than return to the eyes. This kind of tension creates huge amounts of attraction but only works when you have some to begin with. Otherwise it's just creepy. Using Proximity when you don't have a lot of attraction is still important, though you should temper it with less risky or tense conversation, and do it in mini spikes.

Final note on proximity. It is when you are up close, right in her space with very little room for her to move. A lot of guys make the mistake of thinking standing close is proximity; it is not in a bar or club setting, that is just standing. With proximity it is feeling each others presence on a different level.


Dominance: By setting the frame early that it is you in charge, you demonstrate confidence. The kind of dominance you use in the beginning is to not ask but rather state things you are going to do. So "do you want to go to the bar?" becomes "come on, we're going to the bar to pound shots". You then take her hand and lead her and you do so without hesitation. It also means taking her hand when you want, being a little forceful in moving her around (a little, not shoving but allowing her to feel the pressure) and being comfortable making demands. Again with this it requires calibration. It is not you ordering her like a drill sergeant but rather taking her in a loving way, you are making the decisions and carrying that burden.

Being congruent with taking a dominant role requires that you have rock solid confidence or can at least project that. So avoid darting eyes and any kind of fidgety behavior.
Final note on dominance; it should run through the whole interaction with you taking the lead but very physical dominance should come in spikes.
 They do, they just do not verbalize it the way that men do, or make it so obvious. They rarely chase so it can be very easy to fall into the trap of thinking almost all girls want just a tiny handful of guys because they never openly admit to liking anyone else. By that same token it is very easy to lump yourself in with the majority of the guys that leaves out.

It should go without saying that it is not true. You do not really even need to be particularly good at meeting women to get a date with most girls, you just need the confidence to talk to them. Girls are just like guys in that they can be attracted to you with the smallest of cues. Where men differ is that they typically go on looks while girls go on sub communications. If you walk around a venue with ease and with the kind of body language described above, exuding confidence as you go, women will be drawn to you.


Don't get attached to an outcome. Look only to have fun. This means not worrying too much about where you are in the triad model (Love Systems speak for the blueprint of a successful interaction), or trying to find opportunities to show her how cool you are, or throw in a particular routine you have had memorized all night.

The easiest way to be outcome independent is to have an abundance mindset. Unfortunately, getting to that point requires being good at meeting women and if you were there you probably would not be reading this. Instead, you can fake it until you make it. Act as though you have many beautiful women in your life, think that way, even try to convince yourself. At least understand that what this one girl, who does not know you, thinks of you means nothing. Also, remember that women are not rejecting you, they are rejecting your skill set if you fail. A skill set which you are working on and with practice will get better at. So do not berate yourself or get caught up in destructive negative thought patterns that you allow to define and rule you.


Know that it is perfectly normal to want and have sex. It is not a big deal and it is not a prize to be won. This is huge. The kind of guy who can define their view on sex by the words in this song probably gets very little.

Adopting a mindset in which you believe that girls wanting to have sex with you is perfectly normal is difficult but not impossible. Again, it's another fake it until you make it belief.
Also, realizing that girls want to and will sleep with a guy the same night they meet allows you to radiate confidence and a lack of judgement. So many guys, particularly ones who have very options in life when it comes to dating (aka most guys), believe that if a girl sleeps with you the same night or on a first or second date (in other words doesn't make you jump through a massive bunch of hoops) then she is clearly someone of low standards. This is not true at all. If the only girls you have ever "pulled" (for want of a better term) have been very easy girls, the kind that have little in the way of standards, then it is easy to see how it would seem logical to draw this conclusion.
The truth is that some girls will have sex with the right guy shortly after meeting them (there are of course exceptions to this). It is just that simple! Whilst it may seem like they have a lot of choice, and in a way they do (any girl, even the fattest ugliest women, could realistically get more sex than any guy by just asking for it), women who do not screen potential sexual partners are deemed careless, are at risk of harm, pregnancy, cervical cancer, STD's and lose social status. They are also often judged negatively by the very guys they have sex with which adds an extra element of risk, and in the past will likely have been dumped shortly after having sex. Because of these, and some other factors (including ending up with a guy who rings ten times a day and cannot accept it was just a one night stand), women do not just take whatever is offered.
Be the guy they can comfortably express their sexuality with, without judgment. Allow women to be free of the normal social constraints around you and they will thank you for it.


Women are your playmates, not your opponents. Ever wondered why it's so easy for some guys and yet every other guy struggles to pull? It is almost like a little secret women have with guys who "get it". Understand how the process works: the need for the "bitch shield" (the mechanism by which girls will outright reject an approach), the problem with nice guys, the natural hatred towards the sleazy guy, the need to protect their reputation, logistics, the fear of negative judgment from the guys they meet, the need for plausible deniability and the requirement that as the man, it is up to you to make it happen. So with that being said, do not think of sex as a prize that women hand out when you have jumped through their hoops, just understand that there is a need for women to screen. As a guy who understands this, you share in the secret and can confidently pass the screening process.
Understand that they are expecting you to lead. On the same note, look for the absence of a red light rather than a green light. Not all girls are so forward as to actively indicate interest but this doesn't mean they are not into you. So keep moving forward, keep pushing boundaries and always be closing. Do not just go for the number, go for more. Attempt a kiss close; or if it's late, and you have been with her a little while, suggest leaving together.
Recognize their femininity. As a man you should want to hold her and protect her. Be the man that she can be the princess with and be taken care of. Let her be soft, gentle and vulnerable around you. This extreme polarity of your strong masculinity to their vulnerable femininity will be a key to success. When you a similar mindset, and you hold that belief to be true, then it becomes very easy to convey many of the attractive qualities without having to say a word. They will see it in your eyes and feel it in your presence.
Remember, practice is key. You have to get used to being out of your comfort zone to get good at meeting women and having a life of choice. This is referred to as the pendulum effect, go way beyond what works and then come back the other way until you find a balance. So go out and test the waters, practice all of it and push boundaries. Do not be afraid because of some perceived notion of negative consequence, typically the worst that will happen is that you get rejected in a slightly harsher than normal way but that is not so bad.

