 The Arctic covers a lot of ground, for example upper Finland, Russia and the North Pole. Look for weather forecasts from the internet or TV to see if it's going to windy, snowy or both. Even if the forecast says it will be one sort of weather though, prepare for the whole range of possibilities, as the weather changes quickly in this region.;
, The important thing in dressing warmly is that you are warm and fashion isn't the issue.
, Some of the clothing may not be the most fashionable but be the warmest and most comfortable for the climate you are going to. That is the key to being toasty warm when in the Arctic.
 When wearing multiple layers of clothing, warm air becomes trapped between each separate item. It is imperative to select the layers carefully to fully maximise the heat and to achieve constant comfort.
 The first item garment should be fitted as close to the skin as possible for mobility and to take away excess perspiration as required. You can purchase base layer tops and bottoms that are specifically made to capture and release such fluids and are also coated with an anti-bacterial substance that will stop clothes from emitting odours.


You may find that a t-shirt plus a long-sleeved t-shirt make the best first layer.
Merino wool tops make for a good initial layer, as these are wool and the latest iterations of this fabric are usually non-itchy. The wool is warm and helps prevent sweating.
A thermal t-shirt is a good idea under a long-sleeved merino top.
 This should consist of a thick jumper or fleece, or an insulated jacket. You will find that zipped or buttoned clothes are excellent for the mid layer as they provide much needed ventilation after exerting activities. Trousers made from breathable materials are best for the second layer of clothing so air can travel around freely.
 This layer is the one that is exposed to the elements, so as well as providing warmth, it needs to be made of protective materials. A windproof, all-in-one with a hood is the perfect option, although separates can be just as effective.
 Ask questions. For example, if the clothing doesn't explain on the description what level of wind it protects against, for example, then ask the retailer for more information or check the manufacturer's website. If you can't find the needed details, keep looking for those items of clothing that are clearly explained; you don't want any errors when dressing for maximum warmth.
 Each item should be rated for the coldest environment.


It is often best to wear thinner gloves with thicker mittens over the top, for the greatest warmth.
A balaclava is ideal for the face, or a ski mask.
The scarf should stay on without having to tie it, to avoid undoing and blowing away in severe winds; an infinity scarf is a good option.
For the hat, choose something that covers the ears and forehead and will fit under the jacket's hood.
 You may find it useful to purchase an item when you arrive in a town if you see many people wearing the same jacket for winter, it's usually the warm one!

, When deciding what to wear in the Arctic, practical shoes are essential. The winter terrains will be covered in snow and ice, so good quality snow-boots.will provide both grip and protection. Ordinary walking boots will not suffice, as they are not designed for extreme weather conditions. Look for boots with thick plastic soles and insulated lining. It is advisable to wear two pairs of socks, so that your feet are as warm as possible.

