 Certain heroes neither require nor enhance team play. They are not suited for competitive DOTA.


Armlet is a suitable choice for most dps oriented StrHeroes.
It is the "Carry" hero's privilege, duty and burden to farm for his items. If you are not playing the "Carry" hero, farming up items should not be your primary objective.

The carry's stats should be better than your own. Else you failed at protecting him.


Everyone but the carry is obligated to buy wards. The wards should be placed so as to ensure safe farming for the carry in jungle and at lane.
 Last hitting means you hit a creep just once. Last hitting also gets the carry to farm faster by not pushing the lane to far. In case a push is needed hit the creeps at full life and last hit the others.
, Team fights for towers should only be fought if a tower can certainly be destroyed.
 Use with care. Creeps attacking a tower can be pulled behind it by using the attack command and running away. All creeps should be pulled behind it and spells may be used if necessary to kill catapults.Care, this is an old map.
 Not so much because it matters who gets the kill (except for the carry - who should if possible get the last hit), but because the application of a spell can be vital for your escape in the case of an unexpected retaliation from enemy heroes. The same spell used for killing in an unnecessary fashion may have come with an income boost, however, this advantage will be dispelled if you and/or your mates fall victim to a counteroffensive. Most ultimates should be used immediately when encountering the enemy. There are not many situations where an ultimate is wasted.
 It is best to wait and apply your stun after the initial disable has worn off.
, Either the most dangerous or the weakest opponent should be selected. The target should not have a reliable escape mechanism. Everybody should focus on this target. If something goes wrong and the main target will inevitably get away a new target should be selected as soon as possible. Watch out for you teammates in this case.

