 Over-the-counter antihistamines are very helpful with minimizing the sinus problems associated with allergen exposure, or allergic rhinitis.Antihistamines work by blocking the reaction caused by exposure to an allergen. The reaction causes the release of histamine, and antihistamines help to minimize the body’s response to exposure to an allergen or irritant.
Antihistamines are most useful in people that have known allergies. Some are seasonal, and some are year-round risks.
Seasonal allergic problems are caused by the release of substances from the plants in our environment as they begin to bloom and blossom in the spring and fall. Fall allergies are often caused by ragweed.
People with year-round allergy problems are allergic to other things that are difficult to avoid in the environment. This can include everything from dust and pet dander to cockroaches and other insects that live in and around our homes.
Antihistamines help, but for people that have severe seasonal allergies or year-round problems, more intense allergy therapy may be warranted. Talk to your doctor about other options.
 Decongestant products are available as oral doses and nasal sprays. Oral decongestants contain the active ingredients phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine. The more common side effects cause by these products include nervousness, dizziness, feeling that your heart rate is increased, slight elevations in blood pressure, and sleep problems.Oral decongestants work by narrowing blood vessels in the nasal passages, helping the swollen tissues to shrink. These products cause more mucus to drain in the short term, but relieve the pressure and improve air flow so you can breathe easier.
Products that contain pseudoephedrine, originally marketed as Sudafed, can be purchased without a prescription but are kept behind the pharmacy counter due to concerns about inappropriate use.
You will be asked to provide identification, like a driver’s license, and your purchase will be recorded. This is only done for your safety to control the illegal use of pseudoephedrine.
Talk to your doctor about using oral decongestants if you have a heart condition or hypertension.
 Decongestant nasal sprays or drops are also available over-the-counter but should be used with caution. While these products can help to clear sinus passages and relieve the pressure quickly, using them for more than three days results in a rebound effect.A rebound effect means that your body adjusts to the medications being used, and the congestion and pressure returns, or is possibly worse than before when you try to stop using them. Limiting their use to no more than three days prevents that rebound effect.
 Nasal corticosteroids are available are nasal sprays and help to reduce inflammation in your sinus passages, stopping the runny nose and excessive mucus caused by irritants or allergens.They are used in the chronic treatment of nasal and sinus problems.


Some are available over-the-counter, and several still require a prescription to obtain. Fluticasone and triamcinolone are available in products that you can purchase without a prescription.
People that use nasal corticosteroids often experience relief from their sinus problems and excessive mucus within a few days of starting treatment. Be sure to follow the directions on the package.
 A saline nasal spray helps to clear your nasal passages of mucus and to moisturize your nasal passages. Use the spray as directed, and be patient. The first couple of uses may be helpful, but it will likely take repeated uses to get the full benefit.Saline nasal sprays work in a similar manner to that of a neti pot. They provide moisture to damaged and irritated sinus tissues and help to get rid of unwanted allergens and irritants.
Saline sprays are effective for relieving a runny nose and excessive mucus that is causing nasal congestion and postnasal drip.

