 XKit is a free, third party extension that attaches itself to the actual framework of Tumblr. You'll need to download this extension before continuing further.


Go to the official installation webpage and click on the download or installation link provided. The webpage will automatically detect your browser and provide the appropriate version based on that. Note that XKit is currently available for Chrome, Firefox, and Safari.
Find the download page here: http://xkit.info/seven/download/

After downloading the extension, close and re-open your browser. You should then be able to continue with the remaining instructions.
 Go to the Tumblr homepage. If you aren't already signed into your account, do so now.


You can find the Tumblr "Log In" screen here: https://www.tumblr.com/login


, Look for the XKit icon at the top of your Tumblr dash. Click on the button to open your XKit settings.


The XKit icon looks like a series of overlapping x's centered across a circle. It will usually be located next to the power icon.
 Blacklist isn't automatically installed when you download the XKit app. You'll need to specifically install that feature from within your XKit settings.Look at the bottom of your XKit panel. You should see the "Get Extensions" tab. Click on that tab to open it.
From within the "Get Extensions" tab, use the search box to locate the "Blacklist" extension.
Once you find the "Blacklist" extension, click on the "Install" button beneath it. Follow any on-screen instructions to install the blacklist feature.
 You should still be in XKit after installing "Blacklist," but if you accidentally click out of it, you'll need to open XKit again.


As before, click on the XKit icon at the top of your Tumblr dash.
 Click on the "My XKit" tab at the bottom of the XKit panel to open the main settings portion of the extension, and select "Blacklist" from the resulting side panel.Note that "My XKit" is the first tab and should open by default when you first access your XKit settings.
Once you click on "Blacklist," your blacklist settings should appear. You can change your interface options, if desired, but doing so is not necessary if you only want to add words to your blacklist.
When the shortcut is enabled, you can get to your blacklist quicker by simply hitting "ALT" + "B" on your keyboard. You'll need to specifically enable that feature within the blacklist settings before you can use it, though.
 At the bottom of the "Blacklist" window, you should see a menu that allows you to add tags to your blacklist. Type the tags into the field one by one.


Choose your tags based on the type of content you wish to block.
Note that the app will automatically scan the entire post for the keywords you input. If you only want to block posts that use a specific keyword or phrase as a tag, you will need to type a hashtag (#) before the keyword itself.
 When you've added all your keywords and tags, click on "Save" and return to your Tumblr dash.


You may or may not need to refresh Tumblr before your changes will be made.
After adding keywords to your blacklist, the extension should block any posts containing the terms and phrases you chose. For example, if you added "nsfw" to your blacklist, any post containing "nsfw" somewhere within the title, body, or tags will be collapsed and hidden from your dash.

