 It changes the mood in the room and gives people an idea of what you will be talking about. You can make it a very inspirational quote, or something that you think is funny. Try to choose something relevant to your speech. This is a classic way to start a speech, but that doesn’t mean it's a bad way.
 Whether it was a field trip, funny moment, or little detail that you remember, be sure to include it into the speech. Talking about a specific memory is a great way to help people center on your speech. Anecdotes are great ways to start a speech.


For example, "I'll always remember the way that Ryan Hoolihan spreads peanut butter on all four sides of his bread at lunch."

, Use small details (the gravy for lunch, the color of the bathroom, etc.) that you think the school would be different without, and include them into your speech. Use these things to help illustrate other points that will come later in your speech. For example, maybe one of your teachers taught in a certain way that you found really valuable.
 Graduation is a sad day, so be sure to make it funny to lighten the mood a bit. Don't make stupid jokes, but don't be too serious. Mentioning specific people or instances by name are great ways to get laughs and get started. It’s not going to be a tough crowd.
 Don’t use difficult vocabulary just for the sake of it. You want to keep your own voice in the speech as much as possible and avoid sounding too stale. You can be formal, but don’t try to sound like an academic paper. You want people to pay attention to what you are saying. For example, "It's been four years that we've all been to school together, and we still don't know who stole that headrest from the bus on that 9th grade field trip - but we've learned a lot of other things"

, This will help people wrap their heads around the time they spent at the college. It also will get people feeling nostalgic. , Graduation speeches don’t need to include advice, but it is a good way to start. You can use your own personal advice or advice someone has given to you. Giving advice will allow you to jump right into the rest of your speech. 