 Locate all the files on your hard drive containing sensitive data. Right click and send them to the trash. Empty your trash. If there is no risk that someone will use more advanced techniques to retrieve your data, this is an acceptable and simple method. However, it is fairly easy to recover “deleted” files, as there are a number of file recovery programs on the market.Do not use this method if there is a risk others will make an effort to recover the sensitive information.
Do not use this method if the sensitive information could be used to cause you harm or distress.
 All the information on your hard drive is represented in binary numbers: 1’s and 0’s. This is the computer’s language. Overwriting programs – available online – go through and replace all the information on your hard drive with random strings of 1’s and 0’s. If you decide to choose this method, be advised it is semi-permanent and it may be impossible to recover the data in question.


Most overwriting programs do multiple “passes” of your data. Three passes are considered standard by U.S. government.Back up any information you wish to preserve on an external hard drive.
There are also programs like Eraser that allow you to manually overwrite specific files.
 Degaussing refers to exposing magnet-based technology (e.g. hard drives) to a powerful magnetic field that destroys the data. Ideally it will entirely get rid of the device’s magnetic charge and make it impossible to use. Purchasing your own degausser can cost up to $4000.However it is possible to rent one or pay for the professional services of IT companies like Securis.


Although overwriting can potentially be reversed, the degaussing process causes permanent damage, and none of the data can be recovered. Be sure to back up anything you want to preserve onto an external hard drive or cloud storage.
Do not operate a degausser if you have a pace maker, as it can cause damage to this important medical equipment., The most complete method available is physical destruction. Hammering, high heat, and drilling are all acceptable methods. Whatever method you choose, first remove the hard drive from any outer framework. If hammering, apply extreme force directly on top of the hard drive. If drilling, ensure that you punch several holes directly through the drive. If using heat (e.g. blow torch), completely melt through the hard drive.


When using a blowtorch, wear heat resistant gloves, as well as a protective face shield. It is safest to work over dirt or sand to prevent fires or explosions.
While working with a hammer or drill, wear protective gloves and a face shield to protect yourself from flying debris.
It is also possible to shoot holes through the hard drive with a gun. Do not operate a firearm unless you are licensed to do so.
 Select all the emails containing sensitive information and then select “delete” or “trash” depending on the program. Many online mail services – such as Gmail – will hold onto “deleted” files for 30 days before rendering them unrecoverable to users.Once you’ve deleted the emails, go directly to the “Deleted Messages” and “Trash” sections to see if there are any recoverable versions of your email. If so, delete these too.
 It’s possible you want to prevent others from knowing what websites you’ve been visiting. Many browsers like Chrome, Firefox, and Internet Explorer have this option. Go through the “menu” option to locate your history and delete any incriminating history.

