 Washing your hands is one of the fundamental parts of good hygiene. If you have dirty hands and then touch your ears, there is a chance that you could be spreading harmful bacteria to your ears. Because of this, it is important to wash your hands before you touch your ears and anytime you may have come into contact with germs.Wash your hands after you use the restroom, after using public transportation, and after you shake hands with someone.


Also wash your hand after touching dirty objects (like dirty appliances, dirty dishes, and unwashed linens), before and after you handle raw food, and before and after you eat.
 Cleaning your earlobes can help to sweep away debris that may cause you to develop an infection. Always clean from the inside to the outside so that you don’t push any bacteria from the outside of your ear in further.Try to avoid thoroughly cleaning the inside of your ears because you may in fact push dirt and bacteria further into your ear, leading to congestion and potentially infection.
 Exposing yourself to bacteria and viruses is another way that you can develop an ear infection. This can include swimming and diving in contaminated water. Some surf and swimming spots are near areas where sewage is dumped and there may be harmful bacteria in the water. The constant moisture in your ears may lead to infection. To prevent contaminated waters from getting in your ears, buy ear coverings, swim caps, or ear plugs that can be used under water.


To help dry out your ears after you swim or surf, rinse your ears with a small amount of rubbing alcohol to facilitate drying in the ear.
Check the news or search online to see if the area where you plan to swim is safe. Look for signs posted in the area warning of high or toxic bacteria counts.
This can also happen if you overly expose yourself to air pollution.
 This is because the actions used on them create a negative pressure situation in which bacteria that live in the mouth, such as strep, get drawn into the Eustachian tubes due to this high pressure suction.


Contaminated pacifiers can also lead to ear infections., For infants who are still bottle fed, make sure that formula or juice does not leak out the top of the nipple and dribble into her ears. That can create a moist environment similar to a swimmer’s ear.


Also avoid letting toddlers fall asleep with the bottle because the liquid can move into their ears this way as well.Breastfeeding for at least three months has shown to decrease the risk of ear infections within the first year.