 Lotions are formulated for the specific needs of different kinds of skin, so the first step is determining the type of skin your face has so you can buy the best product. If you have face lotion already, check the label to make sure it is the right product for what your skin is like now. Skin changes all the time due to things like weather and aging, so be sure you keep in mind what your skin is like currently. The different skin types are:Normal skin is neither dry nor oily and is not prone to blemishes or skin sensitivity or irritation.
Oily skin often looks shiny or greasy due to overactive oil glands in the face. This skin type is prone to blemishes and often has larger-appearing pores.
Dry skin suffers from a lack of oil and moisture, often appearing flaky with visible lines and reddish patches of skin.
Sensitive skin is commonly mistaken for dry skin because it also appears red and dry; however, irritation for sensitive skin types is caused by a particular ingredient in a skin care product and not a lack of oil production.
Combination skin is skin that has patches of oily areas and other areas that are more dry or normal. Most often combination skin is oilier on the forehead, nose, and chin and normal to dry on the rest of the face.;
, Now that you know what type of skin you have on your face, you want to purchase products with ingredients that are best suited for your skin needs. Certain ingredients are scientifically proven to help specific skin needs, so finding products that contain these will help maximize the benefits of the lotion. Some ingredients that are great for each skin type are:Normal skin: Look for cream-based moisturizers that contain vitamin C to help manage antioxidant damage. Avoid gels which will be too drying or thicker ointment creams that will be too heavy.
Oily skin: Use a lightweight, water-based gel formula, which absorb faster than other lotions. Look for ones containing zinc oxide, aloe barbadensis gel, or seaweed extract. Avoid products that contain alcohol and petrolatum.
Dry skin: Try thicker, cream-based lotions or heavy-duty ointments to help provide a thicker layer of protection from the elements. Look for ingredients like jojoba oil, sunflower seed oil, or rosehip seed oil. Avoid products that contain alcohol, which it too drying for dry skin.
Sensitive skin: Look for products that contain soothing ingredients like Echinacea, hyaluronic acid, and cucumber extract. Avoid products that contain chemicals, dyes, or perfumes.
Combination skin: Look for oil-free formulas containing panthenol, zinc oxide, and lycopene. These will help balance out the areas that are oily while providing moisture to areas that are dry.
 In order to be sure you are getting the maximum benefits from your lotion, you need to be sure your skin is prepped properly. You should wash your face twice a day, first thing in the morning and before bed, with a cleanser that is also designed for your particular skin type. Using clean hands or a clean washcloth, gently massage the cleanser into your skin with slow, circular motions. Once a week use an exfoliator in place of the cleanser to remove dead skin cells and buildup from the top layers of the skin, which can prevent the absorption of lotion and its active ingredients. Keep in mind:Be sure to keep the water temperature lukewarm. Water that is extremely hot can damage the skin, and cold water will close the pores, trapping dirt and bacteria inside the skin.
Avoid scrubbing too hard as this can cause skin irritation, redness, or breakouts.
Be sure to rinse your face thoroughly, as any remaining product can clog your pores and cause irritation and blemishes.
 Do not dry your face thoroughly. You also don’t want your face to be too wet because your lotion will just slide off when you apply it. You want your face to be damp because the ingredients in face lotions penetrate the skin better when they are dissolved. Applying lotion to damp skin will also create a seal on the top layer of the skin that holds in all of the hydration and nutrients. Be sure to change the towel or cloth regularly to avoid spreading old bacteria onto your newly washed skin., Because face lotions are tailored to specific skin types, the consistency of each lotion can vary greatly between lotions. Each product will come with recommendations for how much to apply, but typically thinner lotions require a little more product than thicker ones. Typically the amount of product will range from a pea-sized amount to a quarter-sized dollop. Using the right amount, gently apply the lotion in circular motions using your (clean) fingertips. For extra dry areas, lightly press the lotion into the skin as you apply it.Some additional tips include:


Avoid applying face lotion to the area around your eyes because it is very delicate and many moisturizers can be too rich. This can cause the eye skin to retain fluid and appear puffy. Only apply eye cream to the eye area.
It’s ideal if your face lotion has at least SPF 15 in it to help protect your skin throughout the day; however, avoid putting SPF lotion on your face at night because it can clog your pores and cause blemishes.
 Many people remember to put lotion on their face after cleansing, but the neck is often forgotten. The skin on your neck is more similar to the skin on your face than it is to the skin on your body, so including it in your face lotion routine is key.Using long, gentle strokes upward from the base of your neck to your jawline, apply face lotion to your neck after your cleanse your face each time. This will help keep the skin on your neck looking hydrated and youthful.
 After applying lotion to your face and neck, wait about 5 minutes before you put on your shirt, apply any makeup, or get into bed. You want to give the lotion time to sink in before doing anything that can disturb the hydrating seal the lotion creates on the upper layers of the skin. Applying makeup too soon can cause the cosmetic products to seep into your pores along with the lotion and clog your pores or appear streaky. If you get dressed too soon or lay your face down on a pillow, the cloth will absorb the lotion instead of the skin, and you won’t get the maximum benefits from the lotion.