 An asset is any item of value that the organization owns, an amount owed to it by someone else, or any other account or investment held by the organization. Assets may include furnishings and office equipment, inventory and supplies, cash, checking and savings accounts, real estate, and any investments. When listing the organization's assets:


Name the asset. The asset may be cash, accounts receivable, loans payable to the organization, real estate, furnishings, office equipment and supplies, inventory, checking and savings accounts, or investments. If the organization owns more than one of the same type of asset, provide enough information to distinguish one asset from the other. For example, if more than one CD is held, list the CD’s by institution and partial account number, such as "Star Financial Bank CD #*****4569."
State the value of the asset. Office equipment, furnishings, and other personal property of the organization may be valued based on its current market value. The current market value of an item is the amount the owner would receive if he or she sold the property to a willing buyer in the current market. Real estate may be valued based on either its fair market value or its appraised value. The fair market value of a piece of real estate is the value that the owner would receive if he or she sold the property to a willing buyer in the current market after making full disclosure of all relevant facts. The appraised value of real estate is the value that a licensed appraiser gives the property in a written report.
Indicate whether the asset is unrestricted, temporarily restricted, or permanently restricted. Restriction of assets may occur when the organization owns an endowment or a donor specifies a time restraint or particular use for a donation.
List the assets in order of liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to convert an asset to cash quickly. A bank account from which the organization may withdraw cash immediately is higher on the liquidity scale than accounts receivable, which have not yet been collected, or real estate, which would have to be sold before having any cash value.;
, For each liability indicate whether it is a short- or long-term liability. Short-term liabilities are those due within one year, and long-term liabilities are those due more than one year from the current date. For example, a utility bill due on the first of next month is a short-term liability, and a 15-year mortgage on the organization's office building is a long-term liability. Liabilities should be listed in ascending order of maturity (that is, with those due first listed first). Liabilities of a nonprofit organization may include:


Payroll: any wages currently owed to employees are considered liabilities. This does not include wages which have not yet been earned. For example, if Sally works for the organization for $10 an hour and works 40 hours a week but has only worked 20 so far this week, the amount of payroll wages currently due Sally is $200, even though by the end of the week she will have earned $400.
Accounts payable: these are short-term debts owed for things such as the purchase of inventory, supplies, or services. This may be credit card balances, amounts owed to vendors or suppliers, or monthly bills such as electricity or phone service.
Loans and mortgages: loans and mortgages of the organization which are not due within one year are considered long-term liabilities. Amounts due on loans and mortgages within the next year are short-term liabilities.
Deferred revenue: also called refundable expenses, this is revenue received by the organization for services not yet preformed, such as money paid for future events, monthly subscriptions, or tuition for future classes. These funds would be refundable to the donor should the service not be delivered and therefore are liabilities of the organization.
Fees and interest: any fees or interest currently payable as the result of a credit card balance or other short- or long-term loan should be included as a liability. In order to determine the amount currently due, check with the account holder or a certified public accountant.
 After listing all of the organizations debts and assets, add the assets together and show the total. Then add the liabilities together and show that total.
 This is the total assets minus the total liabilities. For example, if the assets of an organization add up to $200,000 and the liabilities of the organization add up to $100,000, you would subtract $100,000 from $200,000 to get a total net worth of $100,000.
 A financial picture statement normally lists assets on the left and debts on the right. You may wish to use categories, subcategories, bold titles or other text formatting to make the sheet easy to read at a glance. The total assets, total liabilities, and net worth should be shown in bold type or other text formatting which makes them easy to find on the sheet.

