 Even though your music is protected by copyright from the moment you create it, you must register your copyrights in the composition and sound recording with the U.S. Copyright Office if you want to file a lawsuit for infringement in federal court.You can register copyrights online at copyright.gov, which typically is a quicker and easier way to register, and also allows you to pay a lower registration fee.
Additionally, if you register online you can attach electronic files of your music rather than having to mail physical recordings or sheet music.
Registering your copyright means you are eligible for statutory damages, which could run anywhere between $200 and $150,000 for each work the person infringed. Statutory damages are not available unless you register your copyright prior to suing for infringement.
A registered copyright also provides proof that you are the owner of the music. If the infringing party disputes your ownership, the burden shifts to them to prove that you are not the rightful copyright owner.
 Due to the complexity of copyright infringement lawsuits, hiring an experienced copyright litigation attorney is the best way to ensure your rights are protected and the person who has unlawfully used your music will be penalized to the full extent of the law.Intellectual property is a broad and varied field, so make sure you find an attorney who has specific experience litigating copyright infringement cases.
You want to try to interview at least three attorneys before you make your final choice. If you don't have anyone already in mind, you might want to check on the website of your state or local bar association.
The bar association's website typically will have a searchable directory. You may want to look for attorneys who are members of the intellectual property section, which includes attorneys licensed to practice law in your area who specialize in intellectual property.
Keep in mind that although an experienced copyright litigation attorney may have fairly high fees, if you win your lawsuit you may be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees as part of your award.
If there is a chapter of lawyers for the arts in your area, you may be able to find an attorney who is willing to represent your case for a reduced rate, or even on a volunteer basis.
 Your attorney will work with you to draft your complaint, which is the document you must use to initiate your lawsuit in federal court. Your complaint lists a series of allegations detailing the person's unlawful use of your music and describing how it constitutes infringement of your copyright.In addition to the complaint, you also must complete and file a summons and a civil cover sheet. The cover sheet is for the court's reference, while the summons is required to tell the party you're suing about the lawsuit filed against them.
Typically a complaint for copyright infringement must be accompanied by copies of your copyright registration certificates.
When you file your complaint, you'll be responsible for paying a $400 filing fee. Your attorney may pay this on your behalf and add it to your overall bill.
After your complaint is filed, it must be served on the person or business you're suing. Typically this is done by hiring a U.S. Marshal to hand-deliver a copy of the complaint and summons to the person.
When the other party is served, you must file a proof of service document with the court.
 Once the unlawful user is served with your complaint, they have a brief period of time – typically 20 days – to file a written answer or other response to your lawsuit or you may be eligible to win by default.You shouldn't expect the other party not to respond at all. They may file a motion to dismiss, or a written answer that denies your allegations of copyright infringement and presents a number of defenses.
Once your attorney is served with the other party's response, they will meet with you to go over it and plan your next steps.
If the other party files a motion to dismiss, the court typically will hold a hearing on that motion before litigation can commence. At the hearing, you'll have to be able to show that there is a question of fact regarding whether the other party infringed the copyright in your music.
 Even if the other party was previously unresponsive, they may become more open to reaching a settlement with you once you actually file an infringement lawsuit in federal court.The other party typically will make any settlement offers to your attorney, who will discuss the offer with you and go over your options.
Although your attorney may give you advice regarding whether you should accept or reject the offer, the decision is ultimately yours.
If a settlement seems feasible, you may want to request the other party participate in mediation. Through this process, a neutral third party works with both of you to facilitate a mutually agreeable resolution.
The benefit of mediation is that any settlement reached is completely voluntary, and discussions are confidential. If you do reach a settlement, you can create a written settlement agreement.
Once both parties sign the written settlement agreement, it becomes a legally enforceable contract in a court of law.
 If you are unable to settle your case, you will proceed through the discovery phase, during which you and the other party will exchange documents and information related to your claims to build evidence for trial.For example, if the other party is claiming the defense of fair use protects their otherwise unlawful use of your music, you would want to request documents and other information related to that defense.
The other party is going to want information to prove the damages you've claimed, especially if you're claiming damages related to potential sales lost as a result of their infringing use.
If you're seeking penalties based on the intentional infringement of your copyright, you'll need to find evidence that the other party knew they were violating your copyright by using your music the way they did, but continued to do so anyway.
As discovery progresses, more information becomes available to both parties. The more information you learn, the more you may see potential opportunities for settlement.
Likewise, discovery gives the other party the ability to re-evaluate the relative strength of their case and any defenses they originally claimed.

