 Diazinon is a hazardous and potentially toxic chemical. Before mixing the diazinon, protect your eyes, lungs, and skin with appropriate safety equipment.








Wear safety goggles to protect your eyes.
To protect your lungs, put on a respirator with an organic vapor-removing cartridge or canister approved for use with potent pesticides.
Protect your skin by wearing thick chemical-resistant gloves, a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, closed-toe shoes with socks, and a chemical-resistant apron.;
, You'll need to use a chemical spray tank approved for use with potent pesticides, and this spray tank must have a motorize agitator. Thoroughly clean all equipment using by flushing it out with hot water before use.









Verify that the tank and hose are both in proper working condition and free from cracks, holes, or other forms of damage.
Equip the sprayers with nozzles that provides accurate, uniform application, and make sure that the sprayer is accurately calibrated before you mix the chemical.
 When available, you should always check the instructions that come with the package of diazinon to verify the proper concentration and spray amount to prepare based on crop type.









If the instructions on the package of diazinon vary from those described here, follow the package instructions instead of following these.
If you do not have the instructions, the information provided here should apply to the vast majority of circumstances.
 Expect to apply a total of 300 to 400 gallons (1200 to 1600 L) of water per 1 acre (4000 square meters).









For most fruit and nut crops, you will need to add 1 to 1-1/2 pints (500 to 750 ml) of liquid Diazinon AG500 per 100 gallons (400 L) of water.Alternatively, add 1 to 1-1/2 lb (450 to 675 g) powdered Diazinon 50W per 100 gallons (400 L) of water.
 You will need to apply a minimum of 1 to 2 gallons (4 to 8 L) of prepared diazinon for every 1000 square feet (9.3 square meters) of ground.









For most vegetable crops, mix 2 to 4 qt (2 to 4 L) of liquid Diazinon AG500 per 2 gallons (8 L) of water.
Alternatively, mix 4 to 8 lbs (1800 to 3600 g) of powdered Diazinon 50W per 2 gallons (8 L) of water.
 The maximum amount of prepared pesticide you should use on ornamental crops should not exceed 200 gallons (800 L) per 1 acre (4000 square meters) of ground.









When using Diazinon AG500, mix 1/2 fl oz (15 ml) per 3 gallons (12 L) of water or 1 pt (1 L) per 100 gallons (400 L) of water.
When using Diazinon 50W, mix 1 lb (450 g) for every 100 gallons (400 L) of water.
 Place half of the total water you'll need in the mix tank. Turn on the tank agitator before proceeding any further.









Note that hydraulic and mechanical agitation works best. Air agitation is not recommended when mixing diazinon.
 With the agitator running, add the total amount of diazinon you need to the water already in the tank.









Diazinon comes individually packaged in 1 lb (450 g) packages. Open the outer bag, but do not open the inner bag. The inner bags are translucent and water-soluble.
Do not open the water-soluble bag when adding the diazinon. Instead, add the entire packet, and allow the bag to dissolve in the water. As the bag dissolves, the diazinon inside will be released into the water. This should happen within three to five minutes.
Note that you must also handle the water-soluble bags with care. Do not allow them to come into contact with moisture before you add them to the spray tank.
 After a few moments, add the remaining amount of water to the mix tank.









Try to direct the water directly over the water-soluble bags of diazinon. Doing so can help speed up the mixing process.
Watch the solution mix for a few minutes. The diazinon must dissolve and disperse completely into the water before you apply the pesticide.
Do not turn the agitator off while adding the water. You should not turn it off after the diazinon and water finish mixing, either.
 You should only prepare enough diazinon for your immediate needs. After the pesticide and water mix, you should apply the product immediately.









Do not allow the mixture to remain in the mix tank overnight.
Do not stop agitating the mixture at any point during the application process. Maintain the maximum amount of agitation until all of the mixture has been applied to the designated area.
 After applying the diazinon, you should thoroughly flush all of the spray equipment with clean, running water.









Collect the rinse water in chemical-resistant buckets and apply it to the area you just treated. Do not allow the rinse water to drain into the sewage system or into natural sources of water.

