 Fill a large saucepan halfway with water. Bring it to a boil over high heat, then add 1 Tbsp (15 ml) canning salt to the water. Let it return to a boil before continuing.


You could add the salt to the water before it boils, but doing so will cause the water to reach a boil more slowly.
The salt will help draw out and enhance the natural flavor of the cauliflower.
 Add the cauliflower florets to the rapidly boiling water. Let them cook for 3 minutes, then immediately remove the pan from the heat source.


The cauliflower needs to soften slightly, but you do not want it to become completely tender.
 Pour the contents of the saucepan through a colander to drain the hot water. Rinse the cauliflower under cold running water for 1 to 2 minutes to cool the florets and stop the cooking process.


Alternatively, you can dump the drained cauliflower into a large bowl of ice water for 3 minutes to cool it down instead of rinsing it under cold running water. You will need to drain the ice water by pouring the contents of the bowl through a colander.
 Place the mustard seed and celery seed in a medium saucepan. Heat the spices over a medium setting on your stove, swirling the pan continuously, for about 2 minutes. The seeds should become fragrant and should start taking on a brown tint.


Continuous stirring prevents the seeds from burning.
If you're short on time, this part of the process can be skipped. This step draws flavor out of the seeds, though, making your pickled cauliflower tastier when done.
 Pour the vinegar and another 1 cup (250 ml) of water into the saucepan with your toasted seeds. Add the sugar, garlic, peppercorns, turmeric, red pepper flakes, and another 1 Tbsp (15 ml) pickling salt, as well. Bring the solution to a boil, then drop the temperature and let the solution simmer for 5 minutes.
 As the pickling solution simmers, tightly pack your cooled cauliflower florets into clean glass canning jars. Leave as little space as possible.


For this method, it works best if you use half-pint (quarter-liter) or pint (half-liter) sized jars instead of full quart jars. The processing times provided here are for jars of this size.
 Distribute the solution evenly into each jar of cauliflower. Make sure that the solution fills each jar to the very bottom, and leave at least 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace at the top of each jar.


Wipe the rims of each jar with a hot, damp towel before covering the container with a lid. Fasten the lid in place by tightly screwing on a corresponding metal band.
The headspace is necessary since the contents of the jar can expand during the canning process. If you do not have the headspace, the pressure inside the jar can actually cause the glass to break.
 Place the jars evenly along the bottom rack of a boiling-water canner. Pour enough water inside the cover the jars by 3 inches (7.6 cm) or more. Turn on the heat source.


If you do not have an actual canner, place the jars inside a large stockpot fitted with a metal rack. Heat the stockpot on the stove over high heat.
 Start the clock once the water inside your canner has reached a boil. The process time will vary depending on your altitude.For altitudes between 0 and 1000 feet (0 and 305 m), process the jars for 10 minutes.
For altitudes between 1000 and 6000 feet (305 m and 1830 m), process the jars for 15 minutes.
For altitudes above 6000 feet (1830 m), process the jars for 20 minutes.
 Remove the jars with tongs or a special jar lifter, then place them on a kitchen towel spread over your counter or table. Allow the jars to cool and dry for six hours.
 Store the jars of pickled cauliflowers in a cool, dark place. When made in this manner, pickled cauliflowers should last for up to one year.


Note that you will need to refrigerate these pickles after opening the jar.

