 Putting yourself out there is tough, but it is much easier to build trusting relationships if you are willing to take the first step. Try something small, like sharing a personal story, confiding a small anxiety, or asking someone to go on a date. If the person is rude or distant, then you can move on to someone else. But if they offer something back or sympathize with you, telling a similar story or agreeing to go on a date, then you’ve both taken the first step towards a trusting relationship., Trust is not a switch that you can switch on or off. Rather, it's built up over time, growing alongside your relationship. Begin trusting people with little things – getting to a meeting on time, helping with small errands – before trusting someone with big secrets.


There is no need to force a judgment on someone right when you meet them.
 Baring your secrets, fears, and insecurities requires a lot of trust. Sharing your emotions with someone often takes place later in a relationship, after you have already built up trust. Start confiding in someone slowly, seeing how they respond, before fully committing to trust them. Whenever you share stories with someone, ask yourself a few questions:


Do they seem interested in what I have to say? Trust requires that both parties care about each other.
Are they willing to share stories about themselves? Trust is a give and take, where both parties feel comfortable sharing.
Are they dismissive, condescending, or oblivious to my worries and concerns? Trust requires respect.
 There is no set “level” of trust that you need with people. There are going to be some people who you trust a little, like coworkers or new acquaintances, and some people you would trust with your life. Instead of putting people into two categories, “trustworthy” and “untrustworthy,” look at trust as a spectrum.
 It is easy to make a promise but hard to keep one. You should watch people’s actions to see if they are trustworthy, not follow their words. If you ask them for a favor, reserve your judgment until the job ends. By observing actions and not words you can view someone’s trust objectively, building trust based on facts.
 If you want to build trust with someone, you need to be trustworthy yourself. If you are constantly breaking promises, telling secrets, or showing up late, you will find that people do the same thing to you. Think about other people's needs. Offer your help and guidance, and listen to them when they talk to build a trusting relationship.


Never share someone’s secrets with other people unless they are in need of help. For example, a depressed friend may confide in you that they have suicidal thoughts, but you should share this with a counselor or professional even if they ask you not to tell.
Keep your promises, and don’t cancel plans once you’ve made them.
Be honest, even in difficult situations.
 Unfortunately, people are always going to make mistakes – skipping a meeting, letting a secret slip, or acting selfishly. If you expect every person to “earn your trust” they will all fall short from time to time. Trusting someone is about seeing through a person’s occasional faults at the bigger picture.When people make the same mistake time after time, or refuse to apologize for problems, they become untrustworthy.
 If you believe someone is trustworthy, then go with your instincts. Having faith in yourself not only makes it easier to build trust, it makes it easier to move on when someone breaks your trust. Know that you are emotionally stable and happy. This helps you feel comfortable taking a risk trusting other people.