 It’s important for you to evaluate the behaviors the addict engages in while using that are dangerous, unpleasant, or otherwise make living with them more difficult. Your list could include things like using in the home, driving while under the influence, and not paying bills., Once you have a list of the behaviors you consider to be unacceptable, it’s time to discuss the list with the addict. You should try to have this discussion as soon as possible, after noticing the drug use or deciding to live with the addict. Explain why you have a problem with each of the behaviors, and ask them if they can agree to abstain from these behaviors while you’re sharing a home.


To start the conversation, be straightforward. Say something like, “I’ve noticed you’re using drugs on a regular basis, and I am not here to judge you. However, we do share this space, so I think we should discuss how your drug use affects that.”
This will not be an easy conversation for either of you. Use nonjudgmental language, but be firm. Try something like, “I want us both to be happy sharing this home, and I won’t feel safe knowing you’re using in the house.”
Give yourself permission to leave. If the drug addict becomes violent or refuses to consider your concerns, you may have to move., If the addict agrees to abstain from these unacceptable behaviors while you’re cohabitating, it’s essential that you create agreed upon consequences. Boundary lines without consequences for crossing them will not be helpful for you or the addict, since engaging in these unacceptable behaviors will not actually negatively effect the addict.


Set “punishments that fit the crime.” Don’t kick the addict out the first time they slip up, or for a minor infraction. Create fair consequences to help the addict feel like they can succeed.
Give the addict opportunities to succeed by allowing them to make up for unacceptable behavior by helping out around the house or completing other small tasks.
 Even if you’re worried the addict may end up homeless, lose their job, or got to jail, follow through on the agreed upon consequences. Don’t let the addict make you feel guilty for their mistakes. Be firm, and insist the addict keep their end of the agreed upon arrangement.Avoid direct confrontation and never engage the addict in physical violence. If they cross one of the agreed upon boundary lines, address the issue calmly and remind them of the consequences.
Wait to address the crossed boundaries when the addict is sober., This is often the most difficult thing for friends and family members of addicts, but doing anything to make it easier for the addict to use is detrimental to them in the long run. Sometimes, it may be difficult to recognize enabling behaviors for what they are, but it’s important to regularly evaluate the way you interact with the addict to ensure you’re not engaging in enabling behaviors.


Don’t make excuses for the addict to friends or family members. Insist that you will always tell the truth, and will not be made to cover for the addict.
Don’t do work for the addict, so they don’t suffer consequences from work, family, or other loved ones.
Never supply the addict directly or indirectly with drugs. It is easy to avoid directly supplying them with drugs, but covering their half of the rent, paying for their meals, and providing money for other necessary items may make it easier for them to purchase drugs., Don’t give up your hobbies or compromise other relationships because you’re concerned about the behavior of addicts. Dedicate at least an hour a day to doing something you enjoy without letting the addict interfere.