 If you have a visual memory, a simple picture can really enhance your vocabulary list or flashcards. Try drawing something that will remind you of the word's meaning. For example, you could draw a picture of a happy face next to the word "elated."This may be even more effective if you try to incorporate the picture into the word somehow. For example, you could draw devil horns on the word "malevolent" to remind you that it means "evil."

, If you're having a hard time remembering the meaning of a word that has a much easier synonym, it may help to train your brain to associate the two. Think of song lyrics that contain the synonym and repeat them to yourself over and over using your new vocabulary word in place of its synonym. If you do this enough, you should have a very easy time remembering that the two words mean the same thing.For example, if you need to remember that the word "jubilant" means "happy," try changing the words to "If You're Happy and You Know It" to "if you're jubilant and you know it, clap you hand."

, A mnemonic device is simply a word or sentence that helps you remember something. When you use a mnemonic device for a vocabulary word, you should try to use the sounds in the word to remind yourself of its definition.For example, if you need to remember the meaning of the word "perilous," you might decide that it sounds something like "pear is lost." Use this sentence to create a short back story that you will remember. It can be as ridiculous as you want, as long as it will lead you back to the definition of the word. Your story could be, "I was hopping across a high balance beam on one foot while holding a pear in each hand. I lost my balance, and the only way I could prevent myself from falling was to drop one of my pears." This silly story should help you remember that the meaning of "perilous" (pear is lost) is "dangerous."
If you can't think of a mnemonic device yourself, search for a mnemonic dictionary online. It will give you several suggestions for how to remember the meaning of your word.
 Another great trick to help you quickly remember your vocabulary words is to associate each word with an object or person. For example, you might assign a different vocabulary word to each item of furniture in your living room based on its appearance. You can also do this with people by assigning a word to each of your friends on Facebook based on their personalities, for example. As long as there is some kind of reason for the association, even if it's silly, this will help you quickly recall the meaning of each word.