 You can trade a variety of items you may have earned playing games on Steam. You can trade items earned in Team Fortress 2, Counter-Strike GO, DOTA 2, and a variety of other games. You can also trade Trading Cards which can be earned for most games on Steam.


Not all items can be traded. Look for the "Tradable" tag in the item's description.
Trading is one of the best ways to get keys to open locked chests without spending any money.
 Knowing the value of your trade items can make it easier to create an offer or make sure your trade is fair. You can see the market value of an item by selecting it in your inventory. Check the "View in Community Market" section for the lowest starting price of that item.


If you'd rather, you can sell you extra items on the Community Market and then buy the TF2 items you want with the money you earn. This requires a few more hoops to jump through, and may be less lucrative than trading directly with another player.
 In order to trade with someone, you'll need to be Steam friends with them. The exception to this is if you start a trade with another player in TF2 that's on the same server you're playing on.


You can see what people have available for trade by opening their Steam profiles and clicking "Inventory." The other person's inventory needs to be set to "Public" if you are not friends with them.
You can find people to add to your Friends list by visiting various TF2 trading communities.
There are many servers that are dedicated to matching you with other traders.
 You can do this by double-clicking a name on your Steam Friends list, clicking the arrow, and then selecting "Invite to trade." If you're playing TF2, open the Customize Items (M) menu in TF2 and select "Trading." You'll then be able to select another player on your server.
 Tell the other player what you're looking for, and what you're offering in return. Make sure that your offer is fair and based on current market values.
 Drag the items you want to trade into the trading grid. Once you are satisfied with what you are offering, click the "Ready to trade" box to lock your offer. Once the other person does the same, you can complete the trade.
 After both parties have accepted the trade offers, the "Make Trade" button will become available. Press this to confirm the trade. The items will be traded as soon as you both press "Make Trade."