 Go through the house for things which could be used. These could include:


Sweet wrappers, letters, coloured paper, scraps of wallpaper and posters are all good for wallpaper.
Stamps, stickers and seals make nice pictures.
Felt, cloth and other materials are good for clothes, curtains, carpets, tablecloths, blankets, mattresses and many others.
Cardboard is perfect as a stiff frame for furniture.
Coins make nice plates.
Wool, thread and shoelaces are good for edging carpets, making rope, making ladders if your home will be multi - store and making clothes, amongst others.;
, This has several detailed paragraphs describing the Borrowers house, which may be of inspiration.
 Some places include:


A drawer in a cupboard if good for a convenient, birds eye view home.
Several shoe boxes taped together is the easiest option.
A wooden crate is good if you want to actually get into the home to make it, and pretend to be the boy in the book (he discovers the borrowers are helps them out).
A suitcase is nice if you want to disguise it as something else, and it already has an entrance, and you can buy suitcase compartments which could serve as rooms.
 Paint the outside, or paper it, to make it look good, like a home.
 This can make it more life like. The separations could be made from:


Sheets of plastic are good because they are sturdy and colourful, and feel realistic.
Pieces of cardboard are the cheapest method.
Sheets of card are a little thin and unstable, but are fairly good.
Small wooden boxes are a little expensive, but are the most sturdy, and are what is used in the book.
Cardboard cigarette boxes - these are good because if you cut out the back, they are pre-made doors.



Make a sturdy cardboard or wood frame.
Pad out or decorate to make it more realistic.
Secure to the floor of the home. This will prevent breakages.
 This could be:


Under a bed.
In a cupboard.
On top of a wardrobe.
On a shelf.
 This can be done with:


A wad of felt.
Some damp cotton wool.
An earbud.
Hair!

