 Bring two cups of water to a boil. Pour in two tablespoons of nettle leaf. Add chamomile flowers for light hair, or rosemary leaf for dark hair. Allow the mixture to cool, then pour the tea through a strainer to remove the herbs.Chamomile and rosemary help calm the scalp and may help regulate its production of sebum.Nettle leaves can help your pores not to overproduce oil.;
, Pour 1/2 cup of apple cider vinegar and one cup of tea into your container. Add one tablespoon of clay powder at a time, whisking or blending in between. Continue mixing until the consistency is similar to yogurt. If you’re not using the mask right away, keep it in an air-tight container for no more than a week.You can use a food processor, blender, or a non-metal bowl to mix the ingredients together. If you use a bowl, choose a whisking tool that is not made of metal. Coming in contact with metal can lessen the effectiveness of the clay.
Clay encourages scalp health, absorbs toxins and oil, and has antibacterial properties., Strain out any pulp from the lemon juice.In a separate container from your hair mask, add the strained lemon juice and a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar. Pour in the rest of the tea (about a cup).Apple cider vinegar removes product buildup that causes oily hair, and balances the pH level of your hair.
Lemon boosts shine and body, while removing extra oil.
Using lemon in your hair regularly can lighten your hair slightly with gold highlights. Omit the lemon if you are using this rinse often and don’t want to lighten your hair.
 Begin with your roots first, then work the mask into the rest of your hair. Use a handful of the mixture at a time, working it into small sections for even coverage. Continue until you’ve coated all of your hair, from the roots to the ends. Don’t allow the mask to dry.Keep a spray bottle of water nearby, and spritz your hair to keep it damp, as needed, while you apply the mask., Cover your hair with a plastic shower cap, cling wrap, or a tied plastic bag.Leave the mask in for five to twenty minutes.Check the mask occasionally to make sure it isn’t drying.


If the mask feels like it’s drying when you check it, reapply a mist of water to keep your hair damp.
How long your hair mask should sit depends on your individual hair type, and how long it’s been since you’ve applied a clay mask. Five minutes should be sufficient if you apply this mask regularly. See what works best for you. For example, you may want to leave the mask on longer if you have coarse hair rather than fine hair., Use the shower, if possible – clay will be very difficult to remove under a sink faucet.Scrub your hair and scalp gently but well, under warm water. Rinse thoroughly, until the water runs clear.Don’t add shampoo, and avoid shampooing your hair the following day., Start with your scalp, and pour down to the tips of your hair. Gently rub the rinse into your scalp. Use this rinse no more than twice per week., Use cold water, if you can. If not, use room temperature or warm water.Cold water gives your hair more shine, by closing the hair cuticles and locking in moisture., Add a day in between your washings, gradually working up to washing only two to three times per week.Rinse your hair with just water on days off from shampooing, if desired. When you apply shampoo, only do so once, and make sure to rinse out shampoo and conditioner completely.Over-shampooing has a drying effect that can cause excess oil production.After about a month, your hair and scalp should adjust to less shampooing.
You can add a cleansing conditioner into your rinse days, if desired.
Try wearing a hat, or your hair in a bun or ponytail, while you’re adjusting to washing your hair less.You can still shower even if you don’t want to rinse your hair; just clip your hair up or put on a shower cap.
 Avoid conditioning your roots. Apply conditioner to the ends of your hair. Make sure the conditioner you choose isn’t too heavy. Rinse the conditioner out completely once finished., Don’t overbrush with extra, unneeded strokes; only brush enough to distribute oils down to the ends of your hair, to moisturize dry ends. Use a quality brush, such as boar bristle.Bend over and brush your hair from underneath, back to front. Then stand up straight and brush your hair top-down.Clean your hairbrush regularly.Over brushing can cause hair to weaken and shed.Brushing actually cleanses hair., Hairsprays and volumizers are fine, and can aid the texture and appearance of your tresses.Avoid products with proteins or lipid-replenishing ingredients.Combat very oily hair with a light spray of dry shampoo on your roots.

