 Commit to a regular, relaxing routine just before you get in bed. This will send a cue to your body that it’s time to rest.For instance, first take a shower, then dim the lights before getting in bed, then read for 20 minutes. Choose an order of operations that you prefer; it’s the consistency that matters.
Turn the temperature down in your bedroom. This will be especially helpful in convincing your body to go to sleep if you take a warm shower before getting in bed.
 Adjust temperature and lighting to help with this. Keep the lights dim in the evening hours, and make your bedroom dark, cool, and quiet.Keep a dim light on. If the dark discomforts you, dispel this uneasiness by keeping a light on. Make sure it isn’t too bright, and is positioned well away from your face.
Try a blue or green tinted cover on a small nightlight plugged into the wall across the room from where you sleep.
Keep it as dark as is comfortable. Light is a natural signal to your body to be awake, so you only want to have the minimum amount of light to prevent feeling frightened.Instead of keeping a light on, simply keep a flashlight by the side of your bed and know that you can quickly grab it if need be.
 Turn off all of the screens in your room. Shut down TVs, video games, computers, and even cell phones an hour before you want to be asleep.Aside from the light that screens emit, the operation of a screen keeps you subconsciously engaged with the world outside your bedroom., Going to bed earlier may seem like it will make it harder to fall asleep, but you will likely not experience as much fear. For one, fear about how much sleep you’re getting will be eliminated.Further, fear felt from sleeping alone is less likely if you’re still hearing everyday noises from outside.
Try getting up earlier too. Getting up before sunrise is incredibly rewarding, and you may even find comfort as the pre-dawn darkness gives way to sunshine.
Don’t take a nap during the day. Napping during the day may contribute to a sleep cycle that makes it hard to sleep at night, which in turns leads to anxiety about getting the proper amount of sleep.
 Gentle, restorative yoga or stretching can calm you down and prepare your body for rest.Sign up for a weekly yoga class, or watch yoga videos to learn some poses.
Poses where you fold forward, either upright or on the ground, can be particularly helpful in calming you down.Breathe with purpose. Whatever the pose, breathing is an important aspect of yoga. A 1:2 pattern is great for relaxation; exhale for 2x the count of your inhale, in whatever increment feels most natural. For instance, if your natural inhale is 3 counts, exhale for six counts. Increase these numbers as you relax. Even without doing a pose, this simple breathing exercise will calm you down.Try a forward fold. From an upright, standing position, fold forward as far as it is comfortable to do so, exhaling and extending your spine. Slide your hands down and around to the back of your legs. As you inhale, straighten your back to a horizontal position, sliding your hands towards the back of your knees. Push your chest gently down through your arms. Exhale and bend back down, hands on the back of your legs all the while. Keeping the knees slightly bent throughout the routine, and allow the head to hang loosely when you’re folded forward. After six folds, hold a forward fold pose for ten breaths.During the day, go for a jog, play a recreational sport, or hit the gym – working out will help you fall asleep later on.
Avoid strenuous activity in the few hours prior to going to bed.
 A proper diet is vital to healthy living, as well as healthy sleeping. Do not eat a large meal within two hours of bedtime, as this can decrease your comfort and interrupt your sleep.Eat breakfast. Fruit and whole grains are great options. Start your day with energy, and prevent the urge to overeat later in the day.
Cut the evening caffeine. Don’t drink or eat sources of caffeine (including coffee, tea, or chocolate) after 4:00 pm.Don’t provide caffeine to children (including soda) after 3:00 in the afternoon., Keep it light, but a snack before bed may help you fall asleep more easily. Try a glass of milk, a small bowl of whole-grain cereal or rice, or a handful of nuts.Caffeine-free tea can also be especially effective in preparing your mind and body for rest, without the extra calories before bed.
 If you think a pet will decrease the fear you feel while falling asleep, consider getting one. On the other hand, if you already sleep with a pet but wake up frequently during the night, consider relegating them to their own resting spot.Even if you don’t think your pet is waking you up at night, they may be diminishing the quality of the rest you’re getting. Try sleeping on your own for a few nights and see if it helps.
Dogs not only comfort their owners, they even add a bit of security to your home. You can train a dog to sleep wherever is most comfortable for you, such as at the foot of your bed.
 Not only will this add security to your home, the knowledge of that security may reduce any nighttime fears for you or your family members.

