 Strive to really think good of others and to find that good in them. Act as if all you can see is this goodness, helping them to live up to your expectation. Throw kindness around like confetti. Moreover, notice other people's kindness and tell them how much you appreciate it.


If you feel an urge to gossip, remind yourself how you might feel if someone gossiped about you and said unkind things. If you find yourself letting rude or untruthful things slip out, apologize immediately and explain that you are striving to become a better person but that sometimes you slip up.

Commit random acts of kindness. These spontaneous, caring and generous acts can add lots of good to the world. Top up someone's parking meter, shout someone in line a coffee, lend someone your sweater when they're cold.
Care for other species. Life is a miracle, and creatures are too. Do your best to treat animals kindly, considerately and compassionately. They are living their lives on a shared planet, doing what they know best to do. Make choices that tread lightly on their lives.;
, Know what about your life is good and treasure that. Consider keeping a gratitude journal, to help you to notice all the little, amazing things and the special people in your life. Note down everything that matters and makes a difference, no matter how small; this is teaching you to appreciate life in all of its facets. Even if you're going through hard times, always resort to finding the good things as much as possible and focusing most on those.


Avoid comparing yourself to others. Comparison is a way of eating away at yourself, causing you to think that you're deprived of what others have or that you're not as good as someone else at doing or being something. Instead, realize that the talents and skills you do have are totally representative of who you are, and that you can always keep working on improving the skills. This also works in reverse; avoid resorting to telling yourself that there are those who have it much harder in life––this too is a form of comparison that can leave you feeling like you can't appreciate what's good about your life and that's not constructive.
Spend time with young children. See things through their eyes, notice the awe that they have for simple and natural things. Use this to reawaken your ability to notice the awesome things around you.
 There is always room for acknowledging the hardships and pain others are experiencing; whether you've being through a similar situation yourself or you can just tell that someone is doing it tough, reach out and let them know that you care and that you're there for them.


See the difficult situations people are going through and realize that, while that doesn't excuse bad behavior, it does offer an explanation for their rudeness, unkindness or curt replies.
Practice self compassion too. Learn to view your internal judge with compassion and objectiveness; everyone wrangles with this being but it doesn't have a right to turn into your worst enemy. learn to forgive yourself, to let go of the bad days, and to ask your negative thoughts to be still and quiet as you don't need to hear them.
 Take responsibility for yourself and the choices you make in life. Couple this with the self-compassion needed to understand that some of the choices you make in life will be ones you wish you hadn't. Everyone goes there and keeps going there; it's part of being human. But it's not an excuse to try to fob the blame off onto another or onto your circumstances. By taking responsibility you also get to be the one in charge of your life, both what is good and bad about it, and progress in wisdom.
 A tolerant person is a strong and beautiful person. It takes courage to be tolerant because you will often be faced with people who are not tolerant. Learn all that you can about other cultures and beliefs, for yours are not the only ones on this Earth. Learn to see people as reflective of a range of beliefs and ideals, a diversity that is essential to healthy communities, and not as "us" and "them"––just because you don't agree with someone or like their lifestyle, does not mean that you have to fear them.


Learn to release your negative emotions constructively. Remind yourself that it is okay to be angry, that is your body and mind telling you that something needs to be paid attention to. However, it is never okay to be cruel, demeaning or to put yourself above others.
Do not let the anger, fear and insecurities of others shape your character. Acknowledge their fear or anger but don't respond in kind. Instead, offer them attentiveness, a listening ear, kindness and patience.
 Complimenting people is a way of forcing yourself to find the good in them, and to give people a wonderful boost. People who compliment radiate an inner beauty when the compliment comes from a genuine place.


Be careful not to overdo the appearance compliments. People are not how they dress or shop, although the occasional "Your hair is gorgeous!" or "I love your shoes!" will be appreciated. Most of the time, look for actual deeds and talents to compliment, notice their strengths and ignore their weaknesses, as this approach will have a more lasting effect on their confidence and well-being. It's also more likely that they'll remember your kindness for noticing.
 Civility is at the heart of good community. Good manners is a way of giving others respect and preventing yourself from trying to be the center of attention. A person with good manners greets others instantly with a "Good Morning!" or a "Hi!" and such a person will always remember to say "thank you" and "please". These are small things in the grander scheme of human relations but they mean a great deal as they tell people you are genuinely considerate and care about them and their comfort, not just your own.


Anne-Louise-Germaine de Staël once said that "Politeness is the art of choosing among your thoughts.” Keep this thought at the forefront of your thoughts, before letting them loose on others!

, Offer a helping hand to persons in need when it's something you can help with. Being beautiful on the inside comes from being able to reach out to others and make their day a little easier. Offer to open a door, watch a baby, walk a dog, help a friend with homework, and so on. Each of these ways of helping won't take a lot of time or effort from you but they will all help to build relationships and cause others to view you as a really beautiful person.
 Have a laugh at yourself and learn to stop taking everything so seriously. A little levity in life can help you through the toughest of times and can help you to see the surrealism of things that happen to you in life. Occasionally let go and be child like again to release your inner child––visit a playground, swing on the swings and play kid's games with your friends.


Smile whenever you have the chance. A smile can give the impression that you have a positive perspective on life and that you're a welcoming person. A smile is ideal for lightening the load of an unhappy person, for acknowledging the effort of a retail assistant or for making a friendly connection. A smile can lead people to think that you're a remarkable person on the inside.
 Don't rush to be the center of attention or to demand praise. You are special and unique but you are also part of a social group and a wider community and each person has unique talents and abilities too. Moreover, each person matters and there is no hierarchy other than the ones created in our minds. Rather than tooting your trumpet, get on with what you know how to do best and do it well; shine through what you do and achieve and when people remark upon it, don't let it go to your head. Equally, when people don't notice your talents and efforts, accept that you don't need their validation to do the best you can in life, that's your life's mission already.



Being classy is knowing you've got it but knowing even more so that you are not going to flaunt it. Let your deeds speak for themselves.

