 Apply a light oil that will not stain or dry the metal components. You can use commercial products such as WD-40, 3-In-One, Clean Streak, and Metal Brite.Use a clean rag to apply a thin layer of oil directly to the blade. Use as little oil as possible because a thick layer of oil may attract dust and debris.
Leave the knife open and allow the oil to soak into the blade for two to three days. This should loosen up the rust spots and make them easier to remove.
After two to three days, use the tip of a sharp knife to carefully scrape off the rust spots. You can also use a piece of steel wool.If you work slowly and carefully, you can remove the rust while leaving much of the original finish of the blade intact.
 You can purchase non-toxic rust removal products in hardware and auto parts stores, such as Evapo-Rust. These products are gentler than some of the other acid-based chemical solvents that you can use to remove rust.To use a product like Evapo-Rust, pour some of the product into a bucket and then immerse the knife blade in the solution.
Leave the knife to soak in the solution for 30 minutes or overnight if it is really rusty.
Rinse off the excess product and dry the knife with a clean, dry cloth.
 CLR is a commercial cleaner that removes calcium, lime, and rust from any metal surface. It is often used on old plumbing and appliances, but it can also be used to remove rust from a knife blade.Dip the blade of your knife directly into a solution of half CLR and half warm water. Avoid getting CLR on the knife handle, if it is made of anything other than metal (e.g. plastic, bone, wood, stone).
Rinse the blade right away with cold water. Do not soak the blade in CLR for any longer than two minutes, as this may damage the metal.
If stains persist, use CLR at full strength (not diluted with water), and rinse right away with cold water.
CLR is a caustic substance. Clean your knife in a well-ventilated area, and use gloves when handling CLR.
Do not mix CLR with other household cleaners, as this may cause a dangerous reaction.
Do not use CLR on galvanized metal, as it may cause spotting on the zinc coating of the blade.

