 Meeting and speaking with others who know what it feels like to experience stigma can be incredibly helpful. You can likely find a support group that includes people with diabetes generally, or with type 2 in particular. Not only can a support group feel more comfortable with what you're feeling, it can also be a source of new ideas to help talk to others in your life about your disease.Note that people with type 1 diabetes experience stigma as well, and sometimes may even contribute to it by resenting those with type 2 diabetes. Meeting others and learning from their perspectives and experiences can help temper any negative sentiments.
Ask your doctor or therapist about diabetes support groups in your area.
 Your medical team probably already includes an endocrinologist, a nutritionist, and another type of doctor or two. Consider getting help staying on top of your mental health too, by meeting with a mental health professional. Many people find it beneficial to speak with a therapist or psychologist to help cope with challenges of having a serious diseases, including the stigma that is often associated with certain diseases.Ask any of your doctors for recommendations regarding a mental health professional they are familiar with. You can likely even find someone with experience helping people talk to friends and family about type 2 diabetes.
 Many people with type 2 diabetes end up buying into the stigma against the diseases themselves. Even when you know it’s not literally your fault, it can feel like it sometimes. If you’re experiencing feelings of guilt, remind yourself that self-blame is a negative practice that will make you more unhappy. Instead, focus on what you can do to help your condition, and make an action plan i you haven't already.When negative thoughts do arise, recognize them for what they are and immediately turn them around using neutral self-talk. Neutral self-talk is typically more believable, and helps make the transition to positive self-talk easier.
For instance, when you're feeling guilty about failing to exercise for a couple days in a row, think to yourself, "I'm glad that I recognize the importance of staying active, and I'm going to take this negative feeling as a reminder to get back on track starting right now."

, You may find yourself resenting others with the disease without realizing it. For instance, when you see someone you know has type 2 diabetes behaving in an unhealthy way, you may be frustrated that they are fulfilling negative stereotypes about people with the disease. However, it’s important to check your own assumptions, and remind yourself that they likely suffer from stigma as well.