 To change the name of a minor child, the petitioner and child must have been residents of the county in which the Petition will be filed for at least six months., Common reasons for changing a minor child's name include marriage, partnership, or divorce of the parents, and adoption. A child's name can be changed for other reasons as well.
 You must have a Notice of Petition for Name Change published in the official newspaper of your county. This ensures that other parents and interested parties have a chance to object to your Petition. To do this, fill out a Notice of Petition for Name Change, then contact your county newspaper and ask how to get your Notice published.


The Notice must appear in the newspaper at least 30 days before your court date.
Keep a copy of the newspaper in case the judge asks for proof that you published your Notice.
If the child has a non-custodial parent living in a different county (or whose last-known address is in a different county), then you must also have the Notice published in the official newspaper of that county.
 If the child has a non-custodial parent, you must mail a completed copy of the Petition to the parent at his or her last-known address. You must mail the Notice within 10 days after the publication of the Notice in the county newspaper., You can download the form here. The form is also available at the district court clerk's office. You must provide your reasons for petitioning to change the child's name in section 4.
 The other court forms only use the child's initials for purposes of confidentiality. You must provide the child's full name and proposed new name on the Confidential Information Form, which the court will keep separate from the public record. You can download the form here.
 If the judge grants your Petition, he or she will sign and date the Order. You can download the form here. Do not sign and date the form yourself. That space is for the judge to fill.
 This form is used by the court to verify your identity before granting your Petition. You can download the form here. Fill out the form and sign it in the presence of a notary public. The notary will also sign and stamp the form. Bring a valid form of identification, such as a driver's license or passport, to verify your identity.


To find a notary online, visit the Notary Public Directory. You can also utilize a notary's services at your local bank.
 By signing this form, you verify that you mailed a completed copy of the Notice of Petition for Name Change to a non-custodial parent within 10 days of the date on which the Notice appeared in the county newspaper. You can download the form here. Sign the form in the presence of a notary public, who will also sign and stamp the form. If the child does not have a non-custodial parent, disregard this step.
 If a hearing is required to inquire into the reasons for the name change or to permit another parent to object, the clerk will give you a court date.
 Change the child's name on Social Security cards, driver's licenses, bank accounts, medical records, passports, and others, as applicable.


To get a new Social Security card, locate your local office here. Mail this application or deliver it in person, along with the court order, birth certificate, and photo ID.
To change the name on the child's driver's license, visit your local DMV with the court order and pay a $3 fee to have a new license printed.