 The non-fiction section of the local library often contains many resources on botany. Narrow down your search by considering what exactly you want to learn about (local native plant life? gardening? plant diseases?) and then searching for those types of titles.


Ask the librarian for help to find relevant books you might have overlooked.
If your local library has more than one branch, go online and search the catalog of available books. Sometimes your local branch many not have a copy of a book that you might need, but you can request it from another branch and it will be sent to you.
Don't forget that libraries are resources for more than just books: they often have classes and workshops on topics related to the community, and many libraries offer courses in plants and gardening, particularly in the springtime.
 There are so many resources online for learning about plants and plant care-- there has never been a better time to learn about botany from the comfort of your own home.


If you know what you are interested in learning more about, a simple internet search can yield hours of reading material.
Join a message board or Facebook group that focuses on your area of interest. There are so many to choose from: there are groups that focus on everything from citrus care to tomato blight! Not only will you get advice and answers from people who love to share their knowledge, but you might also make friends with similar interests.
 Depending on where you live, you may have access to many types of places for hands-on learning about plant life.


Check out local farms, orchards, or vineyards and chat up the owners. They usually love to share their knowledge and may even welcome you back as a volunteer if you want to help out and learn more.
Visit the local nursery or even the big-box home improvement store to learn about plants that thrive in your local environment.
Check for local clubs or groups like a gardening club, master gardeners, urban farmers, or horticulturalists. You can sometimes find information about groups on community bulletin boards at libraries or coffee shops, or check online to find information about more tech-savvy groups.

