 You can always eat in the garden if you have one. This can be very romantic if the season of the year is right, and if you have a nice, bug-free garden. You can also eat in the kitchen, but then you will have to hurry to clean everything and make it look nice. If you can, pick a location where you don't normally eat, so the night feels special. If you have a "fancy" dining table that you never use, now's the time.
 You may have a nice set of crystal glasses and fancy plates, napkins, and silverware that you never use because they're only for special occasions. Well, the occasion is now -- bring them out and take pleasure in how much they add to the romantic atmosphere.
 Flowers, rose petals, and unscented candles will do the trick - you have many options and will just have to be creative. Remember that candles are essential for a romantic dinner, so light several candles and place them on or near the table. Flowers, such as elegant roses, are almost as important. They look really good at the table, whether it's something extravagant or simple. Just keep in mind that you should be able to look at each other over the table.


Playing some soft jazz or romantic music in the background can add to the romantic ambience as long as it's not too distracting.
 Before you start your dinner date, take a shower and put on some perfume or cologne. Dress up just like you were going out to dinner. Put on some casual, but nice clothes, and look refreshed and effortlessly attractive. Your partner will appreciate the effort, and the night will feel even more special. Just make sure you decide on a dress code with your partner before the date, so you both look equally fancy.
 Make a plan to avoid all distractions so that you and your date can be free to enjoy your delicious meal -- and each other's company. So, if you have kids, arrange to have a sitter watch them away from home well in advance. Other than that, turn off your phones, the television, and radio, and focus only on each other. If there's going to be a big game on that night and one or both of you is a big sports fan, you may want to reschedule your date so that you aren't distracted. Once all the distractions are put away, you can focus on having a romantic evening.

