 Usually, when yarn comes out of the package, it is not rolled into a ball. This can make it cumbersome to work with. Before beginning your project, roll your yarn into an easily manageable ball.Take one end of the yarn and wrap it around your middle and index finger. This will be the base of your yarn ball.
Wrap the yarn in a few loops. Continue wrapping the yarn, changing directions with every few wraps. A ball will begin to form. Slide the yarn off of your fingers.
Continue wrapping until all the yarn is in a neat ball. This will be much easier to work with and transport.
 If you're new to knitting, you may not know how to cast on. Casting on means getting your yarn on the needle. Casting on is a fairly simple process, but can be tricky if you're new to knitting. Go slowly. You may have to do a few practice rounds before you cast on successfully.


How you cast on depends on your knitting project. There are different ways you can cast on, and it depends on the types of needles you're using and the project you're creating.
Refer to your specific pattern's instructions for information on how to cast on for that project.
 Follow the knitting pattern instructions and begin knitting. Make sure you refer to your pattern as you go. You may have to add or drop stitches throughout the project, and you may also have to change needle sizes at a certain point.


A project like a scarf may not require a specific pattern. You can simply knit until you feel like your scarf is long enough.
Make sure to count stitches with each new row of a project. You want to make sure you do not accidentally drop or add stitches.
 Take your knitting everywhere. You'll be surprised how quickly your project comes together when you're knitting in your free time. If you take a train to work, bring your knitting with you. Take your knitting to school if you're a student and knit between classes. Knit during downtime at home. Knit while you're watching TV or waiting for dinner to cook.
 If you want to stay on track for a craft project, work on setting goals for yourself. You can decide that you want to finish certain aspects of the project by certain dates. Make notifications for yourself on your calendar, reminding yourself to get your project done in a timely fashion.You can also set small daily goals. For example, you can strive to knit for an hour a night Mondays through Thursdays.
 Knitting can be somewhat discouraging, especially if you're a beginner. The process is slow and it can take a long time to finish a project. There may be times when you find yourself setting a project aside for a few weeks or months. Understand it's normal to get bored with knitting. As knitting is meant to be a fun hobby, don't be too hard on yourself. Allow yourself to work at your own pace and, eventually, you'll complete a project.

