 When you first get your ears pierced, the piercing technician inserts starter earrings. These earrings are made from hypo-allergenic materials and specific type of post designed to be safe to keep in your ears indefinitely. If you remove them prematurely, your piercings may close or heal improperly.


If your piercings are on your earlobes, the starter earrings can usually be removed after six weeks.
If your piercings are in your cartilage, the starter earrings can usually be removed after eight to twelve weeks.;
, Unnecessary handling of your piercings can lead to infection. Don't touch them unless you're cleaning them. If you do need to touch them, wash your hands with antibacterial soap first.
 Hats, scarves, and other items that may catch on your earrings should be worn with care. Avoid items like earmuffs or tight toboggans that put pressure on your ears.


If you wear a veil, choose a fabric that won't snag easily. Try to wear very loose veils, and do not wear the same veil multiple times without washing it.
Be careful when you're changing clothes, especially if you're putting on a fabric that is easily snagged.
 Avoid getting shampoo, conditioner, and other hair products on your ears, since the ingredients in these products could lead to an infection.


You can place a plastic sandwich bag over either ear to help protect your piercings while you're in the shower.
If you want to swim you will just need to clean them with the solution that you get after getting your ears pierced before and after you swim. Just make sure you rinse your ears with clean water before cleansing them, after you swim.
 Sleeping with your ear against the pillow can irritate your piercings, in addition to being painful.


If you find it difficult to sleep on your back, make sure your pillowcase is clean each night. Bacteria from your pillowcase can get transmitted to your piercing, which could cause an infection.
You can also use the t-shirt trick to avoid infection: cover your pillow with a clean t-shirt and replace it nightly.

