 Adjust the laundry process to make it easier for children. Get a small step stool so that younger children can see what you’re doing and reach the top of the machines. Purchase a set of small, plastic, stackable laundry bins. Kids can use these to sort clothing in their room and carry the bins to the laundry room without difficulty.Keeping the laundry area organized is important. Store laundry cleaners up high so young children can’t reach them while unsupervised. Clear off shelves so heavy objects won’t fall on heads. Keep clutter off the ground so no one trips. It’ll keep kids safe.
 It’s best to start young. Get children involved early when they’re curious and will find fun in doing laundry with you. Before age two, take them with you into the laundry room. After that, start them out with simple tasks like picking up dirty clothing and moving wet clothing to the dryer. You’ll notice that doing laundry becomes a habit for them.Teach children under two years old to put dirty laundry in a hamper. At age three, encourage them to fold and store small items like socks. Patiently increase responsibility a little every year. Around age eight, they’ll be capable of handling the machines.The laundry responsibilities you offer a child depend on age and trust. Some children develop faster than others.
Watching an older sibling do the laundry can also encourage younger children.
 Kids near the end of their preteen years and beginning of their teenage years require different motivation to start. Make participation a requirement, but don’t badger them. Instead, say something like, “You’ll get to control these fancy appliances.” Many kids will enjoy the control they have when caring for themselves.

Keep laundry fun and lighthearted. Working as a family and laughing together helps take the nuisance out of the work.
It’s useful to break down the parts for children. Separate washing, drying, and putting away clothes. Consider taking breaks between parts or dividing up the chore. It’ll make doing laundry feel a lot more manageable.
 Stubborn teenagers require more persuasion. Sit down and talk with them. Explain to them in a calm, non-confrontational manner why you want them to do their laundry. Tell them, “I will show you how to be more independent” or “I need you to take this household responsibility for me.” If you’ve never shown them how to use the machines, take them into the laundry room and explain the process to them.

Don’t get upset over mistakes at first. It’s better to forgive and give them confidence.
If they don’t care about taking over their share of the laundry, then you may have to try refusing to do it for them. Tell them calmly that you can’t do it for them forever, and that no one else in your home will do it if they don’t.

