 Any type of credit or loan you can get will help to build your credit, as long as your name is on the application and you make your payments on time. If you plan to make a major purchase like a new TV or stereo system, consider applying for credit at the store.Stores will often offer financing to those who do not have a credit card or cannot pay cash. This will help build your credit history and credit rating.
These types of loans are often expensive, with high fees and high interest rates.This because stores know the people that need these loans either have bad credit or none at all. The increased fees compensate the companies’ increased risk. Still, this can be a good option to build your credit.
You can often prepay on store credit with no penalty. This saves on interest payments. If you have the cash for the purchase, you can pay the application fee and then pay off the loan in the first month, or after 6 months. This can save you a lot in interest. Check the small print and ask the about prepayment possibilities and prepayment penalties.
 Financing the purchase of a car, either through the dealer or through the bank, is another way to build your credit. If you are considering buying a car, then consider getting a loan.Car dealers are especially motivated to get you the financing you require, since they want to make the sale. They earn the fees for starting the loan.
If you do not qualify for the loan on your own, consider using a cosigner. A cosigner is someone else who puts forth their good credit and promise to pay. This can help you get approved for the loan.
 If you are in school, they will offer various forms of financing. Students loans are typically easy to apply and qualify for.


A student loan will show up on your credit history as soon as it is approved. In the short run this actually lowers your ability to pay ratio. This is because your debt has increased. As soon as you start making payments though, the payment history will help you to build credit., Applying for a small loan and making the payments on time will help build your credit history and credit rating.


You can apply for a personal loan at your bank, sometimes using your savings account as collateral.This is another good reason to have a bank account.
The process of applying for any loan will require you to request and fill out a form, like application for a bank account.
Enter your personal information. This will include your social security number, contact information, employment history, and driver's license. If you apply for a loan with another person, you'll need their information and signature as well.
The bank will conduct a credit and employment check before deciding to give you a loan.

