 Getting rid of excess facial hair, armpit hair, and leg hair is crucial when dressing as a woman. Having visible facial hair can be a dead giveaway, so make sure that you give yourself a close shave before you start making the transformation.


If you don’t want to shave your armpits, then just make sure that you are wearing something that covers them completely, such as a long-sleeve or ¾ length sleeve top.
If you don’t want to shave your legs, then you can also go with some opaque tights. Wear two pairs for extra coverage., Tucking your penis back is an important part of passing as a girl. To tuck you penis, pull it back towards your buttock and between your legs. Then, put on two pairs of form-fitting panties to help keep it in place.Another option is to use a gaff. You can buy or make a gaff.
To make a gaff, cut the elastic waistband off of a pair of pantyhose and then cut the top off of a sock. Thread the waistband through the sock so that the sock is centered.
To use a gaff, slip your legs through the two openings in the elastic and pull it up like a pair of underwear. As you do so, tuck your penis back. Then, adjust the gaff as needed and put on your panties. The gaff will help to keep your penis tucked back.
 Wearing a bra is an essential part of looking like a girl. Choose a bra that fits around your chest comfortably. Measure your chest around the widest part to see what size bra you will need. For example, if your chest is 38 inches around, then purchase a bra that is a size 38.


The cup sizes are lettered, such as A, B, C, D, etc. A is on the smaller end while a D cup is on the larger end. You can choose any cup size you like, but keep in mind that choosing a large cup size may make it hard to fit into some clothing. To play it safe, go for a B or C cup.However, if you are dressing up for a drag show or as part of a play, then you may want to go for a larger bra size.
You will also need to stuff the cups. You can stuff the bra with socks, tissues, balloons filled with a few ounces of water, or special silicone bra pads.
 Wearing slimming undergarments or shapewear can help you to get a smoother curvier figure. These garments can also help to taper your waist, which will help to make you look more feminine.Try wearing a corset or girdle, a pair of shapewear shorts, or a pair of pantyhose with a high waist.
 If you don’t have much fat on your hips or buttocks, then wearing a padded undergarment or adding padding to your undergarments can help you to achieve a curvier look.You can purchase pre-padded undergarments or just slip some padding into your underwear or pantyhose.
For a drag show or play, you may want a more exaggerated figure. Try using more padding or even a pillow to create the appearance of curvy hips and big butt.

