 There are dozens of samplers that can produce high quality beats without a computer. Some artists prefer to leave the computer out of their work flow. There are two basic categories that sometimes get mixed together: samplers and sequencers. You’ll need to purchase one of these if you don’t want to solely use your computer. Check out a music store before purchasing equipment.


Samplers are good for taking samples, for example, a clip of a song, a guitar riff, monks chanting, or just a snare hit.
Sequencers are good for adjusting the beat live and are set up the similar to a piano roll on a computer.
Try to go into the store to test the product out before making a purchase. There is a lot of competition for these types of products, so you should be able to find one that fits your needs., Once you get your machine, you should play with it! Experiment and learn some of the device’s functions by using the presets. Presets will teach you about the functions and capabilities of the device.


Once you find a preset you like, modify individual parts of the preset to create a new sound.
Upload different sounds to your device to create unique sounds.
If your device can store samples, try uploading loops of older songs. It is popular for R&B to sample 1960s and 1970s era soul and funk.
 Once you've built a few loops and supporting parts for the beat, you can attempt to program a full track. Sequence a channel to have 16 bars for the verse and 8 bars for the chorus. A bar is a small amount of time, typically containing a full measure of the beat.You could also include a bridge, intro, and outro to add complexities to your track.The 16 bars is merely a starting place. You can add more or less to your liking.
 Once you get the feeling for the device, try performing your as though you had a crowd. You don’t need to showcase your music to anyone before you're ready. Start the beat simple and gradually add different parts to create a textured R&B track.


Plug the device into a keyboard amp or a P.A. for the best sound.
You could also record a demo of your beat or live set using a field recorder.
 Once you become comfortable using your device, play with fellow artists. You’ll feel a greater sense of pressure when performing with another artist. Work out a song by planning different parts of the song using a pen and paper. Agree to do one thing during the verse, and then do something different during the chorus.


Write down the setting you’re using on the machine so you’ll remember what you are playing.

