 Note that you will probably make some compromises here due to time constraints. Or, if you are in a coniferous area with trees that don't typically split their trunks, you will have to stick a sturdy "Y" shaped limb/branch into the ground to simulate a tree with a split trunk.;
, It should be a few feet longer than you, and from 3" to 6" thick. Rough bark is a plus, as it will help to avoid slipping. This is going to be the spine of your shelter, which the rest of the frame (which you can think of as the ribs) will lean against.
 The other end should rest sturdily on the ground, or if possible, be stuck/buried in the ground a few inches.
 start leaning them against the "spine" to create the basic frame of your shelter. Once again, it helps if you can push a few of the larger sticks into the ground to add to the stability of the frame.
 Lean these up against the "spine" to fill in the space between the thicker "ribs".
 You need some insulation, or "skin" to keep your body heat in, and the wind/weather out. Gather green pine boughs if they are available. (Don't kill off the trees by taking all of their branches though.) Find other things such as thin twigs, leaves, brush, or even mud. Use these types of materials in whatever combination is available to you.
 You can add to this layer as much as resources and time will allow. This will increase heat retention and weather resistance.
 (You always should if you are just practicing.)This will help stop the cold ground from sucking all of your precious body heat away.
 Do this very carefully! You want to check the structure's safety, by finding a spot where it feels like it might start to give way; but you don't want to actually put enough pressure that it does.
 (Probably from the inside.) If you cannot find any nice, "Y"-shaped sticks, you will probably have to re-distribute the weight of the "skin" to alleviate the uneven weight on the frame.
 At this point, you will probably want to build a fire if you didn't have time already. Be sure to make a fire ring by placing rocks in a circle, and removing as much snow as you can (assuming there is snow on the ground) from the center of the circle.
, (Your lean-to that is...)

