 Most pre-packaged foods have unnatural chemical additives and preservatives, and often contain unhealthy saturated or trans fat. It is almost always better to eat food you prepare at home, where you can control the ingredients. Most pre-packaged foods are also higher in calories and fat, especially saturated trans fats., Dieticians recommend eating slowly, which helps you recognize when you are full. When you continue to eat after your hunger has been satisfied, you are ingesting a lot of calories that easily could have been avoided.Limit calories to 2,000 kcal/day. If you are trying to lose weight, try cutting down to 1,800 kcal/day. Never consume fewer than 1,200 kcal/day.


One serving of meat, fish, or poultry should be about 3 ounces, when cooked, or about the same size as the palm of your hand.A serving of cooked pasta should be about half a cup, or roughly the size of a scoop of ice cream.
One serving of grains is equal to one slice of bread. One pancake or one waffle equals one serving, which should be about the same size as a typical slice of bread.
One cubed serving of cheese is roughly the same size as your entire thumb.
One serving of vegetables or fruit is about the size of your fist.
A healthy serving size of cooked rice is about enough to fill a standard cupcake wrapper.
Try to make half of your plate consist of vegetables.
 Restaurants often serve food in unusually large portions. Sharing one entree between two people is a good way to ensure proper portion size and save money as well., Although it is not imperative to eliminate meat from your diet entirely, reducing the amount you eat will have a positive effect on your health. Many meats are high in calories and contain a large percentage of fat. Red meats especially have been linked to clogged arteries, higher cholesterol, and heart problems., Oatmeal, brown rice, and whole-wheat bread contain fiber, which is essential to a healthy digestive tract. Whole grains also contain B vitamins, which boost energy and metabolism., Nuts and seeds contain vitamin E and other nutrients that aren't readily found in other foods. Legumes such as peanuts, lentils, beans, and soybeans also provide fiber, as well as protein, iron, folate, and other important nutrients.