 Even if you only care about becoming ambidextrous for a specific task, it's still better to use your non-dominant hand for everything because skill of the other tasks in your non-dominant hand will partly transfer to the skill of that task, making it faster and less frustrating. Use your non-dominant hand all the time for each task, not half the time. If your goal is to get the highest efficiency at completing a task with either hand, then it's pretty useless to make your dominant hand even more skilled and is more important to focus your attention on gaining skill in your non-dominant hand. Another reason not to use your dominant hand at all is, that although using your dominant hand can't remove skill from your non-dominant hand, not using your dominant hand will lower it's skill and make it feel like less of a nuisance to use your non-dominant hand.
 Mix the eggs or the cake mix with your weaker hand. Stir or beat with a whisk using the same writing motion you'd use for that hand if doing cursive.
 Where you usually brush your teeth, eat with a spoon, smash meat with a tenderizing hammer, or bounce a ball with your dominant hand, try doing those things with your non-dominant hand. There are hundreds of simple tasks that you perform every day, so getting good at doing those with your other hand will help you become more ambidextrous.
 Doing this will also help you to practice the general skill of automatically transferring skill from an action to its mirror image, so that the next task you start doing with your non-dominant hand will be a tiny bit more skilled at doing it with your non-dominant hand than when you first started. The ability to transfer a skill from an action to its mirror image also gets built up each time you do a task with the opposite hand. You can also skip the first 3 steps if you want to hurry to become ambidextrous and can't handle the boredom of completing these tasks more slowly at first.
 Once you do this, your originally non-dominant hand will exceed your originally dominant one in skill level. If you were to instead start by using both hands, one would catch up to the other in skill level and you would start to drift back to being having a slight bit of the dominance you originally had. This would happen because the muscle memory in your originally non-dominant hand will be a shorter term memory than that of your originally dominant hand.
 Try starting with three and four balls. This is a great way to train your weaker arm.
 For example, learn the piano, flute, guitar, saxophone, etc. This can help strengthen your weaker arm and give you greater dexterity in both hands and arms. In piano, however, the main parts are given to your right hand, and it will only make your right hand stronger

