 Preferably one that can fit on the top shelf of your locker, or if you use those stacking shelves one that can fit under there. Don't bring it home with you- it will be too big to fit in your backpack. A few good stores for middle school girls to buy bags include Aeropostale, Target, or even Walmart!;
, If you have asthma bring an inhaler and eye contact liquids if you wear them. If you do have eye contacts also bring an extra pair of glasses, just in case. If you have allergies and your school allows you to take medicine always keep it in your locker. Include some band aids or plasters, some paper handkerchiefs, a lip salve and moist wipes.
 Luckily if you make this bag you'll be covered. Buy a whole box of tampons, pads, whatever it is you use, and keep it in there. Put about ten in your bag, in case a friend needs some, and for you of course. You also may want to keep a pair of absolutely new underwear (again, in case a friend needs it... don't let them borrow used, and tell them to keep it. So a variety pack of undies from Walmart or something is ideal)

, If you have uniforms disregard this, otherwise this is important. Keep a variety of socks in your bag, in-case you forget them, or a friend does (its very common) also keep a pair of sneakers (if you don't have enough sneakers to just leave a pair lying there it is recommended that you buy a pair of $5 Keds knockoffs from Walmart or a similar store. You can even color on them to make them more appealing. Also leave a T shirt and shorts in there in-case you forget gym clothes. Make sure that you have a sweater/sweatshirt in your bag as well in-case it gets chilly or a teacher tells you that you need to cover up.
 Also, add a small bottle of body splash or body mist, as perfume isn't allowed in many schools! Make sure you check with your school first though, some don't even let you have body spray.
 Buy a box and slip it near the back for a quick snack after gym or something for a friend who forgot their lunch. You can put any type of food in your locker as long as it won't go bad and try keeping it as healthy as possible. If your school has a cafeteria this trick works more for a quick between class snack or if you have no money.
 A smile in school is very important. You want to have a nice smile which comes off looking nice and then people will have an easier time talking to you. However nice your smile is, if you have bad breath, nobody wants to talk to you. So just in case bring some mints, minty gum (trident is good for your teeth), and maybe even some dental floss for after lunch. Also, remember to take good care of your smile.

