 Extravagant gowns and glitzy accessories are the way to go, even if that may be a little outside your comfort zone. Formal clothing will honor your host, or your date, and the event. This is the time to wear proper formal wear!;
, Generally, evening gowns are longer, reaching the floor. Sometimes it has an asymmetrical hem, or a dramatic leg-slit. Cocktail dresses are shorter, typically just above the knee. Although traditionally evening dresses were the only appropriate choice, cocktail dresses are usually acceptable nowadays. In fact, sometimes the line between the two is blurry.


If Ellen Degeneres does not have to wear a dress for the Oscars, neither do you! Although a glamorous dress is the "go to" look for a woman, there are other options available. It may take a bit more research, and be aware that your daring choice may be a bit unexpected at a gala.
Consider a menswear-inspired outfit, (such as the one Ellen Degeneres wore at the 2014 Oscar Awards), a pantsuit, or a sophisticated pant and top combination. Just be sure the overall impression is formal and in good taste.
 Good choices include stilettos, open toed shoes, and those with straps. Avoid over chunky, thick soled shoes like clogs. Make sure the color of the shoe complements the color of your gown. It does not need to match exactly, but needs to coordinate.


If in doubt, opt for a black shoe.
You can also spice things up by choosing a shoe with a little bit of sparkle on it.
Satin shoes are almost always appropriate for gala events.
Do not wear any shoe with a wedge, cork or wood in its design, nor is it usually appropriate to wear any form of boot.
Wearing flats may make it difficult to walk without tripping on a long hem. Consider instead a heeled shoe or a shorter hemmed dress.
If you cannot or do not wish to wear high heels, you can find flats that have glamour and embellishments. A good woman's shoe store should have staff who can guide you.
If you have a male date, try not to loom over him. If you are a taller woman, opt for lower heels or flats if possible.



If your gown already has a bit of shimmer to it, keep your accessories low-key. Choose simpler dangle earrings. Wear a nice necklace and bracelet that match the glitz on your dress without competing with it.
Jewelry needs to be in good taste. Actual valuable jewelry--such as pearl necklaces, diamond earrings, gold bracelets -- are the traditional accessory for women.
Costume jewelry is often entirely appropriate, as long as it is sophisticated. For instance, a rhinestone necklace is unlikely to be confused with an actual diamond necklace...but it gives your gown a wonderful sparkle.
 Clutches are the standard in formal handbags. Larger handbags or "mommy purses" are considered too informal. Choose one that compliments the color of your dress or shoes. Another option is a small purse with very thin straps.
 Consider going to a professional stylist to make your hair look as elegant as possible.


If you would rather save the money and style your hair at home, use a straightener to make your tresses as silky smooth as possible.
Alternatively, use a curling iron and styling products to create large, voluminous curls that will last all evening.
 Typically, a gala event calls for more dramatic make-up than you wear on a typical day. One reason is that lighting is often subdued, and galas are at night, and so your make-up needs to be a bit more dramatic than at school or work.


Keep your foundation and blush looking natural.
Use eyeliner and mascara to outline your eyes and lashes. Apply heavy, smoky eye shadow. Compliment this look with a neutral, glossy lipstick, but stick with a shade that looks good with your skin tone.
Apply minimal color to your eyes and make the focal point your lips with a bold red or deep brick shade that compliments your skin tone. The darker your shade of lipstick, to better it is to first apply a lip liner to your lips to prevent the color from bleeding.
Really dislike make-up but willing to try a very minimal amount? Try a subtly tinted lip gloss, and a very light featherweight foundation (either powder or lotion). It does not take long to do, it is not dissimilar to sunscreen and Chap-stick, and gives a little enhancement without being overly dramatic.

