 Once you've selected your tissue type, you can begin to use your tissue. Using a tissue is fairly simple. With the tissue in your hand, place it under your nose to catch the mucus. Hold one finger over one nostril and push air out of the opposite nostril until your nose is clear. Then, repeat on the opposite side. This may take more than one tissue. Be sure to carefully fold up tissue and throw away after use.


If you have a particularly harsh cold, consider folding the tissue in half or using two tissues to blow your nose. This can protect your hands from getting contaminated with mucus as the tissue is less likely to break.
If you use the tissue to dab your nose, do so gently. When dabbing up mucus, use light dotting motions instead of rubbing, which causes friction and irritation.
Always dispose of tissues after using them, especially when you have a cold.
 Understand when you should use a tissue. Tissues can be used to help clear mucus and also to prevent the spread of colds.


If you have a cold or flu, you can dramatically reduce the risk of it spreading through proper tissue use. Exposure to airborne germs is the number one cause of colds. In fact, 58% of people who work from home do not catch colds over the winter months. If you have a cold, use a tissue each time you sneeze and cough in public to fully cover your nose and mouth.At home, blow your nose as often as you see fit. Germs and bacteria that cause colds are expelled from the body through snot and mucus., You can buy travel sized containers of tissue at your local supermarket. Keep these in your purse or pocket so you always have a tissue on hand in public.
 If you have a cold, or if there's a cold going around your school or office, wash your hands frequently. This can help prevent the spread of germs. You should also wash your hands frequently when out in public to keep yourself from picking up a cold, especially during cold and flu season.


Scrub your hands for 20 seconds with soap and water. To keep track of time, you can hum the "Happy Birthday" song to yourself twice. Rinse your hands thoroughly in lukewarm, clear running water.Wash your hands before touching your nose, eyes, or mouth. If you wear contacts, always wash your hands before handling or removing them.You should also wash your hands after blowing your nose or coughing into them.
If you don't have easy access to soap and water, carry an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with you.
 The common cold does not usually warrant medical attention. However, if your symptoms persist for more than a couple of weeks and if you develop a high fever, blurred vision, nausea, or other symptoms make an appointment with your doctor.See a doctor if you regularly see blood in your mucus after blowing your nose, or if you have thick or green mucus for more than a week accompanied with pain around face and eyes. You might have a sinus infection (sinusitis).