 Are you going to Disney World? Spending a lot of time on the beach? Visiting relatives who will want to take you out to fancy restaurants? Adjust your packing needs accordingly. Pack more or less of all of the essentials depending on where you’re headed. Are you going to the beach for several days? Double check that you have all your swimming essentials.
Are you heading to Disney World? Be ready for lots of walking with comfortable shoes and breathable clothing.
Are you seeing a show in the evenings? You may need something fancy.
Are you spending a lot of time in business meetings? Be prepared with business wear and a jacket or sweater if you’ll be sitting in the A/C.;
, Even though it’s the “Sunshine State,” the weather in Florida fluctuates a bit with the seasons. Your packing needs will vary greatly from month to month. As a general guide:


The average high in Florida in February is in the high 60s, and the average low is in the low 40s.
The average high in Florida in July is in the low 90s, and the average low is in the low 70s.
Don’t forget to make note of the precipitation forecast as well.
 If you’re staying with friends or in a rental house, you may have access to a washer and dryer. If that’s the case, and if you are willing to repeat outfits, you may be able to dramatically cut down on the amount of clothes you’re bringing.
 Include tank tops, short sleeve shirts, shorts, and dresses. Particularly if you’re going to be spending a lot time outside, choose fabrics that breathe well, such as cotton or linen. Avoid polyester and rayon in the summer.Sunglasses and hats are a must, and you'll want lots of sunscreen. If you were only able to pack a 3.4 oz container of sunscreen, be prepared to buy more when you get there. You may also want to consider some aloe or lotion in case you get burned.
 Summer in Florida is hot! Odds are good your hotel will have a pool, and if it doesn’t, Florida is a peninsula, so there are beaches everywhere. If you’re planning to spend any time in the water at all, pack all your swimming gear. You’ll probably want several swimsuits. Even if you’re only staying a few days, it’s a good idea to pack at least 2 swimsuits so that they have time to dry in between wearing. (Florida is quite humid in the summer, so it could take a while.)
Remember your flip flops and sandals. If you’re going to be in and out of the pool or at the beach, flip flops or sandals will be very helpful. (If you’re going to be walking around a lot in addition to swimming, be sure to bring a pair that give you plenty of support, such as the kind designed for hiking and other outdoor activities.) You may want to consider sandals with sturdy straps if you’re going to be doing any water activities like canoeing or kayaking. Pack a beach towel. If you’re going to a hotel, you won’t need other linens, but a large beach towel is a must, because they won’t supply those. If you’re going to be spending time at the pool instead of the beach, check to see if your hotel supplies poolside towels.
 If you’re headed for touristy destinations like Disney World, you will probably be on your feet a lot. Pack tennis shoes and thick socks to prevent blisters. (You could also think about a pair of athletic sandals if you’re afraid tennis shoes and socks will be too hot, but be sure to wear something you’ve already broken in so you they don’t rub.), Even though you are unlikely to need this outside in the Florida summer, almost every place you go will be air conditioned indoors. Pack something light to keep the chills away inside.
 If you anticipate going out to dinner, you may want to bring something a bit dressier. In most tourist destinations, you don’t need an evening gown or tux - just a nice dress or a button-down shirt should be fine.You may want to double check that none of your destinations have a dress code. If so, you may need a jacket and tie or a nicer dress.
If you’re traveling for business, you may also need business or business casual attire, so adjust accordingly.
 Assess the activities you’re planning for your trip very carefully. Winter clothing will take up quite a bit more room than summer clothing, of course, so you’ll need to strategize based on what you’ll be doing.


Don't forget a medium-weight jacket. Even though Florida has a generally warm climate, the lows in the winter average in the 40s, so you’ll need a jacket in the evenings and early mornings.
Throw in a scarf and a hat if you’re particularly cold-natured. You probably won’t need gloves, but they can’t hurt.
Pack layers that you can wear more than once if possible. For example, a neutral colored sweater that matches several outfits will help a lot.
 With an average low in the 40s in midwinter, Florida can get quite chilly. You probably don’t need your bulkiest sweaters, but you can’t go amiss with a pair of jeans and a few long sleeve t-shirts.
 Particularly if you’re going to be doing any activities that involve a lot of walking, you may get a bit warm in long sleeves, even in the winter. You probably won’t need any shorts unless you’re going to be very far South, since the average winter high is 60 degrees, but if you’re a hot-natured person, you could consider bringing a pair., Depending on where you’re going in Florida, odds are pretty good that you’ll encounter at least one downpour. Most cities there get between 90 and 140 days of rain per year. You will probably want an umbrella or light raincoat. Take a close look at the forecast to decide if galoshes will be worth the space they take up., If you’re flying, decide whether you are checking bags or just bringing carry-ons. If you’re driving, you’ll likely have a bit more space to pack extra items, depending on how many people you’re sharing your car with.Check the regulations from the airline you’re flying with regarding size and weight requirements for both checked baggage and carry-ons.
Most airlines will let you bring a small carry-on suitcase or overnight bag plus a personal item such as a purse, backpack, or laptop case. (A backpack is usually a good option if you’re going to be doing many touristy activities.)

, You’ll need a picture ID with your birthday on it in order to fly, rent a car, or buy alcohol. It’s also a good idea to leave a copy of your photo ID with a friend or family member in case you lose yours while you are travelling. , If you have an ATM card and a credit card, it’s a good idea to bring both. You should also bring some cash for tipping, vending machines, and parking. Pack different forms of payment in different places (one in your purse or backpack, another in your suitcase, another on your person) in case you lose your luggage. , If you have AAA or belong to some sort of frequent flyer club, don't forget to bring the proof. You should also bring up-to-date insurance cards for yourself and anyone else in your family in case of emergency. If you’re driving your own car or renting, bring auto insurance information as well.You may want to bring phone numbers for your travel and insurance agents as well.
 No matter what season you’re traveling to Florida, the toiletries you need are likely to be pretty similar. Put liquids in 3.4 oz (100 ml) containers and put the containers in a 1 quart bag. If you’re flying and not planning to check your baggage, you will have to put all of your liquids in small containers in order to get them through security. You can usually pick up travel-sized bottles of toiletries in the drug store. Depending on your personal needs, don’t forget


shampoo
conditioner
razor
shaving cream
aftershave
toothbrush
toothpaste
lotion or moisturizer
tampons and/or pads
makeup
sunscreen
soap
prescription medicines
over-the-counter medicines you take often (such as pain relievers, vitamins, or antacids)

, As a general rule, pack enough underwear for every day of your visit plus 1-2 extra pairs. If you wear bras, don’t forget those and, if you’ll be active, remember sports bras. If you wear undershirts or camis, you will probably want a fresh one every day if it’s warm, but you can likely get away with wearing an undershirt twice in the winter. , You can probably get away with about 1-2 sets of pjs per week if you’re not a particularly sweaty sleeper. If you tend to lounge around in your pjs in the evenings or mornings, you may want to bring an extra set or include some sweats or gym shorts and t-shirts.
 Particularly if you have limited packing space, it’s a good idea to pack a variety of clothes that you can mix and match. In particular, this will help limit the number of shoes you have to bring to match your outfits, which will free up quite a bit of space. For example, many people find that it works well to bring a lot of black clothing and just a few pops of color.
If you’re packing for summer in Florida, consider using beige or light brown as your color scheme. Pack a few brightly colored tank tops, headbands, or other small items to brighten up your vacation wardrobe.
 If you’re bringing a laptop, cellphone, or tablet, pack all of the accompanying chargers. If you’re driving, you may want to consider chargers that plug into your vehicle.


You may want to consider a charger that works on multiple devices if possible. Many of them come with multiple prongs so that you can charge more than one device at a time.
Load your electronics with movies and games for entertainment if you’re travelling with little ones. (Or maybe even if you’re not!)
If you’re planning to take lots of pictures, be sure to bring a cord to transfer them to your computer in case you run out of space on your phone or camera. Alternatively, make arrangements to upload them to the internet to free up space. Double check that there will be decent wifi at your destination, or you’ll have trouble doing this. , Whether you’re headed to Florida on vacation or for a business trip, chances are good you’ll want to return with more than you came with. Try to leave a little extra room in your suitcase for small souvenirs.

