 Music is very good for people with ADD or ADHD.;
, They will be very upset. Try saying everything in a calm voice, yet firm. Always listen to their side, and respect it. Think about what they have to say.
, People with ADHD or ADD are brilliant. Although they have problems doing certain things, they are very smart.
 Since their creativity is big, let them be whatever they want. Help them make their dreams come true. Even if it being on Disney channel or being a famous musician. Go along with it. Their success will surprise you, very much.
 If they dislike you doing something try to stop it immediately. Unless it is needed.
, When something bad happens suddenly, they feel that they are worthless and stop caring about everything. Make sure that NEVER happens.
, Bullies can make your kid lose control. If there is ever a bully mentioned you have to go straight to the principle and get the problem solved immediately.
 Special tutors know ways to improve their concentration and behavior.
 Never let your teenager see it. They will feel as if they are being punished and treated like little kids and they will dislike that. Put on the chart what bothers you most. Grades? If they get straight A's that week reward them with something they did not have already. Like a $5 to target or Starbucks. If you reward them with something they had before they will feel bad and punished. Like Tv time.
 For example: If your kid watches tv all day long, instead of taking the remote, try making them join a sport. It will take up their time, be very healthy, and they won't feel like they are being punished.
 So make sure not to mention it to them.
, When they lose weight they will be very happy and satisfied. If they dislike something, find a way to fix it.
 This will help them a lot. But make a schedule that both of you agree with.


1 Hour of exercises is an absolute need.
Something like theater for teenagers is a good idea. It will help them to be able to perform in front of people, and gain confidence in talking, presenting, and being friendly.
 Sometimes, when your teenager wins at something, it proves something themselves.
 Engage in conversations.
,, It could really destroy their ego.
, It might embarrass them.
,,, Sometimes they can't help it. That is just the way they function.

