 Depending on what your carpet fibers are made of, there may be specific instructions you need to follow. Not all materials can be treated the same way. Some rugs may need to be taken to a dry cleaners and some carpets can be soaked in vinegar without any consequence., Before doing a comprehensive cleaning of your carpet, check around for egregious spots and stains that need to be dealt with. It’s easier to get stains out before cleaning the entire carpet so you don’t accidentally rub the stain deeper into the fibers.Blot stains, don’t rub them.
Sometimes you just need to use scissors to trim long fibers that have stains that simply won’t come out.

Hydrogen Peroxide is best for getting out bodily fluids and stains such as blood or urine.
You can use commercial stain removers and cleaning products to get rid of stains. Make sure that the chemicals won't ruin your carpet by double-checking its compatibility with your carpet material.
Dab beer and wine stains with club soda poured onto a rag cloth.
Scrape off gum and sticky substances with a plastic serrated knife.
For grease and other difficult stains, put some dish detergent that's designed specifically for grease in a spray bottle and spray and dab the stain until it's gone., Fill the bucket with water and put a few drops of soap in to make some bubbles. Wring out any excess water so you don’t saturate the carpet. Getting your carpet too wet will make it harder to dry.For a natural home remedy instead of dish soap, combine baking soda and vinegar. Sprinkle baking soda on sections of the carpet, spray enough vinegar to make it foamy, then sop it up with paper towels.
 Dip a large sponge or scrub brush and use it to scrub the dirt from your carpet. Work across the carpet in sections to make sure you get every piece of the area. It’s best to start against a wall or in a corner and work backwards so you don’t have to sit or kneel in wet areas that you’ve already cleaned.


Scrub brushes with a handle will give you better control.
For large carpets, have several sponges on hand so you can change them out when one becomes too dirty to be productive.
While you scrub, change out the water frequently to avoid rubbing dirty water back into your carpet.
 Once you’re finished, rinse out the bucket and fill it with just water. Go back over the carpet again with a wet, fresh water towel to scrub out any extra dirt. Again, don't oversaturate the carpet with moisture.
 Fill a bathtub with lukewarm water and some mild dish soap. Gently swish the rug around in the tub to break up any dirt. Drain the tub and refill it a few times to fully rinse everything down the drain., Set up barriers by moving your furniture across the entryways that lead to the clean carpet. Keep kids, pets, or shoed feet away from the carpet while it dries to prevent any new dirt from ruining your progress.Set up fans to blow on the carpet to speed up the drying process.
Clean your carpet on dry, low-humidity days so that it will dry faster and mold won’t build up.

