 Everybody knows this rule but many people don't actually do it! Some people just run across, or cross without looking. Look both ways to save your life.;
, So, it's fine to say hello when that cute guy says hi, but what if a 53 year old man tells you he knows you from when you were really little and would you like a ride home? Have five flags for conversing with strangers. Flag 1 means no problems. Flag 2 means no problems except for maybe one comment that made you uncomfortable. Flag 3 tells you that this person is a little strange and making you a little uncomfortable. Flag 4 means to consider turning back, this person is really weird and making you feel uncomfortable. Flag 5 means you're really uncomfortable and to run.
 Street sense applies to cars, too! If you're about to pull out of a parking lot onto a street, then look before you go flying on out! It happens many times that you just fly right out and almost crash. Also check before people pull out and try to just let them out.
 Cautions to watch out for are trees, anything on the road such as bottles, and anything else that's dangerous. Make sure that you don't trip or bump into anything.
 They may say, "Oh, hey! I have leftover Halloween candy! Here, have some," but what if they inserted razor blades or even poison? Don't even take it and don't eat it, just run away if you don't know them. If they live down the street, it's different. But if you're in a different neighborhood and don't know them, just don't take it!

, They might say they know where your house is and could take you home to avoid the long walk, but what if that ride home has you ending up in their basement, all roped up. Never accept rides from strangers!

, Many people "don't care" and will stay in the middle of the street when a car comes. Well, they probably will care when they're in a hospital bed and in court later.
 Don't try new routes unless you know how to get back home.
 Just stay away, or maybe they'll think you're a weirdo and call the Emergency Services, you never know.

