 Before you begin cooking, light your charcoal briquettes, place the grate over the fire, and place the lid on the grill. Allow the grill to heat up for 10-20 minutes.


Allowing the grill to heat up will melt the grease on the grates and make cleanup easier.
 Take a long-handled grill brush (preferably one with stiff wire bristles) and brush the grate, removing all stuck-on particles. If you do not have a grill brush, you can scrub the grate with crumpled up aluminum foil held with long tongs.Cleaning the grate removes grease, sticky marinades, spices, and melted cheese that can transfer to freshly grilled foods.
Dirty grates can also make meat stick--especially delicate fish. For fish dishes, it is recommended that you cook the fish on aluminum foil that has been placed on top of the grate to avoid sticking and breaking.
 If your oven has a self-clean feature, you can bypass the brushing and scrubbing phase and place the grate directly in your oven.


Remove the grate and other metal pieces (that have been caked in food) from the grill.
Place the pieces directly on the oven racks and set the oven to self-clean mode.
The oven will lock and heat to approximately 900ʡF (482ʡC). This will burn off all food particles and will clean your oven all at once!, After you've managed to scrape the grill clean, fold a paper towel in fourths to create a cleaning pad. Dip the towel in vegetable or olive oil and use long tongs to spread the oil over the grate.


Oiling your grate prevents food from sticking. Bacon grease or steak fat can also be used to oil the grate and will give extra flavor to the food you cook on it.
Use caution so as not to drip oil on the charcoal below as this can create a "flare up", or a small area of intense heat. One of the goals in grilling is maintaining consistent heat for consistent food cooking.
 After you have finished cooking your food, scrape the grill with foil or a grill brush, and re-oil to clean and protect against rusting.


There is some debate about whether you should clean your grate with soap and water or if you should allow some buildup to occur. It may be a matter of preference, but one thing to know is that this is a cooking surface. Never use harsh chemicals or solvents (such as bleach or oven cleaner) directly on the grate as this has the potential to transfer to your food.
When you have completed your grilling season, it is recommended that you leave grease or oil on the grill to protect against rust (which only requires water, iron, and oxygen to occur).
 Allow the charcoal to cool for 48 hours before wrapping it in heavy-duty aluminum foil and placing it in a non-combustible container. This container may be a metal bucket or can.


Be sure the non-combustible container is placed in an area away from combustible materials such as fuel, acetone, wood dust, and paper.
If you must cool the ashes quickly, wrap them in aluminum foil and soak with water completely before placing them in a non-combustible container., A large part of keeping a grill clean is storage. A grill cover protects it from rust and the elements--especially if the grill is left outdoors.


Grill covers protect not only the grill itself but also conceal grill utensils from rust and the elements.
Grill covers can be lighter in weight for warmer months, and some companies make heavier grill covers for more extreme winter protection.
A good, snug fit will keep your grill secure and can even deter animals and pests from setting up shop.

