 To move forward and redefine yourself, you will have to begin with understanding who you are at this point in time. Look at your life objectively:


Ask yourself what your values, goals, and dreams are. You can start by creating a list, or use a personal assessment exercise to narrow them down.Consider what you are actually prioritizing in your life right now, and see if it matches who you want to be.
Avoid self-criticisms and negative statements towards yourself. This will not help you achieve your goals and drag you down.;
, Think about how you spend your time when you are alone. This is often provides insight on what you really value, and who you want to be.


To get an idea of how you use your time, make a rough schedule of how you spend your week, listing all of your activities and obligations.
Make a list of your hobbies, special interests, etc.
Consider if your schedule contains any surprises. For instance, are you spending very little time on a hobby or interest that you find very important? Too much time on something you don't like doing?

, When analyzing who you currently are, it might be helpful to talk to yourself about yourself in the third person. Doing so can switch your mind into a more objective way of thinking, thereby allowing you to perceive yourself more accurately.


Imagine that you are at a party, in a classroom, or some other situation, having a conversation. Each participant in the conversation represents a different part of you, or a value you hold.Play out the scenario in your head; what would that conversation be like? How would it show compassion and love for yourself?

, No one is too old or too established to reinvent him or herself.Change is a part of life and can be a positive thing if you use it correctly. Be prepared to grow and adapt at every stage of life.
 Ask yourself which aspects of your life are being influenced by past hurts, insecurities, and regrets. Once you identify those issues, commit to letting them go so that they no longer control who you are.Write out the things that frustrate you, or that you think hold you back. Expressing your feelings can help you let go of anything unpleasant in your past. This type of list can help you learn about the skills you need to develop in order to feel fulfilled.
Realize that whatever your regrets are, in some ways you are better off than others. Focus on your strengths and other positive things you take away from your past.
 In order to reinvent yourself, it is important not to dwell too much on the past. However, there are often lessons you can take away from the past that can improve who you are in the present.


Analyze a relationship that ended painfully to determine what went wrong. Think about what you can do to prevent the same thing from happening in your next relationship.
Look at which decisions led you or your family to make financial mistakes in the past.Based on this, work to develop a financial plan for the future that corrects these errors.
 Correcting bad habits is an important part of leaving the old you behind. It can, however, be very difficult and even intimidating. Instead of trying to change yourself all at once, focus on breaking one bad habit at a time.


Make a list of the habits that really bother your. Narrow it down to the top few that you would like to break, then start by working on the most important one.
Focus on the positive feelings that you first have when trying to break a bad habit.This can help you succeed.
Try replacing a negative habit with a positive one. For example, if you have a habit of snacking on junk food, replace it with healthy snacks, or spend more time exercising.
 As soon as a negative thought about yourself or your life pops into your mind, try replacing it with a positive one. Doing so trains your mind to focus on possibilities instead of difficulties.Conceptualize the things that cause you to feel stress. Think about how you have responded to them in the past.
Then, actively replace negative thoughts about those stressors with positive ones.
For instance, a bad date might cause you to think something like, “I'll never find someone. There must be something wrong with me.” Correct yourself with something like “This date went poorly, but that doesn't mean the right person isn't out there waiting for me. I won't find that person unless I keep looking.”

, If you really want to redefine yourself, however, you'll need to become the person you want to be, not the person someone else expects you to be.


You also need to identify and step away from social pressure that comes from society itself. Society may hold certain expectations of you based on your race, gender, economic class, or religion, and these expectations can be just as restricting.



Commit to rearranging the way you act out your priorities so that it matches the way you view those priorities in your mind.
Consider classifying your priorities based on several categories: personal, financial, educational, etc. Then, rank these categories to decide what goal you most want to achieve.
 Your personality develops continually, even in adulthood.Decide who you want to be at your core and identify the personality traits that version of yourself possesses in excess. These personality traits can be ones you already have or ones you've never demonstrated. Examples include:


Confidence
Leadership skills
Self-reliance
Empathy
Self-awareness

, Return to the list you made of your frustrations and challenges. Focus on learning how to overcome those frustrations by first identifying the skill you need in order to excel. Then work on developing steps to achieve those goals. If you want to be a business executive, what will it take to get there? What skills will you need?


Your plan might looks something like this:

1. Buy a good professional business wardrobe, even for dress down days.
2. Develop leadership skills by taking classes and/or reading books.
3. Get your MBA and even a doctorate.
4. Work on developing communication skills, either with reading or classes, including conflict management and resolution.
5. Learn how to keep a cool head.


Use this plan as a starting point. Research what it will take to develop those skills, and expand your plan further by adding more steps.
 Once you set a goal, you actually have to make time to pursue it. Start immediately and consistently pursue your goal a little each day. If you manage your time well, you have a higher chance of meeting your goals.For instance, you may plan to improve your health through exercise. Instead of telling yourself, “I'll start tomorrow” or “I'll start next week,” start today. Do a little exercise each day (say, for 15 minutes), even when you don't feel like it. That way, working toward your goal becomes an ingrained habit.
Likewise, instead of wishing that you had more time to pursue your creative side, actually schedule time for it. Set a goal for the amount of time you want to dedicate each month to creative pursuits. Alternatively, set a goal for how much creative work you want to get done within a month regardless of the amount of time you spend on it.
 By thinking and acting in new ways, you’ll be more creative and step out of your comfort zone. For instance:


Try a cuisine you’ve never had before.
Visit a new city or country.
Read a book on a topic that’s unfamiliar to you.
Watch a television program you’ve never considered before.
Pick up a hobby or skill you’ve always dreamed of having.
 Ask yourself if there are any dreams or passions you stopped making time for. If there are, renew your interest in them. You may rediscover a positive trait or skill that is worth keeping as you reinvent yourself. For instance:


If you once dreamed of becoming a chef, try taking cooking lessons, even if you no longer have any intention of switching careers now.
If you loved playing basketball when you were in high school, find an adult sports league you can join. You may make friends and rekindle some appreciation for dedication, fitness, and teamwork.
 The people in your life now are familiar with the current you and may or may not assist you as you redefine yourself into someone new. As you meet new people, tell them about the person you're trying to become so that they can help you stay accountable to your ideal.


Make sure that the new people in your life have positive attitudes. It is much easier to pursue a new you when you're surrounded by positivity instead of negativity.
Respect your family or current friends who can support you as you reinvent yourself.
In addition, you can reconnect with old friends, using social media, networking events, etc.Getting in touch with your past can sometimes be the best way to move forward.
 As soon as you are awake enough to think straight, ask yourself if you are the same person today as you were the day before. Reflect on which parts of your self-definition are transforming into something better and which aspects still need a little work. Doing this in the morning can improve your health and make you more mindful throughout the rest of the day., Try not to change everything all at once since doing so can overwhelm you and make you want to quit. Don't procrastinate, but don't rush yourself either.

