 If you are thinking about going to graduate school, you need to carefully select your program. You will be making a large financial investment, and also investing a lot of time. Your first step is to figure out your priorities.Make a list of what you want out of a Master's program. Are you looking for flexibility? Consider finding a program that is all or mostly online.
Are you looking for a program that will offer a lot of faculty-student connections? Write that down as a top priority.
Maybe you want to finish your degree as quickly as possible. Write down, "Accelerated program" at the top of your priority list.
Is reputation important to you? Make sure to list that a renowned school or program is a big factor in your decision.;
, Once you have listed your priorities, it is time to begin looking at individual programs. Make a list of schools in your area. If you are interested in an online program, you can include schools outside of your geographic area.Contact the school directly. You might need to contact various departments to find all of the information you want.
Talk to the admissions office. You can e-mail them with questions about the application process and requirements.
You can also e-mail the program that you are interested in. For example, if you are looking into an MBA, contact the School of Business and ask for information on course offerings and schedules.
Keep all of your information organized as you gather it. That will make it easier to compare and contrast the strengths and weaknesses of each program.
 When you are in graduate school, it is important that you make connections with faculty and fellow students. You will need their support and advice. As part of your research process, reach out to current and past students.It will be helpful to get a perspective of a student in the program. Ask the department if they can put you in touch with a student who will be willing to speak to you.
Ask questions such as, "How do you handle the workload? Do you find the material stimulating?"
You will also want to talk to a faculty member. You can send an e-mail with questions, or ask to set up a face-to-face appointment.
During your meeting, you can ask questions such as, "Can you tell me about some of the projects that will be assigned? How often are faculty available to meet with students individually?"

, A Master's program can be very expensive. When you are selecting a program, make sure to take financial costs into account. Find out how much each graduate credit hour costs.Inquire about additional costs. For example, some schools charge more per credit hour for online courses.
Write down a financial plan. Figure out your monthly budget, and look for ways to cut costs so that you can afford school. For example, maybe you don't need to have cable while you are working on your degree.
Talk to your Human Resources department at work. Many companies will pay for at least part of the cost of a graduate degree.

