 This is a more intimate form of communication than the previous method.After introducing yourself you will want to try some of the memory techniques from the earlier steps if it's someone you know a little.
If you are calling someone you don't know very well then you might try some catching up. Ask, "It's been a while, do you remember meeting me at graduation?" or you can substitute some other relevant event.
If you are dealing with someone you don't know at all then think more about why you’re calling them and what you know about their identity. If you know something about their activities or work then those can be clues as to how to start a phone call conversation.
For example, you could call someone you don't know that you found out played high school football in games you had watched. You can start the call by introducing yourself and saying: "I remember you from the high school playoff game...." then go on with your conversation.
If there is no connection you can establish then the burden is on you, as the caller, to introduce yourself and your intentions. State your name and what you are calling about quickly to reduce any sense of anxiety the other caller may have. Perhaps say, "I'm John Doe and I need to ask you a favor regarding the noise level in your house...." or whatever the reason may be.
 This will help ease communication and reduce any antagonism whether the recipient of your call is someone you know a little or not at all.


For someone you don't know very well you should steer the conversation to common interests in popular culture, literature, food, and so forth. This will extend the conversation and make it more positive. For example, you could ask: "Do you like sushi?" or other cuisine. If they agree, this can even be the means to an in-person meeting.
For someone you don't know at all, you can attempt this common interest approach as well. Perhaps after you've made your intentions clear you can then make the conversation friendlier by asking "So, do you enjoy science fiction movies?" Depending on the degree of your involvement with the other person this may even lead to an in-person meeting. But don't press.
 Even though this is a casual conversation it doesn't hurt to be polite.You don't need to use formal titles and positions when addressing the recipient in this scenario, but you don't want to use crude nicknames or shorthand. Use their full names unless they suggest otherwise.
Make calls at the same reasonable times you would for a business--late morning or early afternoon. Unless told otherwise.
 Allow this call to be a memorable one through vivid description.Take advantage of visual, auditory, and other sensory descriptors. But don't be crude.
For example, you could be calling someone you don't know very well and recalling for them: "Remember when you ran into me by those wonderful smelling flowers?"
Although, even a foul smelling memory might help with the call if you can play it off as humorous and say it something like this: "Remember me? The guy you fell into the puddle of mud with?"

, You don't need to set a hard schedule to meet as you would with a professional contact. But think of ways to keep in touch.


Use the common interests you established earlier to discuss activities you might do together or at least have regular conversations about.
For example, you can have phone conversations about the latest comic books, or exchange recipes.
Be diligent about giving each other new and updated phone numbers if and when they are changed.

