 Make sure your face is free of dirt and debris prior to using foundation. Clean your face using soap and water and then pat dry your face with a clean, dry towel. If you normally use facial moisturizer, use it prior to applying makeup.;
, Make sure you select the right brush for applying powder foundation. The type of brush you choose depends on how you want to apply your makeup.Most people use a rounded kabuki brush, which you can purchase at most department stores, to apply powder foundation. However, if you're applying powder foundation on top of a liquid or cream foundation, you may want to use a rounded foundation brush. The coverage with these kinds of brushes is usually more sheer.
You should also keep in mind how thick of a brush you want, regardless of whether you're using a foundation brush or a kabuki brush. If you want fuller coverage, use a thicker brush. For light coverage and touch ups, use a lighter brush., Use swirling motions to lightly coat your brush in your powder foundation. Hold the brush horizontally as you work, working the foundation into the bristles of the brush., Use circular motions to apply the foundation to your cheeks, forehead, under your eyes, and any areas where you notice discoloration on your face. If you have any pimples or acne, cover these areas with a light dusting of powder foundation.Go slowly when applying foundation. Applying foundation in a rush can cause it to smear.
Powder foundation may spread or clump lightly when applied. This is usually okay. You can remove clumps when you finish applying.
 This can also be used to smooth and blend the foundation so that it looks natural. Foundation should not change the color of your face too much; it should just make your complexion look smoother.If your makeup looks caked on, try blending it a little more into your skin.
If you still see the powder after you've blended it well, you may need to choose a different color that is closer to your skin tone.
 If you need heavier foundation, it's a good idea to use a sponge over a brush. Sponges generally make foundation look darker and can cover more blemishes and dislocations. You can buy makeup sponges at most department stores. Some powder foundations come with a makeup sponge., It's a good idea to start light with powder foundation. Take the sponge and dip it in your powder foundation to apply a generous amount. Gently dab the sponge on your face, applying a thin layer of foundation for full coverage.If you're applying powder foundation over another layer of foundation, like liquid foundation, be particularly gentle. You do not want to risk smudging your base coat of foundation.Use a finishing brush to get rid of excess powder and blend in clumps.
 Wet the sponge and dip it in your foundation. Any areas where you want more coverage, like under the eyes, can be covered with a wet sponge. Dip the sponge in a bowl of water, then wring out the excess water. Next, dab the wet sponge into your foundation.Apply it to your face using a circular motion, focusing on problem areas.If you're targeting difficult areas, like under the eyes or near the nose, you may want to fold your sponge in half for a more precise application.When you're finished, use a finishing brush to get rid of any excess powder and blend the foundation so it looks natural.
 If you want powder foundation to last for the day, primer is key. Primer is liquid makeup you apply underneath foundation. Primer makes your foundation look more natural and helps prevent it from creasing. It can also help keep foundation on all day long. When using powder foundation, make sure to apply a layer of primer first.When applying primer, start from the inside of your face and work out. Dab a few dots of primer on your nose, under your eyes, and on your cheek and chin. Then, use your fingers to spread the primer evenly across your face., Mineral or light foundation is for light to medium coverage. If you want more coverage, go for pressed powder, which tends to go on darker. You may also choose to apply a layer of mineral foundation and target problem areas with pressed powder., To see if a foundation is a good color match for your skin, dip a q-tip into the foundation. Draw a line along your jawline area on the side of your face. If the line is invisible, this makeup is a good match. If you can see this line, you'll want to try a different shade.You may have to experiment with several different colors before you find a shade that works. Try asking someone working at a department store makeup counter to help you find a match. This way, you can try out makeup on your skin before making a purchase.
 You should always use a sponge or brush when applying foundation, especially powder foundation. Using fingers tends to make your makeup look caked on, and your fingers will provide far less precision than a solid makeup brush or sponge., Foundation should not go over your entire face. Foundation is only supposed to be used on the areas where you really need it. You should apply foundation to areas prone to redness, like your nose and cheeks, and use it to cover acne, blemishes, and minor skin discolorations. Coating your entire face in foundation can make your makeup look overdone.