 Remember, man looks at the outside but God looks at your heart! That's why as a Christian Punk your words and actions should be kind and loving. Stand up for the defenseless. Help people who are in need. Don't bow to a bunch of rules because we're not under the law. (James 1:26-27)


The second most important aspect of the Christian Punk philosophy is Do-It-Yourself (DIY). Christian Punks can watch independent movies and participate in activities for political (or non political) issues you care about. Go to a small church that has a strong sense of community rather than getting lost in a mega-church. Support start-ups and mom & pop stores, and volunteer locally. These are all ways you can support the DIY ethic.
An aspect of Christian Punk that is primarily Christian (although it lives on in the Straight-edge Movement) is the idea that your body is the Temple of the Lord. Don't do anything to dishonor your body, the Lord's house. Many Christian Punks avoid pre-marital sex, drugs, and alcohol. Some even take it to the point of becoming vegetarian. Take your cues from the Bible and your conscience.;
,


Christian Punk has more to do than with just your appearance and what kind of reaction you want from others. You don't have to aim to be especially different. Being a Christian Punk is about creativity and expressing the freedom we have in Jesus Christ. Just make sure that you don't dishonor your Best Friend or disproportionately annoy those you care about by the way you dress.
Common Christian Punk aesthetics include piercings; leather/camouflage jackets; boots; tennis shoes; spiked, buzzed, and Mohican hairstyles. Quite a bit of Christian Punk fashion is done by yourself; buying clothes from Hot Topic or other "punk" stores (pre-ripped jeans, studded belts, etc.) is missing the point. Most punks are poor, and their lifestyle tends to reflect that. Accordingly, the thrift store is one of the best places to go for all of your clothing needs. Beyond that, most of the decorating can be done yourself. Mix and match flavors that look good to you. If you dig sunglasses, wear them... if you don't dig sunglasses, don't wear them. One thing you can do is buy a cheap leather jacket and decorate it yourself with stickers, safety pins, or whatever suits your fancy.
Wearing "all-black" is gothic, not punk. That doesn't mean you can't do it if it happens to fit your taste.
When it comes to piercings, tattoos, dying your hair, etc... remember that this is Christian Punk. Consider carefully anything you want to do and keep it all in the context of your conscience before God. "Honor your father and mother" may seem to be out of touch with the "punk philosophy", and it may not make you popular, but it's an excellent guideline. Christian Punk is first a genre of music, second, a lifestyle, and never, a dress code. If you're here to impress your friends, you can forget about being a Christian Punk. Punk is about rebelling against social norms, and Christianity is a nonconformist religion. Romans 12:2 is the motto for the Christian Punk community.
Yes, you do have to wear shoes but they can be anything. Christianity really has no guidelines regarding shoes so as long as you wear some you'll be fine. Show some creativity though!
Ignore the hair, just let your mom tousle your hair, and leave it that way if you like. Or you can spike it, shave it off, cut crazy designs in it. If your a girl: Experiment with beading, braiding, ribbons, feathers. Dyeing: go for it. Do whatever you like as long as it honors your Savior. This is another example of how conformity is not the idea.
Makeup -- do whatever you want or just skip it.
Remember you are stuck with the same tat, but you can get a different t-shirt or style... Getting a tattoo is your decision when you're of age. You can do things that really reflect your faith. It's a personal decision and relies on your own convictions. Your body is the Temple of God, show your faith through that. I personally probably would not get a tattoo, I have a mouth instead. I don't think that God would tell me to. Ask Him.



Pay attention to new bands and support the ones who don't trade values for fame... by buying their music and going to their shows. Try to find local punk bands that believe in Jesus Christ. Consider learning an instrument and starting your own band.
The music you listen to should reflect your faith. Try looking at Tooth & Nail, this is a record company with many alternative Christian bands. Some suggested bands are: Relient K's old stuff, Officer Negative, MxPx (although MxPx isn't a Christian Band but are "Christians in a Band". They do have songs reflecting their faith), and Flatfoot 56.
Skillet sounds great, and they definitely stick with their beliefs despite their popularity and tour with bigger, secular bands; however, this alone does not qualify them for "punk" status. It's important to note that you, as a punk, are allowed to enjoy many different kinds of non-punk music. Paramore is not punk, Newsboys aren't what you'd call punk.
Duckie, Philmore, Smiley kids, and Headnoise are pretty good. Take a look at Christian music on YouTube. Check slacker.com forums for Christian punk radio stations. Stay far away from "contemporary punk" or "emo" bands like Kiros and FM Static. Remember the DIY ethic.
Don't judge others for their choice of music. (Col. 2:16)

, You are the special formula. Don't care so much about what people will think. Live for the Lord, and enjoy good music, look cool in the way that God wants you to.

