 Depending on the Pokémon game you have, certain HMs may not be available. With the addition and removal of certain HMs in each game, keeping track of which HM you'll be able to use is important. Different generations have different HMs - sometimes varying between the games!The HMs introduced in Generation I are Cut, Fly, Surf, Strength, and Flash.
The HMs introduced in Generation II are Whirlpool and Waterfall.
The HMs introduced in Generation III are Rock Smash, and Dive exists in the Hoenn region. Whirlpool is no longer an HM.
The HMs introduced in Generation IV are Rock Climb, Defog in Sinnoh, and Whirlpool was reintroduced in Kanto and Johto. Flash was removed.
No HMs were introduced in Generation V (with the exception of Dive's reintroduction), but Defog, Rock Smash, Whirlpool, and Rock Climb were removed.
Generation VI re-added Rock Smash and Dive in the Hoenn region, while Dive was removed from the Kalos region.
The move Teleport, which has been in the game from Generation I onwards, is not considered an HM, but can be used outside of battle to teleport the player to the last Pokémon center or place of healing that they were at.;
, With the exception of Generation V, to use an HM you've received, you'll need to get a certain gym badge. Sometimes, these HMs will be given to you by the Gym leader after you've defeated them, meaning that you don't have to wait to use the HM after getting the Gym badge.
 Access your bag, go to the TMs and HMs tab, and search for the HM you want to teach your Pokémon. Keep in mind that your Pokémon's type is important when deciding to teach a Pokémon a HM - a fire-type Pokémon like Charizard can't learn a water-type HM like Surf, for example.
 Depending on the HM, the prompt to use it may automatically trigger under certain circumstances, or you may have to manually select it.


Any HM that changes something about the environment or allows you to travel on non-walkable surfaces (for example, Cut or Surf) can be triggered by walking up to the "variable" of the environment (for example, a small tree or a lake) and pressing A. This will prompt you to use the HM.
A HM like Defog, Fly, and Flash has to be prompted by accessing the menu, selecting the Pokémon that knows the HM, and selecting the HM.

