 This allows you to control the pace of the engagement.You need to act, which forces your adversary to react which gives you the advantage of delivering the first action.;
, Be quiet as you can when you move. Don't rub up against the wall, watch where you step, and keep your equipment quiet.


As you turn a corner, your body should be planed at an angle so as not to expose any part of your body other than your eye and muzzle, which move as one.






The first thing your opponent should see is just a piece of your eye and the muzzle of your weapon (if you are using one) sighted in on them.
 Concealment hides you, cover stops bullets. Use cover and concealment whenever possible. Do not "crowd" cover. Crowding cover, risks the chance of a piece of equipment peeking out, and decimates the chances of being hidden.
 Be sure to have a route to this new cover, as getting shot is frowned upon in many cultures.
 Maintain good use of cover and concealment and take a slice of a corner at a time. This means, that you should move as slowly as possible, when turning or looking around a corner, while at the same time, not staying in a place too long.
 Your opponent is probably not trained, unlike you will be, and there is a chance that your adversary will miss when you have distance between the two of you. Maximize it if you can, because distance favors the trained shooter. Any idiot with a weapon can shoot at 18 feet (5.5 m).
 Visually, we tend to search in horizontal bands which creates problems in that you don't see what is in the foreground and background of the horizontal band you are searching. Instead, search in vertical bands. Search from the tips of your shoes to the horizon, then shift your stance a little to the left or right, and rinse, then repeat.


Know that you may not see entire person. Look for anomalies, then remember where you saw them. Continue searching, the go back to the anomalies. If they are not there repeat your search.
 Knowing what to look for is important, if your adversary is concealed. Look for these:


Toe of boots. Fact of life, people don't watch where their feet are. Well, not that often.






Elbows. Usually, people don't mind their elbow, because it is not a place that commonly comes into contact with surfaces.






Equipment such as hats. Chances are, if it's not part of your body you aren't watching what that thing is doing.
 Smell is usually a dead giveaway if you are downwind. Cigarettes, alcohol, Body Odor, or strong scents like aerosols or food can give you or your opponent can give you away.


The 6th sense. No not telepathy, your gut. If it feels odd, there very well may be a problem.
 Take your time if you have time. Move no faster than what you think is comfortable.
 If you can't shoot, you are just an observer to a gun fight, and you will lose.
 The fatal funnel is an open doorway or T-intersection that you must move by or through. Don't stand in it! If you must move by it or through the fatal funnel, do it dynamically as you move to a point of cover or concealment.

