 In this day and age, most cars have power locks. This translates to a safety risk for smart pets. If your dog unlocks the doors and you’re not aware of it, he is then at risk of exiting the vehicle while it’s moving. Even if your dog is crated the entire trip in the car, accidents can occur.


It may seem silly to think of a dog opening a car door, but sometimes cars have very easy access handles. Curious paws can get tangled in them and the door can open when your dog tries to pull free.
Even if you keep your dog crated in the car at all times, there may come a day that you don’t latch it all the way and your dog gets loose. This is dangerous because while driving, you have no control over a loose dog.;
, Most modern cars are equipped with a button that can turn off all the power windows. This is a wise button to push if you have a loose dog in the car. A dog can easily push a window button accidentally, exposing themselves to a dangerous escape route.This button is often located on the driver’s side window control panel in the door. It may have a drawing of a window with an “X” over it. This indicates that it turns off the power windows.
Even if you crate your dog, they may be a time when you don’t latch it all the way. If your dog gets out of the crate when you are driving, having the windows locked provides peace of mind.
 Get a well ventilated, crash-tested crate for your dog to ride in. Make sure that your dog can turn around, stand, sit down, and lie down inside. Situate the crate near the back of your vehicle and position it so that it won’t move around. Keeping the crate from moving around when you break can minimize your dog’s feelings of carsickness. Place luggage, blankets, and other bulky items around the crate to secure it in place.
Make sure there is nothing in the crate that can harm your dog, such as extra leashes or collars. These are choking hazards., Prepare a dog traveling kit to keep on hand in the car. This kit should have enough materials for both short and long road trips. Just like you would pack a road trip bag for your child, include snacks, a favorite toy, a favorite pillow, and so on.Also include a first aid kit, a watering bowl, travel documents (proof of veterinary certification, proof of rabies shot, etc.), and medications, and a waste scoop and doggie bags for bathroom stops.
Don’t feed or water your pet while on the move.
Use bottled water. Some dogs have sensitive stomachs and can’t handle water in new places very well.
Administer snacks on breaks only, and make sure they are high in protein., Even if you decide to leave your dog out of a crate inside the vehicle, make sure they stay out of the front seats. This is because of the airbag situation. If an airbag deploys on your dog, it will likely injure them.If you do keep your dog loose in the car, make sure to buckle them in. Put your dog in a specially designed safety harness, which allows you to buckle the seat belt directly into the harness., If your dog has never been on a car ride, it is helpful to gradually get them used to being in the car. Start with taking short trips around the block. Every time you get in the car, go a little bit further until your dog is able to handle trips across town. Eventually your dog may be ready for long road trips.

