 Most of the time when you see Angelina out and about, she’s wearing black. Whatever you do, don’t wear pastels. She almost never does. You might see her in jewel tones at an awards show, but black’s the basic uniform.


Decide which phase of Angelina’s life you want to look like. Angelina Jolie is known for mixing up her styles. In 1991, when she was a high school student, she wore black boots with a silver bat charm. Today, she has a softer style. But she still favors black.
In fact, many of Angelina’s outfits are entirely black. Her style tends to be monochromatic, not patterns or mixing colors.
When she pairs black with another color, it’s often a white or tan shirt. For awards shows, she often chooses long black dresses in classic styles, although she’s also been photographed in deep red and green.
 When she’s at a serious event, Angelina is a fan of blazers with slacks. Her clothing doesn't draw attention to itself, keeping the focus on her message and her causes.


She favors monochrome for this look as well. She’s been seen in black suits and white ones, most commonly.
Because Angelina wants to be taken seriously, her business look is not too fussy. She won't wear big necklaces and usually pairs a blazer with a simple scoop-necked T-shirt.
She sometimes pairs a blazer with a short skirt.
 When Angelina is not at a big event, you will find her dressed down. She isn’t too dolled up like she is posing for the cameras when she goes to a toy store with her children.


Wear flats. Angelina’s often seen in flats. She dresses for comfort during the day, and you won’t see her going to the grocery store wearing high heels. Nude toned ballet flats are a favorite shoe of Angelina’s, often paired with black clothing.
Don’t wear too many accessories. Angelina never looks too fussy. You aren’t going to find her with big earrings or a lot of bling. She’s more likely to wear simple, but classy, diamond solitaire earrings. Wear leather. Although you saw her in leather more before she became a mother, it’s still one of Angelina’s favorite looks. Who can forget the leather dress she wore to the Mr. and Mrs. Smith film premiere? She wears leather pants, too.

