, Coat the dog well with a strong solution of soapy water. Let it soak in for five to ten minutes (or more), then comb the dead fleas away. Rinse the dog and let it dry. Dish soap also leaves your dog soft, shiny and smelling great.


Make sure you rinse your dog off thoroughly to prevent dry skin.
Be aware that some dogs may be sensitive to strong detergents, so if you see a reaction, rinse thoroughly with cool water and try baby shampoo after the skin has returned to normal.
 Fleas reportedly don't like the taste of yeast. Although this has not been proven, many people swear by it. Buy some brewer's or nutritional yeast and rub it onto your pet's skin. You can also sprinkle a small amount onto their wet food and mix it in.
 Take two cups of fresh rosemary leaves and add them to two pints of water. Boil for thirty minutes. Strain the liquid, discard the leaves and mix it with up to a gallon of warm water. Pour this over your pet until they are saturated. Do not rinse off, but allow your pet to air dry.
 Salt is a desiccant, meaning it saps the moisture from things and dries them out. When a salt crystal attaches itself to a flea, it will attach itself to the flea. This causes chafing and scraping on the flea, essentially bleeding the flea to death as it walks.


Use very fine-grained salt for this. The finer the better; you want it to be small enough to attach itself to the flea.
After 7-10 days, vacuum the salted area very thoroughly, making sure to pick up all the salt and flea carcasses from the carpet area. Repeat the process one or two more times.
When you're done vacuuming, discard the old vacuum bag from the vacuum and replace it with a new one. Seal the discarded vacuum bag in a plastic bag and discard outside the house.
 Slice a lemon thinly, add to a pint of water and heat to a boiling point. Let it sit overnight and in the morning, put the mixture in a spray bottle. Spray it onto areas where you suspect fleas hang out (beware of staining). Be sure to also rub it over your cat's fur. Don't soak, but dampen the fur. Do this once a month to combat fleas.


Another way to make a citrus spray is to buy essential oils (available at natural food stores); you can buy a bottle of lemon oil and add 10-20 drops per ounce of water.
This is something to do on a hot day only: Add 2 to 3 drops of the lemon mixture under your pet's collar to help keep fleas off.
 Diatomaceous Earth is a widely available, low cost, organic powder that kills fleas and most insects when applied to your yard or carpets.


It's food-grade, meaning it is safe for humans and animals to ingest. Diatomaceous earth works by puncturing the exoskeleton of the insects, causing them to dry out.
 This is the most critical step because if you skimp on it, all your efforts from your previous steps will be undone. The eggs that survived will hatch, and the entire cycle will begin again. Do the following until you find no traces of fleas on your pets or in your home:


Vacuum thoroughly every other day. Since fleas can develop resistance to insecticides, vacuuming regularly is essential in order to bring them under control.Mow the lawn regularly.
Wash pet bedding in hot, soapy water at least once a week.

