 After diagnosing your Rottweiler with OCD, your vet will discuss various treatment options with you. Medical treatment is effective with mild OCD, when the articular cartilage is cracked or there is only a small cartilage flap in the joint.It’s also recommended for dogs that are not good surgical candidates (weak immune system, heart disease).Talk with your vet to decide if medical treatment is a good choice for your Rottweiler.;
, If medical treatment is right for your Rottweiler, you will need to restrict its physical activity for at least several weeks after diagnosis. This will help the damaged cartilage heal in the affected joint. Limit your Rottweiler’s activity to short leash walks. Other than walks, your Rottweiler should rest as much as possible.Do not play any high-intensity games, like fetch, with your Rottweiler.
Dogs with OCD are usually reluctant to play and exercise, so it probably won't be hard for you to limit your Rottweiler's activity., Pain is a common sign of OCD. To help your Rottweiler feel more comfortable, your vet will prescribe a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), which will reduce pain by reducing joint inflammation. Examples of NSAIDs are carprofen and meloxicam.If your Rottweiler doesn’t like taking pills, try hiding the pill in a treat.
NSAIDs can affect a dog’s liver and kidneys. While your Rottweiler is on NSAIDs, your vet will want to take periodic blood samples to check liver and kidney function., Several supplements are available that can improve your Rottweiler’s joint health. These supplements frequently contain chondroitin and/or glucosamine. Chondroitin is naturally found in the body and is a component of cartilage.Glucosamine also occurs naturally in the body and helps build cartilage.In addition to glucosamine and chondroitin, omega 3-fatty acids support joint health by reducing inflammation.Joint health supplements are available at your local pet store or through your vet.
Talk with your vet before adding supplements to your Rottweiler’s diet. They can give you recommendations on high-quality supplements.
 Excess weight puts more pressure on joints. If your Rottweiler is overweight, this can worsen its OCD. Help your Rottweiler lose weight by feeding it a weight loss food, available through your vet or at your local pet store.


Be aware that over-the-counter weight loss foods may not provide your Rottweiler with the same level of nutrition as prescription weight loss foods.Limit your Rottweiler’s treats. Rather than feeding your Rottweiler store-bought treats, which can be high in fat, feed it healthy treats (unbuttered popcorn, orange slices).Exercise is also important for weight loss. Choose low-impact exercise, like leisurely walks, to help your Rottweiler lose weight.
 Your vet will recommend doing passive range-of-motion exercises to prevent your Rottweiler’s joints from becoming too stiff. To perform these exercises, lie your Rottweiler on its side and gently move the affected joint through its normal range of motion.Your vet will prescribe exercises depending on which joint (shoulder, elbow, ankle) is affected.
Perform the exercises five to ten times, two to three times each day.