 Spread your feet slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Lower your center of gravity between your legs with the knees bent and the body stable and unmoving. Your weight should be positioned mainly on the balls of your feet. In age uke, the body can be facing the opponent head-on or may be angled slightly to present less of a target.Create a solid base, but stay light on your feet so that you can move at a moment’s notice.;
, To begin the blocking movement, your arms should be in a “chambered” position (fists clenched with fingers facing upward at either hip) or raised defensively in front of the body. This is to have them as close as possible to the anticipated strike in order to effectively protect the head and face. Your fists can be held open or closed, but do not clench them until the moment of impact.Clenching your fist creates unnecessary tension in the arms and shoulders, which can exhaust you and reduce your reactive speed., With the elbow bent at roughly 45 degrees, lift your blocking arm up and outwards in a tight arc until your forearm is held laterally over your forehead. As you begin the block, your forearm will catch your opponent’s strike and redirect their force safely over the top of your head or off to the side. This high blocking technique is known as age uke.Age uke will stop high punches to the head, as well as downward smashing strikes with the fist or a bludgeoning weapon.
Whenever possible, meet your opponent’s striking arm with both large bones of the forearm rather than the edge. This is known as a “double bone block,” and is much more effective at shutting down attacks as well as preventing injury., Now that your opponent’s strike has been deflected, their balance will be compromised and they will be open to a counter strike. Take advantage of the opportunity and strike back with a straight punch to the face or solar plexus. Both the block and the counterattack should be performed with quick, powerful motions, “snapping” the technique upon impact.Power in the counter punch should come from quick, twisting motion of the hips and shoulders, shooting the arm straight out like a piston. Make contact with the largest knuckles of the pointer and middle fingers to keep from hurting your hand.Your best target for counter attacking is based on your positioning in relation to your attacker. The head and body both make good targets when left exposed. You can also trap the attacker’s punching arm to apply a grappling technique. This will allow you to subdue them without having to hit them in return.