 Before mating your dogs, it is important to wait until both dogs have reached maturity. In fact, although most dogs become mature during the first year and a half of life, waiting until both dogs are at least 2 years old can further ensure their health and safety. This is especially true for dams (female dogs), who should not be bred until at least their third heat cycle. Additionally, you should ensure that neither dog is too old for breeding.Large dog breeds are considered mature at 18-24 months.
Medium-sized breeds are considered mature at 15-18 months.
Small dog breeds are considered mature at 12-18 months.
Studs (male dogs) can continue breeding until they are roughly 10 years of age.
Dams should no longer breed once they reach 5.;
, It is particularly crucial for you make sure that your dam is healthy enough to withstand mating, pregnancy, and birth. At least one month before mating, your dam should have a “pre-breeding” evaluation by a vet. All of her vaccinations should be current and she should be free of parasites.Your dam must be the correct weight for her age and height.
Additionally, your vet can screen for any other health problems that may complicate a pregnancy.
 Although it is not quite as crucial, it is also a great idea to have your stud evaluated by a vet. Your vet can check for any anatomical defects, signs of low sperm, and/or infection of the reproductive organs, which could make it difficult or dangerous to breed. Your vet can also determine the overall health of your stud and confirm that he is up to the task., Immediately prior to mating, both dogs should be thoroughly bathed. In particular, their genitals should be clean (which reduces risk of infection) and any excess fur should be trimmed (which enables proper entry).Fur around your stud’s sheath and penis should be trimmed away.
Fur around your dam’s vulva should be trimmed.
 The number one factor is facilitating a safe and successful mating session, it to select the proper time. In order to do this, you must understand your dam’s heat cycle. Your dam should go into heat roughly every 6 months, beginning around one year old. Look for signs of heat in your dam, and take detailed notes. You should watch and track her behavior for at least two heat cycles before you consider breeding.During the first 1-7 days, your dam will exhibit a swollen vulva and some bleeding. Male dogs may pay more attention to her, but she will not accept a mate.
During the next 7 days, her bleeding will slow and she will be willing to accept mates.
During the last days of her heat cycle, she will no longer accept mates. This cycle usually last 21 days, but it can be shorter for some dogs.

