 Have a conversation about the different political parties and their beliefs with someone who you trust. To get an unbiased opinion, speak with someone you don’t believe will try to sway you either way.


To get the conversation started, you could say, “I really respect your knowledge of politics and would like to learn more about the political parties from you. I think you could tell me in an unbiased manner, which is what I’m looking for.”
If they aren’t willing to talk about it with you, graciously accept their decision and avoid bringing it up again., Check with your local college to see what political courses are offered. These classes are a great resource to learn about political beliefs in an unbiased manner. Your library, senior or community center, or church may also offer these types of courses.


You may also be able to take online courses or find a tutorial about politics. Doing it this way may give you more flexibility and allows you to learn in privacy., Finding unbiased books about politics may be a little difficult, but not entirely impossible. Scholarly books typically offer a fair point of view from both sides, which you can typically purchase online or at college bookstores.


You may also be able to check with your area high schools to see if they have any extra books they can spare or you can purchase. Additionally, a few apps are available that keep you updated with current events, and teach you about politics at the same time.
Look for books that aren’t endorsed or written by members of any specific political party. Educating yourself on the facts of all political sides may help to reduce the amount of political polarization in your life., Learning more about how political parties operate and use propaganda may help you to gain a broader perspective on politics in general and have a more objective viewpoint on your own political system. For example, in some countries, there are multiple parties rather than the two party system in the US. Political parties also change over time.

