


Chinchilla cages must be well ventilated to keep the chinchilla cool, thus making metal wire mesh cages a good option. However it's of note that it's easier for the chinchilla to knock messes out of their cage and onto the floor with a wire cage.
Closed back/sided cages are fine options as long as they are well ventilated.
Cages are recommended to be at least 3 x 2 x 2 feet.
Providing chinchillas with vertical space to traverse is recommended.;
,


Chinchillas require some form of shelter that they can comfortably hide in when stressed.
Ledges and platforms placed in vertical space are a good for exercise and entertainment for the chinchilla.
Wire mesh flooring is to be avoided if possible, as it can be harmful to a chinchillas feet, ramps included.
Chinchillas can be trained to pee in litter boxes, so bedding and a litterbox could be required.



Untreated wooden ledges and pumice stone ledges are recommended.
Ledges and platforms should be placed at reasonably distances from each other so that a chinchilla can jump between them.
Ledges and platforms should be stable and not shake excessively when weight is applied to them.



Wheels should ideally be 15 inches in diameter and made of solid metal. Wheels under 15 inches in diameter can be highly dangerous to the chinchilla's spine and back.
Wire mesh and plastic wheels are to be avoided for the chinchillas safety.
Alternatively, "flying saucer" style wheels are a very good choice for chinchillas.



Only cloth materials made of fleece are safe for chinchillas, as other cloths can be digested and damage the chinchillas digestive system.
Any hammocks bought for chinchillas should be tight enough for the animal to feel secure.
Toys made of untreated wood, cardboard, and pumice stone are good common materials for toys.
Hanging toys using rope made out of safe materials like intertwined hay are also good options.
Puzzle toys and toys that promote scavenging-like activity help are also very good options.
Toys that hold treats are not to be refilled constantly and should follow a chinchillas diet.



Food, water, and hay are three essentials for chinchillas diets and should always be fresh and present in the chinchillas cage.
Hay should be placed in a spot where it can be easily refilled, as it will be changed the most often.
Water should not be kept out in a dish, if your furry friend jumps in it and gets wet, their fur will mold.
Food and Water should be monitored and kept fresh.
Adding a fair distance between food and water is recommended for convenience to both you and the chinchilla.



Food, hay, treats, dust for dust baths, and any yet to be used toys or accessories should be placed out of reach of the chinchilla.
Most foodstuffs should be kept in a cool, dry place.
All rotten or contaminated foodstuffs should be thrown away, as chinchillas have very gentle digestive systems.

