 Homemade non-alcoholic blue curaçao is made by infusing juice with orange peels, so you want to make sure the peels are clean. Wash the oranges under running water and scrub the skin with a vegetable brush. This will remove dirt and other particles from the skin.

You can also use clementines or mandarin oranges to make your homemade blue curaçao.Use six smaller oranges in place of the larger naval oranges.;
, Dry the oranges with a clean towel. Use a vegetable peeler to peel the outer orange rind from the fruit. Don’t peel any of the white pith underneath, as this will make the drink bitter and unpleasant.

If any pith comes off with the rind, shave it off using a paring knife., Transfer the orange peel slices to a large glass jar, such as a mason jar. Pour the white grape juice, apple cider vinegar, peach syrup, and apricot syrup over the orange peels. Cover the jar with a tight-fitting lid.

The juice, vinegar, and syrups used in this recipe replace the vodka and brandy that’s usually used to make blue curaçao.If you can't find peach or apricot syrup, replace the quantities with more white grape juice.
 Place the jar with the orange peels and juice in a cool, dry, and dark location. A pantry or dry basement is ideal. Leave the orange peels to steep in the juice solution for three weeks.Stir the contents of the jar each week, and then place the lid back on and return the jar to its spot.

As the orange peels and juice mingle, the juice will become infused with orange flavor. The vinegar and sugar will help to preserve the solution as it steeps.
 After three weeks, remove the lid from the jar. Add the cloves to the solution. Put the lid back on and return the jar to its cool and dry location. Leave the mixture for one more day.This will give the cloves time to infuse some spiciness into the liquid, but not so long that the clove flavor becomes overpowering.

Other spices you can add in place of or in addition to the cloves include a cinnamon stick and a tablespoon (6 g) of coriander seeds., In a small saucepan, combine the sugar and water. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium heat, stirring occasionally until the sugar is dissolved. When the mixture boils and the sugar is dissolved, remove the pan from the heat. Set it aside and let the syrup cool for about an hour., As the syrup cools, remove the lid from the juice and orange peel mixture. Prepare a fine-mesh strainer by lining it with cheesecloth and placing it over a clean bowl. Strain the juice through the cheesecloth to remove the orange peels and spices. Discard the peels and cloves.

You can also use a disposable coffee filter to strain the mixture if you don’t have cheesecloth., When the syrup has cooled to room temperature, pour it into the bowl with the strained orange-infused juice mixture. Add blue food coloring in five-drop increments, stirring with a long spoon after each addition. Continue adding color until your blue curaçao reaches the desired shade of blue., Clean the mason jar that you used to infuse your orange base. Once all the ingredients have been combined, return the blue mixture to the mason jar. Cover the jar and return the mixture to its cool and dry spot. Leave the mixture to settle for another 24 hours.This final rest will allow all of the ingredients and flavors to properly marry and combine.
 After 24 hours, you can transfer the mixture to a pourable bottle. Clean an old glass bottle with soap and water to remove any residue. Rinse the bottle and let it air dry. Fit a funnel into the neck of the bottle and pour the blue curaçao from the mason jar into the bottle., Once the blue curaçao is in a pourable bottle with a tight-fitting lid, it’s ready to enjoy. You can drink it on its own, on ice, or in your favorite drinks and cocktails. Screw on the lid tightly and store leftovers in the refrigerator for about two months., Blue curaçao is a common ingredient in many colorful cocktails and mocktails. To make a basic soda or mocktail, fill a tall glass halfway with ice. Add a lemon wedge and five fresh mint leaves. Then stir in:2 tablespoons (30 ml) blue curaçao
2 tablespoons (30 ml) liquid syrup or sugar, such as simple syrup, maple syrup, or agave
Soda water to fill the glass

, Crush 10 mint leaves with your hands to bruise them and release the flavor. Transfer them to a serving glass. Add two lemon rind curls, a squeeze of fresh lemon juice, a teaspoon (5 ml) of ginger juice, and ¼ cup (59 ml) of blue curaçao. Stir the ingredients together with ice and top the glass off with soda water., In a martini shaker, combine five ice cubes, ½ cup (118 ml) pineapple juice, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) coconut extract, and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of blue curaçao. Shake everything together in the martini shaker and strain the drink into a serving glass filled with crushed ice., In a tall glass, combine 2 teaspoons (10 ml) each of blue curaçao, blackberry concentrate, and grenadine. Stir the mixture together, and fill the glass the rest of the way with ice and soda water or sparkling apple juice.