 Only Direct Loans qualify for this particular kind of forgiveness; Perkins and Federal Family Education loans do not.If you have Perkins or Federal Family Education loans, and you want them to qualify for public service loan forgiveness, you can consider consolidating with the federal government. Direct Consolidation Loans do qualify.
 You must make at least 120 regular monthly payments, on time, to qualify for public service loan forgiveness.


Document your payments. In general, it’s best not to trust your loan servicer or the Department of Education to keep accurate records; make sure you log this information independently as well.
 While you make your 120 monthly payments, you’ll need to work full time at a non-profit organization or a government agency that the IRS considers tax-exempt. It does not matter what your job title is or what specific services the organization provides, so long as it is tax-exempt.


Alternatively, you can work for certain non-tax-exempt organizations that the Department of Education deems qualifying. These include:the military
public health and safety organizations
law enforcement
early childhood education
disability services



, Every year, you should submit an Employment Certification form (you can download and print it here: https://studentaid.ed.gov/sites/default/files/public-service-employment-certification-form.pdf) to update the Department of Education about your qualifying employment. You should also submit a new one whenever you change jobs.


This bit of bureaucratic red tape may seem like an unnecessary pain, but ultimately, it will help you get your loans forgiven as expeditiously as possible. It will take at least ten years to make the 120 qualifying monthly payments, and most people will change jobs at least once or twice during that time. Submitting annual forms prevents you having to track down former employers when it’s time to apply for forgiveness. It also alerts you immediately if your current job does not actually qualify for the program.
 After you have made 120 payments, you will complete an official application for forgiveness, and, as long as you’ve met all the requirements, your remaining qualifying loans will be forgiven.
 Until you know for sure that you’ve been granted forgiveness, you are required to continue paying.

