 Remember that celebrities are at the forefront of style because they have an entire team making sure of it. Choose a look that you feel comfortable and confident in. You don’t have to choose a single celebrity but rather borrow from as many as you need until you’ve found your own style., Once you’ve found your look, shop smarter. You can find online promotions or shop vintage/pre-worn alternatives to brand new items. Search social media for clothing exchanges or groups of fellow frugal fashionistas.Factor in your goals and lifestyle as you plan your budget as fashion may not be at the top of your priority list., Your look is an expression of who you are as an individual. Style is a celebration of you so be confident in your look. Being comfortable in your own skin and confident is vital in finding your own style.Choose clothes that fit. You may think that moving down to a smaller size will build your confidence but you may be uncomfortable with less mobility or the clothes may make your body look disproportionate. Wear the right size as fit is more important than the actual number.
 Don’t try to be someone who you’re not. Trust your instincts and know that you are beautiful no matter what you wear. Labels and size don’t matter but your happiness does., If you’re wanting to step outside of your comfort zone, talk to a friend or coworker who you feel has an eye for fashion. You can also go into a store that you have always admired and ask a stylist for some advice.Listen to other people’s opinion but at the end of the day, it’s up to you how to make your style.
 Everyone has a different complexion so only you know what colors work best for your skin tone. Consult a stylist or look online for people with a similar skintone to see what works.When identifying your palette, think in terms of colours that compliment your skin tone, hair colour, or eye colour. For example, a crisp blue dress works well with jet black hair., While you may know what colors looks good on you, don’t neglect their opposites. For example, if you look good in red, wear green shoes with your favorite red skirt., Don’t make your outfit too busy. Choose a single strong focal point. If you’re wearing a glamourous hat, pair it with a basic dress. You can also use an accessory as a trademark, like a signature necklace.Patterns and prints can be complicated to deal with so stick to a single pattern when creating your ensemble. If you mix too many patterns or prints together in a single outfit, it may be difficult for the eye to take in. You don't want your look to be too busy.
 Let the occasion dictate your style but err on the side of practicality. Choose materials that are easier to maintain or pieces that are easier to coordinate with what you already have in your wardrobe. Flats are always a good option if you will be on your feet for long periods of time., Not only are you supporting local artists but you are also finding rare and one-of-a-kind pieces that will help you stand out. However, keep your budget in mind before deciding whether a locally sourced piece works better than a mass produced brand name., Whether you add bright nail polish, a loud necklace, or an eye-catching hat, color is an easy way to give your drab outfit some much needed energy. Choose a color that you feel comfortable with and let it be the highlight of your outfit., It may seem counter-intuitive to not match items in your ensemble but providing some contrast can give you your signature look. For example, you may add a patterned heel to a monochrome outfit., It’s their job to make you look good so ask as many questions as you need to ensure that you are comfortable with any look they are helping you put together. You more you know about them, the more comfortable you will be with their fashion and style advice., Let your confidence exude with your sexy secret. Underwear is the first thing that touches your skin and can set your style as you pay attention to this intimate detail., Don’t let anyone tell you what’s cool. Having a sentimental piece, like a lucky charm or something inherited, let’s you feel like yourself as only you understand the true value. This invaluable piece may give you an extra bit of confidence to complete any look., Whether you look good in faux leather or love the 1950s, relish in the style with signature pieces in your wardrobe. You may also find role models with your signature style who you can emulate., You do not have to stick to the world of fashion to find inspiration on how to dress cool. You can find inspiration everywhere including art, film, and culture. Let your other interests inform your fashion sense., Accessories are small enough for bolder choices. Let your budget dictate how much you want to spend on accessories. Remember that the quality of your accessories should be taken into consideration as they may damage certain materials or be easily lost if not properly worn., Whether it’s the ‘70s or ‘90s, immerse yourself in the era to find inspiration. Listen to music, watch movies, and read books of the time period. Patterns, fabrics, and signature pieces can help bring the time back to life in your wardrobe., Add pieces that take you away and allow you to reminisce or drift into your fantasy. For example, wear something you bought on your grad trip to South America or a bracelet similar to what you think the heroine in your favourite novel may wear., While your comfort and confidence is paramount, mix different textures to change your look. For example, pair a feminine blouse with a leather skirt to give a hard edge to the elegance., Bright colors reflect energy and boldness. Whether you wear a monochromatic outfit or patterned, choose your colors with purpose and conviction., When you choose bright colors or bold graphics, be prepared for the added attention. You don’t need to wear graphics that literally make a statement but provocative words and images are sure to get you noticed. Muted colors and subtle patterns work when you want to fit in more., Browse for colors, fabrics, and designs that immediately evoke a response from you. Dressing cool is personal and the only opinion that matters is your own.Make sure that you also look at the price when looking at bold items.

