 A campaign manager will understand and help you develop policy. They must have strong organization skills, work well under pressure and be willing to say "no" to people, including you.In many political races, the campaign manager may actually be a professional with a track record successfully managing candidates and campaigns.


If hiring an outside campaign manager it isn't necessary for them to completely agree with your platform. It helps if they do though.
You have to have absolute trust and completely open communication with your campaign manager.
Your campaign manager should be a fair leader that your other staff respect, and must have a complete understanding of your team's goals and vision.
When in doubt, every other role should report to your campaign manager.
 Large campaigns are as much economic operations as they are political ones. You need someone to track your campaign's income and expenses.An experienced accountant is a must-have. They'll need to be well organized and capable of keeping excellent records as well.Since your campaign is bigger, your treasurer will not also be responsible for fundraising.
You may have a legal obligation to maintain highly detailed, accurate, and transparent records - make sure the person keeping them is qualified!
Your treasurer won't be as integrated with the rest of the team, but they'll probably work closely with your fundraising coordinator and event coordinator. Make sure that the trio have a strong working relationship.
 You'll want to have a person specifically designated with fundraising responsibilities. They'll handle phone drives, solicitations, and a host of other fundraising mediums. They'll report revenue to your treasurer and also network with your event coordinator to organize fundraising activities. They need to be highly organized and outgoing. This individual should be a go-getter who isn't afraid to ask for favors or take initiative. No wallflowers here!

, This is the person who will plan your rallies, handle logistics for your events, and keep all of your vendors and local contractors in line. They'll likely work especially closely with your Fundraising Coordinator and your Treasurer.


You'll want this person to work well with others, but also be a strong-willed and goal driven.You want someone who is both passionate and flexible. , You'll need at least one legal advisor, if not an entire legal team. You'll need to understand and adapt to various election laws, especially if you are in a national race that may involve multiple jurisdictions.Your legal advisor will rarely work closely with other staff besides your campaign manager. A no-frills person that gets the job done thoroughly is best for this role.
Your legal advisor will often be outside hired counsel.
 For most large campaigns you'll be doing far more than sending out mailers and putting up posters. You'll need advertising buys on radio and even television. Your advertising director should work closely with your treasurer as well as your polling and public relations team.


Your advertising director must have a crystal-clear understanding of your campaign message. They're responsible for getting the message out to all of your voters!
Your advertising director should report directly to you and your campaign manager for final approval before any ad is aired or posted.
 Especially with large campaigns, you'll need to keep a finger on the pulse of the electorate. Having a skilled Polling and PR Advisor can help. This person will keep an eye on which way the proverbial wind is blowing and help you to tailor a creative message accordingly.A "people person" who is also good with analytics is often a good fit for this role.
It is often good for a pollster to be less affiliated with the day-to-day of a campaign. You want accurate data that is free of bias to operate and make strategic decisions off of.
 As your campaign draws publicity, you'll need someone to be the public face and voice of the campaign when you can't be. You'll want a Media Relations team who understands the message.Those actively involved with the media should be good with other people and not prone to gaffes.


Staying on message is crucial. You want quick thinkers who are good on their feet but won't improvise or freelance.
Charisma counts.A likeable Press Secretary and Media Relations team give your campaign a good face.
 As your campaign moves from place to place you'll find all sorts of new volunteers. Grassroots volunteers are the lifeblood of a campaign, but they'll need skilled leadership. Your Volunteer Coordinator will keep them all on the same page and moving in the same direction.Again, you'll want someone with good organizational and networking skills.Your volunteer coordinator must have a clear understanding of the campaign message and vision. Not only will they need to know it, but they'll be responsible for imparting it upon others!
Patience and the ability to motivate other people are also extremely valuable skills for volunteer coordinators.
 With so much going on, you are going to need some personal help. A good personal assistant can keep you apprised of scheduling changes, make sure you get to eat and sleep, and screen your calls. Getting along well is crucial for this role.


Your personal assistant should be willing to be strong and get what they need from other people, but defer to you.
An empathetic person that understands your needs is a good pick for a personal assistant.

