 Species that thrive in the soil pH that occurs naturally are more likely to do well, especially trees, but the pH can be adjusted to suit a particular plant.;
, If the plants are already growing and have developed chlorosis or yellow foliage, the pH should be checked and adjusted immediately.
 Chlorosis can be caused by a variety of things including too little or too much direct sunlight, herbicides, insect infestation and unusually extreme temperatures but it is most often caused by a deficiency in iron.Even if the sufficient iron is present in the soil, which it usually is, if the pH is too high the plant is unable to absorb it.


Chlorosis is indicated by leaves that become pale green or yellow. When the pH is not adjusted immediately, the foliage dies, branches become stunted and flowering plants may not bloom.
 To determine if the soil is acidic, neutral or alkaline, a quick test can be done before purchasing a soil pH test kit.Take 1 tablespoon of soil from the garden and let it dry.


Bring 1 cup of water to a boil in a pan with a lid. Put 2 cups of chopped red cabbage into the boiling water, cover the pan and let it continue to boil until the water changes to dark purple.
 Let the water cool. Measure 2 tablespoons of the purple water into a white saucer along with 1/8 teaspoon of baking soda.


Stir the baking soda into the water until it changes color.
 It should be blue or green, indicating that the water is alkaline. Use a dropper to add clear vinegar to the water one drop at a time until the water changes color again.


It should be red, indicating the water is acidic.
 Use the dropper to add enough purple cabbage water to thoroughly wet the soil. Tip the saucer from side to side for one minute. Hold the saucer at an angle so the water runs to the side of the soil and note the color of the water.


Blue or green, the same color as the test sample after baking soda was added, means the soil is too alkaline for most plants.
Red, the color of the test sample after adding vinegar, means the soil is too acidic.
If the color of the water drained from the soil is purple or purple-blue, it means the soil pH is neutral to slightly acidic which is ideal for most plants.
 The soil sample collected for testing with the pH test kit should not be taken from the top because the roots of most plants are at least 2 to 4 inches below the top of the soil. The pH may be slightly different at the top so the sample should be taken from where the roots of the plant will be absorbing moisture and nutrients.


Soil samples from areas where grass and annuals will grow should be collected from 2 to 3 inches deep.
Soil samples for shrubs, trees and perennial plants should be collected from 4 inches deep.
 Human hands can alter the soil sample pH. Use a hand trowel or dirt shovel to dig away the top 2 to 4 inches of soil.


Collect 1 to 2 tablespoons of test sample soil, remove any pebbles or debris and place the soil in a clean bowl to dry overnight.
 After the sample dries, crush it up by hand or with the back of a spoon until it is loose and fine-textured.
 If the pH needs to be checked in different gardens in the yard, take a sample from each garden. The pH can be different in one part of the yard than it is in another. This is especially true of soil along a house foundation where lime tends to leach into the soil from the concrete and raise the pH.
 Fill it only to the soil line indicated on the test chamber. Pour the test powder over the soil.
 Fill it only to the water fill line indicated on the test chamber. Place the cap on the test chamber. Make sure it is tightly sealed.


Shake the test chamber vigorously to thoroughly mix the soil, powder and water.
 Hold the pH chart provided in the kit up next to the test chamber to determine the soil pH.


Do the comparison in bright indirect light to get the most accurate reading. Direct sunlight can make the solution appear slightly lighter.
 However, you should collect 1 whole cup rather than a couple tablespoons. Allow the soil to dry and crush it up. Pour the soil into a large, clean container with a lid that seals tightly.
 Shake or stir it vigorously for a minimum of one minute. Let the soil and water mixture sit undisturbed for up to 24 hours until the soil settles to the bottom.
 Fill it only to the water fill line on the chamber.


Use only the water without disturbing the soil at the bottom of the container.
 There will be a different chemical for nitrogen, phosphorous and potash.


For example, the chemical used to test for nitrogen may be purple, the chemical for phosphorus may be blue and the chemical for potash may be orange.
 Let it sit for 10 minutes to allow the color to develop. Check it against the chart in bright indirect sunlight to determine nutrient levels.
 Thoroughly wash and rinse the test chamber between tests. If the test indicates that one of these nutrients is high or already at acceptable levels, use a fertilizer that does not contain that nutrient.
 Fertilizers list the ratio of nutrients as Nitrogen-Phosphorous-Potash or N-P-K. If nitrogen levels in the soil are at an acceptable level, use fertilizer with a ratio of 0-10-10 or something similar.


When plants get excessive amounts of nitrogen, they will either grow excessive amounts of stems and foliage or the roots could be burned.If it is a flowering plant, it will put on lush new foliage but may not bloom. If nitrogen levels are low but phosphorus and potash levels are acceptable or high, use fertilizer with a ratio of 10-0-0. Phosphorus helps plants bloom and potash helps them develop strong stems and improves their ability to absorb and utilize sunlight.
 Digital soil analyzers make testing your soil a little easier. They are available at garden centers and online.
 Loosen the next 5 inches of soil with a shovel and pick out any hard clumps of soil, stones, sticks or other debris.


Pour distilled water over the soil until it is muddy and pack it down by hand to remove any air pockets.
 Polish the analyzer probe with the polishing cloth provided the analyzer, running the cloth from the tip to the meter then wipe it again with a cotton ball to remove any dirt or residue.


Do not polish or wipe the tip of the probe.
 Use the arrow button on the analyzer to select “pH” or “Fertility,” depending on what you are testing. Insert the probe 4 to 5 inches deep into the wet soil. If it does not slide in easily, pull it out and insert it in a different spot.


Do not force it into the soil as this could damage the probe.
 Wait sixty seconds, pull the probe out of the soil and check the digital read-out on the meter.


If the read-out is 7 or above, wipe the soil off the probe with a cotton ball and repeat the test, inserting the probe in a different spot in the mud and leaving it in for 30 seconds.
If the initial read-out is below 7, wipe off the soil and repeat the test, leaving the probe in for 60 seconds. The digital read-out from the second test is the actual pH or fertility of the soil.

