 The first step to getting clear skin is to set up a regimented cleansing routine to restore the skin's acid mantle and thus discourage acne vulgaris growth. Buckle down and force yourself to wash your face with a pH balanced cleanser of 5.5 when you wake up in the morning and before going to bed at night. As tired or busy as you may be, taking the extra few minutes to cleanse your skin will reduce your acne significantly.


If you have acne on other parts of your body such as your shoulders, back, and chest, give these areas a scrubbing twice daily as well.
If you wear makeup, never go to bed without washing it all off. Sleeping with makeup on is a surefire way to increase your pimple-count and make getting rid of your acne even more difficult. Use an oil-free makeup remover prior to washing with your regular cleanser to make sure all traces have been removed.
 Known as the Oil Cleansing Method(OCM), this is a popular method of cleansing in Asia, and is a growing trend. OCM is an alternative cleansing method that is gentler for skin, and of interest for sensitive skin types.


Look into oils such as olive oil, egg oil, grapeseed oil, castor oil, and emu oil.
 Exfoliates are mild scrubbing products that work to slough (to get rid of) off dead skin cells that build up and cause acne. Exfoliation can be chemical or physical.


For a gentler approach, use a chemical exfoliator, an AHA or BHA at a pH between 3 and 4 to slough off skin. A chemical exfoliation un-glues dead skin.A BHA product often cited includes salicylic acid, it must be between a pH between 3 and 4 to work. A BHA works to slough (to get rid of) off dead skin cells and encourage new skin growth. As a result, you may experience dry skin and scaliness around your acne, but this will dissipate over time as your skin begins to regenerate faster. Use this in a cleanser or spot treatment daily on the acne-affected areas of your skin.Aspirin tablets, which contain salicylic acid, a BHA can be ground up and mixed with water and then put on your zits to reduce redness and swelling.
Rub a light layer of honey into your skin, and let it sit for 30 minutes. Rinse off with warm water. Honey has a variable pH from 3 to 6, but at a pH between 3 and 4, it contains AHA's that will exfoliate skin.
For physical exfoliation, consider purchasing a konjac sponge. It is gentle enough for usage upon your face.
For physical exfoliation, consider using oatmeal as an exfoliate. Mix oatmeal with honey and rub it onto your face for 2-3 minutes, and gently rinse away the residue with warm water.
 Neem oil and tea tree oil are thought to have antimicrobial properties that can kill acne-causing bacteria. Dab a drop of diluted version of tea tree oil or neem oil on each spot, or wet a cotton swab and wipe it over problem areas. Tea tree oil is an antibacterial agent that can help clear out the microbes clogging your skin. Avoid using undiluted tea tree oil — it'll burn your skin, and worsen acne. Read the warning label on the bottle.
 You can use benzoyl peroxide in the form of either a soap or lotion over your acne-prone areas. This product works to clean off dead skin and help your skin to regenerate new, clean cells faster. Look for products that contain 3% or less of benzoyl peroxide to avoid irritating your skin.
 Although we don’t know exactly why sulfur works as a great acne-killer, we do know that it does work. Look for products that contain sulfur to clear up your acne, seemingly by reducing oil production.
 After you wash your face, exfoliate, or apply a face mask, apply a toner to the entirety of your face. Toners work to tighten pores making it less likely that dirt and oil will become trapped in them. Buy acne toners at a local drugstore, or use witch hazel or apple cider vinegar dabbed on with a cotton ball. Don’t rinse toners after application - allow them to stay on your skin.
 Oily skin produces acne, and if your skin is very dry your body will compensate by creating sebum. To prevent this from happening, use a gentle moisturizer after you wash your face every morning and evening. Apply moisturizer post toner application., As a Retinoid is a prescription medication in the U.S., be cautious of the side affects before usage. Retinoid cleansers contain high levels of vitamin A, which help to clean out clogged pores and dissolve away grime. You can get a prescription for one from your doctor. Trademarked OTC retinoid-like products are ineffective.
 Azelaic acid is an antibacterial that also helps to reduce redness and inflammation and is found naturally in wheat and barley. If your acne tends to leave dark marks on your skin, try a product that uses azelaic acid to clean your pores and reduce acne-produced dark spots., Sheet or Face masks contain compounds that soothe your skin and kill bacteria. Use a sheet or face mask 2-3 times a week for 15-20 minutes to dry out your skin and clean out your pores. Buy face masks from your local beauty supply or drugstore, or make your own at home.


Create a blend of cucumbers and oatmeal. The cucumbers help to reduce redness and fight off dark spots while the oatmeal soften and soothes irritated skin. Blend the two together in a food processor until it forms a paste, and then apply it to your skin for 15-20 minutes before washing off with warm water. 


