 If you are concerned about a loved one, find a safe place to talk with him or her. Don’t mention your concerns in front of the potentially abusive partner. This could put your loved one in greater danger.Be honest with your concerns. Remember that this can be a terrifying topic to discuss, so be patient if your loved one doesn’t want to discuss -- or flat out denies -- the situation at first.
 It can be easy for you to think, “Why don’t you just leave this abusive situation?” However, for many people, leaving is a complicated issue. The person may have children s/he’s concerned for. S/he may truly love the abusive partner and hope that s/he changes. Don’t criticize your loved one’s decisions or speak as though you have “all the answers.”Believe the person. Don’t diminish or belittle if your loved one tells you about the abuse s/he’s experiencing. Saying things like, “Oh, that doesn’t sound so bad” or “That doesn’t sound like something ____ would do” is not helpful.
Remind your loved one that the abuse is not his or her fault.
Validate your loved one’s feelings. One of the most damaging aspects of domestic violence is its effect on a person’s self-esteem. Abusers constantly tell their victims that they are not good enough or smart enough to make it on their own, and victims may come to believe this. They may believe that they are “crazy” for seeing what’s happening as abuse. They may feel depressed, confused, scared, or overwhelmed. Validate your loved one’s feelings and reassure him/her that these feelings are normal., The National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence has a PDF form to help victims of domestic violence make plans to increase their safety. You can help your loved one make this plan.


Abusive partners may monitor their partners’ internet and computer use at home. Offer to let your loved one use your computer to print out the form, or take him/her to a public library.
Keep a copy of this plan yourself. That way, if your loved one needs help, you’ll know exactly what to do.
Formulate a code word. Many abusive partners monitor their victims’ cellphone and other technology use. Agree on a code word that your loved one can use to signal that s/he is in trouble., If your loved one does decide to leave the abusive partner, you can help by offering resources. Victims of domestic violence often don’t have money or a safe place to go, which can often mean they stay in abusive situations for a lack of options.Find the names and numbers of domestic violence shelters in your area.
Offer your loved one money or a pre-paid cell phone. Offer to keep copies of important documents, such as passports and birth certificates, at your home.
 It can be frustrating to see someone you love in an abusive situation. Remember that the person must make his/her own decision to leave. Don’t pressure your loved one or act judgmentally if s/he does not.