 If someone contacts you and tells you the goods are stolen, you should immediately write down what you remember of buying the goods. By writing this information down, you can help show to the police that there was no reason you should have suspected that the goods were stolen.


Hold onto your receipt as well. It looks suspicious if you buy an expensive item, like jewelry or a car, and don’t ask for a receipt.;
, After you buy the goods, you might begin to suspect that they were stolen. If so, then you should call the police. They will try to find the original owner and return the goods to him or her.Try to get a copy of the police report. You will need this document to show the person who sold you the stolen goods.
 Once you return the goods to the police or to the rightful owner, you can ask the seller for a refund.He or she should be happy to refund the money. Show the seller your copy of the police report.


In England, you are entitled to a full refund if you purchased the stolen item after October 1, 2015. However, if you bought it before that date, then the seller can deduct some money from the purchase price, depending on how long you had the item or whether you used it.
 If the seller won’t refund you the purchase price, then you can sue for “restitution.”Depending on how much you are suing for, you might be able to bring your case in small claims court.


Small claims courts are set up for people to represent themselves without an attorney. The process is usually simplified.
You will have to file a “complaint” or “affidavit” to start the lawsuit in small claims court. Stop into the court and ask for a form. The clerk should have a printed, “fill in the blank” form you can use., You probably will have to return stolen goods to the rightful owner, even if you aren’t criminally charged with receipt of stolen goods. However, you should talk about your options with an attorney.


You can get a referral to an attorney by contacting your state or local bar association. Bar associations are organizations made up of attorneys. Typically, they provide referrals to their members.