 A weft of hair is a single row of hair to be clipped between your own layers of hair to add length. You can buy either synthetic or human hair in wefts, with the latter being the pricier of the two options.


Match your color as best as possible. Hair extensions are intended to look natural, which they are unable to do if there is a simple discrepancy in hair color.
Find the right length of hair. Although you obviously want your extensions to be longer than your current length, avoid adding a dramatic amount of difference between your natural length and the extensions. Not only will it obviously look fake, but it will cost a significantly higher amount of money. Stick to 4 inches (10.2 cm) of extra length at the most.
 You can do this by pulling all of the hair on the top of your head into a ponytail. Leave a thin section of hair down against your neck/back. As you add extensions, you will continue to let down more sections of hair of about an inch each.
 Take a back-comb and rat your hair at the roots. You want your hair to gain ½ to a full inch in volume at the base of the strands.


Teasing your hair gives the extensions something to stick to. Natural hair is too slippery for the clips to hold long without sliding down your strands.
Ratting the roots of your hair also provides coverage for the clips. This makes it more difficult to tell you are wearing extensions.
 You should be able to dig into the teased section of hair to allow for the best stick.


Be sure to evenly space the extensions, so that you have a level length of hair all the way around your head.
You can give your hair the look of layers. Apply the extensions in evenly spaced vertical sections. You may need to cut the extensions to blend them in with your natural hair.
Feel free to cut or trim your extensions to match the rest of your hair. You are not required to leave them as-is from the packaging.
 Repeat the same steps as above, by teasing your hair at the roots and adding in one weft at a time.
 Tease your hair at the roots and brush out the top layer so that it is smooth. Your clip-in extensions should be completely blended so that you cannot see them at the roots of your locks.


If you can see the clip from your extensions, rearrange them so that they are not visible.
Be sure that your extension clips cannot be seen even if you put your hair in a ponytail. They should be close enough to the roots and blended with enough layers that they are invisible to the naked eye.