 Soil pH is one of the most important aspects to healthy soil that will grow healthy plants. Since you tested the soil earlier, make sure to use this information. Lime will help raise the pH level if it is too low, while sulfur will help lower it if the pH is too high.A garden center will help you figure out the exact amount of lime you need for your garden. It depends on how large the garden is and how much you need to change the pH. Spreading lime requires a specific method, so don’t assume you just throw some on the soil.
You’ll also want to seek guidance regarding sulfur use that is specific to your garden’s needs.
 When you check the soil composition and have it tested, you can find out if you need to add sand, clay, or other topsoil to make the soil the best possible mixture for your garden. This is something that a garden center can be exceptionally helpful for.Base any amendments on the results of your soil test.
You don’t want to overdo it with adding sand or clay, so try to add a little at a time to even out the overall texture of the soil.
You may want to add gypsum or perlite which help to aerate the soil if your test reveals low oxygen content.
Sphagnum peat moss is a helpful amendment if you can tell the soil is pretty dry as it helps retain moisture and slowly release it into the soil.
You may need to add some basic fertilizer which can help balance the nitrogen, phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and potassium, which are all vital to healthy plant growth.
 This means, try to add as much organic matter as you can so the top layer of your garden is half the soil that was already there and half added organic matter.Organic matter can include shredded brown and green leaves, horse manure, wood chips, or compost, such as fruit and vegetable scraps. You don’t not need to add organic matter to the entire 12-18 inches you previously dug, but add it to the top 6-8 inches.
Do not add meat, fish, or dairy as organic matter into the soil. Likewise, if you choose to maintain a compost bin or pile, never add these types of scraps to it.
 Since you have added multiple materials to the soil, you want to make sure it is all mixed through the soil evenly. This may take going over the entire garden plot 2-3 times to ensure that it seems mixed thoroughly.


Don't mix your compost in too deeply. Till the soil lightly to mix the materials into the top few inches of soil, where a majority of the plants' feeder roots will be looking for nutrients.
It might be a good idea to lightly water the soil after turning it again so that everything can soak together.
 You want the soil to stay loose, so don’t walk all over the new plot as you rake. If you have included room for walkways between plant rows, you can walk on those areas as you rake. Gently pull the rake over the soil so the whole plot is as even as possible.
 Starting at the end of the area you've marked off for your garden, shovel the soil from your planned rows onto the planting bed. This will raise the beds a little, which helps with drainage and helps warm the soil. You can then line your pathways with newspaper or cardboard and top that with mulch.