 When you are recovering from an illness, injury, or life change, your body needs to recharge. Making sure that you are getting enough sleep is essential. When healthy, most adults need between 7-8 hours of sleep a night. Allow yourself to get more sleep when you are healing.Take a break when you need to. If you find yourself feeling weak or sleepy, take a nap.
Create a good sleeping environment. Make sure that the room is cool and comfortable. Try to avoid electronic devices (including tv) an hour before bed. This will help your brain relax and promote deeper sleep.
 The food you eat can have a major impact on your health. When you are healing, it is especially important to make sure you are giving your body the nutrients it needs. Eat balanced meals that include fruits and vegetables, lean proteins, complex carbohydrates, and healthy fats.If you are healing, it might be hard to eat big meals. Try eating several small meals throughout the day to make sure you are getting enough nutrients.
If solid foods aren't sounding good to you, try making some smoothies. You can back them full of healthy fruits and vegetables and add protein from yogurt or peanut butter.
Ask your doctor if you need to adjust your diet to aid your individual healing process.
 When you've been ill, it can be very frustrating to have to forgo your regular exercise routine. When you are feeling up to it, it can make you feel mentally and physically better to start reintroducing some physical activity. Just make sure to take it easy and only do what your body is capable of.Try low-intensity cardio. If you usually run, try going for a walk instead.
If you have experienced dizziness with your illness, avoid resistance work, such as weight training. Your coordination will not be at it's best and you could injure yourself.
Ask a friend to join you for a walk. It's important not to isolate yourself during the healing process, so this is a good time to get some socialization in, too.
Make sure to ask your doctor if you are cleared to exercise.
 Modern medicine can be very helpful in treating and curing illnesses. Make sure to discuss all of your options with your doctor. If he prescribes medication for you, it is essential that you take it exactly as specified.Don't be afraid to ask questions. If you are worried about the side-effects of your medication, speak up. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist.
If you have a bad reaction to medication, call your doctor immediately.

