 Opening windows to get fresh air into your home is a great idea, but make sure to only do this during times when air quality is safe. If there are air quality alerts, make sure to avoid opening doors and windows at all, or only open them during the morning or night.Refrain from opening your windows if you live on a busy road or in a city.
 When you are pregnant, make sure to limit any exposure to freshly painted rooms. If you are painting a new nursery, spend as little time in there as you need to.Keep the windows and doors open in freshly painted rooms. You can also put fans in the windows to help circulate the air. Do this for two days after you paint to clear the air in the room.
Wear a mask when you are working in a freshly painted room.
Only use paint labeled “for interior use only.” Don’t use outdoor paint in indoor rooms.
 Cleaning products also have harmful fumes. When you are cleaning your home or office, make sure to keep all windows and doors open. Never clean in poorly ventilated rooms.Wear protective gear, such as masks and gloves, when cleaning with harsh chemicals.
Never mix chemicals, because that could produce toxic fumes. Never mix ammonia and bleach, acids and bleach, or use two drain cleaners together or in quick succession.Try using non-chemical cleaners, such as baking soda or vinegar. You can also find all natural cleaning products in the store, or search online to find recipes for all natural cleaning solutions.
 Cigarette smoke is a common air pollutant. When you are pregnant, make sure to stay away from smoke as much as possible.Avoid going to restaurants or venues that allow smoking. Steer clear of smoking patios or smoking sections in public places.
If you have friends or family members who smoke, ask them to refrain from smoking around you. Avoid going to their houses while pregnant, even if it seems rude. Being in a house full of second- and thirdhand smoke can be dangerous, even if they are not smoking while you are there. Instead, invite them to your house or meet them in a non-smoking public place.
 During the winter, refrain from using gas appliances, such as gas ovens or burners, to heat your house. This can release unhealthy gases into your home that can harm your family and your baby.You should also avoid using gas-powered items, such as mowers, generators, or snow blowers, in small spaces.
 You can expose yourself to harmful pollution through wood smoke. If you are burning wood, make sure it is clean. If you have a wood-burning stove, make sure you have upgraded to an EPA-certified stove.Make sure to perform annual maintenance on your stove. Also check your fireplace.
Consider alternate forms of heating instead of wood-burning heat.
Don’t burn trash or plastics.
 If you are concerned about air pollution and pregnancy, or you live in a high-risk area, talk to your doctor. Your doctor can help provide tips and suggestions to help you avoid air pollution.They can also answer any of your questions concerning the effects of air pollution on your baby.

