 This will become your planter, so choose a size that appeals to you. A paper lunch bag would work great for small planters while a grocery bag would work for larger ones. Focus more on the width of the bag than the height.

If your bag came with handles, cut them off.
 The easiest way to paint the bag would be with spray paint, but you can use acrylic paint as well. Allow the paint to dry, then apply a second coat, if needed. You can use any type of paint you want, but flat or matte paint would look the best on a paper bag planter., Flatten the bag first, then write a word or message on the bag. You can also do a design instead, such as a grid, polka dots, chevron, etc. Use a color that will show up well on your background. White and black are great choices, but silver or gold would also work. Let the ink dry before moving on.If you can't get a paint pen, use acrylic paint and a small brush instead.
You can also add designs using stencils, acrylic paint, and a foam brush instead.
Keep the finished height of your planter in mind. You will be rolling the top down!

, Keep folding or rolling until the bag is the right height for your plant. How thick you make the rolled or folded band depends on the size of the bag. The smaller the bag, the thinner the band should be. The larger the bag, the thicker the band should be.

Don't worry if the bag rips or tears at first.
 Choose a plastic bag, preferably a clear one, that fits your plant's pot. Place the pot into the bag. Don't worry if the fit is not perfect; as long as the bottom portion of the pot is covered, you should be fine. This planter does not have any protective coating, so the bag will keep it from getting ruined.

If you don't have a potted plant, you can try filling the bag with soil, and placing a plant into it. This is not recommended however, because the water won't drain properly.
If you can't find a plastic bag, place the plant onto a little dish or saucer instead.
 Push down any bit of plastic bag that is sticking out over the rim of the planter to hide it from view.