 When a police officer comes to your door, they are usually required to knock and announce their presence.In addition to knocking, police are supposed to state their purpose for being there and announce that they are officers of the law.Impersonators may or may not know about these rules, and therefore an impersonator may not knock and announce themselves as an officer. If someone in a police uniform knocks on your door and does not state their purpose for being there, do not open the door.
 Even if someone in uniform knocks and announces their presence, do not immediately open the door. Ask the person outside to describe the purpose of their visit, and start a dialogue without opening the door. If it is a real officer, they should have no problem explaining their visit and having a conversation through the door until you can verify their identity.


If the person at your door is an impersonator, once you open the door, the barrier between yourself and the impersonator will be gone. Once this happens, the impersonator can get inside where they may want to commit a crime.
 While talking to the person through the door, examine the uniform they are wearing.The clothes themselves should be clean and unwrinkled. Uniforms with stains and uniforms that do not fit properly are good indications of a fake. Also, look for a hat, which is a requirement for police officers.
The uniform will always include a badge, name tag, and service tags.The badge will be made out of metal and will never be plastic or flimsy. Service tags indicate the years of service an officer has had on the force.Look for a utility belt with all of the tools of the trade.These tools include a flashlight, firearm, handcuffs, taser, bullet magazines, and pepper spray.The utility belt itself is usually made of woven leather.All officers will carry a radio, so be sure the person you see has one.Try to identify the officer's citation pad., Once you have examined what the person is wearing, or while you are doing so, ask to see the officer's identification. A trained officer should comply with this request promptly and professionally.The officer should have a badge, identification card, and even a photo ID.While an impersonator may be able to fake a badge, it is much more difficult to fake a photo ID and police identification card. If the person cannot show you these things, they may be impersonating an officer.
 If you have any doubt after examining and speaking with the officer, call the police.Dispatchers will know whether an officer has been sent to your home and if they are currently there.The dispatcher will send out a real officer if there is any doubt as to what is unfolding.


Real officers should never be upset if you choose to call the police to verify their identity. This verification process is easy and pain free for the officer, so they should be happy to let you make the phone call. If anyone asks that you not call the police, they may be impersonating an officer.

