 The largest photo on your profile’s "Edit Info" screen is the default photo that will appear on your card as people swipe through Tinder. This photo is extremely important, as it’s the only thing that many users will see before swiping right or left to indicate whether they are interested or not. Aside from clearly showing what you currently look like, it should also reflect your personality or lifestyle.For instance, if you’re a business type, you might want to consider a photo that shows you in a suit. Or, if you’re all about the outdoors, a photo in a park may be the way to go.
In order to represent your appearance accurately, use photos that were taken recently.
Note that Tinder will sometimes reorder your photos so that the one that most people swipe right on is your primary photo.;
, Head shots of you looking happy are usually the best photos to use on dating applications. Make sure your profile includes at least one head shot that shows you smiling. Believe it or not, the position of your head matters too - photos with a slight tilt of the head lead to more matches., Shoot for at least three photos on your profile. This will allow potential matches to get a good sense of what you look like, as well as the type of person you are. Specifics are up to you, but it’s best to try and reflect yourself as honestly and genuinely as possible.Ideas for good profile photos include action shots of you doing something you're interested in, such as putt-putt golf or acrobatics.
Travel photos are another good idea, as they provide a great conversation starter.
Another common trope is photos with animals. Note that photos with pets are much more likely to lead to matches than hunting photos.
 No matter how proud you are of your bod, most people agree that shirtless shots aren’t very tasteful. Granted, there’s a big difference between a shirtless selfie in the bathroom mirror and a photo of you on the beach. As a rule of thumb, if you wouldn’t want your employer to see the photo, consider choosing another.To reiterate: mirror selfies, especially shirtless mirror selfies, are not recommended.
 If a photo is out of focus, it sends the wrong message. Photos should also clearly emphasize what you look like, so photos that don’t include you should be extremely limited.Feel free to include a humorous photo, especially if this reflects your personality. Still, keep the emphasize of your photos on demonstrating what you look like.
 One or two group photos are great to include in your profile, as they send the message that you’re sociable and friendly. However, make sure not to use all group photos, so your potential match knows which human you are!, If you have an Instagram account, consider linking it to your Tinder profile. This will allow Tinder users to see the most recent 29 photos posted on your Instagram. Note that this is entirely optional, but it does give potential matches more insight into the type of person you are, and may make them more comfortable about meeting someone online.Be aware that linking your Instagram account to your Tinder does give people access to your Instagram username.
If you do link your account, consider setting up your Instagram account so that potential followers have to "request" to follow you.

