 Peanut butter and jelly is a classic combination for a reason, but if you need a change, substitute a different butter. This one change will make a big difference in the flavor of your sandwich. For an even more unusual sandwich, try one of these combinations:Almond butter and sour cherry preserves
Sunflower seed butter and sliced bananas
Cashew butter and fig jam
Pecan butter and apple butter
Soybean butter and sliced apples

, Mix up a savory nut and seed butter dip by combining the butter with cream cheese and a little seasoning (like taco seasoning or harissa). Dip carrot sticks, celery sticks, or crackers into the dip. Or make a sweet dip for fruit. Combine nut or seed butter with honey and a little vanilla or cinnamon.You can even replace traditional frostings with the sweetened butter dip, since it will still be quite thick.
 Hot breakfast cereals are known for being filling, but they don't usually have much protein. Add protein and nutrients by stirring a few tablespoons of your favorite nut or seed butter into your hot porridge or oatmeal. Consider using one of these combinations:


Almond butter and pumpkin
Sunflower seed butter and berries
Cashew butter and bananas

, If you're unsure how to add tahini to your diet, just whisk it into a salad dressing or sauce. You can make a simple starter dressing by combining tahini, water (or lemon juice) and salt. Whisk in your favorite flavorings or thickeners to make a sauce. Try adding:Cumin
Turmeric
Soy sauce
Honey
Olive oil
Garlic
Ginger

, Peanut butter cookies are a classic way to get peanut butter in your diet, but you could use any nut or seed butter. Try adding a few tablespoons of nut or seed butter to oatmeal cookies, pecan tea cakes, classic chocolate chip cookies, or no-bake chocolate oatmeal cookies.


Because cookies are high in fat and sugar, they should be a limited part of a balanced diet.
For a really quick gluten-free cookie, mix together sunflower butter with sugar and an egg. Roll the cookies into balls and flatten them a little. Bake them as you would peanut butter cookies., Most granola bars rely on oats, eggs, and sugar for binding together. To make your own nut bars, combine nuts with dates and your choice of nut or seed butter. You could also make smaller protein balls by just mixing together protein powder with maple syrup and nut or seed butter.The protein balls are much smoother than the nut bars.
Stir in your favorite dried fruit to the nut bars or even add flaked coconut.
 If you enjoy drinking smoothies for breakfast but find that they don't fill you up for long, add nut or seed butter. Add your favorite nut or seed butter to your usual smoothie and blend it until the butter is incorporated. The protein in the butter will help to keep you feeling fuller longer. Some good combinations to try include:Cherry and almond butter
Almond butter and matcha
Chocolate peanut butter and banana
Cashew butter and blueberries
Sunflower seed butter with chocolate and raspberries

, Create an Asian-inspired noodle dish by cooking a pot of soba, udon, or rice noodles. Drain the noodles and toss them with your choice of nut or seed butter. It's a great way to create a healthy and filling sauce. You can also stir in lots of fresh vegetables for crunch.


For example, toss soba noodles with a spicy nut or seed butter sauce. Stir in slices of bell peppers and garnish the noodles with cilantro and peanuts., If you're vegan and want to leave out the cream in a soup or chocolate ganache recipe, you can replace it with some cashew butter. To get a thinner consistency, put cashew butter into a blender or food processor along with enough water to cover the cashew butter. Pulse the blender until the water is incorporated and the butter is thin enough to pour.This substitution works best in recipes where the cream needs to be heated. Avoid trying to use cashew butter in recipes that call for cold cream to be whipped.

