 If she flirts back, especially if she escalates the flirtation, she may be interested in you. However, try to gauge if this is just an aspect of her personality. Some people are naturally playful and flirtatious. She may just respond that way to everyone! If she doesn’t flirt back at all, this is usually a good sign that she doesn’t feel that way about you and it’s best to back off., Be sure that, while they may be candid with you, they aren’t normally a gossip. Ask them if your female friend has expressed any romantic interest in you. This approach may take a lot of courage, but it’s often the best way to gather enough information before doing something serious.
 This is the only way to really know how she feels. However, if she doesn’t reciprocate those feelings, things can get awkward for a while. Your platonic relationship could be severely damaged, so take this step either fairly early on in your friendship or if you’re reasonably sure she feels the same way. No matter what, it’s better to find out for sure rather than spending years wondering. Some approaches that you may take are:


Open the conversation by confessing that you need to get something off your chest. Tell her that you have developed romantic feelings for her and ask if she feels the same way. Apologize for the likely awkward moment and listen for her answer. A way of phrasing this could be: “Something has been bothering me lately. There’s no easy way to say this, but I’ve started having feelings for you. I’m sorry if I’ve put you on the spot, but I need to know. Do you feel the same way?”
Talk to her someplace where other people are nearby but unlikely to overhear your conversation. She will feel safer and less pressured to give you a positive answer that may not reflect her true feelings. Some examples include a park, a pier, or a cafe that is not too crowded.
Emphasize how much you value your friendship. If she broaches the subject, explain that your feelings began platonically but grew to something more. You want to reassure her that the platonic aspects of your relationship are genuine and not a manipulation tactic.

