 Most medications for treating fibroids are designed to change your hormone levels. They work by affecting the hormones that cause fibroids to grow, helping the growths to shrink over time.


Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) agonists are the most commonly prescribed drugs for shrinking fibroids. The drug puts the body into a temporary post-menopausal state, blocking the production of estrogen. It has many short and long-term side effects.Letrozole is a medication that decreases estrogen levels. In one study, letrozole reduced fibroids by 46%.Other medications may be available.
 Hormonal contraceptives may reduce your menstrual bleeding, though they may not change the size of your fibroids. The more common contraceptives used to alleviate excessive bleeding are oral contraceptives or a progestin-releasing intrauterine device (IUD)., This is a non-invasive procedure that doesn't require an incision. Sound waves are used to locate, heat and destroy the fibroids while you are inside an MRI scanner.This approach is fairly new and may not be widely available. There is not much data on long term effectiveness because it is a new approach.
Because MRI focused ultrasound and selective embolization are newer methods, there are no longterm studies on the safety of these procedures for women who later become pregnant. Some case reports suggest that if pregnancy occurs after these treatments, complication rates are increased. For those women with symptomatic fibroids who wish to conceive in the future, surgery to remove the fibroids and spare the uterus (myomectomy) remains the "gold standard."

, These are outpatient procedures that may involve some type of bodily intervention, but they destroy the fibroids without needing to surgically remove them. These methods often work quite well and make major surgery unnecessary.


Fibroids can be treated or destroyed by uterine artery embolization (which injects small particles that cut off blood flow to the fibroids) or myolysis, which uses an electric current or laser to attack the fibroids.A laparoscopic or robotic myomectomy is a procedure in which fibroids are removed while the uterus is left intact.Uterine embolization uses substances injected into the uterine arteries to cut off the blood supply to the fibroids.
 In extreme cases, major surgery may be the best way to remove fibroids to improve the health of the body. Either an abdominal myomectomy or a hysterectomy can be performed to make sure the fibroids are permanently removed.