 Determine the freshness of the tobacco by checking if it is moist and pleasantly aromatic.


Smokeless tobacco is also available in pouches or bags. The method for dipping is the same regardless. However, cans are the most common container for smokeless tobacco.
If you are a beginner, try to get long-cut chewing tobacco. It's easier to pinch and easier to keep in one spot in your mouth.;
, This optional step helps compact the dip so it's easier to grab and you can get more into the same size in your mouth.


The easy way to do this is just bang the can a few times on anything ranging from your leg to a table.
The more refined way is to hold the can with your thumb, middle and ring fingers, allowing the index finger to remain loose. Move your hand rapidly up and down, forcing the loose index finger to make a banging noise on the side of the tin. The impact of your finger will pack the dip.
 Taking the first dip from a fresh can is harder than any other time, but you must simply work your fingers deep into the tobacco and pull out a pinch. A pinch is usually about the amount you can pinch between your thumb and the tip of your pointer finger. If you are new to chew, smaller is better.
 Make sure the placement is packed in as you don't want loose tobacco floating around your mouth and getting swallowed by accident.


When you are starting, it is recommended to put it on the lower lip because an upper lip placement is harder to maintain. Experts may put dip on the upper lip, or do a horseshoe (all the way around the bottom lip). Pack the dip with your tongue, if needed, to make sure it is loaded into place.
 To get more juice, work the lip in and out. Don't chew it. The nicotine is absorbed through your lip without having to actually chew the tobacco.


For some cuts, you may have to work your saliva into the wad of dip. This is because some cuts will give you cotton-mouth, and you want to get your wad moist to begin producing saliva.
If you are new to tobacco, you may experience a pleasant buzz or nausea followed by vomiting. If you start to sweat, feel sick or unpleasantly lightheaded, immediately get rid of the dip because you may soon become sick.
 Wait until your mouth is filled substantially with the tobacco's juice.


You can use a used plastic bottle as a spitter. Make sure to close the cap of the water bottle after spitting into it, however, as it could spill.
You can also use a spittoon or MudJug. The MudJug is like a spittoon except it's designed so that it can't tip over, thereby spilling dip juice.
 A fridge or the freezer would be fine. This will help it from drying out.

