 If your iOS device is not responding or is performing erratically, performing a restore may help solve the problem. You'll need to use a computer with iTunes installed.


This method will erase all of the data on your iOS device. If the device is not responding, you won't be able to create a backup and will need to set up your device as new afterwards.
 This location service will need to be disabled before you can start the restore process.


Open the Settings app and select "iCloud."
Toggle "Find My iPhone" off.
 If you don't have iTunes installed, you can download it from www.apple.com/itunes/download/

, You'll see it appear next to the media buttons in the top-left corner.


If your iOS device is not appearing, it may need to be put into Recovery Mode first. To do this, unplug the device from your computer and turn it completely off. Press and hold the Home button, then plug it back in while continuing to hold Home. Release the Home button when the iTunes logo appears on the screen. See Put an iPod or iPhone into Recovery Mode for details.
 This will create a full backup of your device before you restore it. This is not available if you had to put your device into Recovery Mode.


The back up process may take a few minutes to complete. The backup will be saved to your computer, and you can monitor the progress at the top of the window.
 This button can be found in the top section of the Summary screen for your device. It will be different depending on your device. For example, if you are using an iPhone it will say "Restore iPhone."


You'll be prompted to back up your device, which you should do if you skipped it earlier.
 You can monitor the progress in the iTunes window and on your device's screen. Make sure that you don't disconnect your iOS device from your computer while it is being restored.
 This will be displayed if your iPhone is unlocked, and the unlock is processed after the reset. Not all devices will display this screen.
 In iTunes, you'll be given two options. You can set up the device as if it were new, or you can restore the backup you created earlier. If you weren't able to back up the device, you'll see your most recent backup listed.


If you select to restore from a backup, you'll need to wait a few moments while it is loaded on your device. Your device will then restart and apply the backup, which will take a while. Make sure you leave your device connected to your computer during the whole process.
 After the restore process is complete, you'll be taken to your device's Home screen. You'll be prompted to create a passcode for the device, which is highly recommended for security reasons.
 The apps that were previously on your device will begin downloading automatically. Three apps will download at a time, so it may take a while to redownload a large app library.