 Figuring out the perfect makeup for your face, hair, eye, and skin tone can be confusing. Before you buy any makeup, visit a makeup expert. They can give you a makeup lesson on how to apply makeup, explain what colors are right for you, and answer general questions. You can find makeup experts at department stores, makeup stores, and spas.;
, Adolescence is the perfect time to adopt a good skin care regimen. This is the time when breakouts are most likely to occur. Taking care of your skin can help prevent unwanted blemishes and acne. Skin care is also pivotal when wearing makeup. You always want to start the makeup application process by washing your face.



Determine what kind of skin you have. Do you have oily, dry, or combination skin? This indicates the kind of face wash you should buy.
If you have dry skin, use a mild cleanser. Cream cleansers are good for dry skin.
If you have oily skin, try a cleanser with salicylic acid or other acne fighting ingredients., After washing your face, apply a light moisturizer. This hydrates the face and prepares it for your makeup application. Moisturizer is important as you age to prevent early signs of aging.


For girls with dry skin, go for a more intense moisturizer, like one with glycerine. For girls with oily skin, choose a light, oil-free moisturizer.Moisturizers with rice proteins can help absorb oil.
Make sure to apply SPF product every day, too. The sun is one of your skin's worst enemies. Sun damage can lead to wrinkles, damaged skin, or even skin cancer. After applying your moisturizer, dab on some SPF made specifically for your face. Try a tinted moisturizer with SPF added so you can do two things with one product!

, Concealer is your best friend when you have breakouts or blemishes. Concealer is a product that helps cover and camouflage dark circles and blemishes on the face. Choose a concealer that matches your skin tone. Dab the concealer on the red spot; make sure not to wipe. That will take the concealer off. Blend gently with your finger. Brush some loose powder over the spot to set it.


Make sure to set concealer with powder that is one shade lighter than your skin. When it touches the concealer, it will darken.Don't choose a concealer stick that is too white, pinky, or ashy. Try to match it as closely to your skin tone as possible.Concealer can also be used under your eyes if you happen to have any dark circles or need lightening. Use a yellow-based concealer to lighten under the eyes.
 Foundation is used to create an even skin tone. Teenaged girls don't need foundation; at this age, you already have beautiful skin. Most makeup experts suggest that during your teen years, less is more.Concealer is probably all you'll need at this age. Foundations can be heavy, making you look dirty, cakey, and much older. You want to look natural and highlight your natural beauty.


If you have oily skin and want to wear foundation, choose an oil-free foundation that has therapeutic qualities for your oily face. You can buy these foundations at the store, or go to a doctor to get medical foundations.
If you want to wear foundation, go light and natural. The foundation should match the skin color of your neck.
Squeeze a nickle-sized amount of foundation into the palm of your hand. Use a foundation brush to draw the foundation on your face like a six-point star starting from your nose. Draw a line from the nose to the forehead, nose to your left and right cheek, nose to your left and right jaw, and nose to your chin. Then, use a sponge to blend the foundation into your skin. Lastly, use the brush to spread and blend the little bit of remaining foundation onto your neck.Foundation brushes are larger than blush, concealer, or powder brushes. Foundation brushes and sponges can be bought at most major retailers.
 Like foundation, powder isn't necessary for young skin. It just covers up your natural glow. In addition to using powder to cover up your concealer on blemishes or under your eyes, you can add a little powder to your T-zone - your forehead, nose, and chin. This is the spot that is most likely to get oily through the day. Apply pressed or loose powder with a foundation or powder brush over your T-zone. It will help absorb the oil, but not cover up your natural glow.


Never use the same brush for multiple makeup types. If you used a foundation brush with foundation, don't use the same brush to spread powder on your face. Always use separate brushes.
 Sticking to this rule gives you plenty of time to apply the makeup you need without going overboard.To give yourself a Five Minute Face, limit your makeup time to five minutes in the morning. Don't rush; limit what you put on to what is essential: concealer, mascara, blush, and lip gloss. If it takes you longer than five minutes to apply your makeup, odds are you're applying too much.


Embrace your natural beauty. Keep in mind that makeup is supposed to enhance your beauty, not cover it up. Don't think that tons of foundation and powder is how you should wear your makeup. That might be true as you age, but at this age, enjoy your natural glowing skin.
 Using a brow brush, clean mascara brush, or toothbrush, comb your eyebrows up and over. Don't comb your eyebrows inward. This keeps them looking neat and growing the correct way.









Don't over pluck your eyebrows. Many teen girls thin their eyebrows too much. All you need to do is keep them neat and brushed.
 Eyeliner is used around the lids of the eyes to define the eyes. A bit of eyeliner is an option for your look. Less is more works for eyeliner application - too much eyeliner can give you raccoon eyes or make you look dirty. Go for brown or light grays or even purple. Wear black on special occasions or the weekend when you want to look extra special.


Apply the liner on the lower lash line and smudge with a cotton swab. Apply it to the top lid, keeping close to the lash line. Smudge with a cotton swab.
Black eyeliner is not for everybody. It can make your eyes look smaller. The smaller your eyes, the lighter your liner should be.
 Mascara is used to define the eyes by thickening, lengthening, and darkening the lashes. The only two things you probably need as a teen girl is mascara and lip gloss. Using a brown mascara, place the brush at the roots of your top, outer lashes. Wiggle the brush outwards, coating the lashes with mascara. Do the same to the inner lashes and the bottom lashes.









Be careful of clumping mascara. Wiggling the brush can help your lashes not to clump. You can also brush your lashes with an eyelash comb to try to prevent clumps. Don't over apply - too much mascara can cause clumps.
Blue eyes look good with dark brown mascara, while dark eyes look good with darker mascara.
Not everyone should wear black. Decide which shade of brown or black enhances your eyes while still making you natural. You want to save shocking, intense eyes for special occasions.
 Select a natural, shimmery shade for your everyday look. Apply the eyeshadow with an eyeshadow brush to your lower lids. Don't go all the way up to the brow line.


If you have brown and hazel eyes, wear warm colors like copper and gold. If you have brown and green eyes, try gray or plum.You can also have fun with crazy colors, like blue. Just remember that these are generally not everyday colors, but for special occasions.
 Go for a natural look when wearing blush. You just want to give your cheeks a touch of color. Never wear extremely dark blush colors. Instead, go for bronzers or pink rosy colors.


To apply the blush, smile to find the apples of your cheeks (the round parts). Brush a light amount on your apple, then your nose, forehead, and chin.
 Lip gloss gives you a natural color while adding shimmer. If you want a bit of color, try a lip tint. Go for soft pinks or tans. Avoid dark colors; they will give you a hard, old look.
 Never sleep in makeup. Sleeping in makeup causes blemishes, rashes, and can cause early aging. Buy an oil-free makeup remover to remove your makeup at night. Soak a cotton ball in the remover and wipe it over your face to get all the day's product.


Makeup remover is important to help prevent clogged pores and rashes. It is specifically designed to remove makeup and makeup residue, which your cleanser isn't. Always use makeup remover before you wash your face. Use a formula for face makeup, and a separate special formula for your eyes geared towards removing mascara and liner., After removing your makeup, wash it with a cleanser. This removes any dirt, oil, and impurities your face has acquired throughout the day. You can use the same cleanser as you did that morning. Also moisturize your face to keep it hydrated.


Only wash your face twice a day. Overwashing your face can cause breakouts and break down vital skin cells., Makeup can lead to clogged pores even if you wash regularly. Purchase an exfoliating scrub containing benzoyl peroxide, which will help you remove any leftover impurities that can cause acne or blemishes.

