 Know where you are from, what is your history in a family setting, what expectations do you have and most importantly, how do you feel toward the members of your new family (Each of them) and how this affects your thoughts towards them. knowing how you think and feel, gives you a context from which you address issues.


Self awareness enables you, not just to know how you feel, but how you think and feel towards these feelings.;
, When you know yourself, it is important to 'put yourself in context'. Simply put, know how you fit into the family; how is the teen daughter likely to react to you smoking, considering their previous parent didn't? Will the sixth grader son expect you at every baseball game? Will the two year old expect something too?


Knowing your place in the family allows you to structure your response to a situation; whether corrective or positive in nature. Will the son understand why you didn't show up for his biggest match, when a day ago you just mentioned how stupid baseball is? Will the daughter think you genuinely care for her well being when you made it clear boyfriends are out of bounds in your house?

, Avoid talking for the sake of it; it's okay not to know all the answers. Don't answer to prove you're a clever parent. Don't condemn without understanding and most importantly, don't be afraid to ask for clarifications.


Focus on the issue at hand and do not bring up any old problems-including what you know of their previous family-you're not the family historian here.
 When addressing concerns as a parent, there is the temptation to be problem focused.Listen without formulating replies in your head. Avoid designing solutions as you listen to your partner or child.


Use clarifying clues such as, "Ok Jane, so let me get this straight, Justus was in the house then..." However, don't complete their sentences for them and don't interrupt them in mid-sentence, even when they are repeating information you know. Talk only when you're sure they are done explaining, and avoiding asking "Are you done?" It gives the impression of impatience and insinuates that you already have a solution without focusing on the problem.
 You are probably in this family because the previous one broke, or lost the person in your position. Your every word is a connotation, and most of the time form an opinion in the family about you.


Measure your words. It's safer to admit you don't know something than to speak out of emotion and regret it later. When addressing an issue it is helpful to use what is famously known as SBI (Situation, Behaviour, Impact). Using this format, you give suggestions, not directives or rules. typical SBI sounds like this "Jake when you came back home late (Behavior what was done, not what has accumulated over time) yesterday (Situation-be specific, time & place) it made me and your dad/mom worried (Impact, what it made you feel-not think). You then work on a solution from there.
 This doesn't mean you act the Mr Right in a conversation, doesn't mean you are intolerant to the other person's opinion; but that when you feel a bone of contention, be strong enough to concede some ground at times. If the other party is interested in making you look bad, let them have their day.


Remember, the content of the argument is insignificant as compared to the context,i.e how and why you argue is more important that what you're arguing about. If you want to walk out of an argument, don't use the cliché "look, I'm tired of this, I'll go out for some air." Instead, let the other person finish what they are saying (Knowing that you have decided not to talk anymore) and when they are done, politely excuse yourself without seeming to be running from the conversation.
Say for instance that you need to think about it, instead of say, pretending you understand their position, if your argument has matured, the most likely answer will be "You don't! Isn't it why we're arguing?"

,,,,