 Seed is the most common bird food used for feeding wild birds, but choose your seed wisely. Different birds prefer different kinds of seed.



Cardinals, small or large finches, and grosbeaks prefer to stay at the feeder while eating. These birds enjoy black-oil sunflower, while small finches prefer sunflower hearts and thistle.
Other birds tend to grab food and eat it away from the feeder. These birds include chickadees, titmice, nuthatches, and woodpeckers. They prefer black-oil sunflower and shelled peanuts split in half (whole peanuts).
Choose white proso millet for ground-feeding birds, such as juncos and sparrows, towhees, and doves.
Some birds prefer nectar over seeds, such as the rainbow lorikeets in Australia and hummingbirds in North America.
Above all, watch neighborhood bird species' behavior to learn which seeds they will prefer.;
, Nectar, used to attract hummingbirds and orioles, should have a ratio of four parts warm water to one part sugar. Bring the water and sugar to a rapid boil, stir the mixture, take it off the heat, and then allow it to cool completely before using. Do not leave the pan to boil for very long, since this will cause water to evaporate off and will change the ratio of water to sugar.


Do not use artificial sweeteners since these do not contain the calories the birds need to survive, and effectively starve the birds. In addition, the chemicals in artificial products or manufactured items such as jelly can cause digestive disturbances in birds.
You do not need to add food coloring to your solution to attract birds. Most commercial hummingbird feeders are bright enough to attract the birds without the need for additives.
Once you've made your stock solution, store it in a clean airtight bottle in the fridge, but make sure the "nectar" is at room temperature before offering it to the birds.You can also purchase nectar commercially, in liquid or powder form. This might be more appropriate where the balance of nutrients in the nectar is important for maintaining the birds' health (such as with rainbow lorikeets). Look for brands that explain how they have nutritionally balanced the nectar for the species specific to your backyard.
In New Zealand, putting out nectar when native nectar is in short supply will attract tui, waxeyes, and bellbirds. In the meantime, plant some nectar-flowering trees to improve the local natural supply.
 Suet is the food of choice for many species, including woodpeckers, nuthatches, chickadees, Carolina Wren, and Tufted Titmouse. Dripping or lard can also be used. Birds like orioles and mockingbirds enjoy eating fruits such as apples, bananas, oranges and raisins. In New Zealand birds such as tui and waxeyes enjoy oranges, apples, grapefruit and pears.


Insectivorous birds (meat-insect eaters), like blue birds, kookaburras, crows, magpies and willy wagtails will appreciate insects, particularly mealworms. However, this sort of food must be prepared fresh every time you give it, and should usually be restricted to a once-daily feed only.
Water should be provided for wild birds as well. It can be provided from a bird bath or other container. Many birds enjoy the opportunity to visit an open body of water, such as a bird bath, since this allows them to clean their feathers as well as drink.
 There are quite a few great ideas for making your own bird food targeted to specific bird species. Ask for advice from such places and people as your local conservation centers, national parks resource providers, your vet, local bird rescuers and bird experts. Making balanced food can help to ensure that certain species are getting much needed nutrients and it's also a lot of fun for the family to get involved in. Here are just a few recipe ideas:


How to make homemade suet cakes
How to make mealworm suet cakes for bluebirds
How to make homemade bird food
How to make peanut butter bird feed
How to make oat bird cake

How to make hummingbird food.
 If there is food left over after the day's feeding, then you're probably overfeeding the birds. Reduce the amount you're leaving out each day, making sure that all of the seed is consumed.


To avoid the chances of leftover food or food sitting about too long, note the times that the birds prefer feeding and target the placement of new food at these times (also note the increased needs during the breeding season). The birds will soon grow used to your routine matching theirs.

