 Whole foods such as fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, legumes, and sources of lean protein contain numerous vitamins, minerals, nutrients, and antioxidants that can naturally help increase sperm motility. Cut back on eating processed foods high in sodium and refined sugar, and eat more whole foods on a daily basis.;
, Being overweight or obese can result in hormonal imbalance and have adverse effects on your fertility. Consult with your healthcare provider to determine whether you’re considered medically overweight or obese, and take steps immediately to lose weight and achieve a healthy, normal body mass index (BMI).
 Exercise is associated with a number of health benefits, and can help improve sperm motility by regulating hormones and contributing to weight loss. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that American adults engage in at least 150 minutes per week of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise, accompanied by strength-training sessions at least two times per week., Stress can suppress and decrease sexual function, and can result in major hormonal imbalance when experienced long-term. Take steps to manage and reduce stress in your life as much as possible, and practice deep breathing and other activities that help you relax in times of stress.
 Certain chemicals and toxins released into the atmosphere by everyday products and equipment can increase your risk for fertility problems and decrease sperm motility. Stop using or consuming the following products that can be harmful to sperm motility:


Plastic kitchenware products that contain bisphenol A (BPA).
Bleached paper products such as white coffee filters, toilet paper, and napkins.
Chlorinated tap water and bleach.
Foods that have been treated with or contain pesticides, herbicides, preservatives, and other man-made ingredients.
Synthetic cosmetics, toiletries, and deodorants.
Animal food products that contain synthetic hormones, such as chicken, beef, pork, and conventional dairy products such as cow’s milk.
Tobacco products and secondhand smoke.
 If you’re unable to get the daily recommended amount of nutrients and vitamins needed to improve good sperm health through food and multivitamins, consult with your healthcare provider about supplementation. Vitamin C, zinc, arginine, essential fatty acids, chromium, selenium, copper, vitamin E, coenzyme Q10, and B-complex vitamins are all nutrients that have been shown to increase sperm motility in men., Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) such as gonorrhea and chlamydia can worsen fertility and sperm motility. Protect your sexual health by using condoms or by staying monogamous with an uninfected partner to lower your risk for STDs., Consuming excessive amounts of alcohol on a regular basis can inhibit sperm motility and result in hormonal imbalance. Stop drinking alcohol, or consult with your healthcare provider to get recommendations on the amount of alcohol you can drink safely without affecting your fertility.
 Certain medications such as calcium channel blockers, tricyclic antidepressants, anti-androgens, anabolic steroids, chemotherapy drugs, and radiation treatments can all result in problems with fertility. If you are currently taking medications that affect sperm motility, speak to your health care provider about alternate treatments that won’t contribute to worsened sperm health.