 You must use a fresh blood-letting needle for every cow, for reasons that include you make sure each needle is sharp for a clean puncture into the vein, and so that you don't risk contaminating the samples between animals. Assembling the needles just makes it easy for you to grab the next needle after disposing the last one just used.

The double-pointed needle holder is designed so that one needle is on the outside, as the "blood-letting" needle, and the other needle, pointing the opposite way, is housed inside a short open-ended tube that is wide enough to insert a vaccutainer test tube while keeping your fingers safe.
 Make sure you also have a needle inside the holder ready for the tube. Make sure you have the cap on the outside needle you will use to puncture the jugular vein., Just as in the method above, the animal must be restrained in a head-catch or squeeze chute for the safety of both the handler and the animal.

While the animal's head is caught, use a rope halter to tie the animal's head off to one side, exposing the side of the neck.
 The groove beneath the muscle of the neck (which is the top half to two-thirds of a cow's neck) is where the jugular vein can be felt. With the fingers pf one hand apply pressure to the jugular vein lower down on the neck, right below the biggest bulge of the neck muscle; with the other stroke the grove by starting from the start of the groove at the head and moving your hand downwards to almost your other hand. This will encourage the vein to pop out more, and make it easier for you to do the next step.

The jugular vein is actually quite large and especially noticeable when animals have their summer coat. You may even be able to see it pulsating if you look carefully.
 Keeping the fingers of one of your hands on the lower part of the neck (where the deepest jugular groove is and ends, as indicated in the step above), insert the outside needle into the vein at an angle that is perpendicular to the slope of the neck, and only at half of the needle's length.

Use a 1-inch 18-gauge needle for going into the vein.
Feel free to use your forefinger on the needle as a guide, though this is completely optional.
As in the method above, the reason to go perpendicular into the vein is so that it reduces the needle slipping and missing the vein completely. All needles are tapered at the end, not pointed like a spear. The greater the angle the needle was inserted (i.e., more parallel to the neck), the chance of the needle slipping and missing the vein completely increases.
You may put in the needle alone in first before attaching the needle holder, or puncture the vein while the blood-letting needle is already attached to the double-needle holder. Whatever you chose to do is optional, and your veterinarian may encourage the same.
 Allow blood to drain into the tube until you have around 3 to 5 mL of blood.

Once the vaccutainer tube is attached to the needle unit it takes only a few seconds for the tube to get full. You must pay attention to the tube to make sure you remove it before it gets too full.
 Then remove the double-needle holder unit from the animal, pulling it out in the same direction you put it in., Use gauze or a cotton swab to do so. Check about every 5 seconds to see if bleeding has stopped. It should only take 30 seconds or less for the area to stop bleeding., Obtain a fresh needle for the next animal, and keep it capped for now., Tube must be labelled with the identifying number and/or name of the animal, sample number (Sample #1, 2, 3, etc., or Sample A, B, C, etc.), and name of your farm., The box that contained the blood-sampling kit has a built-in tray to place the vacutainer tubes in. Place the tubes in that box with the bubble wrap surrounding each tube to protect them., Release the animal and move on to the next animal that needs to have its blood collected.