 After an embarrassing moment has happened anxiety will tend to spike in most people. Blood rushes to the face, heart rate and blood pressure increase, shortness of breath occurs, and higher levels of perspiration starts to collect throughout much of the body.To calm yourself down, take some deep breaths and reassess the situation. This will help with the physiological response that you experience (blushing, for example). It will also help you avoid saying or doing anything else that could add to the embarrassment factor. Take a minute to calm down, and then proceed.
 The worst thing to do when an embarrassing moment happens is to make a huge scene about it. When an embarrassing moment happens, try to avoid screaming, shouting, running away on the brink of tears, or flat-out crying in public. The bigger a scene you make out of the moment, the more the moment will be engraved into people's minds. Keep in mind that it is just another moment that will quickly pass. If your reaction is mild, people are more likely to forget that anything ever happened.
 You have to face the fact that something bad has just happened to you. But, remember, it's only embarrassing if you tell yourself it is. If you get over it and tell yourself it isn't, you won't feel embarrassed.


It’s likely the case that you are much more critical of yourself than anyone else. Psychologists have found that in cases of anxiety or embarrassment, people tend to become overly preoccupied with themselves to the extent that they greatly overestimate how much everyone else is actually paying attention to them. With this in mind, if an embarrassing moment happened to you, it’s probably the case that anyone who was around you was paying more attention to themselves than to you.
 After the embarrassing moment, do something to get your mind off of it. Try reading, playing your favorite sport, watching TV, listening to music, etc. Turning your attention to an activity prevents you from focusing on your embarrassing moment.
 Okay, so you've been embarrassed, but take it as a lesson and learn from it. Did you trip and fall in front of your crush? Avoid wearing high heels. Did you pass out while giving a speech? Research how to calm your nerves before giving a presentation.

