 Pornstars are not shy about flaunting their breasts and butt, and they make up a big part of your total "porn look." The best way to do this, naturally, is posture. Pose like a pornstar by throwing back your shoulders and arching your lower back forward to show off the areas that slay the guys and gals.


This posture is for posing -- a more natural posture will keep your back straight, forming a straight line from your shoulders down to your ankles.
Make your breasts appear bigger by wearing the right size, breast-enhancing bra and wearing form-fitting tops.
Don't feel like you need augmentations to be able to pull off the look. Many pornstars today are celebrated for their petite figures or large curves. Show off what you've got.
 Pornstars tend to have long hair, but any color or length can work if you take the time to take care of it. Shampoo frequently and apply conditioner every day for healthy, sexy hair.


Add volume to your hair by teasing it or adding volumizer
Use curlers to get big, bouncy curls for a more "done-up" look.
 Bright lipsticks, dramatic eye shadows, and flashy nails will give you the sultry look you are hoping for. Aim for a look that is just a notch overboard — inappropriate for work, but barely.


Bright red lipstick is the classic color for starlets.

Try the "smoky eye" look Start with foundation then delineate the upper and lower lash lines and fill the lower half with contouring shadow. Rub a softer color of eyeshadow over the upper lash line and a pearly shadow across the edges to make the your eyes appear bigger.Consider fake eyelashes, or add volume and shine to your lashes with a bit of deep, dark mascara.
 Most pornstars have their pubic hair trimmed or even completely waxed. All of them shave their underarms and legs regularly, as well as bleach any facial hair.


This is also a matter of taste, as "old-school" pornstars were less concerned with pubic hair then women today.
 Your ability to look like a pornstar largely depends on your makeup and clothing. Be suggestive and a bit revealing -- think of short shorts, tight shirts with deep necklines, and bikinis. Some "classic" pornstar outfits include:


A black corset, stockings with garters, and long lace or leather gloves. Complete the look with high heels.
A leather bra with slashed cups, and some waxed skinny jeans for bondage play.
Try something more "themed," like a sexy librarian outfit (plaid pleated skirt and button down with glasses) or a nurse outfit (tight-fitting white smock with white overcoat).
 You want to make your charms as genuine as possible. Flirting is about communicating with your body language, tone, and questions to hint attraction. Be chatty, smile often, and don't be afraid to show someone you are interested in them. Playing "hard to get" by being coy and elusive will give you an potentially irresistible aura of mystique.Smiling and making eye contact are the two best and easiest ways to flirt.
Touching the shoulders, hips, or face are all overt signals of flirtation.
Paying a compliment, when genuine, is a great way to flirt., Porn tends to emphasize traditional gender roles, so women might want to try to do something sexy like lap dancing or pole dancing, although it's not strictly necessary. Exaggerate your femininity not to the point of caricature but stopping right before. That said, don't be afraid of your own empowerment -- if you want the pornstar look, you've got to remember that you are a star!


Use suggestive language and double-entendres when talking about pizza or plumbing. Anything that can be jokingly sexualized will do.

