 The next time you’re out doing yard work or taking a stroll through your neighborhood, keep an eye out for branches that may be useful for making buttons. In most suburban and rural areas, gathering your materials should literally be as easy as picking it up off the ground, especially during the fall and winter seasons. If you don’t live in a wooded area, search for downed branches around the trees at a local park.


Pass up any branches that look especially brittle, or are too misshapen to be practical.
You’ll only need one or two good pieces of wood to make a set of buttons, so there’s no need to gather a big bundle.;
, When collecting sticks and branches, start visualizing how they would look as buttons. The size of the buttons you produce will depend on the thickness of the branches you use to make them. Imagine that you’re taking a cross-sectional view and consider how practical it would be to work with a branch of a particular width.If you need to, snap off one end of the branch to get a sense of how its inner area will look.
 Before you cart your branches home, look them over and determine what kind of shape they’re in. Old or diseased wood tends to be dry and will often crack and splinter when it’s handled. Young, green wood, however, may contain too much moisture, which can make it pulpy and resistant to shaping. Try to find branches that are firm, healthy and have a rich, tan wooden color inside.Oak, birch, pine and fir are just a few types of wood useful for crafting projects.Gray, lifeless wood should be discarded. It will likely break during the cutting or drilling process. The same goes for wood that is covered with moss or lichens. This may be a sign that the wood is rotten.
 Break off or pare away any rotted spots, protrusions or irregularities. This includes sap, twigs and anywhere that the bark may be especially thick. Plan on cutting the buttons from the straightest, roundest section of the branch.If you want, you can strip the branch of bark prior to cutting it into the slices you’ll use to make your buttons. Use a pocket knife to whittle away at tough park, or pry old bark off by hand. This will make for a more uniform color., Use a vice or table clamp to secure the branch while you cut it. In order to get the most precise cut possible and prevent injury, you’ll want to make sure it doesn’t move around, so holding it by hand won’t do. Be certain that the branch doesn’t have any wiggle room before you move on to the sawing phase.Position the branch so that the length you’ll be cutting extends off the edge of the table.
If you don’t have access to a clamp, a basic variety can be bought for around $10-$20.
 Achieving thin, even cuts will require the use of a saw. For this type of task, a jigsaw or manual coping saw will work best. Carefully cut the branch into slices between ⅛ and ¼ of an inch thick. Keep your free hand away from the saw blade as you work. Saw the branch into as many segments as you desire, depending on how many buttons you plan to make.The power of an electrical saw will save you time and result in an ultra-smooth cut, while being forced to go slower with a manual saw can help you fine-tune your cuts and correct potential mistakes.
You have a little freedom in how thick you want each button to be. Just remember that if you plan on sewing them onto your clothes, they’ll need to be able to fit through the buttonholes.
 Now that you’ve rendered the branch into small discs, it’s time to make actual buttons out of them. Attach a narrow 1/16th bit to a power drill and use it to bore two or four holes in each wooden disc. Make sure the holes are lined up and evenly spaced in the center of the buttons.Place a flat block of spare wood under the buttons to avoid accidentally drilling into your work surface.
Drill four (or more) holes into thick or large buttons to help attach them more securely.
 You’re almost done! Put the finishing touches on your homemade buttons by running them along a piece of fine-grit sandpaper. Then, brush a thin layer of oil or lacquer onto the face of each button. This will protect them from cracking splitting or drying out, and will also lend them a smooth, polished shine.If you’ve stripped the bark from the branches, focus on the buttons’ rough outer edges while sanding.
Linseed oil, mineral oil or beeswax all provide great natural finishes, while synthetic sealants like acrylic lacquer will ensure that your buttons enjoy a long lifespan., Let your homemade branch buttons take the place of the ordinary buttons on your favorite coat or cardigan. Simply snip off the old buttons, then position your new buttons in the same spot and use a couple passes with a needle and thread to hold them in place. You’ll now be able liven up old clothing items with unique accessories that will get people talking.The natural wooden color of branch buttons will look especially sharp with muted earth tones and outdoorsy patterns and materials such as plaid flannel.
For wide buttons, you may need to open up your buttonholes a little. Elongate the openings with scissors until they’re able to accommodate the buttons, then stitch the edges to keep them from tearing.
 You don’t have to use your branch buttons exclusively on clothing. Try attaching them to throw pillows, quilts, tote bags, stuffed animals and fabric decorations for an enchanting bohemian look. The rustic detailing will introduce an element of the great outdoors to almost any item, no matter how simple or contemporary.Paint or stain your buttons different colors to offer some visual contrast to the items you pair them with., In addition to their obvious fashion and furniture applications, natural wooden buttons have a range of surprising creative uses. Fill a mason jar full of branch buttons for a simple, eye-catching table topper. Attach magnet stripping to the backs of the buttons to make one-of-a-kind refrigerator magnets. Use large buttons to make the pull cords for light fixtures and ceiling fans more interesting. The number of places branch buttons could show up around your home is only limited by the scope of your imagination!Take a look at crafting websites like Pinterest, Country Living and Good Housekeeping for tips and ideas on alternative uses for buttons.
Keep a handful of pre-made branch buttons in your sewing kit. You never know what you might be able to do with them in the future.

