 You'd be surprised how much of a difference this seemingly insignificant step makes. Soaking the rice prior to cooking allows the grains to separate from each other and bloom. This makes a huge difference in taste and texture!


Get as close to the 30-minute mark as possible. A little soaking is good, but a half an hour of soaking is better. The more you soak, the fluffier your rice will be.
 Even though you're only heating 2 tablespoons of oil right now, this pot is where everything is going to go, rice and water included.


Grab a pot that has a lid – you'll need it for covering later.
 After oil has heated for a minute or so, it's time to add in your seasonings. They'll need to be cooked and stirred for another minute. In no particular order, add:


1 cinnamon stick (about 2 inches long, preferably)
2 pods of green cardamom (or 1 teaspoon if you don't have pods)
2 whole gloves (or 1 teaspoon if ground)
1 tablespoon of cumin seed

, After the seasonings have had a minute or so to cook and absorb some oil, add your sliced onion. Sauté the onion and seasonings until the onion starts to turn a rich, golden brown. You'll see it turning colors and growing softer and softer.


This will probably take around 10 minutes, depending on the heat radiating through the pot and the size of your onion.
 With a colander, drain your soaking rice. Try to get as much water out as possible. Then, throw it into your pot with the spices and the onion. Cook and stir the rice for 2-3 minutes; you want the outsides to be just lightly toasted.


After that time is up, add in your teaspoon of salt. If you're on a low-salt diet, you may skip this part, though!

, Give the rice a stir to separate the grains and to fully immerse it in with the oil and seasonings. Give it a couple of minutes to come to a boil, and then immediately move onto the next step.
 Once the water starts boiling, reduce the heat to low and cover it with a lid. Make sure it's on low! Any higher and the water will evaporate too quickly and your rice will burn.


Don't be tempted to keep checking on the rice in this 15 minute period. The more you uncover the pot, the more steam can escape, and the harder your rice will be. Just trust that 15 minutes is around the right time.
 Check and see what your rice looks like – if it seems just a teeny bit moist, that's great. In these next 5 minutes, it will finish steaming and cooking (covered, of course).
 That is some tasty looking rice, eh? Fluff it with a fork to watch the grains come to life. Then remove the cinnamon stick, cardamom, and cloves (if you used the whole kinds, of course). All you have to do from here is enjoy!


Keep the pot covered as much as possible to keep the heat in. The rice tastes best fresh and warm, though it will keep for a few days covered and in the refrigerator.

