 After the bursting of the dam, you will need to save the people stranded on lifeboats around the dam. Navigate your ship to the survivors at the marked positions south of Thor’s Warehouse. Right-click on the lifeboats to pick up the people. There are three lifeboats you need to pick up. Once you have done this, return to your warehouse and drop off the survivors.;
, Each Worker Barracks will cost you 2 Building Modules. Make sure to construct these Barracks near your City Center and connect them by a road. Mr. Thorne will then ask you to protect certain depots to prevent them from flooding.
 Head to Mr. Thorne’s Ark to retrieve the sandbags. The sandbags you are given are predefined and don’t have a certain amount. You will be using these sandbags to protect depots from the flooding due to the dam.
 Once you have sandbags on your ship, head to the 3 depots marked on your map. Align your ship up against a depot and left-click to use the sandbags. Do this for the other two depots to complete this task and move on to the next.
 Mr. Strindberg will request you to pick up oil from his warehouse and deliver it to your own warehouse. Head to his warehouse and accept the offer of Oil. You will then need to return the 1 Crude Oil to your warehouse on your island. Once you complete this task, you will finish the first Main Objective. The next objective will involve repairing the damaged dam.
 You will need to meet the required needs of Tycoon Employees to repair the dam. Start by building 1 Distillery and 2 Rice Farms on your island to start producing liquor.


The Distillery will cost you 50 Credits, 2 Building Modules, and 1 Tool; while the Rice Farm will cost you 250 Credits, 1 Building Module, 3 Tools, and 2 Wood for one.
Make sure these buildings are connected to a warehouse or depot so the resources can be delivered properly.
 Mr. Thorne will ask you to add Rice Fertility to your island by picking up Rice Seeds from his ship at your island. Click on Mr. Thorne’s Ship to receive the seeds. Open your warehouse and click the Rice Seeds to activate them on your island. This can be done by left-clicking on the seeds icon.
 The last need Tycoon Employees require is Activity. This can be satisfied by constructing a Casino on your island. When placing the Casino, place it near your houses so its influence area is covering them. Make sure the Casino and houses are connected by road as well. You will begin to see the houses upgrading to Tycoon Employees once all these needs are met. This will unlock the buildings needed to make tools to repair the dam.


The Casino will cost you 300 Credits, 4 Building Modules, and 4 Tools.
 To start the construction of tools, you first need to build a depot near the Raw material deposits on your island. One depot will cost you 300 Credits, 1 Building Module, and 3 Tools. Make sure the depot’s influence is covering these deposits.
 Start by building 1 Iron Ore Mine and 1 Coal Mine on the two deposits you have found. Make sure a road connects these mines to your depot. The next set of buildings to build are the Iron Smelter and Tool Workshops. Construct 1 Iron Smelter and 2 Tool Workshops. Once they are all connected to a depot by road, watch them begin to produce tools!


An Iron Ore Mine will cost you 600 Credits, 2 Building Modules, and 4 Tools; while the Coal Mine will cost you 600 Credits, 2 Building Modules, and 2 Tools.
A Iron Smelter will cost you 400 Credits, 2 Building Modules, and 4 tools; while one Tool Workshop will cost you 500 Credits, 2 Building Modules, and 3 Tools.
 Wait for 15 tools to be constructed from your Tool Workshops; this can take a couple of minutes for the process to finish. You will then need to deliver them to Engineer Peterson located at the Dam. This will complete Mission 2 and lead to the next mission called the Black Sea.

