 Try applying warm compressions on the back to help relieve pain. Cold compressions can also be applied for pain relief. The patient can alternate warm and cold compressions every 25-20 minutes.


Hot compressions help relax the muscles.

You can dip a piece of cloth (flannel) in warm water and massage the back and neck. The procedure might be painful at first but the pain decreases with time.
Heat application can be done for half an hour three times a day.


Cold compressions help numb the area and restrict the nerves that send pain signals to the brain.

The ice pack should not be applied directly on the skin; it should be wrapped in a towel or a plastic bag.
Another alternative that can be used is a bag of frozen peas.
 Eating foods that are rich in vitamin D and calcium can help strengthen the joints and bones. Fortifying the joints and bones can help to regenerate damaged portions of the spine, and help prevent further degeneration.


The daily requirement for calcium intake is 200mg, and the foods that provide the body with calcium include dairy products, soy, and fortified wheat products.
The daily requirement for vitamin D intake is 400IU, and the foods that provide the body with vitamin D are fish, eggs, cod liver oil, and fortified milk.
 Many patients will be prescribed painkillers or recommended to try over the counter medicines. These drugs act by sending a message to the pain centre in the brain, in order to reduce the pain sensation.


These drugs include over the counter drugs like paracetamol, and prescriptions like oxycontin and Vicodin.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) can also be used to relieve pain.
This includes ibuprofen, which can be taken in doses of 1-2 tablets three times per day.
 Topical ointments can also be prescribed to help relieve pain. Some of these drugs are NSAIDs and act by inhibiting the pain receptors. Topical ointments may be more effective at reducing pain in localized regions of the body.


This includes voltaren gel, which can be applied to the back and neck 2-3 times daily.
 If you are overweight, try to lose weight and aim to have an optimum Body Mass Index (BMI). BMI is a measure of a patient’s relative weight, based on the height and mass of the patient. Maintaining a healthy weight will reduce stress on the back, and have a positive impact on spinal health.


The ideal BMI is between 18.5-25.

