 Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. Take out a baking sheet or cookie tray, and line it with parchment paper. This prevents the meringues from sticking.






;
, Pour the egg whites into a dry metal mixing bowl. Use a hand mixer or a whisk to rapidly beat the egg whites and salt together until the egg whites become frothy.








Make sure the bowl you use is clean and dry. Even a drop of water or another substance in the mixing bowl can prevent the egg whites from achieving the right texture.
Don't beat the egg whites too long before adding the sugar. Beat with the salt just until they become frothy, then move on to the next step.
 A teaspoon at a time, add the sugar as you continue beating the egg whites. The whites should begin to stiffen and form soft peaks. Keep beating them continuously.
 Incorporate the cream of tartar and vanilla. Continue whipping the mixture until the egg whites become glossy and stiff.









When you can tip the bowl upside down without anything coming out, your meringue has reached the right consistency.
At this stage you may gently fold in some chocolate chips, cocoa nibs, fruit bits, or another mix-in if you desire.
 Place each individual meringue an inch or so apart. Repeat until you've used the entire mixing bowl full of meringue.









For pretty meringues, fill an icing bag fitted with a star-shaped tip with the meringue mixture. Pipe individual meringues onto the baking sheet.
Sprinkle the meringues with sugar, cocoa powder, or another topping if you desire.
 The tray should be placed in the center of the oven to ensure the meringues cook evenly.
 Letting them cool in the oven preserves their delicate texture. Wait 1 - 2 hours, or until they are completely cool, before removing them from the oven. Remove them from the oven when they are cool.
 They are ready to eat as soon as they have cooled. Serve them immediately or store them in an airtight food storage container for up to 4 days.
 Spread your favorite filling on the flat side of a meringue, and press a second meringue on top to create a delicious sandwich cookie. The following fillings are popular choices to serve with meringues:









Chocolate ganache. The rich, dark chocolate flavor is an excellent contrast to fluffy sweet meringues.
Whipped cream. Keep the dessert light with a sweetened whipped cream filling.
Fruit jam or fresh fruit. Fresh strawberries or raspberries, or strawberry or raspberry jam, make delicious meringue fillings.
 The meringue mixture itself can be flavored with extract and brightened with food coloring for a unique dessert. Mixing in bits of fruit or chocolate is another way to add some character. Consider these combinations:









Flavor the meringues with orange extract, add a few drops of orange food coloring, and mix in some candied orange bits.
Mix some cocoa powder into the meringue batter and fold in mini chocolate chips.
Flavor the meringues with pistachio extract and top with crushed roasted pistachios.
 Create candy cane stripes by painting the meringues with strips of food coloring after you pipe them onto the baking sheet.








