 If you are feeling a bit more creative, you can use the brightly coloured sticky notes to make a mosaic on your wall. Think of each note as a tile, and experiment with different arrangements to create a striking mosaic. Sticky note mosaics are increasingly popular and there are examples of people spending months and using thousands of sticky notes to realise their vision.Try to plan out the mosaic you are going to make before you get started sticking things to the wall.
Using squared paper and colouring in the squares could be a good way to try out some different designs on paper, before using actual sticky notes.
 You can use your sticky notes as the raw materials for all kinds of 3D models and origami creations. Making models of your old notes can be fun way to re-use the notes and celebrate tasks you have completed. You could start off by making a simple hat, a pelican, a jumping frog, or a star.Look online for easy to follow folding instructions for all sorts of origami and 3D models.
Remember that if you are just using one small sticky note, your options will be somewhat limited.
 An often overlooked use for sticky notes is as a handy cleaning device for your keyboard. Keyboards will often get little pieces of fluff and detritus stuck down in the spaces around the keys, and these can be hard to clean out easily and effectively. You can use the adhesive strip of a sticky note to clean these narrow spaces.


Fold or tear the note so that the adhesive strip is on both sides, and then slide it into the space around the keys on your keyboard.This is painstaking but satisfying work, and you’ll be amazed how much dirt gets into your keyboard.
 You can use a small stack of sticky notes as a makeshift coaster for a hot or cold drink, to help protect your furniture from any marks or stains. You will to get a few sticky notes, rather than just one, to help ensure that the liquid from your drink doesn’t get through the coaster and onto your table.


If you have sticky notes in a variety of colours available, favour those are not so brightly coloured.
Avoiding neon or highly saturated colours reduced the chance of the colours running and staining your furniture.