 The IRS has guidelines for determining how long an asset is of use and what the salvage value of the item will be after said number of years. If you know how long an asset is of use, and what the salvage value (or the left over value at the end of the period) is, you can determine your yearly depreciation expense.


For example, imagine your firm purchases a piece of machinery for $10,000. The machinery is expected to last ten years and has no salvage value. Using straight-line depreciation (the most common method), the yearly expense is $10,000 / 10 or $1,000.
Straight-line depreciation simply depreciates a set amount each year for the useful life. The amount is equal to the purchase price minus the salvage value, divided by the useful life of the asset.
The tax methods allowed by the IRS are different than the accounting methods for accumulated depreciation. When filing, make sure you are following the regulations and directions set forth by the IRS., At the end of each accounting period (a year in this example) you can begin by making entries in the general journal to reflect the charging of depreciation expenses to the income statement.


To do this, you will need to open whatever accounting software you are using. You will then open the Depreciation Expense account (or create the account if it is not already there by using the create account feature in the software you are using), and enter a debit entry for $1,000. You will then open the Accumulated Depreciation account, and enter a credit entry for $1,000.
In doing this, you have made the year's $1,000 in depreciation for the asset appear as an expense on the income statement. You are also increasing accumulated depreciation by $1,000.
This means the carrying value of your asset will now be $9,000 (the purchase price of $10,000 which is listed as an asset, minus the accumulated depreciation of $1,000).
 Expense accounts are temporary, so they must be closed at the end of each accounting period.


To do this move the $1,000 balance from the Depreciation Expense account into the Income Summary account. From there it will be moved into the Retained Earnings account.
 As long as the asset is on the balance sheet, the accumulated depreciation needs to be as well.


For example, after ten years, the asset in the example above will still be recorded on the balance sheet at its cost of $10,000. Accumulated depreciation will also be recorded at $10,000. The asset is now fully depreciated, and these amounts should stay fixed on the balance sheet until the asset is retired.

