 Which houses had the best candy to give out, and which had the worst or "so-so" candies? The aim is to bypass houses only interested in giving out toothbrushes, apples, and granola bars, or houses where candy is handed out in small amounts. Of course you are not going to waste your time in getting the old boring everyday candies, you want a lot of quality free candy from your unsuspecting neighbors, so, think back and remember who gave you unique candy last year, and who gave a great amount. Plan out your route and take your time with it.


A neighborhood with small yards and sidewalks allows you to hit more houses in the allotted time. And apartment complexes with many doors can cut down on walking time.
When assessing who gives out lots of candies, ask friends if they can also provide relevant information to allow you to compare notes and target the houses that give the biggest selections. If you're planning with friends, you can also trade later to help even out the candy selection you ultimately receive.;
, The quality and fanciness of your costume can affect how many candies you're given. The more interesting, cute, scary, etc., your costume is, the more likely that the candy giver will "reward" you for your effort by giving you more candy. Make sure your costume is recognizable, If you dress up as a traditional sailor that may get you more than a traditional ghost though. Be sure to act in character too, to help complete the effect and totally win over the candy givers. Prepare your costume and focus on trying to get something that is less expensive and easy to make but is totally unique and different from those of others. Get or make something that will get eyes set on you.
 Use a backpack, a large bag with a drawstring, or a pillowcase to hold all of your trick or treat loot. The bag needs to be easy to carry, able to hold a lot comfortably and strong. In these cases a heavy bucket or heavy type of bag is not actually a choice since you want to get more candy so choose a bag with which you are comfortable.


If using a pillowcase and you're concerned it might break or you see it is frayed or even has a hole or two, double it up with another pillowcase.
If possible, also have a smaller basket or container. This will enable you to keep your larger treat bag stashed somewhere safe to return to and refill regularly. Or, if you're in your own street, run home and dump the loot and head out again. If you are going with your friend and you will explore farther than your own street, it is a good idea to have another storage bag within your original.
It's recommended that you add a light or reflective tape to your candy bag to help make you more visible after dark. You are not just going to return home before dark, that is when the real scares begins!

, It can be street specific or just a general idea of where to go and where to avoid. This map may help you to keep on track when the foot traffic and parties increase during the night but it can also serve as a reminder of which houses usually have the best candies. Use the map as a reminder of where you went as well, so that you don't back track and waste time or look greedy! Also have a sibling or a friend by your side, it does help after dark when its spooky!


If you're turning up in another suburb known for its amazing candies on Halloween, a map and plan is an absolute must so that you don't get lost.
 It's best to start early, when the treats are still in plentiful supply in the houses of your neighborhood. Some houses run out early because they're too generous to begin with; you might as well be the first to take advantage of this generosity!


The majority of parents take their young children out at the beginning of sunset, to let the kids have a sufficient time before dark. If you want to start this early, be aware you'll be turning up with the little ones. If you have younger siblings, this can be a good excuse to turn up too, or just offer to take the neighbor's kids with you.
Note that some cities or neighborhoods start to turn off their lights between 8 pm and 10 pm; don't be out trick or treating too late or you'll miss the treats or get the dregs.
Watch the houses that turn off their lights; this is the standard indication that Halloween is over for that household, or that they've run out of goodies.
 Grown-ups like manners, it's just the way they're built; accept that being polite will win you more candies than being evasive, gruff, or rude. Compliment the householder on their Halloween decorations. And always say "Trick or Treat?" with a big smile. The evening is about having fun with others; be thoughtful enough to make it seem that each house is worth more than just being a loot filling station!

, Even though they all look or sound cool, every minute counts while going from house to house in one night. Any obstacle will deter you from your candy goal. Unless you're certain that there is candy to be had at any of these places, consider not even venturing into them. You can always go back and check them out later (mark them on your map).


Don't eat your candies as you're going. The time spent eating them and the sugar high will slow you down!

, If you're really keen for more candies, change your costume or mask and return to the same houses for more. If you do this though, make sure you're not recognizable or the people might refuse to give you anything, or worse, demand that you give back the second lot of candy. Fool them into thinking you are another child, of course don't you want to show off once you are home!


Another tip is to empty your container as often as possible so that it looks as if you've just started treating or as if other people have been stingy; this may encourage people to offer you more candies than if your bucket is full.
 This way more of you can cover greater distances and then share your spoils together. Gather back together at a certain time and place to share or trade candies. Use a trading method on two small candies for a big one or qualities per candy. The trading method works when someone does not like something they got and would like another candy or when they've hit the jackpot and have been given too many of one sort.


When you do go trick or treating as a group, keep the numbers small. It's less overwhelming for the householder to have a few kids on the doorstep, and easier to give out the candies. It's also less likely to result in trading arguments at the end.
 Write down the directions on a piece of notebook paper and keep the map and the directions together while you're trick-or-treating. Go over them with your parents to make sure you're allowed to go there.

