 Especially if you work sitting down, use a chair that provides good lumbar support and allows you to sit with good posture. Sit with your upper body straight upward, at a 90-degree angle with your thighs. Accordingly, your knees and hips should be level and parallel to the floor. Keep your feet slightly in front of your knees and planted squarely on the floor.Make minor adjustments to your position frequently, and get up to walk around for a few minutes or do a brief stretch after every hour of sitting.
If you find yourself leaning forward too much, adjust your chair so that you are leaning slightly backwards, and the angle between your thighs and midsection is slightly greater than 90 degrees.
In a pinch, place a small pillow or rolled-up towel behind the small of your back.
Elevate your feet with a short stool or stack of paper if you’re sitting for a while and you cannot adjust the chair so that your feet reach the floor.;
, Neutral body position allows your joints to be naturally aligned. This reduces stress and strain on your muscles, tendons, and other parts of your skeletal system. Pay attention to the posture of your entire body.Hold you head level, facing forward, and balanced on your neck. You may tilt your head slightly forward, but do not allow it to hang or lean forward. Keep your head and neck in line with your torso.
Keep your arms at your sides, and your shoulders relaxed.
Don’t forget to make small adjustments if you’re sitting for multiple hours in a day. These will naturally occur if you take a moment to stretch your arms and torso.
 Get in the practice of sleeping on your side, with legs, hips, and back aligned. To assist with alignment, place a pillow between your thighs to keep your hips squared with your back. Pull your knees up a bit, so your body is in a partial fetal position. This will help open the joints of the spine and relieve pressure by reducing the spine’s curve.Sleep on a firm surface.
Try to avoid sleeping on your back or stomach, since these positions can place strain on your lower back.
If you must sleep on your back, place a pillow or rolled towel under your knees for additional support.
 Always stand straight up, so that your ears, shoulders, hips and knees are all in line with one another. To help improve your posture while standing, and to help relieve pressure on the joints in your lower back, wear comfortable, low-heeled shoes.Wearing footwear that provides ample support is very important. Shoes with low heels and good arch support are usually the best choice.

