 Applying moisturizer to your hands and nails should be part of your nail hygiene routine.Doing this can help to protect your nails from dryness, which may help them to grow stronger and longer. Try to apply a moisturizer to your hands and nails a couple of times per day or anytime your hands feel dry.









Use a thick, creamy lotion, such as a hand lotion.
When applying the lotion to your hands, take special care to massage it over the nails and into the cuticles.
Be especially careful to apply lotion after you wash your hands, as soap removes natural protective oils from your nails and makes them more vulnerable to breakage.
 If you notice a tear in a nail or frayed edge, then it is a good idea to clip it away with a pair of nail clippers before it becomes worse. A jagged edge might catch on something and cause you to lose part of the nail. Clip these edges as soon as you notice them to prevent them from becoming a problem.


You can also file away less severe jagged edges on your nails.
 The cuticle is the most important part of your nail, because it protects against infection. Cuticle damage (like cutting it or pushing it back without softening first) can damage your nail, which in turn will make the nail grow less quickly.Softening the cuticle will make it easier to push the cuticle back without damaging it. Try soaking your fingertips in warm water with a little bit of soap to help soften them. Then use an orange tipped cuticle pusher to push them back.
Massage your cuticles to maintain healthy blood flow in that area. While this won’t make your nails grow more quickly, it will strengthen the nail, keeping it healthier and stronger for a longer period of time.
Avoid cutting your cuticles. This can lead to bleeding and it may also introduce an infection into your nails.
 Avoid filing your nails in the "square" look. Instead, go for a "round" or "pointed" look. "Square" nails tend to catch more on surfaces like clothing, which rips them and causes the nail to break more quickly.








If you prefer the square look, then at least try to soften the edges so that your nails will be less likely to catch on things.

