 Although it might be challenging, try not to feel embarrassed about experiencing hyperacusis or feel that your condition makes you abnormal.While this is a rare condition, research suggests that the number of people experiencing and being diagnosed with hyperacusis is actually increasing. This means you are not alone.
You didn’t ask to deal with this condition, and shouldn’t feel that you are to blame.
 Part of coping effectively with hyperacusis is being prepared for some people to have a hard time understanding your condition. Since some definitions of hyperacusis describe it as a “sensitivity” to loud noises, people with hyperacusis are often dismissed as being overly sensitive or dramatic. Unfortunately, people who don’t suffer from this condition have a hard time realizing how difficult and painful it can be to live with hyperacusis.


Although people can be insensitive and make hurtful comments, try not to take these personally. Recognize that their lack of understanding and empathy comes from a place of ignorance.
If people continue to be insensitive, it’s probably best to distance yourself from these individuals. You will be able to more effectively cope with hyperacusis if you are surrounded by supportive people.
 If you don’t tell people about what it feels like to live with hyperacusis, they won’t know.


Invite those who are close to you to attend your medical appointments and counseling or treatment sessions, so they can learn more about this condition and take an active role in helping you.
 Since people who don’t suffer from hyperacusis might find it difficult to understand what you are going through, it can be helpful to cope with your situation if you can connect with other affected individuals.


Join or establish an online hyperacusis support group, so you can meet and talk with other individuals who are dealing with the same condition. Many of these groups are designed to help people learn about their conditions, discuss different treatment options, and locate excellent medical care.Write about your experiences or post on hyperacusis forums and websites so that your friends, family, and other individuals can better understand hyperacusis and offer support. Your story might also help other people with hyperacusis cope with this difficult condition. Researchers have also reported that patient stories help them better understand hyperacusis., Although many people with hyperacusis are tempted to withdraw and isolate themselves, this often results in increased depression, anxiety, and loneliness, which makes coping more difficult. Try not to cut yourself off from friends, family, and the outside world.


Your friends and family care about you and want to support you, so work with them to find ways to interact that are not painful. For example, encourage them to visit you or pick a place where you feel comfortable.
 Many people living with hyperacusis have reported that protective equipment such as earplugs, earmuffs, noise-canceling headphones, and sound machines have helped them cope with their condition and continue their daily activities.These devices range in price from very affordable to very expensive options, so it’s a good idea to do research online and talk with other people who suffer from hyperacusis to see what they found useful.
Audiologists can also recommend and order special equipment that might best suit your unique needs.
 Many people with hyperacusis report that they suffer from anxiety, depression, and difficulty sleeping as a result of their condition, which can make coping with hyperacusis even more challenging. Talk with your doctors and medical professionals about how to manage and treat these symptoms so that you feel better as soon as possible.

