 How you eat is as important to weight gain as what you eat. Mindful eating is a practice with roots in Buddhist teachings and aims to reconnect us with the experience and enjoyment of eating. The end goal is to eat based on physical cues, like the body's need for hunger, rather than for comfort or out of boredom.


Eat slower. Take time to savor each bite and chew more. This will make you realize you're full faster, which can lead to a healthier relationship with food and hunger.
Eat in silence. If you eat meals with family members or friends, this may be difficult, but suggest a period of silence to focus on the food. Turn off the TV and your cell phone as well.
Focus on the flavor, and consider how much you are enjoying the meal., Anorexia is a disease often defined by erratic eating patterns. Your body needs a continual source of energy all day, especially so if you're trying to gain back weight lost through a disorder like anorexia. Eat regular meals, spaced about three to four hours apart, to gain weight in a steady, healthy fashion.Snack more frequently. Reminding yourself to eat more often, to snack between meals, and to eat whenever you feel hungry can help you learn to follow cues from your stomach. Get into the habit of snacking throughout the day on small healthy foods. This can increase your daily calorie intake without overloading your stomach at each meal.
 Gaining weight after being anorexic is difficult because your perception of portion size is warped. Adjusting to normal portions can be a tricky part of the recovery process.


Do not skip meals. This prevents you from adapting to normal portion sizes, as you're more likely to go overboard at your next meal and end up feeling sick and discouraged. Eat three meals a day with snacks in between.
Measure and weigh your food. Humans are not good judges of size, so keep a small scale and measuring cups on hand when preparing meals. Make sure you're getting a full serving of your favorite foods.
Learn handy cheats in regards to size and weight. For example, 3 ounces of lean meat is the size of a deck of cards and 1 cup of breakfast cereal is about the size of a fist. Gather tidbits like this, from online and from friends and doctors, so you'll have a good sense of how much food is adequate.
Plan your meals beforehand, keeping in mind how many calories you'll need and what types of food you should consume for a healthy goal for that day.