 Access MVA website to obtain more information about Maryland non-commercial class c driver's license. Read Maryland Driver's Handbook several times to gain more knowledge of driving rules. With all the procedures and regulations in mind, improve your driving skills by getting behind the wheels with an experienced licensed driver on your side as many times as possible.;
, An appointment is necessary in order to take the driving test. Choose a MVA facility close to you to avoid long trip and stress before the test. Select the time and date being sure that you will be rested, relaxed, with no other preoccupation in mind, awake and alert.
 Make sure you show up before your schedule time with a reliable vehicle, proof of updated car insurance, current vehicle registration and a licensed driver. Present yourself inside the branch to check-in and prepare all paper work to the test.
 After your check-in a MVA agent will give you direction where to go. The first part of the test will be a pre-trip inspection of the vehicle. On this part of the test you will demonstrate to the examiner that your vehicle is in good condition to go on the road. You will need to turn the lights on ( low beam and high beam), left and right hand turn signal, brake lights , hazard light, wipers and horn. All these items are going to be checked by the examiner outside your car while you, inside, turn them on. In addition to that the examiner will check the condition of the tires, if all lug nuts are present, if fuel gauge shows more than one-half tank of fuel and if there is no indication light on the dash-board such as "check engine light." Remember that everything need to be working properly in order to pass the vehicle inspection and to proceed to the second part of the test. If for any reason your vehicle disqualifies, you will need to schedule another appointment for a new test.
 Do not allow your vehicle to come in contact with a cone or a flag. After the inspection of the vehicle you will be required to perform some driving maneuvers on a closed course to demonstrate your basic driving skills. Examiners will always give detailed instruction before each exercise but if before start an exercise you have any question, do not be afraid to ask. It is much better to clarify instructions with questions before the exercise than do it wrongly and fail the test. Parallel Parking and Reverse Two Point Turnabout are the two timed exercises on the closed course test. In some MVA branches you will perform these maneuvers in this order, first Parallel Park then Reverse Two Point, while in others the order might be different. However, does not matter what order you to these exercises because the rules are going to be same for all MVA branches. Both exercises need to be done within three minutes without jumping the curb or touching a cone or flag. You will also need to observe traffic both sides left and right every time you turn your steering wheel and properly indicate your intention of turning using the appropriate turn signal. Avoid touching the curb during both maneuvers and remember that for the Parallel Parking you will need to park your vehicle within twelve inches from the concrete curb. Be aware of your surroundings, use all your mirrors and watch for the cones, flags and curbs.
 Throughout the test course you will see at least two stop signs. When approaching a stop sign ahead make sure your vehicle comes to a complete stop before the stop sign and/or white stop line painted on the ground. Before proceeding, slowly turn your head to the right and to the left to check for oncoming traffic, pedestrians or animals. If turning, use the appropriate turn signal to indicate your turn. Then, proceed ahead to the end of the test course as instructed by the examiner.
 Immediately after passing on the closed course test you will proceed to the public road portion of your driving test. This will be the last part of the test. The road portion takes approximately twelve minutes depending on local traffic. The examiner will give specific instructions and will direct you throughout the last part of your test. Drive as you would in any other situation being aware of your surroundings, obeying all traffic laws, lanes marking, road signs and speed limit signs. Check traffic constantly by look left and right and using all yours mirror. You will be required to identify road sign during your road test so be observant.

