 Meditation is a proven method for relaxation. Those who meditate often find that it clears their minds and helps them become centered. Meditation can get your mind off of cutting now, and can help you feel better in the long run.


Don’t give up if you find that meditation is difficult. Start by attempting to meditate for a few minutes and gradually work your way up to a greater length. Simply close your eyes and focus on your breathing. Try not to think of anything except the sound of your breath and how it feels filling your body. Concentrating just on this may be enough to get you through your urge.Try using a guided meditation to give yourself something to focus on. You can get a guided meditation in the form of apps, recordings online, DVDs, and classes.
 Your loved ones can be wonderful distractions. They can talk you out of self-injurious behaviors or occupy your time with a lively chat or interesting activity. Don't suffer in silence. Reach out to someone you trust when you get the urge to cut. Make a list of a few people you can call and keep it with you at all times.


Let's say you had a fight with your mom and you run to your room to cut. Instead pick up the phone and dial a friend. Say, "Hey, I'm having those thoughts again. You wanna hang out?"

, Getting lost in a good book or writing project is an excellent way to preoccupy yourself. Allowing your mind to become immersed in a story can stop you from thinking about hurting yourself. You may also become inspired to write your own material.


Writing poems, short stories, and songs can help you express yourself, as can writing in a journal. You could also write a letter to someone you never intend on sending.There is a significant amount of shame and guilt that often accompanies cutting, so try to find a way to express these feelings. Write about them or talk with someone about them.
 Surrounding yourself with warm water can ease the tension right off of you. Taking deep breaths and relaxing every muscle in your body can help you calm down and forget about wanting to hurt yourself.


Allowing water from a showerhead to spray your skin instead of cutting may also help to curb your urge to self-harm. Additionally, scrubbing yourself with soap or taking a cold shower can also help you to resist cutting., Taking a nap is extremely helpful in cut prevention if you find that some of your triggers are caused by a lack of sleep. Wearing comfortable clothing and lying in a texturally-pleasing location can feel good against your skin and provide the sensation you are looking for. Allowing your body to get the rest it requires may be all you need to get over your craving.


Ensuring that you get a good night’s rest may also prevent the urge to cut. Practice good sleep hygiene, such as by following a bedtime routine, shutting down electronics an hour before bedtime, keeping your bedroom cool and dark, and cutting out caffeine in the afternoon and evening. Talk to your doctor about sleep aids if you have trouble sleeping. Exercising and eating healthy can also help you sleep.