 If the person has been open with you about his addiction you must focus on being supportive rather than negative. It is difficult to admit you have a problem. If you want to help you need to demonstrate that you can be trusted and will not make fun of the person. A good support system will help the person experience less stress.It takes courage to admit you have a problem, so you can say something like, “First of all, thank you for telling me. I know that takes a lot of courage to do that. I’m here for you in any way I can help.”

, Being listened to and understood are key components to personal growth.The emotional experience of dealing with a pornography addiction will force a person to grow, which may be painful. You can help ease the person's pain by actively listening.


Put yourself in the person’s shoes. Learn to be compassionate and accepting rather than judging the person. Find resources that can teach you about being compassionate.It might be difficult to understand, but you can always try.
Treat the person like you would like to be treated. You have probably experienced struggles in your life and know what was helpful to you, and what wasn’t.
 When people experience unpleasant thoughts and feelings they may turn to viewing pornography as a way to manage those feelings. Pornography captures a person’s attention and pushes feelings of anxiety, depression, boredom, loneliness and stress away. Unfortunately, this is only a temporary solution and does nothing to create long-term effective ways of dealing with those feelings.


Help the person determine if he has feelings of depression. There are online screening questionnaires that can help with the process.He may have been depressed before delving into pornography, or he could be depressed because of his addiction to pornography. You can ask him, “Are there some things that you’re depressed about?”
You can use the same type of question to address anxiety, loneliness, boredom and other emotions he may be trying to manage.
Cybersex or pornography addiction involves compulsive behaviors. Unique challenges exist because the person can remain relatively anonymous, which allows him to continue the behavior. Additionally, unlimited access makes it that much harder to resist.Suggest that he might be using pornography to push away his feelings rather than deal with them. Emphasize that you are there to help him and get him the help he needs. If that means putting a lock on his internet access, then do it.
 Changing behavior is difficult so if the person shows signs of improving you need to acknowledge his progress.It may be small celebrations at first, building to larger ones as time goes by. If the person shares any news about the positive things he is doing, congratulate him.


For example, he may tell you that he made it through an entire morning without looking at pornography. You could respond by saying, “That is awesome. You are really making progress. You really want to do this, don’t you? Keep going.”

, It is difficult to change your own behavior, but it is even harder to help someone change his behavior.There are a lot of variables that you cannot control. Therefore, you will not always be able to help someone. The ability to let go of control and strictly be a guide and support for the person is where you will find success.


You can provide consistency and reliability for the person. You are always there for him.
There may be a time when you need to remind the person by saying, “You know I’m here for you. It is hard for me to see you struggle and I wish I could do more.” By saying things like this you will motivate him to try harder.
 When a person helps others she will experience health benefits including: feeling less depression, aches and pains, and you might even live longer than most people.However, helping others can take a toll on you so take steps to stay physically and emotionally healthy. Focus on the following things to ensure a healthy emotional balance for yourself:


Get the proper amount of sleep that you need to avoid getting exhausted.Eat healthy food to maintain good health and energy and combat stress.Include fruits and vegetables, lean proteins, complex carbohydrates and fiber. Avoid caffeine, sugar and foods high in saturated fats.
Exercise regularly to help manage the stress you might be feeling.