

October is usually around +5C.
Winter starts around the end of October to mid November.
In November it's usually around -10C.
December could get down to -20 or -25
January and February -15 to -30
March it starts to warm back up to -15 or -10
April is usually when it goes above freezing
By May it is Spring, like +15C.
July and August are about +20 to +30C;
, In a nutshell, these are:


Dress in layers.
Keep the wind, the cold air and moisture away from your body.
Keep the heat close to your body.
 Layers are great as they allow you to dress up or down to suit the temperatures. If you are too hot, you can remove a layer and be comfortable; too cold, add a layer. It's important not to get too hot, because you don't want to sweat and become wet beneath your clothes; if this happens, the moisture can in turn cause you to feel even colder when it evaporates in the cold air.
 Next to your skin, use thin, thermal clothing to keep the heat in. Wear socks, long underwear, and an undershirt. For outerwear, wear a toque (knit hat), thin mittens or gloves, and a smaller, finer-weave scarf inside your coat, covering your chest and neck. Wrap a scarf over your mouth and nose if you are to spend several minutes outdoors, killing the chance of getting sinus infections (the cold), pneumonia, and other sicknesses.


Over the socks, wear a second pair of socks, possibly a looser fitting, thicker sock, like a wool sock. Alpaca wool is 4 times as warm as sheep's wool.You may want to wear a third pair of socks if it is really cold out.
Over the long underwear, wear jeans or thick canvas pants.
Over the undershirt, wear a long-sleeved t-shirt, then a wool or fleece sweater, preferably with a hood, and maybe another sweater over that.  
Over the toque or hat you can wear the hood of your sweater/sweatshirt. 
Over the mittens or gloves, wear leather mittens - not gloves - with sheepskin or other fur lining. Wool will work but only if it has a windproof shell layer on the outside.
Over the fine-weave scarf, wear a warm coat, then wear a generously sized knitted scarf on the outside, which is long enough to wrap around your neck and then your face twice each.
Over your pants, you can wear ski-pants, or if it is not that cold out, wind pants (unlined).
 Choose ones with good treads on the bottom, and a thick, furry or padded lining at the bottom of the sole and around the sides of the boot. You can find ones with a temperature rating of -30 or -40ºC. Those are the best choices.
 Your winter coat or parka is one of the most important pieces of clothing for your stay in the winter in Canada's prairie provinces.  It should be padded and lined, have cuffs at the wrists and a tie at the waist. Down-filled is best, and it must be wind-proof, if you will be outside for more than a few minutes. It should have a padded hood, preferably with fur around the edges. 


The hood should have a drawstring so that you can tie it around your neck. Wear the hood of your coat over the toque and sweater hood. A good hood is padded and lined, and has fur around the edges to keep the wind out. Use the drawstring to pull it close around your face and tie it. You'll be glad you did!
The coat's zipper should work well, and should be covered by a panel of cloth that stays shut, like with Velcro or buttons. This keeps the cold wind from going into your zipper.  
Your coat should be long, if you are not wearing ski pants, so that it keeps the wind and cold off your lower body. 
Ask at the store what the temperature rating is, as some companies provide this for their coats. A rating of -20ºC can be okay because you will wear a sweater underneath it. As you've noticed, you're going to wear a lot more clothing than usual, so your coat may need to be of a bigger size than you usually take!

, With all of this in place, you should be nice and warm for the winter. Stay safe. Stay warm.

