 Being a leader doesn't necessarily mean being the most talkative, giving corny motivational speeches at halftime. Silent and stoic or loud and inspirational, leaders come in all forms, but have one thing in common. Leaders lead by example. You need to practice what you preach, putting lots of effort into your game and improving your play. When other teammates see you leaving everything on the field, doing that extra rep, running when your tank is expired, they'll be motivated to do the same. Go 100% all the time.


As a team leader, remember that you're not a coach. It's not your job to tell other players what to do, it's your job to be a good player. If others are motivated by your performance, all the better. If not, just focus on your own skills and in doing the best job you can do.
 Teams are only as fast as the slowest player, a chain as strong as the weakest link. Try to identify your teammates that need a little extra and help them out by pairing up during partner drills, or cheering them on during practice. If you're a strong player, you might automatically gravitate toward other strong players, but try to spend time with younger teammates who might need to learn more. It'll mean a lot to them and make you stand out as a leader.


Cheer on your teammates, clapping and encouraging the players when something goes right, and when you see other players getting frustrated with the way something is going. Take control of the morale of your team and encourage them toward success.
Different teams have different dynamics, meaning that there's no one way to motivate other players. Some good players may need motivated with some reverse psychology: "You can just sit this one out if you're feeling tired. Maybe it'd be better to let one of the freshman play instead?" Likewise, some unconfident players might need encouragement to improve their play: "You're looking like an upperclassman out there. Keep it up, kid."

, Morale can sink quickly with a loss, but if you get into the blame-game, it can sink a whole lot lower. Never throw other players under the bus for losses, or make excuses for your own play. It wasn't the officials, or the weather, or the subs fault that your team lost. It was the team's.


If it was obvious that one player had a particularly bad game, it's not necessary to talk about it. If that player looks particularly down, take them aside and give them a slap on the back. Get their head straight by reassuring them it's not their fault.
If one of your teammates gets punished for breaking a rule, take it upon yourself to serve out the punishment with the rest of the team. If one player gets a yellow card and has to run laps at the next practice, run laps with them. Get the other players to do the same. Come tougher as a team and act as one.
 Leaders should be hollering and cheering, invested in every game as if it were the Super Bowl. Cheer on your teammates and encourage them even when you're not on the field giving it your all. Get your other teammates invested in the outcome of the game, even if they're not playing. Support everyone and be loud.
 Each time you go out to play, inspire your teammates by leaving everything you've got out there on the field. 110% every time you play. Push through the pain, rely on your training, and make sure that you never finish a game wondering if you could have played harder. Sweat and grit it out to give your team the best chance of winning.

