 You should see a fixed bar at the bottom of the logo. Head to the far right and click the word "join" at the end. The website will direct you to the registration page.;
, Although it may seem long, it contains important information that will become necessary for you to be aware of once you join. Understand that there is an age requirement, as well as certain rules for all players to follow.
 The creators of "feralfront" legally cannot collect information from individuals under the age of 13, according to American law.
 Scroll to the top of the page, and enter a username and password into the login box. Remember that you can change your screen name at any time. Be sure to choose a strong password in order to prevent your account from being easily hacked. Write it down in a safe place so you will not forget it.
 Once you have chosen your username and password, follow the necessary instructions in order to continue your registration.
 Move your mouse to the top toolbar on the website. Click on the word "profile." You will be lead to a page where you can see the current layout of your profile. Although it may seem bare now, you will be able change its appearance.
 Click on the option "modify my profile." There will be a dropbox for each of your different profile features.
 Customize it so that it boasts your unique personality and preferences. You have the ability to change your screen name, avatar picture, signature (a certain set of words at the end of a post), as well as other features. Check the grammar on your profile to be sure it is understandable. Also, keep your personal information private and away from the Internet's eyes.
 Click on the button "forum."

, As you scroll down the page, you will see a list of clans with the board titled "The Main Game." Join one of these boards, or select "Fan Clans, Tribes, and Loner Lands." Find a thread that has an appealing story and set of characters to you.
 Often, it contains important facts about the plot, as well as additional rules for the roleplay. The owner may require you to sign up for the roleplay on a separate thread, or he may allow you to jump into the story. You will also be expected to create a character in order to participate. Be sure that you meet all the necessary requirements for the roleplay.
 Be sure that you follow the appropriate roleplaying rules. Learn to get along with the other players.
 When you first begin roleplaying, your posts may not be as complex as those who have had more experience. Your sentences may be short and to the point. Although some people may ridicule you for your simple style, never be ashamed of it. As you roleplay more frequently, you will learn to adapt to the different writing styles. The harder you work on writing, the more you will improve until you too can write complicated posts.


As a person new to roleplaying, your writing may sound like this:

Burnshadow awoke and went out of his den to find his leader. His leader told him he needed to make a hunting patrol. Burnshadow went out with Riversky and Bluepaw and hunted in his territory. He came back with a lot of prey and went back to his den to sleep.
 Rather than repeating the same word in your post, use a thesaurus to find descriptive synonyms that add flavor to your writing. Although you should avoid using too many big words, insert semi-advanced vocabulary words into your sentences for a colorful post.
 Rather than simply stating them as they are, add more style and uniqueness to them by including detail. Detail is the key to capturing attention of readers, as it helps draw people into your writing. Although you should refrain from including too much, don't be afraid to lengthen simple actions. For example, if your character woke up and walked out of the den, you could say:


The sunlight pierced through the den. Burnshadow jerked awake with a meow, squinting into the searing rays. He slowly stretched his paws out and winced at the ache from his stiff sleep. Yawning, he rolled his neck before shooting out of his nest in search of his leader.
 Instead of constantly using his name or pronouns, replace it with a short description of him. For example, replace "Burnshadow" with "the rowan-colored tom." This adds an interesting mix into your post, and it gives your readers an idea of your character's appearance. For example:


The rowan-colored tom padded into the Warrior's den. His eyes darted from nest to nest before focusing on his den-mate Riversky. The black cat was stretched out on his belly, a white paw tucked against his nose. With a soft sigh, Burnshadow padded over to the tom and nudged his head until his eyes blearily opened.
 Showing rather than telling the scenes unfolds a new world for your readers. They will be able to see your characters come to life in front of them. You will also be able to weave your characters' personalities into their words using different tones and speaking habits (ex: A shy cat might speak more hesitantly while a bold cat may have more to say). Although descriptive sentences can be helpful when telling a story, you may need to break up your paragraphs with some dialogue to keep your readers' interest going.


For example, "Riversky, wake up!" could be an appropriate substitute for "Burnshadow asked Riversky to awaken."
Beware of too much dialogue. Use enough to keep the story flowing, but avoid dumping too much information into conversations. Keep them short and to the point, writing them as naturally as a normal person would speak.
 An emotional character provides the opportunity for readers to bond with him. Without feelings, a story would become uninteresting since people won't be able to empathize with its characters. Describe your character's emotional reaction to major events, but beware of revealing too much at a time. Learn to convey his feelings through his actions as well so that your story continues flowing.


For example, "A terrible scream shook the den. Fear gripped Burnshadow's heart. He froze in his nest, claws sliding out as his heart leaped into his throat."

, Delete unnecessary descriptions that distract readers from your story. Learn to be moderate in what you type. Remove extraneous details, and include additional descriptions where it is necessary. Keep your grammar at a top-notch level by using spellcheck or running a careful eye over your posts. Although it may take more time and effort, don't hesitate to stray from simple sentences and lengthen your posts.


Accept criticism. Rather than allowing it to discourage you, take the opportunity to extract as many lessons from it as possible. Learn to improve your posts as time goes on. The more constructive advice you accept, the better your writing will be.
 Read the responses to your character's actions, and reply to them with an additional post. As time continues on, gather as much advice as you can in order to improve your writing. Perhaps one day you'll be able to start your own roleplay.

