 The most effective way to keep your guinea pig safe from the hot heat is to move them from outdoors to indoors (if they aren't already inside). The temperature of the whole area already helps them stay cool, especially if you have fans or air conditioning.

A good place to keep your guinea pig is in the laundry room or bathroom as these are one of the coolest rooms in the house. Make sure he/she is safe from any other pets and younger children. Resist from turning the washing machine or dryer on at this time as guinea pigs are sensitive to loud noise and the generator will give off heat and humidity.;
, Avoid any direct sunlight that can instantly heat up the cage. The housing your guinea pigs live in can help to be cooled down if you keep them in the shade such as a tree or under the roofing.

If you can't physically move your guinea pigs cage into the shade you should opt for bringing them indoors or at least putting a parasol over the cage. You will need to check on your guinea pigs more often however.
 The heat can be two times worse in these places as the humidity level rises. These areas don't hold a good air flow or ventilation so they trap the heat in. Housing your guinea pig in a shed or garage can lead to death so please take caution!, Your guinea pigs should be kept away from any direct sunlight on them. Don't place them near any windows where the sun can directly shine on their cage. You can help get rid of sun seeping through by covering the windows or closing the curtains/blinds., Water can evaporate, or even heat up fast in hot weather. Guinea pigs will refuse to drink warm water if there is any! Top up water at least three times on a hot day and feel it to make sure it's staying at a cool room temperature., Due to the weather conditions water is very important to keep your guinea pigs hydrated and prevent any potential issues from occurring. You can help your guinea pig get plenty of water through providing more than one water source. The more guinea pigs the more water you will need. Some guinea pigs don't like sharing as they can be territorial., Opt for vegetables that have a higher water content such as cucumbers and berries which will help to ease discomfort in high heat. You can alternatively choose to feed frozen vegetables if you wish.

Don't overdo it. Only feed a few high water content vegetables. This doesn't mean that you should go overboard and feed your guinea pigs a complete diet that only contains vegetables that contain a lot of water. Your guinea pig still needs to be getting nutrients from their vegetables., These items are a yes when it comes to using them to keep your guinea pigs cool. But point the direction away from the guinea pigs instead of directly onto them. They can help cool the air, but there is no need to have them directed at the guinea pigs which can stress them out., Frozen water bottles, ice packs, gel cushions and cool tiles can all be placed inside of your guinea pigs cage to help insulate cold air and allow somewhere cool for your guinea pig to rest beside.Plastic water bottles can be filled with water and then frozen overnight. Wrap them in old, chilled tea towels or flannels and place them into the cage.
Old tiles can be placed in the freezer to cool overnight and then put inside of the cage for your guinea pig to rest on or near.
Chilled gel packs can also be used as long as your guinea pigs won't chew them!

, Hot weather is the time you should be concerned about your guinea pigs health from heat stress to dehydration, Long haired breeds can easily suffer from heat stroke due to the insulation from their longer coat. Short haired breeds are less prone however. Your long haired guinea pig should be monitored closely. If you want to lighten the heat stress on your guinea pig; consider trimming it's coat and keeping it well groomed., Guinea pigs like to hide away from the sun which helps reduce their stress levels. Ensure your guinea pig has access to some hide away or huts but avoid anything made from plastic which can heat up quickly., The dampness can help insulate cool air in the cage and ultimately reduce heat stress. Rinse the cloth in ice cold water and make sure you drain it off afterwards. Don't place the cloth over the food bowl which can spoil the pellets and only cover part of the cage to ensure that you can see the guinea pigs and they can see you.