 “Wicker” refers to the technique used in the furniture’s construction, not to what it’s made from.Your wicker furniture can be paper, rattan, or bamboo (among other possibilities), and there can be slight differences in the sort of care that each requires.
 These will be cleaned separately from the furniture, and the manufacturer should list the proper methods on the tag. Ensure that you’re able to access every inch of the furniture’s surface.
 Care must be taken to clean wicker furniture with gentle tools. Brushing your furniture regularly will help to keep it clean, and using the brush attachment on your vacuum performs double duty.


For tough-to-remove dust, try using a soft paintbrush. For tough-to-reach dust, employ a toothbrush., Mix one part ammonia to two parts water in a bucket, then give it a good squirt of bleach-free dishwashing liquid. A brush is an ideal cleaning implement, but cloth can work.


Ensure you're in a well-ventilated area before mixing chemicals, and use gloves when handling ammonia. Do not lean over the bucket.
Bleach-free is important here. Ammonia and bleach together produces incredibly toxic fumes.If you ever feel light-headed or nauseous while mixing your cleaners, get fresh air immediately.
Wicker furniture should always be handled delicately, even during cleaning. Stiff brushes (and anything more abrasive) can cause extensive damage to your furniture and require the intervention of a professional.For paper and grass wicker furniture, you can forgo the cleaning agents and simply wipe the pieces down with a damp cloth.Wicker furniture only needs this thorough cleaning once or twice a year., It may take several days to entirely dry, but it’s of tantamount importance to entirely dry your wicker furniture. When wet, the cane, grass, and bamboo can slowly revert to their original (non-wicker) shapes.


Wicker furniture must always be thoroughly dried, and care should be taken to avoid saturating it with water while cleaning.Never sit on wicker that isn't dry.
Wicker furniture should not, however, spend the entirety of its time in the sun. Chairs and tables that spend a lot of time in the sun should be rotated throughout the year to prevent the material from splitting.
 Even though wicker "likes" humidity, the humidity will promote mold growth and shape distortion in wicker furniture.Store your furniture in climate-controlled areas of your home if you'd like to maintain it longterm. Unless you live in the desert, the porch will not be kind to your wicker furniture.


If you do live in the desert, though, give your wicker an occasional wipe-down with a damp cloth. Dry climes can, like direct sunlight, cause wicker to crack without proper care.

