 Vibrava is a combination of ground and dragon types, which are strong against poison (Ekans, Gulpin), rock (Graveler, Onix), and fire types (Charmander, Darumaka). Vibrava will inflict twice the normal damage when it attacks any of these types of Pokémon during battle, allowing you to earn XP points faster.;
, Ground and dragon types are seriously weak against ice (Cubchoo, Beartic), fairy (Spritzee, Floette), and dragon types (Dratini, Dragonair). If Vibrava receives any attack from these kinds of Pokémon, it will take twice the normal damage (in the case of ice attacks, it will take four times the normal damage).


Fighting lower level of these types can still beat Vibrava. If you encounter any of these Pokémon, call Vibrava back to the Poké Ball or flee from the battle to save time and life points.
 In battle, it’s possible that Vibrava’s HP will get low. Once Vibrava’s HP gets low, open your Bag (by pressing the Start button) and use a potion on it to restore its health.


Bringing lots of potions with you will greatly save time by reducing trips to Pokémon Centers

, You might encounter some Pokémon with skills with effects that last even after the battle. Skills like “Poison Sting” will continue to damage Vibrava long after you’ve won the fight.

Bring items like “Antidote” to remove status conditions on your Pokémon without having to go to a Pokémon Center.
Poison damage outside of battle only applies for the third and fourth generation Pokémon games. Starting in Pokémon Black and White, Pokémon no longer take damage outside of battle from poison.
 It is best to use Vibrava when up against poison-, rock-, and fire-type Pokémon for a quick and easy win, since Vibrava is strong against these types.


Vibrava evolves to Flygon only when it reaches level 45, so winning Pokémon battles easy and fast will greatly help speed up leveling.
 You can always level up your Pokémon the easy way using Rare Candies. These items raise any Pokémon’s level by 1 instantly once used.


Though it may save a lot of time, each game version only have a limited number of Rare Candies available, so will be impossible to raise Vibrava up to level 45 using only Rare Candies.

