 Hayley Williams has a punk edge. In fact, she’s been called a “true punk princess.” She generally stays true to a rock star vibe.Stay pale. To pull off the punk look, you will usually see Hayley with pale skin. She doesn’t often have a tan. That’s not her look. Don't show much cleavage. She has more of a thrift store, tomboy, punk look.
Get an ankle tattoo. Hayley has an ankle tattoo that says “shave me.” She also has a cross tattoo on her thigh that she sometimes reveals when she wears short skirts., Hayley isn’t seen with a lot of baubles. Instead, she uses edgy accessories, which play up her nerdy side.


For example, she’s worn dark black nerd glasses. She wore a black bowtie as a necklace at the MTV Music Awards.
She wears faux fur, and has been seen in a cheetah jacket. She likes to wear scarves, sometimes with unusual patterns on them.
 You will often see Hayley wearing t-shirts, especially rocker Ts with edgy sayings on them or featuring other music artists she respects.


They can either be fitted or have a looser fit. Be interesting with bold logos and a solid background color. Hayley also wears a lot of band t-shirts and hoodies, such as New Found Glory, The Chariot, H2O and Madness.
In a typical look, you might see her with a black t-shirt, a black motorcycle leather jacket, and tight, skinny, neon blue jeans, with silver shoes. She’s also worn sequined blue jeans with combat boots and a cropped leather shirt., Hayley is often seen in skinny jeans in different colors. She’s worn them in lemon yellow, bright blue, and red.Hayley rounds out her looks with bulky sweaters and black t-shirts, leather jackets, sneakers, and combat boots. She likes stocking caps, leggings, and offbeat shirts.
She has said she likes the labels Dogpile, Babygirl Boutique, EC Star, All-Mighty Clothing, and Walmart’s Miley Cyrus and Max Azria.She likes to wear hoodies. She sometimes wears skinny plaid pants with zippers.
 Go for the Lucille Ball look. Hayley has commented that she loves Lucille Ball's style. That’s why, when she dresses up, you might see her in an A-line pattern skirt.


Her clothing is never predictable. She went to one awards show in a dress meant to resemble a plastic shopping bag.For another awards show, she wore a black sequined top with pink feathered skirt. Another Hayley look: A plaid skirt with leopard print belt and olive green sweater. She once showed up on the red cart wearing high-waisted military pants.

