 This will make one icicle. Plain aluminum foil will work best for this. Avoid the heavy-duty kind.
 You will get a strip that is about 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) long strip.Aluminum foil has a shiny side and a dull side. Make sure that the side you prefer is on the outside.
 Place a wooden skewer on top of the strip, about ¼ to ½ inch (0.32 to 1.27 centimeters) from one of the long edges. Fold the edge over the skewer. Run your finger along the fold, so that the foil conforms to the shape of the skewer., Roll the foil around the skewer as tightly as you can. When you reach the other side, carefully pull the skewer put out of the foil tube., Place the tip of the tube between your thumb and forefinger, and pinch it to flatten it. Move your fingers just below the flattened part, and pinch the tube again., Rotate the tube between your fingers 90 degrees to the left. Move your fingers just below the flattened part, and pinch it again., Rotate the tube back to where you started. Move your fingers down, and pinch it just below the last crimped part. Keep pinching and alternating sides until you reach the end of the tube. It will have a sort of wavy, crimped look to it., You can make as many icicles as you want. It all depends on how long and how full you want your garland to be. The more icicles you make, the fuller your garland will end up.
 You can use any type of string you want. Silver thread or clear fishing line would look best, however. It would be a good idea to cut it a little longer than you want it to be. This will allow the garland to droop gracefully when you hang it up.
 These will allow you to hang it up. They will also keep the icicles from slipping off.
 Place an icicle behind the string, with the longer flattened end facing up. Make sure that the string is centered, then fold the foil over the string. Pinch the folded part firmly between your thumb and forefinger. Continue attaching icicles in a similar manner until your garland is full to your liking.

