 Cheap, clay kitty litter will absorb recently spilled oil, before it's soaked in too far. Pour on enough to cover the spill completely, and grind it down onto the oil with a brush. Wait 24 hours for the litter to absorb the oil.You can also use talc, diatomaceous earth, fly ash, fuller's earth, or a commercial oil-absorbent product. Check the label for health and safety information before using. Some of these materials may be dangerous to inhale.
If you just spilled the oil and don't own any litter, soak up as much as you can with paper towels. Blot the spill with an up-and-down motion. Do not wipe i;
, Sweep up the kitty litter and store it in an airtight, metal container with no plastic lining. Check your local laws to find out how to dispose of this flammable material. Some trash collection services will pick up the container, while others require you to bring it to a landfill or hazardous waste materials site.If you handle a lot of waste oil, buy an oily waste can. These are ventilated to cause the soaked litter or rags to dry more quickly.Do not try to wash away the litter. Motor oil can harm plants and pollute storm drains. If not all the oil is absorbed, hosing it may just spread the stain.
 In most cases, the litter will still leave a light oil stain on the concrete. Squirt ordinary liquid dish soap onto this stain.


If the stain is quite dark or large, you may want to try the methods listed under Old Oil Stains instead.
An engine degreaser may work as well.
 Pour on a tiny bit of hot water and mix it into the soap, just enough to make it spreadable. Brush the mixture over the oil stain until the soap covers it in a thin layer.
 It can take some effort to drive the soap into the oil stain, especially if it's penetrated deeply. Scrub with a stiff brush until there are plenty of suds.


Do not use a wire brush, which may scratch the concrete.
 Wait at least 10 minutes for the soap to pull up the oil, and up to an hour for heavy spills.Once ready, absorb the dirty soap mixture using more kitty litter, paper towels, or a disposable sponge. Dispose of all oil-soaked materials as you handled the first round of kitty litter.


Blot the paper towel or sponge directly onto the soap, lifting up. Do not rub it against the floor.
If the soap is difficult to pick up, dilute it with warm or hot water. Absorb all of the water before it carries pollutants to a garden or storm drain.
 Oil spills often take two or three scrubs to remove entirely. If the stain is still dark or the scrubbing didn't have an effect, try a specialized product, as described below.


You do not need to repeat the initial kitty litter soak, just the soap treatment.

