 It is common for individuals to worry about death as they age. An elderly person may have to adjust to various friends and loved ones dying. Although it is virtually impossible to be entirely accepting of one’s own mortality, there are some strategies an elderly person can try to alleviate some of their concerns regarding death.Tie up loose ends. Having things left unsaid in relationships can contribute to anxiety. An elderly person may find it beneficial to reach out to those he or she has hurt and try to make amends. This can lessen worry about impending death. Recommend that your loved one talk to estranged friends and family members. Say "Mom, I know you are still upset about what happened between you and Joyce. I think it would give you peace to talk to her about it."
One of the best ways to ease concerns about death is to fully live in the present. A person is less likely to have regret as they age if they make use of their time by enjoying hobbies, traveling, and spending time with loved ones. Encourage the elderly person whom you help care for to take advantage of these activities and to regularly participate in them.
Have a conversation about their wishes. Preparing a will, making funeral arrangements, and expressing last wishes to friends and family may also remove some of the fears your loved one has about death. Suggest that you sit down and talk by saying "Mom, you are getting older and I want to make sure your affairs are in order. Let's talk about them..."

, A common worry among older individuals is falling. This can happen in elderly persons who have experienced falls in the past or in those who simply notice themselves having difficulties with mobility. Falls can result in serious injury and may lead to greater worry among the elderly. Therefore, fall prevention should be a top priority. Try these strategies:Stay active. Exercise improves strength, flexibility, coordination and balance.
Change footwear. Shoes with high heels or slick soles can increase the chance of falls. Choose proper-fitting, durable shoes with nonskid soles.
Clear the home of hazards. Debris or spills on the floor, coffee tables, loose rugs, slipper bath mats, and unstable flooring can all increase falls.
Keep the home well-lit. Your loved one can avoid tripping over objects if the living space is adequately lit.
Get an assistive device, if needed. Buy a cane or walker. Install hand rails on stairways and in the shower or tub.
 Whether it is fretting over retirement savings or being worried about assisted living placement, you can relieve some of these worries by helping an elderly person make choices that suit their interests. Talking to a financial advisor may ease concerns about money, while visiting facilities before a move is necessary may help them feel more comfortable about long-term placement.


Listen to what the elderly person seems to be most concerned about and come up with ways you can help the person address these concerns. Helping them sort through matters like this can bring about a greater sense of control and peace about the future.