 Once one partner loses faith in their partner it can take years to regain the trust that was lost. Any time a cheating partner leaves the house, meets up with coworkers, or texts someone new, feelings of jealousy and distrust are natural. Be prepared to work hard, and for several months, to rebuild trust after an affair.


Commit to healing your relationship, no matter how difficult things are from day to day, and you can one day rebuild the trust that was lost.
 Avoid making excuses, blaming your partner, or dismissing the affair as “a one-time thing.” In order to ask for forgiveness and begin moving on you need to take ownership of your infidelity. By taking a good, hard look at yourself you can eventually realize what made you decide to cheat and find ways to avoid making the same mistake., This can be the most difficult thing to do after an affair, no matter which side of the relationship you are on. Asking for forgiveness, however, is the only way to start the healing process – you cannot move forward if your partner is still harboring feelings of resentment. While you might not get forgiveness immediately, you need to humble yourself and ask for it anyway.


You will likely have to ask for forgiveness multiple times, but you need to be honest and sincerely sorry for your transgressions.
 If you cheated on your partner, the fastest way to regain trust is to be completely transparent. Make your schedule, calendar, and contacts accessible to your partner.Avoid hiding things, even small things, as they can lead to feelings of distrust.
 You need to show that you are dependable again. Call when you say you will call, show up on time, and do the errands or chores like your promised every single time.Never make promises you can’t keep.
If you need to change plans, change them several days in advance, giving your partner ample time to adjust their schedule as well.
 Listen to what your partner needs from you to help mend the relationship. It may be more time together or more time apart. They could want you to come home from work earlier or stop drinking. No matter what it is, ask you partner “what can I do to help fix this” and listen to the answer without judgment.


This is not, however, and invitation for abuse. Be sincere, helpful, and loving, but do not let your partner abuse you out of "fairness" or revenge.

