 After completing the “Proving Honor,” go to the Jorrvaskr—the easternmost hall in Whiterun—and talk to Skjor, one of the leaders of the Companions. Ask him for a job and he will tell you to meet him in the Underforge at night.;
, Wait for nighttime to arrive and take the path on the left side of the Jorrvaskr. This will lead you to a secret opening on the stone wall leading to the Underforge. Head through the secret opening, and inside you should find Aela (a female companion) and Skjor.
 Aela will transform into a werewolf, and Skjor will cut her arm and pour some blood on the fountain in the middle of the room. Walk towards the fountain and press the “Activate” button on your controller to make your character drink the spilled blood.
 The screen will darken out right after drinking the blood from the fountain. The next scene will show your character standing outside Whiterun, now in werewolf form. You can run around the city, and try to see how it’s like to become a werewolf.


After a few seconds the screen will turn dark again and the next scene will be your character now back in its normal form.
 Talk to Aela once you get back to normal form, and she will tell you that you need to eliminate a group of werewolf hunters called the Silver Hand in a place called Gallows Rock.


Leave Whiterun and head straight eastwards past the Valtheim towers. You’ll find a small encampment with a torn-down watch tower in the middle. This is Gallows Rock.
 Walk towards the door you see on the encampment and pull down the chain next to it to open the pathway into Gallows Rock.


Before heading inside, open your in-game menu and select “Magic.” Choose “Powers” from the menu panel on the right-hand side of the game screen, and select “Beast Form” to turn your main character into a werewolf once more.
 Once inside Gallows Rock, all you need to do is kill every enemy you see in the cave. There’s no special technique you need to use to kill all the Silver Hand members; simply hack and slash every person that attacks you.

