 In general, dysgraphia impairs a person’s handwriting and fine motor skills. There are various signs that can help you spot dysgraphia in your child so that you can get professional help. Common signs of dysgraphia include:Illegible cursive or print handwriting
Inconsistencies in handwriting, such as upper and lower case letter, combinations of print and cursive, irregular sizes or shapes of letters
Unusual grip and/or complaints of a sore hand
Slow or labored copying or writing
Strange wrist, body, or paper positioning
Unfinished or unformed letters or omitted words

, If your child shows some of the common signs, then get them tested for dysgraphia. Testing can confirm that your child actually is struggling with this condition and inform health care providers and teachers on how to help.


Testing for dysgraphia includes IQ testing, educational testing, tests to measure physical muscle control for handwriting and creating writing samples to be examined for spelling, letter spacing and sizing., Dysgraphia can give any student an extremely difficult time at school. It is not a widely known disorder, but that doesn't mean that it should be overlooked.
 Your child's notes are incomplete and written shabbily solely due to the fact that they do not have the capacity to write in the same manner as everyone else, and not due to laziness.One way to help a child overcome the effects of dysgraphia is to ask their school for help with keyboarding and accommodations to use computers for assignments.
 Be encouraging towards them, but don't force them to keep practicing writing, and don't reprimand them if they don't master writing quickly. Let them get the hang of it at their own pace.Children with dysgraphia are often experiencing difficulty writing due to physical muscle control issues and the fact that their brain just works differently. It can take more practice and time for them to learn things that may come easy to others.
 Make him or her feel good about the effort being put towards improving handwriting. Praise your child using phrases like “Good job” or “Nice try” when you see he or she is trying as hard as he can. You might also incorporate a few strategies at home to help your child with handwriting. These include:Allow the child to feel the letter rather than seeing it. Trace a letter on his back and see if he can repeat it on paper.
Help him improve his pinching grip through the use of common household tools like tweezers or chopsticks.
Ensure he gets adequate exercise to improve muscle strength and coordination. Effective activities might include shooting basketball, rope-climbing, or doing planks and push-ups.
Suggest that your child record his thoughts and ideas on a device before trying to put them down on paper.
 Look up 504 plans and Individualized Education Plans , or IEP. You will probably have to fight the school to get one of these, so look up how to do so as well. Having adequate evidence in the form of assessments and consultation reports from various specialists can help you get your child the accommodations he or she deserves.