 Not all dogs are friendly: some are skittish around strangers, some are highly protective of their owners, and some are just plain cranky. The dog’s owner will know about their dog’s habits, so have them let you know what to expect. If the dog isn’t accompanied by an owner, stay away.Even if the dog approaches you and looks eager for your attentions, don’t extend your hand or lean forward before you get an answer from the owner.
Be especially careful if you have any children with you. For many different reasons—for example, their diminutive stature, unpredictable behavior, voice volume, and eagerness—some dogs are particularly hostile to children, so make sure you keep your children close when they spot a dog nearby. Make sure they don’t run up to the dog without warning, and always ask the owner how the dog responds to children specifically.
 With the owner's permission to pet the dog, walk over at a moderate pace from a slight angle. Canine etiquette perceives head-on approaches as disrespectful or potentially challenging, so keep this in mind when approaching from afar. You also want to keep your pace slow and manner staid in order reassure the dog that it can watch you approach and that you won’t make any sudden movements.Pay attention to the dog’s response to your approach and stop if it looks unwelcoming or shies away., If a dog is interested in becoming acquainted, it will meet you halfway. You can turn sideways and avert your eyes while it walks up to you in order to give further signs that you’re following canine guidelines of politeness., Once the dog has come up to you, you can reach out to the dog.This will signal to the animal that you are friendly and not threatening.


There are varying theories regarding the appropriate way to hold or position your hand. Some experts claim that one should clench the hand into a fist so that it appears smaller than an extended hand, while others claim that the hand should be extended with the palm facing upward or downward.In the face of conflicting advice, the best rule of thumb is to extend your hand with the palm down and fingers curled under, as it will protect your fingers from getting nipped., Holding your hand steadily beneath the dog's nose will let the dog get used to your scent. This is essential for a dog when meeting someone unfamiliar because they rely on their sense of smell in the way that humans relay on their eyesight., Unfamiliar dogs can take prolonged eye contact as a threat or challenge, so you should keep your eyes averted until you become comfortable with one another.Also be sure not to hunch or bend over the dog, as this can make it seem like you’re cornering the dog and thus presenting a threat., Use a light touch so that you don’t seem overly forward or abrupt. Stay away from touching vulnerable areas like the flanks and legs, as this can cause the dog to instinctively lash out to protect itself from a perceived threat.Once the dog feels more comfortable and shows that it wants further contact, you can scratch under its chin or on its back.
 There are many ways a dog can signal that it feels uncomfortable or that it simply wants to cease contact, many of which are fairly obvious and easy to detect. Some overt signals of agitation or anxiety include growling, barking, and pacing.A dog can also show their discomfort in more subtle ways, though, so keep an eye out for these signs as well. For example, a dog holding its tail high, looking into your eyes, or yawning can mean that the dog is warning you off or trying to calm its anxiety.If a dog shows signs of aggression or hostility, don't turn your back on the dog, as this will just encourage it to chase and attack. Rather, slowly back away from the dog until it visibly relaxes and you can turn around and walk normally away.