


Intelligence often involves metacognition -- "thinking about thinking": (1) planning, (2) monitoring (re-checking), problem solving and (3) evaluating your outcome/results -- to improve the teachers and students results.;
,


Do you love reading, studying books or learning from lectures?
Do you enjoy grammar, using correct punctuation and new vocabulary or learning language(s)?
Do you enjoy writing prose or poetry i.e.: verbal, spoken or written, communications?

If your answer is yes to at least 2 of this questions, you are a word smart. Your intelligence is linguistic.


Do you find mathematics easy to understand?
Can you solve the mathematical problems easily?
Do you use math for self expression instead of drawings or lyrics?

If your answer is yes to at least 2 of this questions, you are a number reasoning smart. Your intelligence is logical-mathematical.


Do you especially enjoy visual material, art, shapes, conceptualizing two-dimensional or three-dimensional information, geometry, geography or photos and images?
Do you think art, graphics and images can represent anything, as words can but non-verbally?
Are you a person who remembers things because of position, shape, form, diagrams or pictures and drawings?

If your answer is yes to at least 2 of this questions, you are a picture smart. Your intelligence is visual spatial.


Do you think you can learn better, if you do physical activities and exercise -- or dynamic role playing?
Do you feel like you move, lean forward or nod "yes" exaggeratedly when your teacher or tutor is explaining something?
Do you think that physical activity or practice makes the experience much more memorable?

If your answer is yes to at least 2 of this questions, you are a body smart. Your intelligence is bodily-kinesthetic.


Do you listen to your music everyday, and you know the lyrics of favorite songs -- or do you like to read or write music, or compose and play music by ear?
Do you find music as your way for relaxing?
Do you often use music to express your feelings?

If your answer is yes to at least 2 of this questions, you are a music smart. Your intelligence is musical.


Do you like working or studying with your classmates?
Do you feel like your learning is better when the other people talk about the topic and give you their impressions and opinions on a topic?
When you do not get to study together with others -- give and/or get help on new concepts from anybody -- then you had really rather not try most learning all by yourself?

If your answer is yes to at least 2 of this questions you are a people smart. Your intelligence is interpersonal.


Do you prefer working or studying alone (all by yourself)?
Do you feel better when you do things alone instead of with anyone else?
Do you feel like your classwork or homework and learning is better when you work alone?

If your answer is yes to at least 2 of this questions, you are a self smart. Your intelligence is intrapersonal.


Do you find both animals and plants fascinating and like to learn about many of them?
Do you enjoy being in natural environs -- farming or ranching, at the creek, river, lake or in the woods or on wildlife trails?
Do you think that being outdoors is better for your concentration?

If your answer is yes to at least 2 of this questions, you are a nature smart. Your intelligence is naturalist.



