 If you’ve ever played an instrument or shown some talent for drawing, revisit those skills. Maybe you never stopped. Renaissance people spend time working on their creative sides, so get ready to develop any existing talent you’ve got., The only way to be good at music or art is to spend lots of time practicing. Look for free time in your schedule and fill those spots with practice sessions.You may be able to take 20 minutes during your lunch hour to practice. You can also practice after you’ve eaten dinner at night during the weekdays. Add a longer practice session on your off days. Try to practice at least 4-5 days per week, for about 20 minutes to an hour each day., If you’ve never sang a note or picked up a paintbrush, don’t despair! It’s never too late to start. Figure out what artistic skill (or skills!) most appeals to you and start learning.Gardening, cooking, writing, baking, photography, website design… the list of things that qualify as art goes on and on. Find your passion and have fun with it.Take an art or music class in school if you’re a student. If not (and it fits into your budget), sign up for one at a local community college. You can also find guided tutorials online or at bookstores for learning artistic crafts or musical instruments.
If you’re hoping to get into music, look for a community choir or band that accepts beginners. This is a great way to meet people and develop your creativity.
 Get inspired by what past artists have produced. Attend concerts and art shows to see what’s being put other there now by fellow artists. These events will teach you new things about the people and world around you.Observing other artists can also help you decide on your own style. You may start out by imitating something you like, and then you’ll slowly start to create your own special artwork.
Craft shows and local fairs are also great events for experiencing art and culture. These may even let you see the folksy side of art that you can’t get in all museums.

