 People with DLE will sometimes report a mild itching or occasional pain in because of DLE, but many patients have no itching, pain or other sensation associated with their lesions.Symptoms of DLE often occur in areas of the body that are exposed to the sun, but 50% are found in areas of the scalp. The face and neck are other common sites. Physical symptoms of discoid lupus include:red, scaly, discrete, erythematous, slightly infiltrated raised lesions, or plaques, above and/or below the neck, often coin-shaped and with thickened skin or scalesplugged hair follicles that may result in hair losschanges in skin color, often losing pigment (lighter) in the center and hyperpigmentation (darker) on the outsidelesions may slowly expand, atrophy, scar and present with telangiectasia, a dilation of the capillaries beneath the skin. This causes the lesions to look spidery.photosensitivity is also commonly experienced.;
, During the process of diagnosis the physician will rule out other medical conditions that often look like DLE. These conditions include but are not limited to skin lesions associated with:Syphilis
Actinic Keratosis
Complications of Sarcoidosis
Lichen Planus
Plaque Psoriasis

, If you have suspect that you might have DLE, make an appointment with your doctor or an immunologist right away. In most cases the diagnosis of discoid lupus erythematosus is based on clinical findings, or what the physician sees during the physical examination. In some cases a histopathology report may be helpful in ruling out other skin conditions.


DLE can also occur as part of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In fact, it affects 25 percent of people with SLE, and approximately 10-15 percent of patient with DLE will develop SLE. The more widespread the DLE the more likely SLE symptoms are to co-exist. Your doctor may also screen you for SLE during your exam by ordering blood and urine samples to be analyzed in a lab.Patients with DLE have negative or low ANA titers and rarely have Anti-Ro Antibodies.

