 These videos serve as the guide you must study and comprehend before you take the exam. These videos are around 15 to 30 minutes long and packed with information you should know. It is important to note at this point, you are only able to take the exam once (or twice depending on your terminal) so it is essential that you concentrate on learning all of the material that is presented. Many people who have taken this exam believe, the most essential video in this whole process is the last and longest one. It explains the Bloomberg API system. This is a system that allows users to bring in data from The Bloomberg into Microsoft Excel. Many of the questions in the exam, may potentially involve topics covered in this final video. Pay attention to this one.;
, After researching on the Internet, you will discover that many of the official classes are done in a single session. If you can concentrate that long, it is highly recommended doing it that way. When you break it up, the information is not as fresh in your head. What ever you do, don’t let it go more than a week or two before you take your test or you will forget it. After you complete the 4 videos, there is a 30 question exam that can take anywhere from 30-90 minutes to complete depending on the person. Before you start, put your cellphone away, log off of your Facebook, Twitter, and any other social networking platforms, and remove anything that may distract you. If you miss something, you will have to rewind the video and if you do that, you are wasting time.
 When he or she is doing something on the video, you too should execute these commands on your other workstation window. This will help you retain the information better. If you fall behind for any reason, rewind the video to a place where you understood it. If you are a curious person, and you enjoy learning things after, each of the videos, explore further. Use the commands that they taught you and looked at personal stock picks and used new tools that were not covered during the videos. This is recommended to everyone; once you finish a video, go explore more. Learn how to execute the commands that you were taught with speed and accuracy. In the real world your speed and accuracy will help your firm make money and prevent it losing money. Information is power. If you have the information (even by a few seconds) before a competing firm, that creates opportunity.
 If you did the videos and practiced, you will pass the exam. Don’t cheat. It is easy enough to pass this test, don’t cut corners with something that you will carry with you for the rest of your life; eventually you will have to prove yourself to your boss, and if you say you are certified, you should know exactly what you would see if you type “AAPL <EQUITY> BOLL GO” into the Bloomberg.
, If you didn’t… Don’t worry, you should be able to take it again. If not, contact the Bloomberg rep and have them reset your account. Review your questions and find out what you did wrong. The terminal will show you all of your answers along with what the correct answer is. Next, do all of the videos again and don’t be discouraged and take the test again. Learn the material and get certified.

