 Request to dim, or turn off entirely, the overhead fluorescent lights in your part of the office. Replace these lights with lamps and natural light. If this isn’t possible, you can even put a cover over some of your workspace to block out the lights. If the overhead lighting is flickering, ask to have it repaired or replaced.If adjusting the lighting is not possible, then visit your eye doctor and discuss getting a pair of rose-colored glasses to minimize eye strain.
If your computer screen hurts your eyes, then attach a glare screen to the monitor. You can also attach a hood to the top of the monitor to keep it from reflecting any surrounding lights., If the room is too hot and you become overheated, it can trigger a migraine. The same is true for extreme cold temperatures. Invest in a cooling fan or space heater for your office, if needed. Try to also keep the thermostat on a consistent temperature, as fluctuations can cause problems as well.There isn’t one “magic” temperature, so just watch for what your body reacts the best to.
 Invest in a noise machine if you have a loud work area. Perhaps purchase a pair of high quality headphones. Create a soothing playlist on your computer to play when work noises get to be too much. Be aware that certain pitches, such as beeps, can trigger migraines, too.For example, if you are in an office with phones constantly ringing, talk with your coworkers about implementing a ring-free period where you just use the phone lights to identify incoming calls.
 Avoid wearing heavy perfumes, aftershaves, or other personal products, as they may linger in your work space over the day. Try to stay away from work spaces with heavy odors, such as break rooms. Steer clear of cleaning closets, as the products therein can trigger headaches.Printer and copier odors, in particular, can be problematic. You may need to ask a coworker or assistant to make any copies for you if you suspect that this could be a trigger.Buzzing lights and buzzing office equipment can trigger a migraine as well. Florescent lights are a trigger for some.
 Pay attention to how you are sitting in your chair. Keep your back straight and your shoulders pulled back. Stand up and stretch every 30 minutes or so. Prop up your feet on your desk, if you can, to reverse the downward blood flow. Position your computer, so that you are not arching your neck in an uncomfortable way.Place an alarm on your computer or phone to alert you when you need to stand and stretch. Keep a pillow by your chair to use behind your back to help with your posture, and change positions in your chair often as needed.

