 This free program will allow you to create a playable DVD using the VOB files in your VIDEO_TS folder. The DVD can be used on any DVD player that supports burned discs. Visit {{{1}}} to download the program.


When selecting a mirror, make sure to find the download link that doesn't require a special download manager. Mirrors 5 and 6 are the safest ones to download from.
Avoid the ImgBurn mirror (Mirror 7) as this installer comes with extra adware that you'll need to decline during the installation process.
 After downloading the installer, run it from your Downloads folder. You can leave the settings at their default.


Carefully read each screen, as the installer may contain adware depending on which mirror you used to download it.
 After installing, you can find a shortcut to it on your desktop. You'll be greeted with the main ImgBurn menu.
 This will open Build Mode, which will make an image file from your VOB files and then write it to a disc. Build Mode will preserve all of the original DVD menus and features.
 This will open the file browser. You'll find this button to the right of the "Source" fields.
 The VIDEO_TS folder contains the VOB files that you want to burn to DVD. Opening this folder will load all of the VOB files into ImgBurn.
 This looks like a calculator, and can be found in the lower-right corner. The size of the image file will be determined, and you'll be informed if you need a single-layer or dual-layer disc.
 After calculating, you'll see a "Min. Req. Media" entry. Use this as a guide as to the type of blank disc to insert. Most movies will burn to DVD±R/RW.
 This will display the disc options.
 The disc will be encoded in a way that can be read by DVD players.
 This will allow you to add a label, which can help the player read your disc.
 It can be whatever you'd like, but can't use spaces.
 The label you entered will be automatically entered into the other applicable fields (they need to match).
 This will start burning your project to the blank DVD in your drive. The time this takes will vary depending on your DVD burner and the size of the video.
 After the DVD has finished burning, you can use it in most DVD players. Some players will have problems with burned discs, and may not load the video.

