 In order to combat your insecurity, it will be useful to figure out why you feel that way. There is often more than one cause, and there is likely no easy answer. Take some time to reflect on your life — both past and present. Make a list of times you felt insecure. Identifying the things or people that make you feel insecure can help you figure out ways to fight those feelings.Consider things like: Have you experienced trauma? Crisis? A major loss? Is there a current situation or a situation in the past that has upset your daily life? Examine your childhood and your relationship with your parents. Were they supportive? Were they hard on you or did they push you to succeed?
Look at the list. Try to determine what seems to trigger insecurity — look for connections between times when you felt insecure and what was going on in your life and what other emotions you were experiencing. When do those feelings arise? Who are you with? What are you doing?
For example, do you always feel insecure around your older sister? Or do you feel insecure about your body after looking at magazines? Maybe your insecurities arise from comparing yourself to others.;
, Maybe you realize that there are things in your past that have caused your insecurity. Or, maybe your anxiety stems from your current situation. Either way, choose to accept the past and move on. Moving forward will help you to overcome your insecurities.Maybe you had or have a co-worker who constantly puts you down. Make an active choice to eliminate that part of your life.
Ask your boss if you can work on a different project or team. If that is not possible, say to yourself, "I am making a choice to ignore the negative things that Tom says to me."

, Sometimes you cannot change your situation. For example, maybe you still live in your hometown, and you have a lot of unpleasant memories associated with the place. But you can't move because you need the excellent job that you have. This is the time to choose a different attitude.Remember that optimism is a choice. Instead of thinking, "I'll never get out of here," try saying, "I'm going to appreciate my new city a lot when I do get to move someday."
Try using positive words. For example, you can say, "I am hopeful that someday I will be able to move to a new place that I am excited about."

, When you're feeling insecure, it can be easy to be critical of yourself; however, make an effort to accept yourself just the way you are. You will probably see that changing your mindset in this way can make a big difference.Does your insecurity stem from the fact that you have always struggled with sports? Try to accept the fact that some people just aren't athletic.
Say to yourself, "It's ok that soccer isn't my thing. I can still have fun cheering on my friends!"

, Insecurity can cause you to feel pretty down on yourself. Instead of thinking about your flaws, make it a point to celebrate your strengths. Try making a list of all of the great qualities you have.Leave post-it notes around your house that say things like, "I'm an honest and loyal friend" or "I am a really hard worker."
Whenever you have a negative thought about yourself, read one of the notes. It might make you feel more positive.
 If your insecurities are getting in the way of your daily life, such as preventing you from completing regular tasks or interact with others, then you may want to consider speaking with a mental health professional. Consider a therapist who specializes in cognitive behavioral therapy (CBD), which can be particularly effective in addressing insecurities.


Your therapist can help you insecurities, identify your strengths, and stay focused on your positive traits.

