 Children are often not allowed inside the courtroom unless they are part of the case being heard. Even if you’re allowed to bring your children inside the courtroom, court hearings can be long and boring and can cause young children to misbehave. If you have children, find a babysitter for your court date.


Some courts offer free child care if you must attend a court date and cannot find child care. Check with your court to see if this is an option.If you cannot find a babysitter, bring another adult with you and ask them to remain outside the courtroom with your child(ren) during your hearing.
 Court dates are not like appointments that you may miss and reschedule for later. If you miss your court date for a criminal case, you may be arrested. If you miss your court date for a civil matter, you may lose the case by default. You may also be held in contempt of court if you are late to or miss a hearing.If you have a valid, urgent reason why you cannot attend your court date, contact the courthouse clerk. You will probably need to file a petition or forms to request a date change.Remember that you will probably need to find parking if you have driven to the courthouse. If taking public transit, buses and trains can be late. Courthouses are often quite large and it may take you some time to find the correct courtroom. Give yourself plenty of time to find your way.
 You should bring a copy of all documents and files that are relevant to your case. Also bring a notepad and pen so that you can take notes if you need.


Make sure that you have your court notice document with you. This document will include the details of your Hearing Officer’s name, the date and time of your hearing, and (usually) who you should check in with before the hearing.Bring multiple copies of any documents and evidence you want to present. Usually, you should bring at least 3 copies of any document: 1 for you, 1 for the court, and 1 for the opposing side.
 Most courts require everyone who visits the court to go through a metal detector and a security checkpoint. To prepare for this, make sure that you do not have any weapons or other illegal or prohibited items with you when you arrive at court.


Obvious examples of things not to bring to court include firearms, alcohol, and illegal drugs. Other commonly prohibited items include pepper spray, mace, knives, and razor blades. Some courthouses may also prohibit items such as cigarettes and lighters.
Some courthouses do not allow scissors, nail files, glass containers, wallet chains, pocketknives or other sharp items.If you would not be allowed to take it on an airplane, it’s a good idea to leave your item at home.
If you’re unsure whether something you’re carrying could be prohibited, leave it at home or in your vehicle.
In many cases, personal cameras, video cameras, and other recording devices are not allowed. If you’re unsure whether you’re allowed to bring your electronic device, contact your courthouse., How you dress conveys your respect for the judge and the court. Being respectful is an important aspect of addressing a judge correctly and making a good impression on the court. Contact the court staff to ask about your court’s dress code requirements. These may also be posted on the court’s website. While official dress codes may vary, it is a good idea to dress neatly and conservatively.Ensure all of your clothing is neat, clean, and pressed/ironed. Do not wear stained or torn clothing to your court date. Make sure you have showered and made your hair neat.Avoid overly expensive or flashy clothing. Do not wear flip-flop (thong) sandals, tennis shoes or sneakers, or scuffed shoes. Avoid clothing with slogans or verbal messages printed on it. Avoid loud or bright colors and heavy patterns. Do not wear jeans, shorts, t-shirts, miniskirts, low-cut or see-through clothing, sleeveless tops or dresses, low-rise pants, or other revealing or informal clothing.Gender norms remain strong inside most courtrooms. If you are a man, wear a suit and tie if you have them, or a wrinkle-free button-up shirt and pressed slacks. If you are a woman, wear a dress or skirt and blouse if possible. Women may wear slacks or suits as well. Women should avoid heavy makeup and noisy jewelry.
Take a light jacket or sweater. Courtrooms may get cold, especially if you must wait for your hearing.
Unless you have a religious reason to do so, do not wear hats or headgear to court. You are allowed to wear religious headgear such as turbans, hijabs, and kippahs., Food and drink are rarely allowed in courtrooms. Eat something before you go to the courthouse so that you are able to concentrate on the court business.


If you must have something to drink while in court, you may ask the judicial assistant or court clerk for water.Do not bring your own water to court.

