 Being a plant native to South Africa, tritoma does the best in hot environments. Planting the seeds in May or June allows them just enough time to develop before the temperatures elevate. Then, they will begin to bloom in the hottest months of the summer., If you choose to grow your tritoma inside, then make sure to keep the temperature set in the 70-75 degree Fahrenheit range. Peat pots are a particularly good planting container as they will provide both structure and nutrients.If you don’t have a peat pot available, almost any container will do. It just needs to be clean and have a depth of at least 3 inches to give plenty of room for root growth.
 If you decide to grow indoors and then transplant outside, it will take about 7-8 weeks before the plants are ready to move. Make sure to transplant only after the final frost of the season to give the seedlings some time to get established. By this time your seedlings will stand around 2 inches tall.You can also tell that the seedlings are ready to move by looking at their leaves. They should have at least four full leaves.
To transplant, grasp the seedling by the leaves, as the stem is too fragile. Use a spoon to loosen up the soil around the base. Apply a bit of pressure and lift the seedling and its roots out of the soil., This depth will provide protection from the elements, but it is also just deep enough for the seeds to still make it to the surface. Rhizomes, sprouts, or divided bulbs can be placed just slightly deeper at 7 cm because they are a bit hardier., Since tritoma can grow to be rather tall, it will need plenty of air circulation around it without being overshadowed by other plants. Ideally, try to plant each tritoma at least 20 inches apart. If the plants seem to grow closer together you can always thin them out later, too.Providing plenty of room for air circulation will lessen the possibility of your tritoma getting “damping off,” a fungus that breaks down the plant at the soil line., To keep your planting areas looking alive and active, place your tritomas alongside other plants that flower in the late summer months. Marigolds, in particular, work well with tritomas as they are low to the ground and easy to care for. The colors are also complementary with the red of the tritomas playing off of the orange and yellows in the marigolds.