 For 3D, the best subject is one that is completely still, such as landscapes. Start by taking one photo as you normally would. Now, keep the camera level and move it to the side before taking your second photo. One way to do this is to move your camera to the other side or take a step to the side.Don’t move too far. The subject should appear identical in the photos besides the very small shift to the right or left.;
, Any software will do as long as it allows you to edit layers and color channels. Photoshop is a common choice and GIMP is a comparable free option. Click on the photos or open them through the software’s file menu. They should open in separate windows.
 Select one of the images using Ctrl+a for PC or ⌘ Command+a for Mac. The entire image should be selected. Copy it with Ctrl+c or ⌘ Command+c. You can close this window.
 Navigate to the window with the other image and click on it. Now paste your image by pressing Ctrl+v or ⌘ Command+v.
 The image you pasted should already be labeled as a layer. The other one will be labeled as a background. Double-click on the background image. Name it left or right so you remember which image it is, then press “ok” to convert it to a layer.


You can also name the other image by double-clicking it.
 Double-click on the image. Find the boxes labeled R, G, and B under the layer style box. Click the R one only. When the check mark is gone, the image will only have green and blue colors., Double-click on the right image. Find the channel boxes on the layer style box again. This time remove the check marks from the G and B boxes.
 You may need to adjust the positioning of the layers to achieve the desired effect. The move tool is in the upper left corner of Photoshop’s left toolbar or in the toolbox menu in GIMP. Use it to drag the right layer towards the left one., Pick a point you can focus on near the center of the image, such as the edge of the land to the right of the pier in the image above. Move the right image towards the left one until the piece of land in both images overlap. You’ll only see one image at this point.
 Navigate to the crop tool in the menu or in a toolbar. In Photoshop it is on the left toolbar near the top. In GIMP it looks like a knife. Use it to make an outline around the parts of the image you wish to keep. Cut off the streaks of red or blue on the outside where the images don’t overlap., Go to the top toolbar. Navigate through the file menu and click “save as.” Name your image to store it and get your 3D glasses to see how well it turned out!

