 Before you can treat your Boxer's entropion, you need to treat any eye damage. Your Boxer's eye may be swollen, infected, scratched, or damaged in some way from the hairs and fur of the eyelid. To treat these things, your vet will give you a combination of eye, pain, and inflammation medication to treat the issues on your Boxer's eye. In rare cases, preliminary surgery to correct severe damage may be needed before you can treat the entropion.


The exact medication and doses will vary depending on the exact extent of the damage to your Boxer's eye. Talk to your vet about what is needed for your Boxer's particular case., In some cases, your Boxer's entropion may be caused by a secondary eye condition. These conditions may include certain eye diseases, a history of trauma to the eye, or chronic or acute eye inflammation. If your vet diagnoses an underlying condition that caused the entropion, you need to have these conditions treated before you can treat the entropion.


In many cases, treating these underlying conditions will make your Boxer's entropion go away. In this is the case with your Boxer, they will not need any additional treatment. If the entropion does not clear up despite fixing these conditions, your Boxer may still need surgery for the entropion.
The types of treatment you Boxer may need to treat the underlying conditions will vary depending on what these conditions are., If your Boxer is a puppy, your vet will not clear them for surgery until he is older. The vet can't fully assess the dog for corrective surgery until he's finished growing, so the vet performs this temporary and less invasive procedure as a temporary fix.


During this procedure, your Boxer's eyelids are tacked with temporary sutures. This will help shift the shape of your Boxer's eyelid so it no longer scratches at his eye., After the original tacking of your Boxer puppy's eyelid, he may need to have follow up tacking treatments. These will be done if your Boxer's eyelid is not pulled back enough to eliminate the entropion. These treatments will continue until your Boxer's problem is fixed or until he is old enough to have surgery.


Even if the entropion is not getting better with tacking, your vet will continue it until your Boxer is old enough to get surgery.