 Sit down and work out exactly what stands in the way of your goals. Get as specific as possible about what your goals are, and exactly why you are having trouble meeting them. You'll need plenty of self-awareness to chart out a course of action. Try not to dredge up your usual list of complaints, as this often falls apart into excuses.If you said "I don't have enough time," think about how you prioritize your time and energy. The real obstacle could be procrastination, careerism, or external events.
If you said "I don't have enough money," this is also often about priorities. The more immediate obstacle might be a lack of time or a lack of motivation, or you might need to learn how to make money and save what you have.;
, How long has the obstacle been in your path? What behaviors or negative thoughts keep the obstacle alive, or prevent you from working through it?Answering these questions may help you identify the changes you need to make.


For example, if you've felt "stuck" ever since you moved to a new home, there could be something in your new environment or lifestyle that's affecting you. For instance, your distance from friends and family could be sapping your motivation.
 Take a minute to think about other obstacles you've encountered in your life. Whether or not your approach worked then, learn from your experience as you approach the next challenge.


For example, if you previously burned out after an overambitious New Year's resolution, try to ramp up more slowly this time.
 Some obstacles seem beyond your control, so daunting that you have no idea how to get through them. This experience is often paired with fear or another strong emotional reaction. Take a deep breath, put pen to paper, and ask yourself what you can control.You can control your attitude.
You can control how much effort you put in.
You can control your decision when an opportunity is offered to you.
You can control your diet, exercise, and sleep schedule, which can improve your mood and alertness.
 Some of the most frustrating obstacles are the ones that involve other people. Emotions or gut reactions can cloud your judgement and make the obstacle seem more impossible than it is. Try to break the problem down and discover what actually stands in your way:Often, it takes both people to contribute to the obstacle. Rein in your own reaction with mental "stoppers," such as a deep breath, or counting to ten in your head.
Listen to the other person's problems, or try to think of them from his perspective. Solve what the other person sees as an obstacle, and you may solve your own problems.
In the worst case scenario, restructure your interactions to avoid situations where disagreements arise.

