 Go to stores and look at invitations. Tiny pictures on the web will help you get an idea, but they're not enough to order from. Most online invitation vendors will send samples, sometimes for free or a small fee that will be placed towards your order.;
, Remember to count each couple or family as one invitation so that you don't over order. It's up to you whether to make wedding invitations or wedding announcements, or a combination of the two. If you're just announcing the wedding, expect to send 300-600 announcements. Brides who make invitations average under 100 invitations. Remember not to cut the number to save money--realize that (and your mom is too polite to say this aloud) every $1.00 invitation you send will bring back $50 in gifts. But remember to keep in mind the cost per-head at the reception if you expect them to come.
 The return address should be printed, unless you want to hand-write 500 of the same address, and take time to make sure the same person hand-writes the front and back of the envelope.
 That may sound funny, but many brides have to make multiple trips to see their stationer because the bride doesn't know something basic on the invitation, i.e. how to spell her parents' full-names, whether they want their full names, what the name of their chapel is, etc.
 Have at least two other people read the proofs from the designer or printer. Don't count on yourself to be the only proofreader, as you probably have memorized some of the information and may skip over a typo.
, Remember, a simple font allows you to put more wording on your invitation. The “frilly" fonts only look good in larger type-sizes. If you have your heart set on a particular “frilly" font, consider using a combination of fonts, with your names in a larger, more elaborate font and the rest of the text in a simpler, smaller font. When choosing a font, be sure to look at the first initials of your names in the font you are considering. If you like your first initial in a font, you’re likely to like the invitation when it’s finished. Unless you have a degree in art, don't try to pick a font or layout an announcement yourself.
 Count on your parents and wedding party to spread the word. They will be asked! If you feel you must put a registry card in your invitation, do it right. Don't use the ones with the store's logo in bright-red. You can use a "pew card" for this purpose—a small blank card that matches your invitation. Web sites are better than multiple enclosures, and appease those who hate registry cards. You can print on a pew card and it will look a lot better than “Aimee and John are registered at Classy Joint We Really Hate. Web pages allow maps to the event-sites, additional pictures, registry links, stories about the couple, and are considered a thoughtful gesture.
 The reasons for this are simple—first, your parents will pay for them now. Second, most brides who don’t order them before the wedding never get around to it later. And no, you can’t go to a superstore and buy a 500-pack of blank thank yous, they don’t sell them in packs greater than 12. Only people who sell invitations can sell you thank yous in increments larger than that.
 If you are having any sit-down events, you will need them. Consider the math. If you’re paying $25 per plate for a dinner, being two guests more accurate will save you the average price of RSVP cards. You will definitely be at least two people more accurate.
 Send invitations 6-8 weeks in advance for most places. Easterners like 8 weeks, Californians like 6 weeks, and People who live in Utah, generally expect 2-3 weeks. If you’re tight on time, sort your invitations list by zip code, and then send them out in that order. Send out all invitations on the same day, and then keep an accurate list of responses. You will need an accurate guest count for both the ceremony and reception.
