 When collecting telephones, the things to bear in mind when selecting collectible phones include:


Quality of the equipment
Originality
Rarity
Appearance
Working order or not (and whether or not that matters).;
, As mentioned in the introduction, you can collect according to era, style, type of phone, etc. The reason for your collection is always up to you but bear in mind affordability, rarity, interest to other collectors, ease of collecting, and ways of displaying your collection. In the case of phones, you'll also need to consider whether you'd like the phones to be in working or not, so that you can continue to use them, or simply display them. Some ideas for how to collect include:


Collecting all the phones belonging to one make, brand, or company. If that company is still going strong today, you might even include phones from modern times, such as cell phones and portable phones.
Collecting phones from a certain era, such as 1900s to 1920s, wartime phones, 1960s phones, etc.
Collecting phones made from Bakelite only.
Collecting phones of a certain color or style.
Collecting phones made for a special reason, such as the Princess set phones, or phones made for such companies as Disney, like Mickey Mouse shaped phones.
Collecting phones owned by famous people.
Collecting phones that were unique and one-offs, that maybe didn't even work that well but were prototypes and ahead of their time.
 It will usually be part of a communications or telecommunications display in a museum that is known for keeping such artifacts.
 You can learn this by looking through the collectible sections of online auctions sites such as eBay. Another way is to check antique collectibles books in the library, bookstore, or your own copies. Doing this will give you a good idea of what price ranges to expect for the types of phones you're keen to collect. Some of the prices are determined by age, some by rarity, and some by popularity. Here are some indicators of the values of some phones:


The oldest telephones were wall mounted and often mounted on wood. The very early wooden wall phones and candlestick phone models were handcrafted, making them very rare and worthwhile collectibles. They can sell for $200 plus.
Art deco phones tend to fetch a lot in terms of collector's items. These were made during the 1930s and 1950s. They can start at $50 and go for more than $200.
Bakelite phones are a popular collectible phone.
Phones produced in large quantities won't be worth as much as the older, more interesting original phones. Such phones include the Western Electric 202 (1928 to 1940s), Western Electric 302 (1937 to early 1950s), the Western Electric 500 sets (early 1950s to 1970s) and the Western Electric AE40 were all made in large quantities and while these can be viewed as vintage to old, they're not worth a lot because of the quantities in which they were produced.
Some phones are special because they were made to specific needs, such as phones for children or for certain events or people. For example, the Western Electric Princess set was made for children and has a range of colors. The colors affect the price, with pink and aqua fetching up to $100, beige and white up to $40. Look for promotional and advertising special phones that were one-offs if you'd like to find unique phones for your collection.
 That way you can meet other people and share information and advice, as well as trading phones and finding leads for phones you'd like to collect where possible. If you can go to collector's conventions, this will be another way to meet people with a similar interest and to find out more about the value of your collection.
 It's important that you have the chance to show others your collection as that's a large part of the fun. Phones can easily take up a lot of space, but you can certainly hang wall phones on a wall, and arrange table phones in a glass fronted cabinet. Working phones can be put to good use in the house but be aware that technologically inclined people can get really irritable with old phones, especially if they want to pay bills or use numbered keypads, so always have at least one modern phone that works and is plugged in!

