 If you've memorized how Minecraft Steve looks, you might be able to skip this step. In most cases, however, it'll be a good idea to find a few pictures online to use as a reference.


You can look at the game itself for a reference image or do an Internet search using your favorite search engine. Looking for "Minecraft Steve images" should be enough.
Once you find a few good pictures, print them out or keep them open on your computer screen. Refer to these images as you work.;
, You will need several shades of brown, beige, and white.


You do not need to use blue paper for the eyes since the eyes will eventually be cut out, anyway.
The more shades you use, the more accurate the Steve head will look. At minimum, try to find white, beige, tan, light brown, brown, dark brown, and reddish brown.
 Use a paper cutter or paper trimmer to cut the construction paper into 2-inch (5-cm) squares.You will only need two white squares (one to go on either side of the eye holes).
Cut a relatively even number of squares from the remaining construction paper. You will need a total of 320 squares.
Scissors can be used if you do not have a paper cutter, but make sure your sides are as even and straight as possible.
Note that these squares are sized for a 16-inch (40-cm) cubical box. If the box you use is larger or smaller, you will need to adjust the size of the squares accordingly. The squares will be arranged into an 8-inch by 8-inch (20-cm by 20-cm) grid, so you will need to divide the length of one side of your box by eight to determine how long/wide the paper squares should be.
 Arrange the squares into five separate groups on a flat working surface. Piece them together so that they resemble the face, back, sides, and top of Steve's head.The squares must be arranged into 8-inch by 8-inch (20-cm by 20-cm) sides.
Use the darker brown shades for Steve's hair and the lighter browns and beige shades for Steve's skin.
Leave blank space for the eyes approximately four grid spaces from the bottom and three grid spaces from either side.
 Mark the center of the box on all four sides by drawing a grid. Do the same for the top of the box.


Use a ruler and pencil to draw a line down the vertical center of each side, then draw a line down the horizontal center of each side. The point of intersection will be the center of that side.
If necessary, you should also take this time to fold the flaps of the open side into the box and out of the way.
 Carefully glue the paper squares onto each side of the box using a glue stick or hot glue gun.


Work on one side at a time, using the grid to guide you as you place the squares.
Remember to leave blank spaces for the eyes.
If using a glue stick, you'll need to apply glue to the entire back of each piece. If using a hot glue gun, only apply glue to the corners of each piece.
Allow all glue to dry before continuing to the next step.
 Find the blank spaces you left for the eyes. Use a craft knife or utility knife to cut out the cardboard there, creating eye holes.


Keep the sides straight by placing a ruler along each edge as you cut.
 Form a loop with heavy-duty packing tape and stick it to the top of a cap. Stick the other side of the tape to the center of box from inside.


The cap is not strictly necessary, but it can help the head stay stable on the wearer's head.
Make sure that front of the cap faces the face-side of the head.
 The Steve head should now be done and ready to wear.

