 This usually means “I'm in pain” or “I'm sick.” The baby will pause, then scream an entire lungful, and repeat the process. It's persistent, piercing, and unmistakable. If you hear this cry, go to the child immediately. Take their temperature to check for a fever. Check if they're arching their back or thrashing, which also signals pain.


Babies will also make this kind of cry after a recent vaccination. Check the injection area for swelling or other irritation not included in the normal side effects.Babies normally won't make a painful cry if they're teething or just trying to pass gas. In situations like these, they'll be more fussy than anything else.;
, This is a cry of discomfort or annoyance, as opposed to flat-out pain. Babies in this state often punctuate their cries in an “uh-uh-uh” pattern. They'll also wrinkle their noses, squeeze their eyes closed, and thrash their hands.Dirty diapers, the ambient temperature, and the texture of the child's clothing are just a few causes of the annoyed/uncomfortable cry., This is the telltale sign of hunger. Hungry babies also wiggle and make sucking motions with their mouths.Babies who fall asleep before the end of their meals might get hungry less than 90 minutes later.Overfed babies will cry because they're uncomfortable from their bloated stomachs. They'll usually utter the whiny and forced cry of discomfort. Spitting up is a telltale sign that they've had too much., This often means "I'm tired." The baby will cry, get distracted, and start back up again. Sleepy babies might have their eyes closed while they cry. They could also rub their eyes, which usually makes them red and puffy., This can often signal boredom or overstimulation. Babies uttering this cry will sometimes switch over to laughing or shrieking. They'll also try to avoid the object that's boring/overstimulating them by pushing it away or directing their attention somewhere else., Babies who have colic make high-pitched, dramatic cries for no apparent reason. They'll usually do this for at least three hours each day, at the same time everyday, and for at least three weeks. Babies usually develop colic when they're three weeks old and outgrow it between the ages of three and four months. Other symptoms of colic include:

Stomach bloating
Gas from swallowing too much air
Clenched fists
Reddened face