 Being assertive and powerful around others can help you gain self-confidence and self-esteem. It can also allow you to gain more acknowledgement and respect from others, in the workplace, at school, or at home. One way you can act powerful and assertive is to always use “I” statements when you speak to others.You should always try to use “I” statements during a discussion or argument, such as “I think you are wrong” or “I disagree with what you are saying.” This will be more effective and assertive than using “you” or “they,” such as “You are wrong,” or, “They don’t know what they’re talking about.”
You should also use “I” statements when you are stating your opinion or your thoughts. For example, you may say, “I think it’s important to be honest with each other,” or, “I believe the client should come first.”;
, You can also demonstrate your assertiveness in a positive way by using body language that is assertive and confident. Make sure you always stand straight and upright. You should also make regular eye contact and maintain a positive facial expression, such as a welcoming smile.You should also avoid wringing your hands, pulling on your clothing nervously, or picking at your face. Nervous ticks often as a sign of a lack of confidence.
It may help to practice assertive body language in front of a mirror at home so you can get comfortable presenting yourself in this way. If you are around someone who seems to demonstrate assertive body language, you may study her and try to mimic her gestures.
 A person who is confident and assertive will maintain firm control over his emotions and not let his anger show. Rather than scream, shout, or yell when you get upset or frustrated, try to take a deep breath and remain calm. Keep your voice even and firm when you speak to others to show you are in control of your emotions.If you feel your emotions are getting out of hand during a discussion at school or an argument at work, you may try excusing yourself and taking a timeout on your own. Letting your emotions settle and calming down alone can help you think about the issue and process it. Then, you can return to the discussion with a clear head and firm control of your emotions.

