 What this means is that, while your dog's immune system is busy fighting off the virus, it can become weakened and susceptible to bacterial infections. The antibiotics help to prevent this, and to ensure that your dog has the quickest recovery possible.
 The virus can be spread through droplets, so if your dog sneezes around other dogs, the infection can spread. Avoid public places with other dogs such as doggy daycare, doggy boarding places, and public dog parks. Although it can be a hassle to keep your dog at home, you would appreciate the same done by another dog owner if his or her pet was infected.


Make sure you wash your hands after touching your dog or anything that might be infected (your dog's food bowl, toys, bedding, etc.) and before you touch another dog.
If you work during the day and need care for your dog, consider hiring a dog walker for the duration of the illness.
They can stop in during the day to check in on your dog, and walk your dog while avoiding the need to go to a public place where other dogs could become infected.
 If you find that your dog is getting worse, or failing to show any signs of improvement after one week, bring them back to the vet for a follow-up examination. It could be that your dog needs additional care, and/or hospitalization in the more severe cases. Although this is rarely needed, it is best to see your vet and to be safe rather than sorry.



Watch for signs of dehydration, especially if your dog does not seem to be drinking much water.
Check to make sure your dog is not soiling themselves, especially if they are not moving from their bed.

Check your dog's temperature twice daily. A normal temperature is between 100 and 102.5°F (37.7 and 39.4°C).If your dog has an underlying health conditions, such as heart or kidney disease, then you will need to take extra measures to support them as they fight the infection. Work with the vet to ensure they are getting the necessary care, which may include staying at the veterinary clinic.

