 Press Start on the main screen and adjust your settings by going to Options and Gameplay. You set your difficulty for the story mode from Very Easy to Very Hard. If you know the game really well, set it to Very Easy. Confirm your settings and choose your story mode from Mortal Kombat to DC Universe.
 It has 7 chapters and 28 fights. It is shorter than the DC Universe story mode. It stars characters from Mortal Kombat. Get ready to fight your way through it!, His first fight is against Sub-Zero. His second fight is against Scorpion. His third fight is against the DC Universe character called The Flash. His fourth fight is against Shang Tsung., Her first fight is against the DC Universe character called Catwoman. Her second fight is against Baraka. Her third fight is against the DC Universe character called Captain Marvel. Her fourth fight is against the DC Universe character called Green Lantern., His first fight is against Sonya Blade. His second fight is against the DC Universe character Lex Luthor. His third fight is against the DC Universe character called Captain Marvel. His fourth fight is against the DC Universe character called Wonder Woman., His first fight is against Raiden. His second fight is against the DC Universe character called Deathstroke. His third fight is against the DC Universe character called Batman. His fourth fight is against Scorpion., His first fight is against the DC Universe character called The Joker. His second fight is against the DC Universe character called Wonder Woman. His third fight is against the DC Universe character called Superman. His fourth fight is against Kitana., His first fight is against the DC Universe character called Superman. His second fight is against Liu Kang. His third fight is against the DC Universe character called Green Lantern. His fourth fight is against Kano., His first fight is against Shang Tsung. His second fight is against Liu Kang. His third fight is against the DC Universe character called Superman. His fourth fight is against the ultimate boss called Dark Kahn., It has 8 chapters and 31 fights. It is longer than the Mortal Kombat story mode. It stars characters from DC Universe. Get ready to fight your way through it!, His first fight is against Deathstroke. His second fight is against Catwoman. His third fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Kano. His fourth fight is against Batman., His first fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Scorpion. His second fight is against The Joker. His third fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Liu Kang. His fourth fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Raiden., Her first fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Shang Tsung. Her second fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Kitana. Her third fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Sub-Zero. Her fourth fight is against Captain Marvel., His first fight is against Lex Luthor. His second fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Jax. His third fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Sonya Blade., His first fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Raiden. His second fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Scorpion. His third fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Baraka. His fourth fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Shang Tsung., His first fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Sonya Blade. His second fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Kano. His third fight is against Deathstroke. His fourth fight is against Batman., His first fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Sub-Zero. His second fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Scorpion. His third fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Jax. His fourth fight is against The Flash., His first fight is against Lex Luthor. His second fight is against Batman. His third fight is against the Mortal Kombat character called Raiden. His fourth fight is against the ultimate boss called Dark Kahn., You should take yourself to do something really nice after completing the story modes. For example, you eat tasty food or go to a special place. You should unlock 9 to 10 achievements or trophies after you finished the story modes.