 This recipe makes 11 ounces of sunscreen with an estimated SPF of 10 to 15:


1 cup Olive oil or other natural oil (grocery store)
1 oz (28 g) Pure beeswax (health food store or online)
1 to 2 tbsp USP grade zinc oxide or titanium dioxide powder (health food store, pharmacy or online)
Essential oil (optional);
, In addition to your ingredients, you’ll need the following tools for making the sunscreen. These tools should only be used for making sunscreen, as residual oxide powder could leech into your food and make you ill.


Saucepan
Heat-resistant glass jar (optional, if using double-boiler method)
Spoon for stirring
Gloves and face mask
Stove
Storage container with lid (glass jar, ceramic pot, or plastic bottle will do)

, If you’re using a gas stove, use a low flame. If you’re using an electric stove, set your element to a medium heat.









To ensure the integrity of the ingredients, you might try using a double-boiler method to melt them instead of placing them directly in the saucepan. This will also save you from having to only use your saucepan for making sunscreen.
To use the double-boiler method, heat an inch or two of water in a saucepan until it’s simmering, then mix the ingredients (NOT including the oxide powder) in a heat-resistant glass jar and place the jar upright into the water, allowing it to sit there until all of the ingredients are melted together.
 If it’s not already in pearls or broken into pieces, you’ll need to grate or chop the beeswax into small pieces before adding it to the oil. This will help it melt faster.









The beeswax makes the resulting product viscous, like a skin cream. It’s what holds the oxide in suspension so that it doesn’t all sink down to the bottom of the container.
For a thicker, heavier sunscreen, add more beeswax. For one that is lighter and smooths on more easily, add a little less beeswax., You want the ingredients to be completely melted together before you add the oxide powder.
 If you want to add a fragrance to your sunscreen via an essential oil, now is the time to do it. Lavender oil is a popular choice, and has a natural SPF of up to 6.








Just use a couple of drops to ensure that it’s not an overly strong or irritating smell, especially if you intend to use it on your face.
 Wear gloves and a face mask to protect you from coming in direct contact with the oxide powder. In particular, you want to protect yourself from inhaling it, which can be dangerous to your health.As an extra precaution you can also wear safety goggles, which will protect your eyes in case anything splashes up when you add the powder to the hot oil solution.
As you’ll be dealing with hot oil, make sure that the gloves you wear are heat-resistant and won’t melt if any oil splashes up on to them. Heat-resistant rubber gloves will work well. Just make sure they fit you well so that you can still use your hands without feeling clumsy.
 Add just a little bit at a time while constantly stirring to ensure that the mixture is well blended. The oxide powder must be evenly distributed throughout the mixture to make an effective sunscreen.









You can use either zinc oxide or titanium dioxide, although zinc oxide seems to be more common amongst DIY sunscreen makers.
Make sure the powder is USP grade, which means that it is suitable for food, drug, or medicinal use.
 Once everything is mixed together, remove the mixture from the stove and pour it into its storage container. Small mason jars with lids are highly recommended.









Depending on the thickness of your mixture, you might be able to get away with a squeeze bottle. A wide-mouthed jar will make it easier for you to stir the solution while it cools though, and less of the solution will be likely to go to waste.
If you’re pouring the mixture into a container with a narrow neck, use a pastry bag to squeeze the sunscreen through. It will likely be too thick for a funnel. Just make sure that the sunscreen isn’t still very hot while you do this lest you burn yourself.
 As the mixture cools, stir it every 5 to 10 minutes to ensure that the oxide powder remains evenly distributed throughout the mixture., Once the sunscreen is room temperature, you can put it on your skin. Note that the sunscreen should be opaque. If it looks translucent, the oxide has likely sunk to the bottom of the container.









The oxide can settle when the sunscreen is cooling. It can also sink to the bottom of the container if it is out in the heat for too long. It’s important to stir it or shake it up before use in these situations, so that you get the full protective benefits of the oxide.
 It’s best if you can use this, or any other homemade sunscreens, within six months of making it.Make sure you keep it in a cool, dry place.


If the sunscreen gets too hot or too cold, the ingredients might shift. If the oxide powder isn’t evenly distributed throughout the sunscreen, it will not be effective.
If the sunscreen melts or hardens, you will need to stir the sunscreen to evenly distribute the oxide powder once it’s back at room temperature and a regular thickness.
 Explore what recipes other DIY sunscreen makers are using. This will give you a sense of what ingredients are popular, and what ingredients you may want to use.
 One DIY sunscreen maker suggests the following recipe, which combines several different oils. Simply melt all of the ingredients EXCEPT the zinc oxide together, then add the zinc oxide, cool, and you’re done.1/2 cup Almond or olive oil
1/4 cup Coconut oil
1 tsp Red raspberry oil (optional)
1 tsp Carrot seed oil (optional)
1 tsp Vitamin E oil (optional)
A few drops of essential oils of your choosing (optional)
2 tbsp Shea butter
1/4 cup Beeswax
2 tbsp zinc oxide

, Once you’ve read or even tried other DIY sunscreen recipes, such as the ones in this article, you can add your own ingredients to the sunscreen to tailor it to your tastes.


As an example, you might add lavender oil and cut the beeswax content of the DIY recipes in this article for a lighter, lavender-scented sunscreen that easily smooths over your skin.
 The base oil is the oil that you will use the most of in your homemade sunscreen recipe. Popular base oils include olive oil (SPF 7-8), coconut oil (SPF 7), castor oil (SPF 6), and almond oil (SPF 5)., Popular essential oils to use in sunscreen include peppermint (SPF 7), tulsi (SPF 7), and lavender (SPF 6).Avoid citrus oils (e.g. Bergamot or Citron) as they will boost your chances of burning., Red raspberry seed oil is a popular choice amongst DIY sunscreen makers, who claim that it has an SPF of 25 to 50.You can add a small amount of it to your sunscreen to boost its SPF level.
 With an SPF of 35 to 40, carrot seed oil is a DIYer favorite.Try adding a small amount of carrot seed oil to your homemade sunscreen to enhance its SPF level.
 Shea butter is believed to have a natural SPF of 4 to 6. Adding it to your sunscreen will help thicken it. Shea butter is also a great moisturizer, and will leave your skin feeling soft and smooth.
 The most important ingredient in homemade sunscreen is oxide, which comes in the form of either zinc oxide or titanium dioxide. Both of these offer protection against UVA and UVB rays, and are an absolute must.


The more oxide you use in your sunscreen mixture, the more protection you’ll get. Sunscreens commonly come in concentrations of between 5% and 25% oxide.Both types of oxide are effective, but zinc oxide is believed to offer broader, more effective sun protection., The efficacy of your homemade sunscreen is not only based on your ingredients, but on the way in which you’ve made the sunscreen. This is the primary concern expressed by doctors when discussing DIY sunscreen.


Doctors worry that even if the ingredients are effective, the way in which they are mixed might undermine them. For instance, if your oxide powder isn’t properly blended with the rest of the ingredients, it might only protect your skin in patches, or worse, not at all.Doctors also warn that since DIY sunscreen makers don’t usually have labs or testing environments for their sunscreen, there is no scientific way to properly measure the level of UV protection their mixtures provide., SPF only measures the ability to block UVB rays, which are the rays that burn you. It does not protect against UVA rays, which are what age you. Both types of rays can cause skin cancer.To be properly protected, you must have a sunscreen that protects against booth UVA and UVB rays.
This is why it’s so important to have a good amount of oxide powder in your sunscreen. Zinc oxide in particular is good at blocking UVA and UVB rays., If you’re interested in boosting your skin’s natural protective barrier against the sun, there are foods that you can eat to help. Note that consuming these things is not enough to protect you from the sun. You must wear sunscreen.Cocoa, green and black tea, micro-algae (chlorella and spirulina), and carotenoids and antioxidants found in fruits and veggies are all great for boosting your skin’s natural ability to fight the sun’s harmful rays.
 As reports of dangerous chemicals in store-bought sunscreens have scared people off buying them, natural options have become more popular and affordable.


It’s now relatively easy to find sunscreen options that are organic, chemical free, and just as safe as your homemade concoction, with the added benefit of being lab-tested for UV protection.

