 The most effective place to measure the pulse is on the inside of the patient's wrist. With your middle and index fingers, feel around on the patient's wrist. The pulse is usually strongest on the thumb side. When you feel a strong, steady pulse, hold your fingers there.Be sure to never use your thumb to take the pulse. Your thumb has its own pulse and it could confuse you when you're taking a reading.
If you have trouble finding the pulse on the patient's wrist, try the base of the neck just below the jawline.Make sure you check on the side of the neck closest to you.
If you are trying to locate the pulse of a child, try under the armpit. With your fingers in the armpit, feel for the arm bone. When you find the arm bone, you should also feel the pulse.You may also be able to feel the pulse on the top of his foot.
If you are checking the pulse of an infant, try the crease of the elbow. If the infant is on his back, or if you can turn him onto his back without harming him, lay one of his arms at his side with the inner-arm facing up. Use your fingers to locate the brachial pulse in the crease of his elbow.This also works on children.;
, When you've located the pulse, then count every beat you feel. Using either a watch or a timer on your phone, do this for 1 minute.If you have trouble keeping count for a minute, you could alternatively count the pulse for 15 seconds and multiply the number of beats by four.
If someone else is nearby, it helps to have one person measure the pulse and one keep time. That way you won't lose count trying to do both at once.
 Once you've recorded the heart rate, you have to assess the results to see if there are any problems. A normal pulse rate for a healthy adult is usually in the range of 60 to 100 beats per minute. If the person is exhibiting symptoms like fatigue, dizziness, headaches, and shortness of breath and his pulse falls outside of this range, seek medical attention.Pulses can vary based on age, sex, and level of physical activity. In fact, many athletic people will have a heart rate lower than 60, as their hearts are in good condition and don't need to work as hard to pump blood throughout the body. Children's pulses usually range between 80 to 160. An infant's pulse may be up to 120., Basic first aid covers a multitude of possible conditions. Some situations don't require medical attention or taking vital signs. Others require immediate medical attention. The American College of Emergency Physicians advises that any one of the following conditions can characterize a medical emergency, and you should get medical help.Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath
Chest or upper abdominal pain or pressure lasting two minutes or more
Fainting, sudden dizziness, or weakness
Skin that suddenly turns pale or grey, or lips that are blue
Changes in vision
Difficulty speaking
Confusion or changes in mental status, unusual behavior, difficulty walking
Any sudden or severe pain
Uncontrolled bleeding
Severe or persistent vomiting or diarrhea
Coughing or vomiting blood
Unusual abdominal pain

, If you've assessed the situation and determine that there is a medical emergency present, you should seek medical attention before doing anything else.If you are unable to make the call yourself, be sure to tell one specific person to do so.
If you're unsure of the patient's exact condition, contact an emergency response team an get to the hospital in an ambulance.
First state your location, then your situation. The responders need to know where you are before all else.
If you know you can get to the hospital quickly, know the way by heart, and are certain the patient's condition won't get worse on the way, you can try to drive to the emergency room. If you have already alerted emergency services and you choose to move the person, remember to update the first responders of your decision to do so and your position as you approach the hospital.
Never attempt to move a patient if she has a spinal or neck injury. Always call an ambulance if you suspect this type of injury., Before taking the pulse, check to see if the patient is breathing. If she is breathing, you can move on to taking the pulse.Extend the patients neck so that her chin is pointing up.
Listen at her mouth for breathing.
Watch her chest for proper rise and fall of the lungs.
If the patient has stopped breathing, you may need to perform CPR. The procedure is different for adults and children, so you should know how to do both. Taking a class is a great way to learn to do CPR.
Check out the wikiHow articles on How to Do CPR on an Adult and How to Do CPR on a Child to prepare.
 After you've contacted emergency medical personnel and ensured that the patient is breathing, then you can begin checking the patient's vital signs.


If possible, have the patient sit up. If he is unconscious or you suspect a neck or spinal injury, do not attempt to move the patient. Take the pulse as best you can in the position the patient is in.
Remember to record the beats per minute and what time it was to tell the EMTs when they arrive. This will ensure that they know what they're dealing with and can provide the best care possible.
Also record the strength of the pulse. If you can barely detect the pulse, it would be categorized as weak. If the pulse is very powerful, the heart is beating too forcefully. Let the medical staff know if the pulse seems abnormally weak or strong., Even if the injury seems relatively minor, a patient's condition can change very quickly. Keep monitoring the pulse until help arrives, writing down the beats per minute and what time it was when you took the measurement. If there are any dramatic changes, it could indicate that the original injury was worse than you thought.

