 Cats are emotional creatures. Cats can feel lonely, bored, frightened, or stressed. They show stress in a variety of ways, from vocalizing to forgetting their toilet habits. By taking the time to observe your cat you, will hopefully begin to see patterns to their behaviors and be able to more fully understand your cat companion.
 Not surprisingly, most cat owners know how important the litterbox is to keeping all family members, including the cat, happy. When a cat stops using the litterbox to urinate, it can become a major issue and may put the cat out of his or her home.


There are many reasons why a cat may fail to use the litter box. It may be as simple as the cat not liking its litter, either the texture or smell. Most cats prefer an unscented litter. An elderly cat may not be able to get into the box due to arthritis. The box may be overly dirty and need to be scooped and cleaned (with soap and water) more frequently. A sudden noise, a dog, or some other noise or animal may have scared the cat while using the litter box.
In a multiple cat household, a dominant cat may be keeping a submissive cat from using the box. In these cases, it is always wise to have one more litter box than number of cats. If you have two cats, you’ll need three boxes. The litter boxes should be in different spots to keep the dominant cat from guarding the boxes., Urinating in odd spots, like the owner’s bed, chair, or on plastic bags, may indicate your cat has a urinary tract infection or other serious diseases. This can also occur when the owner has been away for several days indicating distress at your absence. If your cat does suddenly start urinating outside the box, it is best to consult with your veterinarian to rule out any medical causes for this behavior., Cats actually scratch because they find it enjoyable and in order to manicure their claws.Because scratching is so important to cats, you can't really get them to stop doing it. The best way to get a cat to stop scratching your favorite chair or sofa is to redirect their attention.


Give your cat a scratching post and entice it to use the post by scenting it with catnip and toys. If your cat doesn't like the scratching post, it might not be the right texture. Try attaching a different texture fabric and see if your cat likes to scratch that better.

