


Before you start gathering supplies, you may decide that you do not want to invoke any spirits alone. If you are scared or worried of the possibility of becoming possessed, then asking at least one other friend to join you is the best route to go.;
,


Things you will need are a Ouija board, some kind of candles for light (spirits tend to like darkness), a piece of paper and pen (for writing down letters off of board), and a preferred place to conduct the invoking. Make sure you have all your supplies before starting because you don't want to have to stop if you forgot something important.



Once you have all your supplies and your friend or friends, you need to set everything up. Clear a place on a coffee table, or floor if you prefer, and place Ouija board on surface facing up and open. Place the planchette provided in center of board. This is the triangular hand tool. Place candles around you nearby in safe places that won't be disturbed. Check around you to make sure there are no sharp objects nearby that can be used as projectiles in the event of accidentally upsetting a spirit (this can happen and has). Light all candles and turn off lights.



If you want you can decide whether you would like to contact a lost loved one or just a random spirit that happens to be listening nearby. All friends should now place at least two fingers on the planchette and say the loved one's name out loud asking him/her to come forth. While you are doing these steps you and your friends need to move the planchette around in a circular motion consistently. If you are wanting a random spirit, just ask is there anyone out there listening?

,


Common questions to use can be: What is your name? How did you die? How many people are in this room? How old are you? What is it like to be dead? You may also ask any other personal questions you may have if you are contacting a lost loved one.



Sometimes it can take only minutes or even up to an hour for movement and responses. Just be patient and soon enough you should see results. When contact is finally made, the spirit will move the planchette and respond to your questions by spelling out the words using the letters on the board. This is where your paper and pen come handy. You can spell out words and sentences to help you communicate and keep track of conversation. If for some reason you are unable to make any contact just keep repeating the above steps. It is unusual to not get any responses at all but it can happen sometimes.



If you are unlucky and get nothing, don't be sad, and try again later.

