 Your clothes should fit well, look neat, and be a little on the classier side. Dressing to flatter your body shape is a simple way to look prettier.If you have a circle shape (sometimes called an apple shape) avoid clothing that draws attention to your midsection, like high-rise pants or belts. Slim cut pants, shift dresses, and tunic tops are good choices if you have a circle shape.If you have a triangle shape – wider at the hips than at the shoulders or torso – avoid oversize clothing, skinny jeans, and any flimsy, body-hugging fabrics. Wide leg pants, tailored jackets, and boat neck tops will flatter your body.If you have an hourglass shape, with a larger chest, narrow waist and full hips, avoid styles without a lot of shape, like boxy dresses, tunics, or oversize cardigans. You should favor high-waisted pants, wrap dresses, and v-neck tops.If you have a rectangle-shaped body (sometimes called a boy shape), avoid tight dresses which emphasize your shape and any tops that aren’t structured. Boots cut pants and a fitted jacket will favor your body type., Being pretty is often about looking put together – like you spent some time thinking about your look before you left the house. How you do this depends a lot on your personal style, but doing things like making sure your hair is brushed and styled, or that you’re wearing a few cute accessories, or that you’ve really worked on dressing to flatter your body type can all help.
 It’s easy to run some product through your hair or just throw it up in a ponytail before you run out of the door in the morning. But paying attention to your hair is an easy way to look prettier. Experiment with your hair to find easy, go-to styles for your length and texture.


If you get in a pinch during the day and you find your hair is starting to frizz, you can add a small amount of your moisturizer to your hair., Everyone has different preferences for how they like their makeup to look. But applying just some basic foundation, mascara, and concealer can make you look prettier. Use your fingers to apply your foundation for a sheerer look or a brush for more coverage. Brush some loose finishing powder to your T-zone - down your nose and across your forehead - to prevent oil from coming through your foundation.You can prepare your eyelids for any type of look by using a matte eyeshadow that matches the lightest part of your skin - usually your neck. Brush this shadow on your lid, in your crease, and up to your brow bone. You can also use an actual eye makeup base for this as well., Confidence is really attractive, and one of the easiest ways to exude confidence is by improving your posture. When you're standing, put your shoulders back, and look straight ahead (not at the floor). If you're sitting, try to resist the temptation of hunching over your desk or table. Instead, pretend like there's a string that goes through the top of your head and down your spine, and that that string is always pulled tight.You’ll be surprised how much better you feel and look if you improve your posture.