 Plan what type of Pokémon you want. The perfect Pokémon will know the moves to fend off its weakness while normally fighting other Pokémon. Use Pokémon books or online references to research the different types of Pokémon and figure out which ones you want.;
, Search tall grass or water. Look for people in-game that want to trade. This is a great way to find rare Pokémon. Trade with friends that have Pokémon games, especially if they have the version opposite yours. This is an easy way to get Pokémon that you are unable to attain. For example, if you have Leaf Green and you want a Tyranitar, go find someone who has Fire Red! Natures are important too. If you decide to go with your starter, save and reload until you get the nature you think will be the most adequate. (This is a smart thing to do with any other Pokémon you decide upon as well, however, since you are not guaranteed any Pokémon for your effort, it might take even longer than with the starter!)

, Get all stats up with Vitamins such as Protein. Don't feed it what it doesn't need. Doing so will give a Pokémon 10 EV points in that stat, until it reaches 100 EVs, which is the highest you can reach with medicine. This is where EV-TRAINING plays a part! EVs, or Effort Values, are stat modifiers that improves different stats depending on which Pokémon you defeat in battle. For instance, a Pidgey gives a +1 EV point to Speed, whilst a Staraptor gives +3 EV points to Attack. Every 4 EVs in a particular stat is equal to 1 point in that stat. Also, every Pokémon is capable of having a maximum of 510 EVs with a maximum of 255 EVs in any one stat. Since neither 510 nor 255 are divisible by four, having 252 EVs in one stat is the most beneficial to you. Use this for your benefit, and train the stats you'd like to increase against Pokémon that gives the correct EVs.
 A Pokémon that hasn't evolved, or a Pokémon that doesn't evolve at all, gives 1 EV point. A 1rst stage evolution Pokémon gives 2 EV points, and a 2nd stage evolution Pokémon gives 3 EV points, along with legendary Pokémon. Items like a Macho Brace double the EVs earned in battle, and the elusive Pokerus, should you be so lucky to ever experience it, double EV gain too.
 Individual Values are quite important too. As you probably have noticed by now, each Pokémon has different stats, even if it is the same type and has the same nature! This is because of some numbers called Individual Values. Unlike EVs, there are NO WAY to change them once you have obtained the Pokémon. These numbers range from 0 to 31, telling you the quality of the Pokémon’s stats, 0 being the weakest, 31 being the best of them all. They are essentially the same as up to 31 extra points in each stat, which is why they might be so freaking important. The best way to get good IVs is to breed Pokémon that you already know has some good IVs in a particular stat. However, since this will take quite the time to explain, just Google it until you find the answers you need on this subject. Smogon, Bulbapedia, Serebii, the choice is yours. It is possible to win any Pokémon-game with a team consisting of 6 high-leveled Magikarps, so this will most likely not matter at all for you.
 Know its weaknesses and teach it moves that can be used to hit Super Effective on the other Pokémon. Try to teach super tough moves like Earthquake. Teach moves that suit the Pokémon. Note that if an attacking move is used by a Pokémon of the same type, it will be significantly more powerful, thanks to Same Type Effect Bonus (STAB), which can be useful.
 Train it to level 100! Simple and straight forward. Depending on which game you are playing, you may not want to use Rare Candies all the way to level 100; if you do, it might lose the possibility to gain EVs. That is 126 stat points lost at lvl 100. If you want to be safe, make sure you have finished EV training it until you finish leveling it to lvl 100 (normally, since a lot of battling is required to reach lvl 100 without Rare Candy-ing it, these will fill completely up by themselves).
 Some special moves can only be learned by breeding. For example, get a Light Ball, a Male Pikachu/Raichu and Female Pikachu/Raichu, give the female the Light Ball, and put them both in the Day Care. The hatched Pichu will have Volt Tackle.

