 Find one of your parents and ask them if they can walk you to school. They can help you find a good walking route. This way you can spend some time with them before you go to school and they go to work.


If you are between four and six years of age, walk to school with one of your parents or a guardian.If you are between seven and nine years of age, you may feel more independent but you should still walk to school with a guardian.If you are ten years or older, you may be able to walk to school on your own. Start by walking the route with your parents or a guardian and then ask them if you can walk the route on your own.You might ask your parents: “Can you walk me to school tomorrow morning? I want to learn the route to school so I can eventually walk to school on my own. Maybe we can walk together tomorrow?”;
, Ask your parents if you can walk to school with a neighborhood friend and their parents.If your parents are busy in the morning, it might be best to walk to school with one of your neighborhood friends and their parents. Make sure you have permission from your parents to walk to school with them.
 A walking school bus is a group of friends, neighbors and guardians walking to school together. You will be walking to school with a small or large group of people, so you can talk to your friends or neighbors while walking to school. Ask your parents if there is a walking school bus in your neighborhood that you can join.You might tell your parents: “I heard about a walking school bus that leaves at eight o'clock in the morning from the church. Can I join the walking school bus?”

, If you are ten years or older and are very familiar with your route to school, your parents might let you walk to school on your own or with a friend.Ask your parents if you can walk to school on your own.


You might say, “I have been walking the same route to school for three years. I know the route very well now. The crossing guard knows me and I always look both ways before crossing the street. Can I walk to school on my own now?”

