 (Of course, your word would logically have followed information indicating or naming of whom or about what you were talking.) The chosen word would need to agree with its "subject/topic" to which you refer., The place can be either concrete ("over here or there by the building") or more abstract ("it must be difficult to be there in your mind")., There plus a "to be" verb such as "are" indicates the existence of something mentioned.


"There are antiques here -- where? Look there. Oh, and, see here we've found them!"
"Are there many of the documents stored here? Yes, see them here, where they are safe. Do you see where they are -- right over there!?"
"There will be a picnic here, and there is a monstrous campground over there across the river. There is one of the places where they are staying tonight."

, Compare to "heir" -- to inherit possessions as "an heir of their uncle who had no children." Their is a possessive adjective and indicates that a particular noun belongs to them."Sam and Jan are heirs of their parents' land and possessions as "their legal heirs"."
"Their things were broken." Compare "Our things were broken." Yes, it shows possession.
"I see their flowers are blooming in their garden." "Yes, from the seeds their grandmother gave to them last fall."

, It is not a modifier, but only a pronoun (for a name of who or what) plus the contraction " 're" of the verb "are" (a state of being verb).They're my friends." Check that " They are my friends." makes sense. Yes!
I would go with you, but they're going to take me. Check, " they are going to take me". Yes!

, Ask yourself these questions, but they may not work in a few cases:

For there, will the sentence still make sense, if you replace "there" with here or where? If so, it's right.
For their, will the sentence still make sense -- if you replace "their" with our (to see whether it is a possessive sentence), but of course that test phrase would change to whom it belongs. Ours belongs to us, but theirs belongs to them. Still, if "our" fits logically it is right because it is possessive.
For they're, will the sentence still make sense, if you replace "they're" with they are? If so, it's right, but if not, then they're is the wrong word.
 By looking over others' work with a critical eye, especially by offering proofreading or copyediting help, you can become more sensitized to correct usage and practice it yourself.


Wrong: Their is no one here.
Wrong: Shelley wants to know if there busy.
Wrong: The dogs are happily chewing on they're bones.
RIGHT: I can't believe they're leaving their children there, alone!

, Get your English teacher or friend to say several sentences aloud that include one of these three words and write down which version they are using. Find grammar quizzes on the internet.Hire a private English tutor if you're still having trouble.

