 Timing is everything, as the old saying goes. "Make time for a casual exchange when both of you aren't preoccupied with something else."


Try to get him alone. If he's surrounded by friends, he might respond based on their presence, and not based on how he actually feels. Don't worry if you can't catch him alone, though — just quietly ask if he has a minute to chat privately.
Don't rush. You don't want to be nervous or hurried. Asking him as you're trying to sprint to class, or he's on his way to an appointment, is a recipe for disaster. Instead, choose a time when you have some flexibility, like after school or at lunch.
Pay attention to his mood. If he seems particularly grumpy or quiet, it might be best to wait for another chance.;
, This may feel tough, but it can be surprisingly simple. An open-ended question (that does not have a "yes/no" answer) is a safe place to start.


Ask about his upcoming plans. ("What are you doing this weekend? I wanted to....")
Ask his thoughts on a common experience (teacher, friend, class, etc.). ("Did you see...? I thought that was...! What did you think?")

, Open, attentive positioning will get your point across — perhaps without even saying it.



Lock eyes. Eye contact will tell him that you are listening to him and you care. Shying away from eye contact shows you're nervous and less approachable.
Posture. Make sure your body is open and pointed toward him. Tilt your hips toward him (if standing) and make sure your arms aren't crossed.

Touch. Make excuses to touch him in appropriate, light ways. The bond of human touch subconsciously puts humans more at ease. Lightly lay your hand on his forearm as you're talking, or gently bump into his side if you're walking together.
Mirror his positioning. Getting into a physical groove with him will tell him you are similar. Humans are programmed to seek out those like us.
 Always, always, always smile. Not only will it make him happier to be around you, it'll up your mood, too!

, When the big reveal comes, remember to relax! After all, he's just one person, like you. Here's how to get through it with grace:


A non-threatening idea is to pad it with another statement:

"Sarah was asking who I thought would go to State this year. I told her I liked you and thought you'd make it."
"You failed the history exam? Oh, that sucks! I didn't do too great, either. But don't worry, I still really like you."


If you're good friends, a more straight-forward approach is fine:

"We have tons of fun together. I like you so much."
You may want to ask it back: "I think I'm starting to like you. Do you feel the same?"



, Be prepared for what he says, good or bad. If he's a decent person, he won't want to hurt your feelings.


If he doesn't like you back, that's fine. You were brave for trying! Be proud of yourself. To avoid feeling awkward, leave on a happy note:

"I understand. I still want to be friends, though. You're so funny!"
"I have to get home; I just wanted to let you know. I'll see you in gym! I'll kick your butt in basketball tomorrow!"


If he doesn't give you a definite response, revisit the conversation at a later date. He may need time to figure out how he feels. Give the subject space and revisit it in a few days.
If he says he likes you back, stay cool. This is not the time to attack him with your kisses. Smile, continue the conversation, and find a time you two are free to spend together.

