 If you do not want to have a child, you and your date should discuss ways to avoid pregnancy. Non-hormonal contraception prevents sperm from fertilizing the egg without introducing hormones into the female body. Spermicides, sponges, and condoms are all examples of non-hormonal contraceptives. Male condoms are widely used, relatively cheap, and easy to find. They are 97% effective against pregnancy and can also protect against sexually transmitted diseases or infections.Ask your date if they have a preference for a certain type of non-hormonal contraceptive method.


Try saying, “I’ve got spermicide, does that work for you?” You may agree or disagree with your date’s suggestion. Be sure to communicate the method that feels most safe to you. You might say, “We can use spermicide, but I’d also like to use a condom because it provides a physical barrier.”

, Hormonal contraception is an option for women who feel comfortable introducing hormones into the body that block sperm from fertilizing an egg. Nearly all hormonal birth control methods are at least 99% effective when used consistently and correctly.Hormonal birth control is often used with a barrier method, like a condom, for extra protection against pregnancy.


Tell your date if you are already using hormonal contraception. This can serve as reassurance for someone who is concerned about an unwanted pregnancy. You might say, “By the way, I’m on the pill, so we don’t have to worry too much about pregnancy.”
If you are man, consider asking your date if she is using any hormonal contraception. Try saying, “Hey, are you on any birth control? I was just wondering if there would be any backup so you don’t get pregnant.”

, Although birth control methods such as condoms and the pill can be very effective if used together, neither are 100% guaranteed to work. It may be appropriate to talk about what you would do in the event of an unplanned pregnancy.


If contraception fails, you can purchase an emergency contraception pill. Some emergency contraception pills can be taken up to five days after unprotected sex. You can also have an IUD (Intrauterine Device) inserted as emergency contraception.Emergency contraception can have risks if you have certain health problems. If you have health conditions that require you to avoid estrogen, you should search for a pill that is made only of progestin. You should not use emergency contraception if you know that you are pregnant.