 If you tease people a lot, for no reason, you have to stop this. No one likes a girl who teases people for no reason. Say "Yes please." and "No thank you." is one shot. Also, try to smile a lot. Don't talk behind people's back. If your friends or anyone's encouraging you to gossip about people, stop yourself from it by just saying 'i think he/she (the person you're gossiping about) is just fine. let it be, don't be so mean' and walk away. Never talk back to your parents. Maintain good relationships with your classmates, friends, teachers and parents! This might be hard if you've already started lots of problems with them.;
, Argue positively! If the argument's going to the negative side, just walk away.
 This is really bad as it kills you slowly and encourages people to talk behind your back as well.

Do not consume drugs.
Research shows that high alcohol consumption in teenage alters the brain of teenagers.
This will be highly affecting your brain/







, No one likes it, when you're just being so annoying so try to avoid yelling, screaming, running around and laughing too loud.
 Don't even speak a word about them. Remember, a classy girl is educated and educated people never looks back at their 'followers'.
 This gets rid of dirt on your body and it keeps your skin hydrated. Try to shower before school, and at 5.00 pm just after you do things, and you want to relax.
 This is the most important part of all! As it keeps your brain active all day and keeps your skin amazing!

, Never leave your workplace look messy and always keep a small binder with you everywhere! Keep your worksheets in a file!

, Do them favors and help them if you can. Don't be that girl who just watches people in misery and leaves them alone. Help them if they fell or if your mom needs some help in the kitchen.
 If you asked your mom to go somewhere and you promised her to go home by 8.00 pm, don't go over 8.00 pm! Notify your mom whether you're doing this, or that, or this.
 You might be good at singing, or dancing, or playing guitar, or making videos, or editing photos, and join a club!

, Study well this age. This teenage you will decide your life till your death that whether you are Bill Gates or whether you are a Kasabian or whether you are Justin Bieber.
 If anyone judges you or says bad things about you, remember you are educated by your parents and tell them, 'I don't need to know such things. I don't need to know your opinions about me' and then smile, and walk away! Don't take it too seriously! They're just doing that because they want to be like you but they failed!

, Just spill them to the ones you trust, which is your best friends. Who knows if they can help you go through things?


Don't gossip.
 Don't eat too much junk food!

, Find things in common with new people!

, This is a big NO. if you are angry, all you have to do is just to count from 1 to 10, and splash yourself some water in the bathroom.
 Don't scratch, don't pick, don't brush insects off your hands, don't rub your knee if you bump it, do not touch yourself.
 Don't make him annoyed around you! Treat him something once and talk to him! Don't be that shy! Also stare at him for about 3-4 seconds, then look away! Smile around him a lot and get to know his friends! If you both have a hobby or activity in common, try to come up with a clever plan to arrange a date consisting your common activity.
, You can be on social media like twitter, instagram, facebook, about me and many more.
 Not too high, nor too low but always think positively about yourself and never cease to go for what you want.

