 No one wants to search for something, click on a promising result, and then see that the webpage's content is irrelevant to the original search. This is why it’s important that your webpage's content (text, photos, videos, etc.) is relevant to your webpage's title and metadata.


Summarize what a searcher will find with the page title.
Introduce the page topic right away with no "fluff" or filler. This allows for quick engagement and it doesn’t waste the searcher's time.
Take inspiration from others who are ranking well and are receiving a lot of quality clicks if you are having trouble creating content for a page or a blog post.;
, Nobody wants to sift through paragraphs to find what they want.


Format your content with the reader's time in mind.
Use subheadings, bulleted lists, and numbered steps with clear titles to allow the reader to easily jump to page sections that matter the most to them.
 A broken link can stop a Google crawler from indexing your website, which can result in poor performance on search engines. This also affects user experience, because no one likes clicking on a page that can't be found.


Know your sitemap. This is a directory of every page on your website. Search engines use your sitemap to crawl and index your website.
Use Google’s Search Console tool to find any broken links on your site and meet with your web developer to fix any problems.
Use social media and email to share direct links to your awesome content so your audience has easy access.
 While pop-ups can work, they should be used with caution. Some visitors can be turned off by them, as it feels like a business is forcing its products on you.


Put a cookie on your website to track who is a returning visitor and target the pop-ups for those who are new to your site.
Use simple design and compelling call to action, while not asking for too much information so that you don’t seem to be imposing on a visitor's privacy.
 Considering the popularity of mobile browsing, this is extremely important. A “responsive” website is a website that offers easy reading, navigation, and an optimal viewing experience with minimal resizing, panning, and scrolling.


Check to see if your website is mobile-friendly by using Google’s Mobile Friendly Test Tool. If your site is not mobile-friendly, get in touch with your webmaster.
 47 percent of consumers expect a web page to load in two seconds or less, and 40 percent of people abandon a website that takes more than three seconds to load.


Make page sizes smaller by decreasing the amount of pictures and videos, as well as text. Spread this out over multiple pages and include links.
 There is a right and a wrong way to use color and images when it comes to website design. A poor design can negatively affect your user’s experience.


Read up on the psychology of color.
Make sure that you are not utilizing too many colors on your website. A good rule of thumb is to use only around three or four colors within your color scheme.
Use only images that represent your business’s image accurately. This allows searchers to have a quick idea of what you’re all about.

