 Protector is a kind of evolution-inducing held item, and it kind of looks like the roof of a barn house. These kinds of in-game items trigger the evolution process of certain Pokémon when a particular event happens—such leveling up, trading, or winning a battle—while holding it. The places where you can get a Protector vary depending on the version of the game you’re playing:


Diamond, Platinum, and Pearl—Can be obtained inside the Iron Island and on Route 228.
HeartGold and SoulSilver—Can be obtained inside Mount Mortar.
Black and White—Can be obtained on Route 11 and 13.
Black 2 and White 2—Can be obtained inside the Antique Shop on Join Avenue, inside the Black City, and the Wellspring Cave.
X and Y—Can be obtained inside the Battle Maison and Lost Hotel.
Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire—Can be bought at the Battle Resort.
Sun and Moon—Can be obtained from Kiawe's father in Paniola Town.
To get the Protector, you need to walk around the areas mentioned above. When you step on the hidden area where the item is, a message will appear on the screen saying “Your character has found a Protector,” and the item will be added to your Pocket/Bag.;
, Open your bag, select the Protector from your inventory, and choose Rhydon from the list of Pokémon you can give it to.
 Go to any Pokémon Center inside the game, and talk to the non-playable character inside that is in charge of the game’s Global Trade Station (GTS). In Pokémon X, Y, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire, the GTS can be accessed by tapping the GTS option in the Player Search System (PSS) on the bottom screen. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, the GTS can be accessed by pausing and tapping the Festival Plaza option on the bottom screen, then tapping Trade and selecting the GTS option.


GTS is a feature available to newer versions of the game that allows players to trade Pokémon with each other.
 Talk to one of your friends, and ask him to trade Pokémon with you. Select Rhydon from the list, and trade it with any Pokémon your friend has. Once the other player receives Rhydon, it will evolve into its third and final form, Rhyperior.
 After the evolution is done, reverse the trading process and ask your friend or another player to trade Rhyperior back to you.


This step is optional, and you can skip this if you don’t want to get Rhyperior back.

