 You can be emotionally abused by a partner, a parent, a friend, or anyone you are close to or who has power over you. Verbal abuse expert Patricia Evans defines the following 15 categories of abuse:Withholding. If a loved one does not share feelings, thoughts, or any intimate information with you, especially when you solicit it, she is withholding.
Blocking or diverting. This is a form of withholding in which the abuser chooses all the topics of conversation. She may tell you that you are talking too much or complaining too much.
Countering. Countering is unnecessary argumentation. This is when someone tries to dismiss or "disprove" your feelings, thoughts, and opinions on a regular basis.
Discounting. If you are told you are too sensitive, too dramatic, "making a big deal out of nothing," too serious, or too immature, you are being discounted. Your judgment and self-preservation are being attacked.
Abusive joking. If someone makes jokes that upset you or hurt your feelings, she is being abusive by joking. If you express your feelings and she says, "It was just a joke," she is using a form of discounting.
Blaming and accusing. If someone blames you for things that are not your fault, accuses you of doing things you did not do, this is an abusive behavior. Many abusers can't stand taking responsibility for their own failures, and will take their anger out on you.
Judging and criticizing. If someone constantly puts you down by criticizing you or putting a negative spin on your actions, she is being abusive. These statements tend to start with "You," as in, "You're getting fat," or, "The reason you don't have any friends is you have nothing to say in conversations."
Trivializing. An abuser will attempt to diminish you by making light of your work, your pleasures, and your choices. If you are proud of something and someone responds with "Isn't that pretty standard?" she is trivializing.
Undermining. If someone takes issue with everything you say, questions your authority constantly, and never takes your word, she is undermining you.
Threatening. Threats of violence to you are abuse, even if they are never followed through on. Someone threatening to hurt herself "because of you" is a common form of abuse designed to control you. Threats without violence are also common, such as a someone saying that you will be broadly judged if you don't follow her advice.
Name-calling. Someone who insults you by calling you names, expletives, and words that imply you are oversensitive is abusing you. Names like "Idiot," "Crazy," "Ugly," or statements like "You're acting like the victim," or, "You think you're so special," are verbal abuse.
Forgetting. If someone consistently forgets things that are important to you, this is a form of abuse, as she should have made the effort to remember.
Giving orders. If someone tells you to do things, demands anything, or otherwise bosses you, this is verbal abuse.
Denial. If your abuser denies her abuse and rationalizes it instead of listening to you and caring about the effect she has on you, she is engaging in denial.
Anger. This kind of abuse involves yelling, screaming, getting suddenly agitated, or using physical force.
 If you are in an abusive situation, or if you think you might be, speak to a professional. You will need the perspective of a licensed therapist or counselor to sort out your feelings. If you are worried about expense, look for a social worker or call your insurance to see what options you have.If a potentially abusive family member is willing, go to therapy together. A family member who is willing to go to therapy with you may be able to break out of abusive patterns.
If your partner offers to enroll in anger management, ask for therapy instead. Anger management does not help with abuse., A common symptom of abuse is that you become isolated from your support network. Make regular dates with friends, and stay in touch with friends and family members you love. Be honest with your friends and family about your home situation. Maintain your own life: you shouldn't feel forced to share all friends and activities with your partner or other abusive loved one., If your child or a child you know is being verbally abused, don't just stand by. Verbal abuse has devastating longterm effects on children, and often escalates to physical abuse.

If you think you know a child who is being verbally abused, you can call (800) 422-445 for advice.
If you are certain a child is being verbally abused, report the abuser to your local Child Protective Services (CPS).
 If you realize you are living with an abuser, and your situation is not improving, leave. If you feel endangered, leave. If you have children, leave. If the abuse becomes physical, leave. If you are ready to leave, leave.


If you think you might want to leave eventually, start saving money and alert some trusted friends.
If you have nowhere to go, or if you just need help, call a local domestic abuse program. They might be able to locate a shelter for you where you can stay until you relocate away from the abuser.
Call the domestic abuse hotline for advice on where to go and how to do it.(1−800−799−7233), or visit their website: http://www.thehotline.org/


