 Sometimes, a person nears to hear their comment was inappropriate. If someone makes a comment that hurts your feelings, tell them directly what they did wrong. People who tease others for their weight are often taken aback to be called out on their behavior.Be very frank. Turn to the person and say something like, "There is nothing funny about what you said. It's extremely rude to comment on my weight and I do not appreciate it."
You can also ask the person questions about their behavior. For example, "Why do you feel the need to put down my body? What good does that do for you?", Not everyone who calls you fat is trying to hurt your feelings. While this does not justify the behavior, some people think their comments may be helpful to your health and well-being. Make it clear this is not the case if you believe someone is trying to help you with their comments.Say something like, "I appreciate your concern, but my health is between me and my doctor. If I ever wanted diet or nutrition advice, that's who I would ask."
If the person persists, say something like, "You know, this really is not an appropriate conversation and I don't appreciate it."

, No two bodies are the same, and you should remind others this is something to celebrate. Show them you are proud of your body and they may be less likely to harass you. Say something like, "I like my body the way it is, even if you don't. I'm happy with who I am, so your opinion does not matter much to me.", If you're dealing with a friend or loved one who is calling you fat, establish firm boundaries for the future. No one should have to put up with someone constantly putting down their weight.Let the person know what kind of behavior you will not tolerate in your relationship. For example, say something like, "Commenting on my weight is not okay and I'm not going to put up with it. I especially will not tolerate being called names, like fat."
Remind the person of your boundaries as necessary as time goes on. For example, if the person makes a comment about your weight again, say something like, "We talked about this. Those comments are not appreciated."

