 If your dog is pregnant and expecting a litter of puppies, the first thing you should do is visit a veterinarian. The vet will inform you about any congenital conditions that your dog may have due to its breed. They will also run through what to expect during the pregnancy and tell you how you can help. Later on the in the pregnancy, you may want to have the veterinarian do an ultrasound to check on the puppies. This will also give you an idea of how many to expect.Do not vaccinate your dog during pregnancy, which can hurt the unborn puppies.
 It is important that you create a safe space for your dog to give birth. A whelping box will create a den-like atmosphere that will help your dog feel more secure and comfortable. You can construct the box out of most materials just as long as it is easy for your dog to access, big enough for your dog and in a quite location.You may want to cover the box with a blanket once your do has had her puppies. This may make the box feel more like a den.
Because the birth can be messy, consider keeping the whelping box in a the garage or other place that is easy to clean.
 Typically, your dog should be able to nurse the puppies once they are born. However, she may have issues providing enough milk. This will require that you hand feed the puppies. In case this happens, you should have a syringe and some replacement formula handy. You can also buy a full nursing kit that includes formula, syringes and other newborn supplements., Once you realize that your dog is having puppies and know how many to expect, arrange to give them away. Place adds online or talk to your friends and family about adopting your puppies. Be prepared to take care of the puppies until they find homes. You will likely have to live with the puppies for at least 8 weeks, which will give you some time to find adopters.


In order to ensure that the puppies have a good home, charge a fee and have an application process. Ask prospective adopters questions about their homes, income and experience caring for dogs.
It is illegal in certain states to adopt out dogs younger than 8 weeks old. Be sure to check your local laws and regulations before giving away your puppies.

