 Whether it is a residential or commercial deal, you need to know as much as possible about the property. Find out the basics of age, square footage, layout, and if there have been any significant upgrades or remodels. This information should be in the real estate listing. If not, ask the seller. If you are not getting answers or don't believe them, check the city or county building department for a history of building permits issued for the property.


If you are considering a historical property, find out if it is listed on the local, state, or federal historical register.This can be a plus or a minus depending on your goals. If the property is registered, there may be financial assistance and tax relief for restoration and renovation.However, you may be strictly limited in the changes you can make to the structure.
Find out if there are any grandfathered zoning or code allowances for the structure. When zoning and building codes change, sometimes older structures are allowed to remain as they are so long as no changes are made. However, if new building permits are issued, the codes enforcement agency may require the existing work to be upgraded. That bathroom remodel could turn into new plumbing for the entire house. This should be factored into your offer.
 List price is less important than comparative market analysis (CMA).If you are working with an agent, she can run a listing of the most recent property sales and listings of comparable properties in the neighborhood. An unrepresented buyer can pay a real estate attorney or agent for a report.Don't rely on the report alone. Drive around and check out the properties and see which ones are most similar to the property under negotiation.
Using the data in the CMA report, you can evaluate if the property price is in line with the current state of the market.
 If a buyer has cash or pre-approved financing in hand, he may be in a position to drive a harder bargain than one who has to wait on mortgage applications and approvals. The advantage to the seller is a firm contract with a quick closing date rather than gambling with the property essentially off the market for weeks or months while the buyer tries to secure financing., As the prospective buyer, an inspection can uncover potential deal-breakers, such as structural damage, and give you a list of needed repairs to use as leverage for a reduction in price or a credit against closing costs.


A serious flaw, such as needing a new roof, doesn't have to be the end of an otherwise desirable property. Before asking for a credit, consult with a local contractor to get a good idea of the cost of repair.
 The seller has his asking price. Using your CMA report, you can formulate an offer. That sets the two end points of the negotiation. If both parties have used reliable data to create their price points, the selling price will be somewhere in the middle.Don't insult the seller. Offering an unreasonable offer, "just to get the ball rolling," will likely be interpreted as you not being serious about buying the property.You can be honest about issues, but talking down the property in disrespectful terms such as "ugly", "worthless", and offering to "take it off their hands," is likely to result in the owners refusal to work with you any longer.
 In the typical list price-offer exchange, the seller will make the first counter-offer. Buyers should not get too hung up on small differences in price. With interest rates between 4 and 5 percent, a $5,000 difference in the mortgage is less than $20 per month on the payment. If the seller says $195,000 and you had offered $190,000, strongly consider accepting the seller's counter-offer if it fits into your pre-approved financing range. This is a business deal, not a competition.
 All offers and counter-offers should be in writing. When a mutually agreeable offer is reached, both parties should sign it to indicate acceptance. Detail the sales price, any credits for repairs, allocation of closing costs, and a prospective closing date. This will become the basis of your sales contract.


If you have not had real estate agents involved in the negotiation, you should consider retaining a real estate attorney to handle the closing. Transactions such as title insurance, rescission clauses, calculating and apportioning taxes, and other business details can be handled to make sure the deal remains fair to both parties.