 This simple, one ingredient treatment will add moisture to hair and make it easier to straighten. You’ll need whole milk, a spray bottle, and a way to heat the milk. You start by boiling milk to release preservatives. Then, you’ll cool the milk before applying to hair. By leaving this treatment on for thirty minutes once a week, you’ll see significant improvement in the overall condition and manageability of your hair. If you have wavy hair, using a milk treatment may completely straighten it. For tighter curls, the milk provides a more relaxed wave, and improves the effect of other straightening methods.


Boil milk and pour into a spray bottle. Then, place the spray bottle in the refrigerator to cool.
Section damp hair and spray milk evenly covering every strand, and comb through hair.
Let the milk sit on hair for half an hour to 45 minutes. Then, wash and condition hair., These two ingredients are added to numerous products to improve shine, clean oil and buildup from the scalp naturally, and help hair retain moisture. A simple at-home treatment that combines the two will turn kinky, frizzy curls into sleek, manageable tresses.


Start with enough coconut milk to completely coat your hair. Overestimate to make sure you have enough.
Mix the fruit of one lemon into the coconut milk. Let the mixture cool in the refrigerator for about 20 minutes.
Starting with damp or dry hair, coat thoroughly and leave in for about an hour. Then, wash and condition as usual.
Lemon juice can also lighten your hair, so this may not be an ideal treatment, if you are trying to maintain your dye color., Castor oil is a great natural treatment for a number of health and beauty concerns. From dry skin to upset stomach, castor oil does it all. It’s also a simple way to relax curls. Castor oil seeps into hair follicles and naturally reduces kinks and curls, leaving hair sleeker and straighter.


Apply castor oil to damp or dry hair, and wrap hair in a towel. Use pins or clips to hold the towel in place.
Leave on at least an hour, but let the product sit over night for best results.
Wash and condition as usual.