 The existence of harmful items in the home have been linked to destructive behaviors in teens.For example, alcohol and drugs in the home are correlated with increased substance use by adolescents.


Remove guns or other weapons from the home.
Get rid of alcohol and other substances (even unused prescription pills).
If your teen has a history of self-harm, remove or lock up sharp objects, including knives and weapons.
Set a positive example by reducing your own negative or unhealthy behaviors. For instance, teenagers can think it is hypocritical if you tell them not to smoke cigarettes while puffing away on one.
 Supervised and structured activities have been linked to a reduction in antisocial behaviors (criminal activity and other behavioral problems). When the teenager is involved in activities outside of the home, make sure there is adequate supervision and structure.Make sure the teen has adult supervision after school and on the weekends.
Ensure that outings are well supervised.
Get to know the parents of the youth’s friends in order to establish appropriate supervision and monitor the youth’s behaviors.
 Being open an honest with the adolescent about the risks of engaging in behaviors such as substance use, criminal activities, and unprotected sex. If you avoid these topics out of fear or discomfort, the child will most assuredly learn from his peers, which can involve misleading and incorrect information.


Have the sex talk. Sexual relationships in teenage years tend to predict and form the basis for future relationships.Discuss the risks of sex early on. In order to start the conversation you could say something like, "I think it's time that we have a discussion about sex. I know this can be an uncomfortable topic to to talk about with your parent, but it is really important that we have it. What do you think?" You can start by discussing what the teenager has heard about sex from his friends or on television. Explain your views of sex and what your expectations are for your child (when they should have it, why, and what resources they need such as condoms/birth control).
Give your teenager information on the riskiness of alcohol and drug use. Say something along the lines of, "I want to talk to you about some things that teens might do that can be harmful. Are you okay with that?" Explain your view of alcohol and drug use, and what you expect out of your teen (what to limit or not use and why). Explaining why not to use certain substances (risks to health, possible overdose, poor judgments, etc.) is very important; teens want explanations for rules or they might disregard them as stupid or strict.
 If the teenager engages in risky behaviors, is defiant against authority figures, becomes violent, or socially withdrawn, it might be due to a larger mental health issue. Psychological treatment can help individuals set goals and develop healthier ways of coping with being an adolescent.


Discuss treatment with the teenager's general practitioner (medical doctor) or call your insurance provider for a list of covered therapists.

