 When using this method, you will need to decide what view or part of the clothing you want to display.


For example, when framing a shirt, the preferred view is usually the front or back of the shirt, depending on designs or images that may be on the article of clothing.
 You should try to purchase a picture frame that is the right size. The best way to tell what size is needed is to fold the sleeves and other parts of the shirt (or other article of clothing) to make it a rectangle with only the desired display section visible on top. You will then need to measure the edges of the folded article of clothing. These measurements will need to coincide closely with the measurements of glass that is visible.


It is important not to use the measurements of the outer edge of the frame because doing so would cause part of the article of clothing to be hidden inside the edges of the picture frame.
If a frame of the exact size is not available, it is better to choose one that is slightly larger and expand the displayed area of the shirt or article of clothing.
 Purchase a section of matte backing board from a craft store. The article of clothing needs to be unfolded and then refolded around the matte backing board so that the desired display view is centered on the backing board.
 In order to keep it from sliding around or drooping in the frame, the article of clothing can be pinned or tacked in place with a needle and thread. Using tape or other adhesives could cause discoloration or damage to the piece of clothing. Once the piece of clothing is attached to the matte backing board, it can be gently inserted into the frame and the framed article of clothing can be hung on a wall.
 A picture frame can still be used if the piece of clothing is a hat or other small item that cannot easily be folded into a rectangle. In this situation, the piece of clothing can be centered in the middle of the matte backing board, which will serve as a backdrop.


In fact, several smaller pieces of clothing can make a very interesting display when they are arranged within a single, slightly larger picture frame.

