 Marimbas come in hundreds of varieties from orchestral models to vibration control, to practice models.


The standard size of a professional marimba comes in a 5 octave model. If you are looking to become a professional marimbist, you will want to invest in a high-end, 5 octave marimba, preferably with high-quality bars made of Honduras Rosewood as these will have a richer and more authentic sound. These models tend to be on the more expensive side, but will save you the trouble of upgrading to a more professional instrument later.If you are a beginner, or simply looking to learn the marimba for recreational or educational purposes, you may find it easier to learn to play on a smaller 4 1/3 or 4 octave model.High-end marimbas can run anywhere from $2,000-$5,500. However, marimbas with synthetic bars rather than wooden bars are much less expensive. Be aware that they may lack a bit of sound quality, but can still be used for learning purposes.Practice marimbas as well as rentals are also available at monthly rates.;
, Purchase a new or used marimba from percussion shop, or outlet which regularly sells percussion instruments. Try to get an appraisal from any legitimate percussionist who may be able to search the instrument for cracks and other defects. If you’ve decided to purchase one from an online retailer such as Amazon.com or eBay, be sure to purchase from sellers with good reputations.To learn the basics, any marimba will do, but a more advanced instrument may be necessary later on, such as different sounding mallets or a larger marimba.
The height of the marimba can be adjusted and should generally stand at or right below the hips. Adjustable marimbas are recommended for growing children who are learning to play.
 The marimba can be played with anywhere from 2-4 mallets. Beginners should start with two.


You will want to purchase marimba mallets made with either birch, wood, rattan or fiberglass handles (or shafts) and rounded heads made of yarn with a rubber core.Mallets typically range from $15-$45 per set, and vary in color and weight. Lighter weight mallets are more useful for beginners. Go to a local percussion shop and get a feel for different mallets to determine the best weight for you. The mallets should feel light enough to gently go from bar to bar in rhythm while playing, as opposed to feeling heavy.
 The notes on the lower row go as follows: C D E F G A B C D E. The upper row (starting at the note directly after C) is: C# D# F# G# A# C# D#.
 You can find it by looking at the notes on the upper row (the sharps and flats) and finding a pair of two bars (not three) on the right end. The note directly to the left of this pair, on the lower row, is C. Middle C is the C closest to the center of the marimba.


The layout of a marimba is much like the layout of a piano where the sharps and flats (the black keys) are represented by the upper row. The grouping pattern is the same “3,2,3,2.”
Marimbas have graduated bars, meaning that the size of the bars change with each note. Thicker bars will be found on the left side of the marimba and are lower in pitch. Thinner bars will be found toward the right side and will have higher pitches.
 Learn exactly which bars play each note so that your mallets know where to go while playing. This is a great way to enhance muscle memory and helps to gain familiarity with your instrument.
 It should be held at the point where the mallet feels balanced. Next, you should rest the end of the mallet in your palm. Hold the end in place with your other three fingers.Then repeat on the other hand.


The mallets should be held, with your palms down, and with the mallet heads hovering over the bars. Hold the mallet close to the fleshy part of the palms so the mallet can easily be lifted after strikingThe mallets should meet into a near ‘V’ shape over the bars.
 This ensures that your weight is distributed evenly while striking each bar. The lower bars should be closest to you, while the upper bars require a very slight extension to reach them.


The marimba is larger than the average xylophone so a small step may be needed to the left or right. Be sure not to turn the body or lean toward out of reach keys. Merely take a small step to the left or right while ensuring that your body is directly facing the instrument., To play a note, hold the mallets over the note you wish to strike. Raise the mallet up with your wrist instead of your arm. Then quickly strike the mallet against the note and quickly lift.


Use your other hand to strike the same note and quickly lift. Continue to alternate strikes onto one bar only. Remember to keep your grip loose and your wrists relaxed.The mallets should hit the note directly in the center of the bar on top of the resonator for the best sound (the resonators are the tubes/pipes under the marimba that help to project and sustain the sound of a mallet strike)., There are twelve major scales that can be played on the marimba which are the same as those played on a piano or keyboard. You can begin by playing a C Major scale by striking the following bars in order: C,D,E,F,G,A,B.


Be sure to utilize both hands. Start with the left hand and strike the C note, then use the right hand to strike the D note, use the right hand to hit the next note, E and so on.
Start at a slow speed, hitting approximately one note per second. Then build up to a faster speed, repeating the scale with alternating strikes until you are comfortable.
Continue with a D Major scale: D E F# G A B C# D.
 Percussion shops often have beginner sheet music available, as do many online retailers.
 The majority of professional marimbists use four mallets while playing. If you wish to become an advanced percussionist, this is a grip that should be practiced.


Grab one mallet with your right hand and wrap your ring and pinkie finger completely around the mallet near the bottom.Pick up the other mallet and place the very bottom tip of the mallet in the middle of the right palm. Then wrap your middle finger around the mallet to grip it.Use your thumb and index finger to steady the second mallet. Place the index finger on the back, then point the index finger like a gun.Repeat these steps on the left hand.
 The most effective way to become a better marimba player is to practice. Designate time to play scales and other pieces on a regular basis.
 Introductory workshops and lessons are widely available for beginners where one can learn to play new music and learn playing techniques and improvisational skills.
 Use a cloth to wipe dust, fingerprints and dirt. Synthetic bars can be cleaned with a bit of soap and water., If you plan to travel with your marimba, or plan to use it in a school environment, make sure you have a cover. Some companies offer a cover as a standard option, others have to be purchased separately.A marimba cover will protect the instrument against outdoor debris, scratches, dust and spills. Covers usually come in flannel material or denim., Be sure to remove any objects or debris that may have fallen inside of the resonators and use a natural oil (lemon oil works well) to polish them and protect against rust., Broken bars, rusted resonators, heat damage repair and tuning should all be handled by a professional. Percussion shops and instrument restoration shops are best equipped to handle these issues.


Tuning marimba bars can be particularly tricky and may require carving and checking its pitch using a chromatic tuner. Bars must also be sanded and attuned with its corresponding resonator.

