 Cold-water wax differs from warm-water wax because it requires the addition of tree resin. To extract tree resin, first find a conifer tree that generally looks healthy, with relatively smooth, tight bark and without many dead branches or limbs.Conifer trees are trees that grow conifers, the cone-like growths that grow on tree branches. Examples of conifers are pine, spruce, maple and cedar trees.
If you don’t want to extract tree resin yourself, you can find it on Ebay or other online sites.
 Once you have found a suitable tree, use a machete or a hatchet to cut downward on the bark about 3 feet from the ground. Make a rectangle that is about 10 inches long and 6 inches wide.Try to cut cleanly so that you cut out a flat area about 1 inch deep into the tree.
 Place a bucket against the tree directly underneath where you made the rectangular indent. Use a flat piece of metal or another smooth material to make a ramp that leads from the cleared rectangle into the bucket.


The ramp will catch the resin as it comes out of the tree and lead it into the bucket. Therefore, it’s important that the ramp is flush against the tree and leads directly into the bucket.
 After you set up the bucket, use the hatchet or machete to hack into the cleared rectangle you made, forming V-shaped notches that are about half an inch from each other.It may be easier to do one side of the “V” at a time, hacking downward slashes on the left half of the rectangle and then hacking upward slashes on the other side of the rectangle.
 Collecting tree resin isn’t instantaneous. You may have to wait several days for enough resin to collect. Keep the bucket under the tree and check on it daily. When it looks like you have about ¼ cup of resin, remove the bucket from the tree and transfer the resin to a small bowl.It should take two to three days to collect ¼ cup (60 ml) of resin.
 Use the same steps used to make cold-water wax, adding in the additional ingredient of ¼ cup (60 ml) of tree resin along with the beeswax and coconut oil in the top of the double broiler. The resulting wax will have a slightly stickier consistency than warm-water wax.