 One way to plan a trip is to decide on the end location first. This could be a country (like Mexico), or a city (like Paris), or even a specific destination (like the Grand Canyon). Try to find a place that you both want to visit, even if you have to compromise a little.If you have a country in mind, you’ll have a lot of options that you can choose from as you research your trip.
It will be more romantic if you both are interested in the destination. If you get a place in mind, try to drop some hints about it so you can see how they feel about it.;
, You may have a certain type of location in mind, but you don’t know about specific options yet. For example, you may decide you want to travel to a ski lodge, and you can compare different options. Or if you just want a warm beach somewhere, you can decide how far away you will need to travel.


With this option, you’ll give yourself a much broader range of destinations. You could go skiing in Minnesota, Switzerland, or China. If you have limited time, you can pick based on where you can travel to quickly.
Once you have a budget in mind, you can use it to narrow down which places are your best options. You can see what type of accommodations are available in the areas you find.
 If you don’t live in the city you met in, you could go back there and relive some of your favorite memories. You could go to a favorite place that you’ve both visited separately and make new memories together.If you already have some specific connection to the place you go for your getaway, you’ll have some romance that already exists in that place.
Maybe your partner moved away from their home when they were young and you could surprise them by planning a trip there. The fact that you care about where they came from will add a romantic aspect to the trip.
 For a successful romantic getaway, you need to go somewhere that your partner will like. If they don’t like nature very much, a cabin in the woods is probably not a good option. If big cities stress them out, their uneasiness will kill the romance.


If you don’t have much experience traveling together, you can casually ask some questions to gauge what places they would enjoy. You can mention somewhere you’d enjoy traveling and see how they respond.
Try to remember places they have mentioned during your relationship. Most people have said, “I would love to travel to ,” at some point, so rely on that. They will be surprised that you remembered and it will be romantic because it gives them something they have wanted.
Your partner may not be a big fan of surprises, so you need to take this into account as well. Maybe you can plan the majority of the trip but tell them a little bit for the departure date so they don’t feel caught off guard.
 You don’t have to go anywhere far away for it to be a romantic surprise. If you go to a local bed and breakfast or ritzy hotel, it can still be romantic. A low-key getaway would most likely involve less planning and therefore less secrecy.


Sometimes the only thing you need to create romance is a change of place. Getting out of your home and daily routine can be a fun way to mix things up.
Local doesn’t have to mean 10 minutes away. If you live in the country, you could head into a larger city somewhere nearby. If you live in the city, you may be able to travel an hour or so away to get to a quieter countryside setting.

