 This is the most straight-forward, direct translation of “I love you.”


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Я тебя люблю Pronounce this expression as, ya tee-BYAH lyoo-BLYOO.

Ya means "I" in Russian.

Tebya means "you."

Lyublyu means "love.";
, If someone tells you that they love you first, then this would be the right way to respond to his or her proclamation.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Я тоже тебя люблю
Pronounce this expression as, ya toh-zhay tee-BYAH lyoo-BLYOO.
Notice that this saying is the exact same as the saying for “I love you,” with the exception of the word “tozhe.” This is the Russian word for “too” or “also.”

,


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Я люблю тебя всем сердцем
Pronounce this expression as, ya loo-bhloo tyeh-byah fsyehm syehrt-sehm.
Translated in a fairly literal way, this expression means, "I love you with all my heart."

, This is another expression you can use to emphasize how deep and sincere your love is.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Я люблю тебя всей душой
Pronounce this expression as, ya loo-bhloo tyeh-byah fsyei doo-shoi.
Translated in a fairly direct way, this expression means, “I love you with all my soul.”

, This expression to tell a man or woman you love that you need him or her to make it through each day.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Я не могу жить без тебя
Pronounce this expression as, ya nyee mah-goo zhit byehs tyeh-byah.
A fairly direct translation of this phrase would be, "I can't live without you."

, This expression should be used to tell a woman that you need her in your life.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Ты нужна мне
Pronounce this expression as, tye nooz-nah mnyeh.
This expression should be translated into English as “I need you.”

, This expression should be used to tell a man that you need him in a your life.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Ты нужен мне
Pronounce this expression as, tye nooz-hen mnyeh.
This expression should be translated into English as “I need you.”

, Use this term to call someone your "darling" or "sweetheart."


In Russian script, “Lyubimaya” is pronounced as loo-bee-mah-ya and written as, Любимая
“Lyubimyy” is pronounced as loo-bee-myee and written as, Любимый
A more literal translation would be “favorite.”

, This term should be used to call someone your “kitten.”


In Russian script, “Kotyonok” is pronounced as kah-tyoh-nahk and written as, Котёнок
“Kotik” is pronounced as koh-tiik and written as, Котик
A literal translation would be “kitten” or “little cat.”

, This is another term you could use to call someone “love” or “darling.”


In Russian script, “Dorogaya” is pronounced as dah-rah-gah-ya and written as, Дорогая
“Dorogoy” is pronounced as dah-rah-goi and written as, Дорогой
Translated literally, this term means “expensive.”

,


In Russian script, “Sladkaya” is pronounced as slaht-kah-ya and written as, Сладкая
“Sladkiy” is pronounced as slaht-kii and written as, Сладкий
Translated literally, this word means “sweet.”

, This term of endearment should be used to call someone “sunshine.”


In Russian script, this term is written as, Солнышко
Pronounce this term as, sohl-nyee-shkah.
Translated literally, this means, “little sun.”

, This expression should be used to make a woman feel like royalty.


In Russian script, this term is written as, Принцесса
Pronounce this term as, preen-tseh-sah.
A direct translation of this term would be “princess.”

, This is a playful way of calling a guy “tiger.”


In Russian script, this term is written as, Тигрёнок
Pronounce this term as, tee-gryoh-nahk.
A direct translation of this term would be “little tiger.”

, This expression compliments a woman's overall beauty and should only be used for women.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Ты такая красивая!
Pronounce this expression as, tye tah-kah-ya krah-shee-vahyah.

Translated directly, it means, “You are so beautiful.”

, This expression compliments a man's overall attractiveness and should only be used for men.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Ты такой красивый!
Pronounce this expression as, tye tah-koi rah-shee-vwee.
Translated directly, it means, “You are so handsome.”

, This expression can be used for men and women.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, У тебя красивые глаза
Pronounce this expression as, oo tyeh-byah krah-see-vwee-yeh glah-zah.
A direct translation would be, “You have beautiful eyes.”

, This expression can also be used for men and women.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, У тебя очаровательная улыбка
Pronounce this expression as, oo tyeh-byah ah-cheh-rah-vah-tyayl-nyah oo-leep-kah.
A direct translation would be, “You have a charming smile.”

, This is yet another compliment that can be used for men and women alike.


In Russian script, this expression is written as, Ты - лучше всех на свете
Pronounce this expression as, tye lootsheh fsyeh nah svyeh-tyeh.
Translated directly, this expression means, “You are better than anyone else in the world.”

