 You will be feeling for its pulse, so you need to be able to access the dog's chest and belly., The most reliable place to take a dog's pulse is its femoral artery, in the groin. Put your fingers over the depression where the dog's back leg meets its belly, and press gently.If you can't find a pulse right away, move your fingers around in the area until you feel it.Your dog can be standing or lying on its side while you feel for its pulse.
 If you can't locate the femoral artery, try to find a pulse by feeling the dog's chest. While your dog is standing up, face your dog and place your hand over the rib cage.


You should be able to feel the heartbeat just below the dog's elbow joint.If none of this works, place your hand of the dogs left side, just behind the front leg. A pulse can often be felt in this way., Finally, if you don't have success with these approaches, you can sometimes feel a pulse near a dog's back feet. Feel the dog's foot with your fingertips, halfway between the toes and the ankle/wrist joint.This is called the "pedal pulse."

, Heart rates are measured in beats per minute (BPM). However, it is easy to lose count when you are trying to take a pulse for a full 60 seconds. Instead, set a stopwatch for 15 seconds.You can use a watch with a second hand or the stopwatch function on your phone.
 Place your fingers on the area you've chosen to feel for a pulse, start the stopwatch, and count the beats of the dog's heart until the the time is up.


Use your fingers only. If you use your thumb, you may end up feeling your own pulse, especially if you press too hard., To convert your measure to BPM, all you have to do is multiply by four.Four times 15 seconds is 60 seconds, or one minute.
 Knowing your dog's heartrate is only helpful if you know what it should be. The bigger the dog, the slower its pulse will be. Generally, the following is considered normal:For dogs under 20 pounds: 70-180 bpm.
For dogs over 20 pounds: 60-140 bpm.
For puppies up to six weeks old: up to 220 bpm.
Note that for some dogs, their pulse may quicken when they inhale and slow when they exhale. This is a normal condition called sinus arrhythmia., If your dog's pulse is above or below the healthy range for its weight, or is weak or irregular, seek the attention of a veterinarian as soon as possible. This can be a sign of serious health issues.


A fast heart rate might just indicate your dog is anxious. A persistently fast pulse, however, could indicate your dog is suffering from blood loss, dehydration, fever and heatstroke.A slow heart rate could indicate your dog is in shock or is suffering from heart disease.A slow pulse could also be a sign of sinus bradycardia, which is caused by slower-than-normal firing of the sinoatrial node of the nervous system. While this condition is often benign, it can also be related to neurological or respiratory disease, and can also be brought on by hypothermia.Heart issues should be considered a medical emergency. If your regular vet is not available to see your dog right away, search online for an emergency veterinary facility near you. This goes double if your dog is injured or has other obvious symptoms.