 Ladies' pants are designed to accent curves (hips, butt, and thighs) which can easily give you away. Men's pants are cut straight, and they can hide some curves, including giving you a flatter butt.


If you're quite petite, you may want to buy from the boy's section occasionally.
Trying brands specifically for trans people, like Point 5cc, is also a valid option.;
, Don't wear oversized or baggy clothes. This will hide all the things you want to show (cough cough) and will enhance the appearance of your size.


Use a stretchy sports shirt that is snug but not tight. Remember, you are transitioning your body. Not the image of "man" other people portray. Bigger men have larger chests (moobs). Try to come to terms with the fact that you do not look like the Hulk. Yet.
Your jacket armpits should come up no more than an inch away from your actual armpits.
Pants should be easy to move in, but somewhat form fitting (not tight). Hold them up with a belt or suspenders so that harnesses and other things don't fall out the back during plumber poses. Never good.
Shirts should be made of thin material that fits. If you're on the larger side in particular, layers are your friend. Anything with a zipper or large v-neck is going to not only flatten the appearance of the chest, but thin your appearance as well. The "v" should come down anywhere from three inches above your bellybutton, to at your bellybutton, depending on your height. A shorter man will want a longer "v" shaped over shirt, sweater, vest jacket, button up, or hoodie.
Wear larger sized watches and other accessories.
There are great vloggers for cis-men on YouTube, who will address how large men should dress to dress well. These will apply to you so seek them out.
 Those with small chests might be able to get away with only a looser shirt and sports bra. Those with larger chests will need to do more, such as investing a good binder.


There are multiple ways to bind. You can:

Use a binder. Binders typically come in tank top length and half-length, and are made out of special material that presses the breast tissue down without becoming too dangerous for you. Good brands include Underworks and GC2B.
Use a double sports bra method.

Never use tape or elastic (e.g. ACE) bandages to bind your chest down. Elastic bandages are often used (especially on TV) but these bandages were designed to compress tighter when stretched, i.e. they constrict every time you take a breath. This almost always leads to breathing problems, suffocation, broken or bruised ribs, and/or deformation of the rib cage.


Underworks recommends stepping into some of the longer binders that it sells. While this is the easiest way of putting them on, by forcing the binder up over your butt and hips, it stretches out the top—which is rather counterproductive! It's better to learn how to put it on like a normal shirt.
The point of binding isn't to make your chest completely flat, but rather to imitate pectorals ("pecs"). This means that, when you put your binder on, you don't want to just push the breast tissue down to make it lie flat against your rib cage. The bottom half of your breasts is about where the curve of your pectoral muscles are and is as low as male chests should bulge. If you let your breasts fall much below that point, your chest will look a bit odd.
The most important part of binding is to listen to your body. Some soreness or slight pain in the breast itself is normal, but if you have rib cage pain, trouble breathing, or any type of cold or respiratory illness (even ones unrelated to binding), remove the binder and don't bind until you feel 100% again.
 While some guys can sport super long hair, it's unlikely to be a good style for you, since you want to look less feminine. However, if you love having long hair, you might be able to find a long hairstyle that works for you.


Some say barbers do a much better job of cutting hair short (and trimming short hair) than hairdressers, but others say that hairdressers are better stylists for trans men. Try different people until you're happy.
Though it might be tempting to grab a pair of scissors and do it yourself, this is almost certainly not your best option. Even if you happen to be experienced in cutting hair, it is very difficult to cut and shape your own. Shaping your hair is hard and mistakes will be easy to spot. Get a professional to cut it, or at least an experienced friend, to ensure that you get the result you want.
While this change can go a long way for how you feel and helping you pass, it's also a dramatic, immediate change that your parents (if you still live with them) are sure to notice. Be careful if you aren't out and haven't discussed it with them yet. If you aren't out, you can remind them of the hundreds of ladies with short hair or pixie cuts.
 Packing refers to wearing something, whether a sock, soft packer, or hard packer, that gives a phallus-like bulge.


You may also want to consider getting an STP or an STP packer. STP (stand to pee) devices are devices that help you pee while standing up. You can also find STP packers, which act as soft packs as well as STPs, and thus are the best "fake penises" on the market.
Packers are not designed for sex and should not be used during sex, unless the STP/Packer you invest in is a 3-in-one and can be used for sex.
Soft packs usually come in a couple of sizes, 3.5" and 5.5" being the most common. The average size of a flaccid penis is somewhere between 3.5" and 4.5", and most people feel quite comfortable with the 3.5" model. It's completely up to you which you prefer. Just remember that they won't accept it back after you've opened it.
Low-rise styled briefs are really good for packing because they're tighter and have a "pouch" built in for your stuff. Sock or soft pack work best with this style of underwear.
If you are a larger trans man, use a larger packer. Going with a 5 or 6 inch packer, instead of a 3 or 4 inch. This can lead to better success with a more natural-looking bulge. Larger legs and bellies can hide a small packer and will hide a good amount of the larger ones. This causes us to feel effeminate, which is not good for dysphoria, so don't be afraid to go with the slightly larger size. Go with a larger, as well, STP for heightened chances of success. It is already hard to STP for beginners. Not being able to reach them or having trouble seeing what you are doing will only make matters much worse and if you have a two in one, going with the larger size will still look very natural on you, where on another guy it wouldn't.
 The only way to gain a naturally deep voice is to start on testosterone, but if you want to start sounding more masculine before then, you should try working on lowering your voice. Start off slowly, trying to lower you voice just a little bit every week or so.


Sing along with the radio by trying to sing male parts or a lower version of the female parts.
Practice daily for an hour or so. Remember, your vocal cords are muscles and need to be exercised and can get tired and strained.
Exercise: say "bing-bong king-kong ding-dong" in a low voice, stretching out the "ng." Repeat while making each word slightly lower than the last. Do this a few times.

After a week or two, once your vocal cords are stronger in the low range, tip your head back and do this exercise.
This is demonstrated on YouTube. The "boom your voice" video is very helpful.


Don't try to use this in public for a while. Your face will look strained before you get used to lowering your voice. You'll probably also sound like you have a cold for a while too because of the amount of concentration you're putting into your voice.
If you feel awkward talking to yourself, you could try recording books for Librivox, which is a site that helps turn public-domain books into audio books, so that anyone can access them for free.
 Most cultures associate larger muscles with masculinity, which is why working out and lifting weights will do wonders to make you look more masculine.


It takes time to noticeably build muscles. Start a regular workout schedule, and don't worry when you don't see results right away.
Males tend to have larger shoulders and noticeably more muscular arms, so you want to focus there. Their torsos are usually straight, with narrower hips and a less-defined waist. Doing some intense ab work will help there. But also don't forget about your chest, back, and legs. You don't want to gain too much muscle unevenly.
Working out and eating well will improve your health and make you look more robust. You will almost certainly lose some fat, which will give you less curves.
You could work out like a professional athlete, but if your diet is poor, results will be subpar. Make sure to eat a healthy, balanced diet.
Aim to lose body fat, not weight. Young children tend to have rounder cheeks because their bodies store fat, which prepares them for growth. When males hit puberty, much of that fat leaves and the muscles become developed, giving them squarer faces, while females retain most of that fat after puberty. Losing body fat will also help make your face more angular.
 Appearance isn't the only aspect of masculinity; attitude also matters.



Practice walking. Women tend to take up less space when they walk, with their feet close together as if walking on an invisible line, causing the hips to sway. Men tend to walk slightly on each side of that invisible line, giving them more of a straight, swaggering walk that accents their hips less and takes up more space. A lot of guys also keep their hands busy by holding something, or keeping their hands in their pockets.

If you're having a hard time figuring this out, follow someone and imitate their walk.



Work on sitting. Again, women try to take up less space, often crossing their legs, while men usually don't care how much space they take up. Leave your legs open and lean back more. If you do cross your legs, put your ankle on your knee, making a box shape.

Consider your stance. Men don't usually put their hands on their hips unless they're thinking. They also tend to cross their arms higher over their chests. Putting your hands in your pockets is always good. Some ladies stick their hip out and angle their foot, while masculine guys tend to stand straight and without their hips off to one side.

Hold conversations. Women tend to send more signals to show that they're listening: nodding, saying "Uh huh," or "Oh no," asking "And then what happened?" etc. Men do less of this, usually tilting their head or looking at the speaker to show they're paying attention. Their voices may also be more monotone, with less inflections.

Pay attention to your arms. Women tend to move their arms a lot more than men when walking, so try to keep your arms to your sides. Just avoid making your arms extremely stiff or you may look suspicious.
Try hanging out in a populated spot and watch guys of all ages and "types" and see how they interact. Get a feel for their mannerisms, and try to emulate them. You may find that you already do a lot of those things, but you probably still have a number of typically female characteristics you'll want to unlearn.
 Males will lose their peach fuzz during puberty, while females don't. Try shaving it off. It's best to do this after a shower when your skin is still warm. Lather up your jawline, starting about 2" below your jaw, and shave downwards. Stop shaving other places like your legs and armpits.


Your face may feel rubbery and strange at first. That's perfectly normal and will go away after a while.
Because the peach fuzz won't grow in that fast, it's best not to shave every day. Every few weeks so should be fine.
 Find some mascara that is the same colour as your hair and apply it to the peach fuzz on your chin, upper lip, or jawline. You can simulate a beard, mustache, sideburns, or five o'clock shadow. Mascara makes the peach fuzz appear thicker and darker. After the mascara dries, it feels very close to real facial hair.


Watch out for clumps.
It may help to apply foundation first, and then use foundation to fix any mistakes you make with the mascara.
You can also practice using eye shadow and possibly eyeliner (for a more stubbly look) to mimic facial hair. This takes time to master, though, so practice at home first!
Get a second opinion before you go outside, to make sure that it looks good and doesn't appear fake.
Use eye make up remover to clean your face. You can also use the remover and a q-tip to fix any mistakes with more precision.
Sideburns can do a lot to make you look older and therefore more masculine
This method works better if you've already started HRT (testosterone) and have some facial hair developing.
 Women tend to have thinner eyebrows with more of a curve to them. Men's eyebrows tend to be bushier and more squared. Stop plucking your eyebrows and let the hair grow back in. If you need to, use a little eyeliner or eyebrow tint to make them appear more full.
 The average American male is about 5'9" while the average American female is 5'4".


Develop better posture. A lot of height is lost from slouching. Practice better posture, do moderate back exercises to strengthen muscles, and stretch your back daily. All of these methods could give you up to 2" of height.
Some people claim that you can extend your spinal cord with an appropriate diet and certain stretches. This is untrue. You should not attempt to stretch your spinal cord or column for the purpose of increasing your height, trying to do so can be very dangerous and lead to permanent injury. Instead focus on stretching and strengthening the muscles in your back. This will allow you to stand straighter for longer and take advantage of every inch of height you have.
Shoe sole inserts can increase your height in public. There are inserts and shoes specifically designed for this purpose. An inexpensive alternative is packing paper into your shoes.
Don't fall for internet scams to increase your height. Those pills could have serious effects on your liver and don't work. If you're extremely unhappy with your height talk to your doctor, they may know of safe and effective alternatives.
Testosterone can't guarantee any growth. If you're still going through the early stages of puberty, your bones may not be completely capped off and testosterone could trigger another growth spurt. If you're an older teen or in your 20s, there is a possibility for some growth but it would be a small increase and is unlikely. If you're older than 25, it's extremely unlikely that testosterone will cause any height increase.

There is no conclusive evidence of testosterone increasing height for trans men. A lot of people don't notice height increases, and many associate any increased height with increased confidence (i.e. improved posture).
 Learn what trans people have to say, and what they recommend. Meet the online trans community, make new friends, and learn to accept your identity as a trans person. A support system and information will make transition much easier.


Find out as much as you can about your options before deciding what you want to do. There's no one-size-fits-all formula. You must use self reflection to decide how you identify and how you want to transition. Some people are content without surgery and hormones while others may only use hormone therapy or wish to pursue a full medical transition. There is no "right" way to be trans.
Talk to a therapist. They can help you sort out your feelings, give you a diagnosis, and start you on your way towards the next step. You'll need to speak with a psychologist before starting testosterone or getting surgery.
Look into your state's/country's laws about legally changing your name and/or sex on legal documents, if that is something you wish to pursue.

