 A standard table fits 10 poker players around it, but you should choose a size that fits comfortably in the room you plan to use.

The main part of constructing a poker table involves making the tabletop. If you want it to have legs, choose a folding table or another table to attach the tabletop to it with drywall screws before you cover it with foam and fabric.
By building a separate tabletop, you will have a portable poker table, that can slide on a table each time you play. It can also be stored on its side or moved to another location.;
, Mark the point where they meet by inserting a screw.,, You will have the oval shape of your table.,, Clean the surface free of dust with a broom and tack cloths., You want it to be 1.5 inches (38 mm) larger than the plywood oval on all sides., Ask a friend to hold 1 end. Hold the other end and center your large sheet of foam on top of the glue you have just sprayed onto the plywood. Smooth out the foam to ensure thorough adhesion. Allow it to dry according to the directions on the adhesive package.,, (If you decide to use felt, ensure the felt is of a high-quality and is not very fuzzy. If it is, it will start to pill with use or catch on the edges of the cards.) Cut the fabric so that it is about 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) larger than the foam all around, or 2 inches (50 mm) larger than the plywood on all ends.

Again, ask a friend to help you center your fabric over the top of the foam and the new coat of glue. Lay it gently upon the glue. Pull the cloth and smooth it with your hands, to ensure there are not any wrinkles or air bubbles. Allow the glue to dry according to package directions. You will have a table top with a stiff skirt of foam and fabric hanging over the edge.
 Repeat on each of the corners and at the middle point on each side of the table. You want the fabric to be pulled tightly., This will give you a clean surface to work on. Get a few people to help you gather the ends and flip the table onto the ground so that the fabric top is laying on the towels.

Staple parallel to the table's edge every 1 inch (25.4 mm). Ensure that you are stapling both the fabric and the foam to the plywood. This ring of staples will secure your tabletop.
 Spray with a fabric protector, in case of liquid spills.,