 If you have a childish theme, it's probably best to change it—unless you honestly like it. A good idea is to choose your favorite color. If you don't have one, then pick a neutral color that won't interfere with anything else in your room. When it comes to growing-up your room, simple is best.


Some colour trendy solid colour suggestions are: mint green, turquoise, pink, and black.;
, Be sure to include matching pillows, pillow cases, blankets, a comforter (the thickest blanket that's usually on top of all the other ones), and a few funky throw pillows if you wish.
 Be sure there are already blinds in place (to open/close for privacy) and then choose a sort of see through color that will allow sunlight into your room. It's probably best to have a spare curtain ready for winter when you need to hold in heat. The winter one should be slightly darker and thicker to keep cold air from seeping in through your window cracks.
 Furniture is expensive, so for this part you might want to either rearrange what you already have or find some cheap good-looking necessities. (IKEA has some affordable, sturdy, and cool supplies for everything in your room.) The furniture you need is: a dresser (to store clothes, undergarments, and random belongings), a desk for school supplies and other learning material to do your homework, 1-2 lamps for doing makeup/homework, bedside table for a nightlight, feminine hygiene items/personal items, and things you might need when you wake up in the middle of the night. It's also good to include a vanity for jewelry, makeup, and accessories, a bookshelf, and stools/swivel chair to sit at your desk and vanity.
 The things you might like to have are: a stereo for CDs and radio, board games, and seats or cushions for your friends. It would also be nice to have a computer/laptop with internet and printer access, for homework and/or general use, and a clock with an alarm. If these things seem expensive, you can find them at secondhand stores or leave them out entirely.
 Cut out cool magazine pictures, buy a few posters, and hang them up! It's your room, and you should feel comfortable there. It's also helpful to have a full length mirror to see how you look and a small mirror to check hair/makeup.
 Dust/vacuum weekly, put things away after you've finished using them, and buy some cute storage items to place your belongings into. Don't become someone whose room looks great on the outside, but the drawers/closet/underbed is a wreck, and clothes are thrown all over the floor.
 You can get a dresser that you put together yourself, and then paint the pieces separately or after it's completed (this also works for a pre-made dresser). Put them in your bedroom and get some different colored storage boxes to hold your clothes. If you have too many storage spaces, you can put decorations you make yourself in the extra space to make it look pretty.

