 People often develop crushes based on perceptions, but they sometimes do not actually know their crushes very well. However, it is important to get to know your crush first to determine if you truly want to attempt a relationship with that person.


Ask mutual friends to introduce you.
Strike up conversation with him in social group settings, where other people are around.
Find things that you have in common with him, like hobbies or interests.;
, While you get to know him, it is important to have other people around as a buffer.


If you are suddenly overcome with shyness, there are other people around to bring into the conversation so that the pressure is off of you.
Being in a group setting gives you a way to distance yourself if you realize that your crush is not the type of person you want to date, after all.
 Before trying to figure out how to express your feelings to your crush, learn how to be his/her friend first. Take information you learn about him as you get to know each other and build your friendship around those commonalities.


Accept offers to hang out with your crush or go to a party or event where he will be, whenever possible. If it is challenging for you to put yourself in social situations, then accept one offer and attend. Stay for as long as you comfortably can, without causing yourself too much stress and social anxiety. Practice this again, maybe once every few weeks, to help yourself become more comfortable.Share stories with him when you come across something that reminded you of him. For example, you could say, “I saw that your favorite band is going on tour soon. Are you going to try to go to a concert?”
Keep interactions casual. Be friendly and as outgoing as you feel comfortable, but remember that creating small talk, even when you feel shy, gives off the impression that you are friendly and approachable. One tip is to prepare a mental list of recent events or experiences you have had that you feel comfortable discussing, like a book you read or a restaurant where you ate., Each person is unique, and you might feel more comfortable expressing your feelings in one way than in another. Take time to think about how you want to do so.


Tell him in person, which allows you overcome your fear of expressing yourself in person and being vulnerable and also gives you the opportunity to see his reaction. This is the most authoritative method, because he will know that you are serious.
Express your feelings in a letter or note, which might feel more comfortable for you than telling him in person because you can think through what you want to say and save yourself some embarrassment of others overhearing.
Bring it up in a phone conversation, which allows you to talk the idea through without the pressure of being there in person. This way, no facial expressions or reactions or seen, and it stifles a bit of the awkwardness.
Explain your feelings in an email, which is a very similar option to writing in that it allows you to think out what you want to say and put yourself out there without anyone else knowing.
Let him know in a text message, but keep in mind that this will limit how much you can type in one text message (unless you both use iMessage on iPhones). You have the opportunity to plan out what to say and can avoid the pressure of a face-to-face conversation. This is also much more casual, but it runs the risk of him not taking you seriously.
 Once you have pinpointed the way in which you want to express your feelings to your crush, you need to decide what you want to say and practice it. Even if you are writing a letter, an email, or a text message, you want to express your feelings in the way that feels most comfortable for you. Practice speaking what you want to say to yourself in the mirror, or have a trusted friend or family member pretend to be your crush. You should practice often so that you become comfortable saying the words. Or, if you are writing, emailing, or text messaging, you can rehearse by writing drafts of what you want to say until you feel you have found exactly the right words to express yourself.


“I've really enjoyed being your friend, and it's time for me to admit that I have stronger feelings for you than just friendship.”
“I'm so happy that we're friends; you've been a really great friend to me. However, I have to admit that I have feelings for you as more than a friend.”
“You might have figured this out already, but I like you. I've had these feelings for a while.”
“We have so much in common! I'd really like to take our friendship to the next level.”

, Giving yourself a deadline will help you stick to it. On that day, be prepared to have the conversation, mail the letter, send the text message, or whatever you planned to do in Step 4 to tell your crush about your feelings.


Mark it on your calendar or in your agenda so that you have a visual reminder. You could “camouflage” it by titling it something simple, like “talk,” “email,” or your crush's initials so that someone else seeing it will not know what it is about.
You could also ask a trusted friend or family member to help keep you accountable by encouraging you to do it if you start to have second thoughts. Ask that person to encourage you to follow through and give you the tools you need to do it, such as getting you to the right place at the right time, putting the computer in front of you, or pulling up a new text message for you.
 As you prepare to let your crush know your true feelings for him, use body language to hint at it when you spend time with him. Using body language allows you to communicate your feelings in a way that does not require verbal communication. Become more comfortable using body language by practicing on a trusted friend or family member when you talk with them.


Lean in to talk to him.
Keep your body open and facing him when communicating (e.g. do not fold your arms across your chest).
Gently touch him on the hand, arm, or shoulder while chatting, but keep it brief.
Pay attention to whether he returns similar body language.
 When the day arrives that you decided you would tell your crush how you feel, be sure to follow through with it. Be sure to have practiced frequently leading up to the conversation, and do not be afraid to have some sort of “crutch” to help you through it, such as tapping your fingers on your leg or clasping your hands together. Especially if you are talking in person, having some kind of movement like this will help to calm your nerves a little bit.


If you are going to tell your crush in person, find a place where you can do so in semi-privacy. Think of a place where others will be nearby, if you need to leave or need a distraction, but where they will not be able to overhear your conversation.
Send your letter, email, or text message, if one of those was the option you chose.
Make eye contact, if talking in person, and say what you want to say.It does not have to be a long, elaborate conversation. Since it is more challenging for you to express your feelings, doing so efficiently is best.
Be yourself while telling your crush. Use language that you normally use, and put your personality into it. Being who you really are will help to calm your shyness and boost confidence., In the event that your crush does not share your feelings, you need to have something appropriate to say to end the conversation and let him know that you will not hold a grudge. It is important to recognize that perhaps the rejection has nothing to do with you and that being rejected is an essential experience to have in order to overcome shyness and social anxiety.“That's okay. I feel better now that I've told you, and I hope that we can continue to be friends.”
“I understand, and I really value your friendship. Can we still be friends?”
“That's okay. I'm glad we could have this talk, but I need to get going. I'll talk to you later.”
“I understand. Thanks for talking with me. My friend is waiting for me, so I'll catch up with you later.”

