 Being diagnosed with lipedema can be a shock, and dealing with the physical symptoms of the disorder leaves many people feeling very self-conscious. Finding a support group that helps you realize you are not alone is a great way to help cope with the psychological effects of this disorder.There are many blogs, forums, and other social media groups aimed at creating a positive, supportive community for people suffering from lipedema. The lipedema project is an organization aimed at helping people find a supportive place to learn about and talk about their lipedema., For many people, being diagnosed with lipedema is very difficult to deal with. You might have a good social support system in place already, but having an objective person that has an outside perspective can be a great way to talk about your feelings in a safe environment.


Additionally, a trained mental health professional will be able to help you strengthen your coping skills, and give you new ways to think about your diagnosis. This is in addition to listening to your worries about the disorder, which is very helpful for many people.
 When you are diagnosed with lipedema you may start to realize that there are people in your life who don’t have your best interest at heart. Right after diagnosis, you may be very vulnerable to the opinions of others, and it won’t do you any good to sit around listening to negativity. Instead, surround yourself with the people who make you feel better.


This doesn’t mean you have to cut off contact with everyone who isn’t always a shining beacon of positivity. Instead, try to distance yourself from those people while you are learning to cope with your diagnosis.
 Many people diagnosed with the disorder may feel as though the disease is a result of eating too much junk food or not getting enough exercise. It is important to remember that this is not the case. Though the cause of the disease is not 100% clear, doctors believe that it is likely related to hormonal changes (e.g. when puberty begins or during pregnancy) and that it is a genetic disorder that is passed down.Thus, while you should do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle, you should accept that no amount of dieting and exercise will cure the problem. Getting enough exercise and making healthy food choices will, however, help you maintain your health as best you can.
Given this information, it is also important to remember that the disorder is not your fault and that you shouldn’t beat yourself up about the disorder.

