 A week long antibiotic treatment is usually prescribed to women with Bacterial Vaginosis.


You should be very careful not to miss any medication throughout the course of treatment. Stopping the medication without the advice of the healthcare provider will cause bacterial resistance to the antibiotic and will increase the possibility of the disease recurrence.
The type of antibiotic you are prescribed may vary depending upon the severity of the condition.;
, Metronidazole is the standard drug given to patients with Bacterial Vaginosis. Metronidazole works by interfering with the bacterial and protozoal cells’ genetic material (also known as DNA).


This prevents the bacteria and protozoa from forming new DNA and eventually kills them. The recommended dose is 7.5 mg/kg orally every 6 hours but must not exceed 4 grams daily.
Patients should be made aware that during the course of the treatment, they are not allowed to drink alcohol or other related products as this can lead to adverse reactions such as skin flushing, nausea, vomiting, tachycardia (increased heart rate above 100 beats per minute when resting), and difficulty breathing.
 Clindamycin is used when Metronidazole doesn’t work and the vaginal discharge keeps on coming back.


It works by blocking the production of proteins in the bacteria which are necessary for their growth. They eventually die without these proteins.
The recommended dose is 300 mg orally two times a day.
 The partners of women who have been diagnosed with Bacterial Vaginosis are not usually treated. However, if the disease is recurring, the doctor may consider assessing the patient’s partner and possibly recommend treatment for them as well.
 Occurrences of bacterial vaginosis are higher in women who do not exercise proper hygiene, such as regular bathing.


It is recommended that you wash your vaginal area as well as anal area with mild soap (one with a lower pH, normally less than 7).
The vagina typically has an acidic environment (lower pH) thus using a mild soap with a pH that's closer to the vagina's natural flora will prevent harming any good bacteria.
 Remember to wipe from the front of the vagina to the back in order to prevent recurrence of bacterial vaginosis. You should also wipe from front to back after a bowel movement.


This prevents E. coli, a type of bacteria from feces, from entering in the vagina and disrupting the balance of natural organisms in the vagina.
 Avoiding harsh and scented soaps and detergents can also prevent the recurrence of bacterial vaginosis.


Harsh soaps and detergents irritate the vagina and cause an imbalance of microorganisms in the area due.
Additionally, cervical caps and medical applicators should be cleaned thoroughly before and after each use to prevent the spread of bacteria.
 This practice could potentially alter the natural bacteriologic balance of the vagina as it can wash away the good bacteria which are necessary for vaginal health.
 The use of tampons could promote bacterial growth, harm the vaginal cavity and expose the vagina to blood which has a relatively different pH.
 It is believed that wearing a thong could greatly increase the possibility of transferring microorganisms from the anus to the vagina, which could lead to bacterial vaginosis.
 If an attack of bacterial vaginosis symptoms occurs after sexual intercourse, it is advisable to abstain from sex until any symptoms have completely cleared up.
 During sexual intercourse, this condom completely covers the entire vagina, thus preventing the balance of bacteria being disrupted.
 The use of these commercially made pads makes the genitals warm and moist because they prevents the entrance of air. This kind of environment attracts bacteria, leading to an imbalance of the flora in the vagina. Switching to cotton or cloth pads is advisable, as they are more hygienic.
 Bacterial vaginosis is often caused by a disruption in the vagina’s normal flora. This happens when good bacteria is outnumbered by bad bacteria due to various elements, such as washing the vagina with harsh products or using an antibiotic.


In order to reverse the condition and thereby increase the amount of good bacteria in the vagina, you could try adding probiotics to your diet. Probiotics are high in good bacteria and by adding them to your diet you could potentially prevent bacterial vaginosis from recurring.
Probiotics are live microorganisms that serve the same function as those microorganisms typically found in the vagina. Add at least one food rich in probiotics to each of your major meals. Supplements or food products that are rich in probiotics are the following:
Dairy products such as acidophilus milk, cultured cottage cheese, buttermilk, kefir (fermented milk), yogurt, miso (fermented soybeans and rice), kimchi, sauerkraut and kombucha (fermented tea).
 The exact cause of Bacterial Vaginosis can be difficult to identify, however there are several factors that may be attributed to this disease. These include the following:


Bacterial Content Imbalance. The vaginal cavity is protected with harmless bacteria that protect the vagina. Yet, there are factors that disturb the homeostasis in the vagina which allows the penetration of bad bacteria, resulting in Bacterial Vaginosis. The bacterial content imbalance in the vagina could possible be caused by: an operation on the vagina, douching, or placing inappropriate and unsterile items into the vagina.
Sex: Although there is no clear link between sexual intercourse and the development of Bacterial Vaginosis, it is believed that the disease may be the result sexual intercourse involving unhygienic practices.
 In most instances, women with Bacterial Vaginosis do not notice any signs or symptoms. In the women who do experience symptoms, they include:


Grey, white or yellowish discharge. The disease can lead to unwanted vaginal discharges that are commonly caused by the growth of bad bacteria.
Foul-smelling discharge. The vaginal discharge is often described as having a “fishy odor.” This odor tends to worsen after sexual intercourse.
Lack of soreness or itchiness. BV is usually non-irritant and is not accompanied with any soreness or itchiness. In most instances, .
 Bacterial Vaginosis is usually described as asymptomatic, however in rare cases, a burning and stinging sensation may be experienced during urination due to an inflamed vagina.
 Sexual intercourse is said to be a precipitating factor that contributes to the occurrence of Bacterial Vaginosis. The incidence of BV in women who abstain fro intercourse is very rare.


However, there is a type of penile inflammation that affects the tip of a man’s penis that seems to be connected to the bacteria found in Bacterial Vaginosis, supporting the idea that the disease is sexually transmitted.
At present however, there is no reliable evidence or facts to support the claim that Bacterial Vaginosis is transmittable.
 Bacterial Vaginosis is diagnosed through an assessment of vaginal discharge, combined with the results of the following tests:


Checking the pH or alkalinity of the vaginal secretions. The normal pH of women’s vaginal secretions is slightly acidic. But once they are affected by the disease, their secretion becomes more alkaline leading to a pH that is greater than 5.
Potassium Hydroxide Test/Whiff Test. A sample of vaginal discharge is collected and a 10 percent potassium hydroxide solution is added. The result is considered positive if a distinctive smell is produced. But recently, this test is not recommended because the substance used during the procedure is discovered to have a harmful effect.
Microscope examination. The discharge sample is brought to the laboratory to be examined microscopically. The presence of unusual cells on the discharge, which are described as odd and speckled, suggests the presence of Bacterial Vaginosis.

