 You can use one piece of dowel and cut it in two, or you can use two separate pieces and cut them each to length. You can use a small hacksaw, or a box cutter will work, as well. Try to get the ends as smooth as possible.Do this outside or over a trashcan to reduce the mess.
This length will be determined by the size of kite you want to make. The dowels can be the same length or one can be shorter. For example, both could be 40 inches, or one could be 32” and the other 24”. It’s up to you the exact shape you want for your kite.;
, Using the saw or knife, cut notches into the ends, in which a piece of kite string will sit. The notches don’t need to be very deep, just enough that the string will fit in. Make sure the notches on each end of each dowel are going the same direction., If you used two lengths, the longer one will be vertical and the shorter one will be horizontal. Place the horizontal dowel ⅓ of the way from the top of the vertical dowel.


Make sure the the vertical dowel’s notches are pointing sideways toward the horizontal dowel, and the horizontal dowel’s notches are pointing vertically toward the vertical dowel.
 You’ll need about 12 inches (30 cm) of kite string. Circle the string around each angle formed by the crossed dowels. As you tie the string, make sure the dowels stay at 90 degree angles.


Knot the string around the cross section multiple times so the dowels are held tight.
 Starting at the bottom of the vertical dowel, wrap the kite string around five or six times. Make sure that when you finish wrapping, the string is near the end of the dowel again.


The purpose of this is to anchor the string to the frame securely before you wrap it around the frame.
 Starting with the bottom where you wrapped the string already, stretch the string from one notch to the next, making sure it stays tight.Finish by hooking the string through the bottom notch and tying it off.
The purpose of wrapping string around the frame is to help it maintain its shape when you fly the kite. It also gives you a guide for cutting the body out.

