 Starting a new relationship is a big step. It can be especially daunting if you are recently single. Take some time to think about your needs and wants before you jump in.Make a list of your relationship priorities. Are you looking for someone who shares your interests? For example, do you want someone to go hiking with? Write it down.
You can also write down your relationship expectations. Ask yourself whether you want to keep things casual or if you want someone who is interested in a long-term commitment.
Reflect on your emotional status. Are you feeling fragile? Do you still feel unsure of yourself? You might want to take some more time to be on your own before you start a new relationship.;
, The first step towards having a successful rebound relationship is to reenter the world of dating. If someone you are interested in asks you on a date, go for it. Don't feel like you have to go on a date with someone you are not interested in.Initiate a date. Do you always flirt with the same person after yoga class? Find out if they are interested in you.
Try saying, "I was wondering if you would like to have dinner on Saturday evening." Be specific and clear.
Go on a date. Find an activity that you are comfortable with for your first date.
If you're nervous, try doing something active. A fun activity like bowling can be a great ice breaker.
 While you are dating, start actively trying to find the right person for your rebound relationship. Ideally, you will find someone who is looking for the same level of commitment that you are. When you are on your dates, think about whether this person is right for you.There are several questions that you can ask yourself. First consider whether you find the person attractive.
Physical attraction is an important part of any relationship. Ask yourself whether you can imagine being intimate with the person.
Look for someone you can trust. Does the person seem honest? Does he or she openly discuss their work and family life? That's a good sign.
 New relationships are fun and exciting. Once you have started dating again, you might find yourself swept up in the thrill of the newness. Just don't forget that communication is an important part of any relationship.Be honest about your background. Don't try to hide the fact that you were recently in another relationship.
Have an open conversation about where you want the relationship to go. Try saying something like, "I really like you. I'm not sure exactly where this is headed, but I do know I'd like for us to be exclusive."
Listen carefully. Take time to acknowledge your partner's feelings and respect any differences of opinion.
 One of the comforting things about long relationships is that you have mutual habits and routines. One of the benefits of a new relationship is that you don't yet have rituals as a couple. That means you can enjoy being spontaneous and keeping things fresh.Make it a goal to explore new places. Pledge to try a new type of cuisine together once a week.
Mix it up a little. Try having a date night on a Monday instead of the traditional weekend outing.
Be willing to go with the flow. Your new partner likely has a pretty established routine. Don't be afraid to do things on a different schedule than you are used to.

