 You might already have video editing software that came with your computer, and a camera or phone that can take digital photographs. If so, you can jump into this method right away. However, the actual shooting and editing process can be long and difficult. If you want to make anything longer than a minute or two, try the stop motion software method above.

All you need for the easier method above is a free trial of the software and a $5 USD camera.
 Most free video editing software will work. Here are a few options covered in this guide, which you can find online:

For Mac: iMovie (comes pre-installed on some Macs)

For Windows: Virtual Dub, Windows Movie Maker (does not officially support this, but sometimes works; pre-installed on most Windows)


, Find an area with no moving shadows, flickering light, or background movement. Place any objects you like, holding wobbly objects in place with double-sided tape or poster tack.

Stop motion animation takes a long time to make. Start with a short, simple idea, like a piece of paper crumpling itself up and jumping in a trash can.
 You can use any camera, phone, or tablet that takes digital photographs. Place it on a tripod or stand, or tape it down. It must be completely still, or the movie will look jumbled and strange., The basic idea is simple: take a photograph, move the object a tiny bit, then take another one. Check how the image turned out, and take another one if there are any mistakes. You may want to take two or three photos of each position, just in case.

Make sure the objects are in sharp focus. If your camera keeps adjusting the focus distance, you might need to disable auto focus and set it manually.
Move it by the same amount each time.
 Save the pictures on to your computer in an easy to remember place. Leave the file names alone; these should be numbered, so they stay in order.

If you're using a photo application like iPhoto, make a new album first to keep them separate from your other photos.
 Open your video editing software and import the folder containing the pictures you took. This option is usually under File in the top menu, or where described below:

iMovie: Make sure you're in Timeline view. To import the images, click the Photos button and choose your photo album.
Virtual Dub: File → Open → Image Sequence. Select the first image in your album, and Virtual Dub will automatically import all other pictures that follow in numerical order (e.g DCM1000, DCM1001, DCM1002).
Windows Movie Maker: Do not import until after you've set picture duration, as described below.
 This determines how long each image will appear on screen. This works a little differently in each program:

iMovie: When you select your photos, you'll be prompted to enter a time value. Try 0:03 (3/100s of a second) for a smooth, fast video, or 0:10 for a jerky but more relaxed pace.
Virtual Dub: Video → Frame rate. 25 FPS (frames per second) is very smooth and fast, while 5-10 frames per second moves at a slower, jerky pace.
Windows Movie Maker: {{button|Tools} → Options → Advanced → Picture Options. Enter a picture duration (try 0.03 or 0.10). You can now load your images to the storyboard.
 Most video editing software allows you to add a soundtrack, title, credits, and special effects. You can play with these if you like, or skip this to make a silent film. Save frequently as you work.

iMovie: Add dialogue by moving the playhead (downward arrow) to a frame and click Audio → Record. For music, drag a song or sound effect from iTunes onto the audio track of iMovie.
Virtual Dub does not have these features. After exporting, you can open the video file in another program and make these changes.
 To watch your movie, just open the video file.Enjoy your first stop motion project!

Virtual Dub: File → Save as AVI. Your images are now a movie sequence ready for editing in another program, such as Windows Movie maker, Sony Vegas, or Adobe Premiere.

