 When you talk to other people in your work place, make concise, intelligent statements. If you are constantly trying to fill silences with nervous chatter, you will seem less authoritative and people will not see you as confident. Once you make a point, leave it at that. Don't try to fill any empty space if your coworker or employee doesn't respond right away.


Don't rush to answer a question, either. It is fine to take a minute to answer a question once you've been asked something. This shows that you have been listening and thinking about a proper response. Avoid blurting out the first thing that comes to mind., When you are trying to gain authority, you can't worry about being everyone's friend. Often times people in managerial positions have to make hard decisions that not everyone will like. Instead, assert yourself in a confident manner and people will not only appreciate you, they will take you more seriously., One way to undermine your authority at work is to have to backtrack on what you say. Before you make big decisions, tell other employees what to do, or start on a project, make sure you and your boss are clear on what is expected from you and your team. Have a clear understanding of any deadlines involved.
 If you are trying to gain authority in the workplace, you will need the help of those around you. Since you cannot do all the work yourself, encourage others to do their best as well. Your encouragement to do their best will empower them with new confidence. This will not only help them to accomplish their goals, but will help you gain better influence in the workplace as well.


For example, a coworker is working hard on a project but gets stuck. Instead of pointing out his errors, offer encouragement. Let him know that he has your support.
If you do this with enough people, you will be in favor with your coworkers and employees and will have gained respect from them as well., When you speak to those around you, watch the tone of voice you use. If you are making a declarative statement, speak in a strong, even tone. Don't end a sentence with a question mark unless it is a question. Watch out for filler language as, which uses words such as "um", "like", and "I think." These make you sound less sure of yourself. Also attempt to be as direct as possible. Even if what you have to say is uncomfortable, say it in a direct, head-on way. Those around you will appreciate your straightforward approach and respect you for it.


Don't be defensive when you talk, either. If someone is challenging your authority or decision-making process, being defensive will make you seem less confident than simply sticking up for your own decision in a calm, collected manner., Although it is good to make sure your voice is heard and to give your opinions, make sure you don't offend the opinions of others. Give fellow workers the respect they deserve by listening to their opinions. Listen to what others have to say and take their comments to heart.


If you internalize their comments and do something about their concerns and complaints, they will see that you are fair, which will in turn make you more authoritative.
If you are trying to gain more authority with those on the same level as you, become their confidant by listening to their issues. This will make you seem like someone they can turn to for support, which will give you authority.