 Many European countries, such as Germany, England, and Ireland, have drinking establishments called pubs or taverns. Unlike bars in America, pubs are full services restaurants where people spend time, play a pub quiz, or bring their families. Though some pubs have extensive cocktail menus, the main thing they serve is beer, wine, and cider. You can spend a whole night in a pub, eating with your friends watching a local band play. Pubs are so popular that there are actually quite a few in America. Look for a pub in your neighborhood. On your next outing with your friends, spend a night away from the hustle and bustle of a bar and settle on a pub instead.If you don't like the pub atmosphere, look for a Spanish tavern called a taberna or tapas bar. They are found in many large cities in America such as Boston and San Francisco. These establishments serve regional Spanish cuisine and have a full wine and cocktail menus.If you can't get to one of these establishments, try some imported alcohol instead. France and Italy are known for their wines, so try out a bottle with a French or Italian vintage. Drink imported beer such as Guinness from Ireland, Chimay from Belgium, Carlsberg from Denmark, Nastro Azzurro from Italy, or Heineken from the Netherlands., Although many European countries air shows from America, they have a rich expanse of television all their own. Whether it's a German soap opera such as Verbotene Liebe (Forbidden Love) or a British crime dramas such as Sherlock, try watching shows made in other countries. You can find many of them online from broadcast networks or steaming companies such as Netflix. As another option, try to find European-based television channels streaming live on the internet or on cable/satellite to get the full experience.


There are options all over Europe to choose from. Britain has great shows such as the sci-fi megahit Doctor Who and the thriller Luther, Denmark has political drama Borgen, and France has horror-drama The Returned, just to name a few.If you aren't a TV person, try some foreign films instead. There are many great international films playing in America at art houses or independent movie theaters. You can also look for European or country-based film festivals in your area such as the Boston French Film Festival in Massachusetts or the Nuovo Cinema Italiano Film Festival in Charleston, South Carolina., Although Europeans and Americans dress in similar ways, there are some things you can do to make you look more European by comparison. European style is typically dressier than American style, but younger Europeans are shifting toward a more casual style. Dress classic and simple. Stay away from over the top ensembles or super casual outfits. Look to London and Paris fashion week, both on the runway and off, for tips about how stylish European women and men are dressing. To know more on what it means to dress European, then go to How to Dress European on wikiHow.


Try stores such as H&M, Ben Sherman, Belstaff, Topshop, Hugo Boss, Topman, Lacoste, Mango, Zara, United Colors of Benetton, and Reiss. H&M, Lacoste, and Zara are popular all over Europe.
If you are a guy, make sure your clothes fit nicely. Avoid bright colors and shorts, unless you are on the coast. Try wearing a nice fitting polo shirt with a pair of fitted jeans. For going out at night, try an earth toned button up or sweater with a pair of dark jeans. You can even add a scarf to tie any outfit together.European women, especially the French, are known for their fashion. Whether they are going to the grocery store or are out for a walk with their children, French women are dressed to impress in skirts, dresses, and heels. Keep your fashion simple but elegant. Wear a pair of skinny jeans in black or red, a slightly chunky sweater, a scarf or long necklace, and a handbag. Top the whole outfit off with designer heels or boots, and you'll look just like you stepped off a street in Paris.No matter your gender, avoid wearing athletic shoes and clothes unless you are doing something sporty. Also avoid flip flops unless you are at the beach. Europeans don't typically wear these kinds of shoes or clothes unless they have a reason to. Wearing unwarranted sporty clothing will make you look like a European delinquent, so try to steer clear of them if you can., American football is something very different than football in Europe. Football, also known as footie, is what Americans know as soccer. Find a team to follow. Learn the teams that are in rivalries and the teams that are likely to go to the Champions League, which is the championship of the sport. You can even get your friends involved, watching it with them at your house or at a local pub.If you are ever asked whether you support one team or another team, it's safest to not answer. Chances are, the teams have a huge rivalry.
Britain, Germany, Italy, Greece and many other European countries are known for their football hooligans, who are rowdy fans who typically cause trouble, destroy property, and get arrested. Although the trend has declined in recent years, there are some Europeans who are still serious about their footie.If footie isn't your game, try to watch tennis or cricket instead. These sports are also popular all over Europe., Europeans use a different system of measurements and temperature. Instead of the Imperial/US customary unit measurements that use inches, feet, and pounds, use the Metric system, which is made up of meters, liters, and grams. You should also start expressing the temperature by Celsius instead of Fahrenheit. This will make you sound like a European and do things in the same fashion as they do. Not only will you sound European, but you will be part of the more than 90% of people all around the world that use the same system of measurement! For example, the Austrians would say that the distance between Vienna, Austria and Munich, Germany is 355 kilometres (221 mi) They would also say the temperature in Vienna was 25 °C (77 °F)

