 One way to help avoid unexpected visits is to schedule regular time with your parents. That way, they know exactly when they'll get to see you, and they won't be as tempted to just drop by. Try scheduling a once a week or bi-monthly time to get together.You could say, "I love spending time with you two, so I'd like to set up a time where we can get together on a regular basis. That way, I know I'll get to see you."

, If you tend to be busier than your parents are because they've retired, then you may not want to drop everything when they call. In that case, it's appropriate to say that you'll call them. Just be sure you do it fairly regularly. They are your parents, after all., If you are newly out of your home, you may need to find an excuse to be away from home. Of course, you want to visit, but you also need to establish your new life away from your parents. In that case, joining an organization in your community or college or even a sorority or fraternity if you're in college can help you keep your distance when you need to.This tactic can be especially good if it's something that will give you career experience, let you network, or look good on your resume.
 If you ask your parents for a loan or are dependent on them when you go off to school for spending money, it can be harder to avoid them when you need to. When you're financially obligated to someone, you must be in contact with them from time to time. Save up what money you can, and as often as possible, turn to other options besides your parents., If you're newly out of the house, it's time to start being responsible for yourself. That doesn't mean you can't call your parents for advice. Of course you can. However, try to handle the small details of day-to-day life on your own, including things like scheduling dental appointments, talking to the registrar's office if you're in school, and getting your oil changed on your car.If you're constantly dependent on your parents, it can be harder to break away from then when you need some space.
If you're in a bind at college, talk to your advisor or even your residential hall supervisor. They're there to help your figure out your way at school.

