 The process for recall notifications has been streamlined and improved in recent years, but you should never assume that you will be informed about any and every baby product recall. No matter the circumstances, protecting a baby is not a passive job — you need to be actively engaged in watching, checking, and acting as needed.Whether initiated by product manufacturers (as in most cases) or required by a government agency, a product recall made due to detected health or safety concerns is permanent and never expires. So, even if you are using secondhand baby products (cribs, strollers, toys, clothing, etc.), you can and should take the initiative to ensure that there are no open recalls.;
, In the U.S., six different federal agencies responsible for reporting product recalls have joined forces to create a “one-stop shop” website. This group includes the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), which is the primary agency responsible for baby product recalls.


On the webpage, choose the “Consumer Products” tab, which takes you to the CPSC site. Or, choose “Search for Recalls” and enter “baby” or a similar search term.
You can also sign up for email alerts regarding new product recalls.
Other nations may have similar websites, such as http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/recall-alert-rappel-avis/index-eng.php in Canada.
 Several non-governmental websites that focus on parenting or childcare maintain searchable baby product recall pages. Look for a site with a simple search interface, basic recall details and images in the search results, and links to the official recall notifications. Consult the listing of the most recent recalls to make sure that the site is updated regularly.Many of these sites also provide the option for email alerts regarding new recalls.
 Whether you get your news from TV, websites, or newspapers, product recalls are regularly reported on as prominent points of interest. Local TV newscasts, for instance, seem to mention at least one product recall of some type daily. If you are not on an email notification list, this is probably the most likely way that you will find out about a recall.


Always confirm the details of a recall reported in the news, though. Don’t toss out your baby’s pacifiers or try to return a stroller until you have all the information about a recall. But also don’t delay unnecessarily in confirming the information.
 Baby products ranging from cribs to car seats to toys come with product registration cards you can fill out and mail in or complete online. Normally, one of the stated benefits of registering a baby product is that you will be notified directly if a recall on that product is initiated. Even if you aren’t eager to receive frequent product emails (which are usually just trying to get you to buy more of the company’s products), providing just your mailing address can make you more likely to be informed of a recall.


Don’t, however, assume that registering a product will guarantee you a recall notification. In the U.S., only car seat manufacturers are required to notify registered consumers of a children’s product recall. Use product registrations as a backup, not as your primary line of defense., Although they are usually initiated by the various product manufacturers, product recall notices follow a fairly consistent format. They identify the product by description and usually some sort of coding (like a UPC code or serial number); identify where, when, and for roughly how much it was sold; identify the reason for the recall; explain what you should do with the product; and provide contact information for the manufacturer.Make sure that the information provided in the recall notice matches your product. There can be many versions and variations of similar-looking baby products, and not all of them are likely to be recalled. However, if you don’t have enough information to confirm that the specific product you have is under recall (such as with a secondhand item), play it safe and assume that it is the recalled product.
 Once you have confirmed (or are reasonably certain) that your baby product is under recall, consult the specific instructions in the official notifications regarding what to do with the product. Depending upon the type of product and the type of hazard, the instructions usually involve some combination of returning the product to the retailer for a refund or exchange, contacting the manufacturer for a repair kit or replacement, or simply discarding the item.Your options may be more limited with a secondhand product — you can hardly return a playpen to the yard sale or your second cousin for a refund or replacement. But don’t be tempted to continue using a product that has been placed under recall just to avoid having “wasted” a few dollars on an item that you shouldn’t use anymore. Put safety first, especially when dealing with a baby.
 As a consumer, you are under no obligation to abide by a recall or disclose that a product has been recalled. As a decent human being, though, you should do both of those things. Don’t sell, give away, donate, or lend a baby product that you know or reasonably believe to have been recalled. Product recalls never expire, and neither does doing the right thing.


Before having that big yard sale with all your baby items that you no longer need, take a few moments to check one more time for recalls. Even products that were manufactured or sold years before can be the subject of a new recall., Most recalls are done out of an abundance of caution — or fear of lawsuits — and result in few injuries. If, however, you believe that your baby or someone else has been harmed in some way by a recalled product, you should consider your legal options. Start by talking to an attorney who is experienced in the field of product liability law, which varies in specifics in different jurisdictions but follows some fairly common essentials.To win a product liability claim in the U.S., you generally have to prove:

that you were actually injured or suffered actual losses.
that the product is defective.
that your injury was due to the defect.
that you were using the product as intended.



