 Making sure that you are resting enough is one of the most important things you can do to cope with endometriosis symptoms. If you aren't sleeping enough, your body will be less capable of combating pain. Try to get eight to nine hours of sleep every night.Take naps when you need to. Remember, you are dealing with chronic pain. That can really drain your energy levels. Be kind to your body and rest as needed.
If you have trouble sleeping, there are several things you can do. Make sure your room is at a cool, comfortable temperature. Try to avoid electronics for at least 1 hour before you go to bed. You can also ask your doctor about sleep aids.
 It can be very difficult to find the motivation to exercise when you are dealing with chronic pain. But studies show that moving regularly can really help decrease the severity of your symptoms. Try to get 20–30 minutes of moderate exercise several times a week.Find an activity that you enjoy. For example, if you love to swim, make that part of your regular exercise routine. If you like to be social while you sweat, look for a gym that offers lots of group classes.
Recruit a workout buddy. Exercise can be more fun if you do it with a friend. Make a standing date to go for a long walk with a good friend.
Try yoga. This method of exercise can help relieve your symptoms by helping you to feel mentally and physically better.
 Studies show that endometriosis symptoms can be more severe in women whose diets are heavy on red meat and low on leafy greens. Although the research is not yet complete, it is clear that eating a more healthy, balanced diet will certainly not make your symptoms worse. It can only help.Aim to get several servings of fruits and vegetables each day. Vitamins A, B, and C can help your overall health, which can help your symptoms. Try to eat leafy greens such as spinach or kale, which are rich in nutrients.
Limit your intake of red meat. Instead, try to incorporate fish into your diet. The research indicates that the more fat in your diet, the more estrogen your body produces. More estrogen can increase your endometriosis symptoms. So try to incorporate lean proteins into your meals. Salmon and lean cuts of pork are great options.

