 Have things changed recently?;
, Act laid back and pretend not to suspect anything. The next day or morning try to act a bit romantic; don't say anything about another person you might suspect. You want your partner to have a bad conscience if he or she is doing something stupid.
 (This is mostly referred to men but remember everyone’s different.)

, But there's always a possibility this might just be jealousy. But if you aren't interacting with the opposite sex more than usual, jealousy is not the case. (of course if you're homosexual you have to think about you being more with the same sex, and if you're bisexual you need to look more at the fact if you're more with an exact person and/or all of the above.)

, You need information; you can't just jump to conclusions. Of course numbers and dates on pieces of paper are proof, but they’re not enough. Try sneaking in questions that might not seem suspicious into your everyday conversations, but that will give you a name or info you might not have been aware of. Do this when you believe your partner has let their guard down.
 Remember that accusing someone of cheating is serious business. You might end up breaking up with a really sincere person.
 It’s not good to go out with a person who cheats. How you deal with that person after finding out is your own business. The most important thing to remember is not to forgive that person for their serious error. If you weren’t enough this time you’ll never be. But don’t try to make that person jealous that’s the same thing as lowering yourself to that person’s level.
 The only positive thing here is that you now are definitely sure about the situation. If so you should handle the situation directly. Do not run away for any reasons. Look the person straight in the eyes, but don’t lose your temper or start fighting. Then leave or if it’s your place, throw them out in a manner of speech.
 This will only make your life difficult. Once a cheater always a cheater! Although, this isn't always the case; some people can realize that cheating on a nice guy/girl is wrong and say they'll never do it again and be sincere when they say it! Don't make harsh decisions.

