 A note can't be good if you can't sustain it. Before you work on your voice, you have to work on your breathing. Just like holding your breath comes easier with time, so does prolonged expulsion.


Start by breathing in for 4 counts and exhaling for 8. Increase the exhale by 4 until you hit 28. You're not stretching the capacity of your lungs; you are learning how to control the air.

Breathing out on a hiss will make it easier to control the air and give a tonal quality to the power behind it.
 You wouldn't start a marathon without training, would you? Your vocal folds are muscles too! Show them the respect they deserve by warming up.


Start on middle C and practice going down in half steps until you hit the bottom of your range, working major scales. Then, take it back up to the top of your range. Use phrases like, "Mommy made me mash my M&Ms" to switch it up from the normal solfege (do, re, mi...).
Practice lip trills and sirens. Start near the bottom of your range and slide your way up. This is especially useful for opening up the higher range.

As you do your siren, use your arms to give the higher range a physicality. Often it's easier to hit high notes if you can "see" them.
 Too many pop singers are guilty of being overly nasal. If you modify your vowels, your voice will have a more classic, darker, developed tone that is more likely to sound trained.


Practice with multiple consonants. Start on ma, me, mi, mo, moo (that's pronounced like mah, meh, mih, moh, moo), and move to ta, te, ti, to(h), too. Then on with "z," "k," and "sh." At the "oo" sound, move up or down a half step and repeat until you hit the extremes of your range.

Each voice has a vowel that makes it easier to reach higher notes. Experiment to see which one makes it easiest for you.
 Say you have a huge break between your chest voice and head voice; because of this, you avoid those three or four dangerous notes at all costs. As a result, the quality of those notes becomes very weak. In order to improve, you must take risks.


Go outside your comfort zone. If you're not comfortable with a certain range or length of note, practice it. It is the only way you will get better. Control will come with time. With enough practice, you'll be able to manipulate your voice into doing exactly what you want.
 Sometimes our voices just aren't meant for certain notes. If you find yourself straining, either drop an octave or find a note in harmony.


Listen to what your voice is telling you. You may want horribly to be a soprano, but it just may not be in the cards. But remember: Your range does not determine how good your voice is. Sing with what you have--don't try to be something you're not.

