 Cut the photo you’ve chosen into a circle 2” to 2.5” in diameter. Do the same for the sheet of cardstock, which will act as a backing to make the photo more durable. Cut out the photo and cardstock slowly and carefully, making sure the edges are clean and even and both pieces are the same size.To make the circular photo more precise, trace the outline with a pencil or the rim of a drinking glass roughly the same size as the ornament.
If you want, you can have the cardstock printed with a personalized caption or greeting, such as “Christmas 2016” or “Happy Holidays from the Smith Family.” This message will then be displayed on the opposite side of the ornament.
 Tear a strip of tape and stick it to the back side of the photo. The tape should be vertical, stretching from the top edge of the photo to the bottom.


Stretch the tape before pressing it down to eliminate any bubbles or wrinkles.
 Snip off a few inches of fishing line and fold it in half so that it forms a thin loop. Stick the looped end to the tape on the back of the photo with the entire length lying flat. Then, take the circular piece of cardstock you cut and sandwich the fishing line between the cardstock and photo. You’ll now have a photo of the right size complete with backing and a way to lower the photo into the glass bulb.Line up the edges of the photo and cardstock before pressing them together.
Don’t use glue to attach the photo to the cardstock. It could wrinkle or bleed through the photo.
 Remove the small metal cap from the ornament bulb. Gently roll the photo and cardstock into a loose tube, picture side out. Be careful not to use too much pressure, or the photo could crease. Slide the rolled photo into the bulb with the fishing line coming out of the top. This will give you a way to pull the photo out if you make a mistake, and it will also act to fix the photo in place inside the ornament.Hold on tight to the fishing line as you drop the photo in. If you lose it, it could be a pain to get out.
 Find a slender, blunted tool that will fit inside the opening of the bulb. Reach one end in side and use it to smooth out the edges of the rolled picture. Rather than being perfectly flat, the photo will now have a slight curve to it, matching the rounded contours of the ornament.The shaft of a pencil, ink pen or paint brush will work well for this purpose.
Make sure whatever implement you use doesn’t scratch or damage the photo.
 Guide either end of the fishing line through the holes in the top of the cap. Slide the cap down the fishing line and press it firmly into place. Tie off the fishing line and use it to hang the ornament, or attach a separate piece of ribbon or twine to make it more visually interesting. It’s that easy!Adjust the length of the fishing line inside the ornament so that the photo is suspended in just the right place.
If you decide to use ribbon to hang the ornament, secure it by laying it across the top of the ornament before you tie down the ends of the fishing line.

