


The oldest type of Jeep to find would be the prototype Bantam BRC, which was originally created by American Bantam Car Company for the United States and Allied armies in World War II.
When the American Bantam Car Company was deemed too small of a company to mass produce the vehicles, the original designs were turned over to two different companies to make their own vehicles. Willys-Overland made the Model MB, and Ford built the Model GPW.
Amphibious Jeeps are known as model GPA.
The CJ series stands for Civilian Jeep, and these were first produced in 1945, although war-era Jeeps were able to be purchased after the war because of the amount of surplus vehicles available.;
, Start with the personal classifieds, and then move on to the dealership advertisements. If you are lucky enough to purchase locally, you will save yourself money on delivery or shipment.
 These magazines can usually be found at convenience stores or gas stations in magazine racks located by the door. Finding a vehicle in your region may not be quite as close as your community, but it should allow you a vehicle that is within driving distance that you can pick up yourself.




OldRide.com has classic Jeeps for sale. There you check out vehicles by year, price or location. You can also view photographs of the listed vehicles.
AutotraderClassics.com is another site that may have the vehicle for which you are looking. Plug in such features as year, make and model as well as distance willing to travel and/or price range.
You can also run a vintage Jeep search through ClassicCars.com. Search by year range, make, model, distance and/or keyword.
, The Kelley Blue Book is a trusted valuation resource, and it can help give you a price starting point with your seller.
 Most resources that list vehicles are strictly the middleman. All discussions should take place directly with the seller or selling institution of the vehicle.


Determine if the price is firm or negotiable. If negotiable, discuss the pricing until you can settle on the cost.
Determine how you are going to obtain the Jeep. Is the shipper going to deliver it or ship it? Are you going to fly or have someone drive you to it, so that you can drive it home?
Make payment arrangements.
