 This is a technique called "managing up." The idea is to identify your bosses personality quirks, strengths, and weaknesses, and tailor your communication style to theirs.Perfectionists desire to be in control. This might seem self-evident, but the proper response isn't. If you have a boss who is a control freak, use it to your advantage. When they give you a task, ask direct, detailed questions that define the limits of the assignment.Ask about your manager’s expectations. This may give your manager an enhanced feeling of control, but it also protects you from an arbitrary response on their part. Although perfectionism might be inherently unreasonable, people--even perfectionist people--try not to be. If they have given you a starting point, an endpoint, and the boundaries of a task, if you complete it according to their specifications it lessens the likelihood that they will be angry with you., Once you've got a good handle on what they're looking for, don't wait for them to ask you for it, or "pull it out" of you. Push it their way.


The more you give them the information they’re looking for without asking, the less likely they are to think about you and your imperfections. It allows you to avoid conflict by being in the right place at the right time, which in this case, is out of sight and out of mind.
 In the limited relationship that you have as a subordinate, it is very unlikely that you are going to change your boss' fundamental personality profile.They may always be critical, and they may always be overly critical.


However, it might be possible to earn your boss’s respect. The bad news is that you may have to endure numerous tiresome interactions in the process. The good news is that other subordinates have probably earned the respect of your boss, your boss has probably recommended others for promotions, and your boss has probably given good employment references to former employees. There's no reason he or she can't do the same for you.
 Since perfectionists have unreasonably high standards, it will always be difficult to earn their praise. They make very poor mentors, so don't expect them to fill that role.We all need support and guidance, but if you seek it from your perfectionist boss, it will likely end up doing little but harming your self-image. Don't put yourself in the position to have your self-worth determined by someone who thinks everyone is unworthy.The perfectionist boss is a situation to deal with and get through. Do your best to make it as short as possible.
 Since the perfectionist boss is a situation to be dealt with and adapted to, and no accepted indefinitely, you have to know when to cut the cord.


If the boss is unlikely to leave his or her position, then once you've earned their respect enough to get a good recommendation, find a way to move. That might mean a transfer within the company, and it might mean finding a job outside of the company.

