 A southern caramel cake is a sweet cake made with layers of gooey and sweet. Serve this luscious southern caramel cake with tea and enjoy with your family or friends.Preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Use a hand mixer to mix 1 cup of butter, 1/3 cup of vegetable oil, and 2.5 cups of granulated sugar in a large mixing bowl. This will take about five minutes.
Add six eggs and two egg yolks to the bowl and continue mixing on medium for about two minutes.
Add 2 tablespoons of vanilla extract and continue mixing.
Slowly sift 3 cups of cake flour into the bowl. Alternate sifting the flour into the bowl with scooping spoonfuls of sour cream – 1 cup altogether – into the mix. For instance, sift a few spoonfuls of flour into the mixing bowl, blend it for a moment on low, then add spoonful or sour cream, and blend again. Repeat until all the flour and sour cream is incorporated.
Spray three 9-inch round cake pans with a nonstick spray. Pour the cake batter into the pans and bake them for about 25 minutes. Remove pans and let them cool.
Next, make the caramel icing. Mix 1.5 sticks of butter, 2 (12 ounce) cans of evaporated milk, and 2 cups of granulated sugar to a medium saucepan over medium heat. Leave in the saucepan, stirring occasionally. You can test if it’s ready by dipping a spoon in it. If it’s ready, it should stick to the spoon.
Add 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract to the caramel and mix it with a large spoon.
Finally, assemble your cake. Place one of the cake layers on a large plate, then spoon some of the caramel in an even layer of it. Repeat with the other layers of cake. Use a spatula to spoon some caramel over the sides, too.;
, An apple pie cake is the perfect marriage of apple pie and spice cake. A warm slice of apple pie cake is great in fall or winter, especially with a scoop of vanilla ice cream on the side.Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit.
Mix 9 cups of peeled and chopped apples, 4 tablespoons of butter, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon, 1.25 cups of water, and 1/3 cup of sugar in a large mixing bowl. Once everything is evenly mixed and the apples have a nice cinnamon coat, pour the contents into a 13’’ x 9’’ glass baking dish.
In another large bowl, mix ½ cup of sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, 8 tablespoons of butter, 2/3 cup of milk, and 4 teaspoons of baking powder. Use a hand mixer to blend everything for two minutes on medium.
Add 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract and 2 eggs. Mix for another two minutes.
Pour the batter over the cinnamon-apple mixture. Bake the cake for 35 minutes, or until golden brown.
 The heavenly white cake truly is a slice of heaven on earth. This cake is perfect for that weddings, baby showers, and anniversaries. To get started, preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit.Sift ¾ teaspoons of salt, 4 teaspoons of baking powder, and 2.75 cups of cake flour together.
Mix 4 egg whites in a mixing bowl until they are foamy. Gradually add ½ a cup of sugar. Continue to beat the mixture until soft peaks form in the mixture. This mixture is called “meringue.” Set aside for later use.
Next, beat ¾ cup of butter until it is smooth. You might need to warm it a bit for a few seconds in the microwave. Add 1 cup of sugar gradually, and mix until everything is fluffy.
Slowly add the flour and other sifted ingredients to the egg whites. Alternate adding the sifted ingredients with small spoonfuls of milk – 1 cup altogether. For instance, add a bit of the dry ingredients, mix together, then add a few spoonfuls of milk, and mix again until all ingredients are incorporated.
Mix in 1 teaspoon of almond extract and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. Then, add the foamy meringue to the bowl and continue mixing.
Scoop the batter out into a 15’’ x 10’’ x 1’’ pan lined with parchment paper. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes. Remove and allow to cool on the rack.

