 Don't over-wash your face, however. You will dry out your skin, which will cause it to produce extra oils to compensate. Instead, wash your face in the morning when you wake up, and in the evening before you go to bed. Use a gentle face wash designed for your skin type. Don't use ordinary hand or body soaps; they are too harsh for the sensitive skin on your face and could lead to dryness or breakouts.


Don't wear makeup to bed. Even if you are tired and falling asleep on your feet, try to summon enough energy to clean all that makeup off. If you don't, the makeup will clog your pores. This may result in acne the following morning.;
, Ideally, you should exfoliate once or twice a week, and more often if the days are hot and humid. Exfoliating is good, because it helps scrub away dead skin cells to reveal the fresh skin underneath. It will make your skin appear less dull and more bright. However, exfoliating too often can make your skin extra-sensitive and appear red.If you'd like to try making some of your own face and body scrubs, click here.
 Soak a cotton ball with some toner and sweep it across your face. Focus on your forehead, nose, and cheeks. Avoid the eyes and mouth.


If you have sensitive skin, try to use a gentle, alcohol-free toner, or rosewater.
 This is recommended for all skin types—including oily. If you are going out for the day, consider using a moisturizer that has at least 15SPF.If you are trying to combat wrinkles, try using an anti-aging moisturizer before going to bed. If you have oily skin or acne, try finding one that is lightweight or labeled for oily skin.
 Hot water can be very damaging to your skin. It can cause your skin to lose its natural oils and become dry.
 Don't rub your skin, as this can irritate it. Instead, pat your skin dry with a soft towel. Doing this will leave some moisture on your skin. Your skin will soak up this excess moisture and stay hydrated.
 Don't use a body wash or soap. Shaving creams and gels are designed to soften and condition your skin and hair, making it easier to shave. Also, try to shave in the direction your hair is growing in, not against it. This will help prevent razor bumps and burns.
 This means wearing sunscreen that has at least 15SPF, and avoiding the sun when its rays are the strongest, which is between 10am and 2pm. If you don't like wearing sunscreen, try getting some moisturizer or foundation that has some sunscreen in it. You might also want to consider wearing a wide-brimmed hat, long-sleeved shirts, and long pants when going outside.The sun may help give you a beautiful tan, but it can also cause wrinkles, freckles, and blotches. It can also lead to skin cancer.
 This includes makeup. For many skin-care products, you often get what you pay for. Many of the cheaper brands are laden with harmful chemicals that may do your skin more harm than good. Some of the cheaper makeup brands are also more likely to clog up your skin pores, which leads to breakouts.


Consider going for a natural, mineral-based makeup, or purchasing some higher end makeup from a beauty store.
 There are different types of foundation available, including powder, liquid, and cream. What type of skin you have (oily, dry, or normal) will determine what type of foundation is best for you. Know that using the wrong type of foundation may lead to other problems too.


If you have oily skin, skip on the cream-based foundation and go for a powder or liquid foundation.
If you have dry skin, pass on the powder foundation and go for a cream or liquid foundation instead.
If you have normal skin, you can wear any type of foundation.

