 Sometimes, parents may give their babies solid foods before they are ready for them. If you are trying to give your baby solid food but she won’t eat it, this may be your problem.Most babies under six months old are not ready for solid foods. Wait until your baby is ready to start switching to solid foods.
Make sure to start with the right type and amount of food. Check with your pediatrician for advice on how to start giving new foods to your baby.
 If your baby refuses to eat, make sure she gets enough to drink. Not eating may make her dehydrated. Though food is important, keeping her hydrated is essential.This might be the case if your baby is not eating due to sickness.
Try water or diluted juices, but do not give diluted juice too soon before a feeding, or your baby may not want to eat. You may also try soups, frozen-juice desserts, or juicy fruits.
 If your baby doesn’t want to eat, she might turn her head or refuse to open her mouth. This is pretty common and can be normal. If your baby refuses to eat, don’t force her. Instead, come back later and try again.Forcing your child to eat may make her want to eat even less than before or turn her off from a certain food.If your baby continually refuses to eat, there might be a more serious problem. If the problem persists, take your baby to see the pediatrician.
 Sometimes your child throws food on the floor and none of it ever gets into her mouth. Babies go through independent phases where they want to feed themselves and have control over their food, and when they are beginning them, they might start by throwing food.Babies may also learn about new foods by squishing or smelling them.
 Your baby may be reluctant to eat if you try to rush her. Rushing or forcing her to eat may cause her to get cranky or agitated. Instead, take your time feeding her.Wait for your baby to open her mouth when you hold the spoon up to her mouth.
If she refuses to eat, try again later. Sometimes, babies will eat very little at one meal.
 When you are trying to get your baby to eat new foods, like solids or an expanded menu, do this slowly. Try introducing one food at a time. If you try to introduce too many foods to your child at one time, it may overwhelm your baby.Give your baby one new food each day.
If your baby doesn’t eat a new food, wait a few days. Introduce the food again. Keep at it and eventually your baby will eat it.
 If you baby consistently refuses to eat, you should take her to the pediatrician. Your pediatrician can do an exam and determine if it is a phase or something more serious.If there is nothing wrong with her medically, your doctor may refer you to a feeding specialist.

