 You need to decide if you and your new spouse will execute reciprocal Wills. Reciprocal Wills are documents written by husband and wife that are exactly alike. This means that each Will leaves the same assets to the same person or people in the same proportion. This will make it less confusing or upsetting for all involved when someone dies.For example, Sarah and Joe, each on a second marriage, are married to one another. They each have one child from a previous marriage. They both execute Wills which leave everything to the other, and in case the other is deceased, one-half of the estate goes to Sarah’s child and one-half goes to Joe’s child.
Keep in mind that when executing Reciprocal Wills, your spouse is free to change his Will at any time. For example, Sarah dies and Joe inherits the entire estate. He then may change his Will to leave the entire estate to his child, and disinherit Sarah’s child., When executing Non-Reciprocal Wills, you need to determine what assets belong to each of you. This will make it where there is no confusion about what property each party may leave to any heirs. Your spouse is not required to inform you of changes made to his Will, whether the Wills are reciprocal or not. Your spouse is free to change his will at any time and is under no obligation to inform you of the change.


This means that he may remove your children as beneficiaries and leave his entire estate to his own children, without your permission or knowledge.
If you experience any difficulty reaching an agreement concerning ownership of your property, a pre-nuptial agreement or your state’s marital property laws may dictate ownership of some or all of your property for you., When planning your estate, you need to decide who is going to be left which of your assets. You may wish to leave everything to your current spouse or your children, or you may wish to divide your assets between your spouse and children in some manner. There are many options for distributing your property upon your death, including various trusts and titling options. These can depend on your particular circumstances, the state where you live, and the size of your estate.


You may wish to consult with an attorney in order to determine what options are available and find the ones that will work best for your family., Once you have decided who will inherit your estate, you need to find a personal representative. Your personal representative will be responsible for ensuring that your Will is followed and your estate is handled in accordance with your wishes. She will also be responsible for collecting assets, obtaining property appraisals, opening an estate account, paying estate bills, keeping records for the estate heirs and the Court, and consulting with professionals such as attorneys, accountants, and real estate agents. There are many considerations you need to take into account when choosing the best, most impartial representative for your estate.


You might want to choose a non-family member who is not associated with either side of your blended family. This will ensure that she is not partial to one side of the family in case there are any complications with your estate.
You can also choose a friend or professional. This can be an attorney or asset manager at a bank. These individuals may be a good choice of personal representative for some families because they have no stake in your family affairs and are knowledgeable about money. , Once you have finished planning your estate, it is time to execute the official documents to reflect your wishes. The documentation of your estate plan may consist of one or more of documents such as a Will, a power of attorney, and a Living Will.


A Last Will and Testament, or a Will, is a legal document which specifies who shall inherit what portion of an estate upon the testator’s death. The testator is the person who executes the Will.
A power of attorney is a legal document which gives another party the authority to act on your behalf in financial or health care matters when you are not able.
A Living Will is a document which directs your family and doctors concerning your wishes regarding remaining alive on machines and receiving nutrition and hydration, should you need this type of care.

