 Bible journaling is a personal pastime, one in which you decide what things to explore through the medium of a journal. Suggestions of what might inspire you include:


What readings in the Bible mean to you, have caused you to think more deeply about.
Reflections on particular stories or morals in the Bible.
Messages or insights that you feel are pertinent to things you're experiencing at the moment, or things you've gone through.
Analysis of things you've read, and how these link to other parts of the Bible, or to your faith in general.;
, If you need some direction, consider following a strategy such as S.O.A.P., which is short for: S - Scripture, O - Observation, A - Application and P - Prayer. This involves reading the Scripture and noting down a verse, passage, etc. Then, write down what you have observed from the reading, what insights you think it has revealed to you. Follow it with consideration of how this applies to your daily life and ongoing interactions with others and your relationship with God. Finally, prayer is a form of conversation, with God or listening to what God has revealed to you through what you have read in the Bible.


You might like to do a journal chapter for each chapter you read in the Bible. Take notes after verses and passages, then do an overview summary at the end of each chapter read.
 This may not necessarily be while or just after reading the Bible. The inspiration might come to you any time, during activities, when out in the park, watching TV at night, etc. If you have your journal handy, note the things you're thinking down; you can explore them later, when you have time for reflection.
 While writing is an important way of exploring your thoughts, so are images. You can draw pictures (or glue in images from print-outs, the newspaper, etc.), draw mind maps or picture diagrams and use geometric shapes for other ways of expressing your exploration. If you like colors, add plenty in to brighten up your journal; this will encourage you to reread many sections of your journal at a later date.


Some passages or verses might inspire you to draw or create diagrams that represent the message within. Be creative and let the inspiration flow into your artistic impressions.
 You don't have to do this but it can be a good way to share ideas and explore insights together. To keep it personal, consider only reading out particular reflections in a pair or group context, such as a Bible study group.


Ask questions about each other's reflections, to help all of you explore further.

