 The design should be simple enough for a new user to navigate easily. Test your app with a few friends or ideally a larger group of people who are not well versed in cell phone use. See how they perform, where they get stuck, are these intuitive, attractive and fun to use? Change your design accordingly.


Similarly, people who are less educated and young users (kids) are a big market sector. The design must be intuitive enough to help them use your app without hassle.;
, Mobile internet market is divided among different operating systems. Consider these differences before designing the app. Use responsive design to ensure that your app appears as intended throughout different platforms and operating systems.
 Use responsive design strategy to create an app that is flexible and customizable for different platforms. Responsive design refers to the idea that app or website changes its layout, fonts, and graphics according to the hosting device. Don't go for the strategy of creating a trimmed down version of your site for cell phones. Instead, first build the site for the small screen and then enlarge it for the bigger screens.
 The grid is an excellent tool to keep your app design consistent and on the track across multiple pages. Consistency in graphics, fonts, and icons create professional look. Not to mention, it reflects your brand image.
 Not all areas have network coverage. Decide on offline usability factor of your app. Make sure that most of the features in your app work during offline sessions. In some parts of the world power outages are a regular feature of daily life, so ideally your app would be usable even if you don't have an internet connection.
 Clearly set your objective about your app objective. E.g., Find petrol stations on highway in a particular state or country.
 Visualize how your app will look on the screen. Draw a rough diagram of screens or skins. What are the functions and everything in between.
 Know if your idea is already used. Find out what users are looking for? How to tap the market financially? Chalk out a marketing plan. Marketing isn't the last step in app making. It should be taken along in every step i.e., pre-production, production, and post production., Storyboarding helps you have a blueprint of app functionality. Similar to storyboarding for movies, the more elaborate storyboard is, the more lucid the process becomes., Prototyping tools let you see and test your app in real time. You can check and modify accordingly. Ask your friends and family to check your app and give feedback. Incorporate their feedback in your modifications., Now after testing the prototype, begin your work on backend. It is the developer's' side of the application. It includes storage, APIs, setup servers, and databases., App store require you to get registered as developer. You don't need to be expert in programing but it requires a fee. Check out the sites for more info., It is the actual creation of the skins or screens that the users will use. You make UI at this stage.
 App making usually requires lot of hard work and money. Not all can afford it. Here is a solution. You can use app builder platforms abundantly found on the web. They start from free and go to monthly/yearly subscription. Moreover, they don't need you writing code. They offer graphical user interface. You just need to drag, drop, upload photos, check boxes and your app is complete. Bingo!, There are numerous sites offering app building services. Go through some and read content and testimonials. Consider intuitive and easy interface. Some offer free services while others charge fee., Make sure you have read the above section on digging deeper. Do some paperwork and visualization before starting the process. Storyboard how your screens and functions are going to work., Most of the sites are very easy to use. Anyone with some basic knowledge of computers and internet can do it easily., Read the above section titled "Setting the Benchmark". Your app should have enough features that work offline. Make intuitive design, so new users can use it easily., Consider text, typography, colors, icons, tabs, etc, beforehand to give a consistent look., The famous apps and websites are results of coders' blood, sweat, and tears. You can't get all the features with app building sites. So if you have some brilliant idea for app, learning to code isn't bad. This is the usual way of making apps:, The basic languages a programmer should know are: C, C++ , Objective-C, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Node.js,and Ruby. You may learn additional. That is a bonus. However, master a couple of language and learn the basics of others. Either get admission in college or learn online through tutorials and videos. No dearth of either!, Research the market to get appropriate system for your work., Read the above sections: Setting the Benchmark and Digging Deeper. The first sections is the tips by ace developers. The later outlines the basics of successful app making., Set the environment for app development. Install the environment according to your system and app., After you have thoroughly done paperwork and you have clear cut idea of look and functions employing the tips given above, now begin coding. Create project source code, resource files,manifest files., During this stage you build your app in debuggable package. Use SDK tools for testing app., During this phase, you once again check your app in release mode., Now the actual app is ready. Check it using app test app (there are apps for checking apps)., You can either publish it directly through your iTunes or Google Play app stores developer account or submit it to the site you used to build it. Now wait and create buzz about your app., The marketing process you started from pre-production through research and continue with blog and social media, now gets momentum. Make microsite for your app. Use promotional videos. Advertise on social media. Run some contest or other marketing tactics to gain attention. You should have a business model too.

