;
, Most all light fixtures have enough cord coiled up inside of the light niche to allow the fixture to be brought up onto the deck for repair. Remove the single stainless steel screw at the top of the light (at 12 o'clock). Once this is removed, use a flathead screwdriver to pry the fixture out of the niche. Most fixtures have a tab at the bottom (at 6 o'clock). You may need to pry and wiggle in the direction of the tab to remove the fixture. Once removed, lift it up onto the deck.
 Use quality tools of proper size, so as not to strip any of the soft metal screws, bolts, etc. On very old fixtures, screws may break easily, or be corroded from years of water and chemical exposure. Old model lights have 8 brass screws around the fixture, which tighten down on tabs. Newer models have a clamp band with only one screw or bolt/nut. Remove the screws or clamp and gently pry the glass lens out of the front of the fixture.
 Most will twist out counter-clockwise. Some spa lamps or small halogen lamps for pools have small bulbs that you need to push in and then twist to remove. Whatever it's type, be careful in removing the bulb, old bulbs may break at the base during removal. It's good practice to cover the bulb with a soft cloth before turning it (counter-clockwise to remove). After removing the bulb, use the cloth to wipe clean and dry all interior surfaces. Thread in a new bulb, specifically made for the fixture. Don't use anything other than the real thing.
 Before reassembly, turn on power Very Briefly (for 1 - 2 seconds) to check that the bulb/lamp is working.
 This is the rubber gasket around the lens, approx 8" diameter. Complete the reassembly of the fixture. Make sure screws are very tight. Follow any printed instructions on the lens for proper alignment of lens to fixture.
 If you have no bubbles streaming out of your gasket, you have a good seal.
 First coil the cord around the back of the fixture, then locate the bottom tab (on the fixture) and tab receiver (on the niche). Line them up and insert the tab into position, and push the fixture flush into the niche. Then it's just the "not always simple" task of getting the top screw back in through the light bezel ring and into the threaded hole in the niche. Tighten screw down just snug (not too tight). Test your light again.

