 Before your ultrasound, you should speak with your physician to see if you need to discontinue taking any of your medications/vitamins, as some of these can affect the results of the scan.


These medications might include antithyroid medications and thyroid hormones. As these medications are used to treat your thyroid, they could affect the results of your scan.
That said, do not discontinue taking any medications without speaking to your physician first.;
, Avoiding iodine in the days leading up to the exam will help the cells in your thyroid readily absorb the iodine dye that is used as the contrast medium during your scan. This ensures that your physician will receive the best results possible. Medications and other substances that contain iodine include:


Iodized salt
Multivitamins
Kelp
Cough syrup
Amiodarone heart medicines (such as Pacerone or Cordarone)

, Make sure to tell your doctor about any risk factor or health issues that would make you an unsuitable candidate for undergoing a thyroid ultrasound exam. Tell your doctor:


If you have had any procedures performed that used an iodine dye or radioactive material within 4 weeks of your scan. If you have, you'll need to reschedule your scan. These contrast mediums are capable of altering the results of your thyroid ultrasound scan. The cells in your thyroid will not readily absorb the iodine contrast material because they will already be overloaded with it.
If you have previously suffered anaphylaxis (a serious allergic reaction) from any substance including shellfish or bee stings.
If you are allergic to any medications.
If you are breastfeeding.
If you are or may be pregnant.
 On the day of the exam, the ultrasound technician may ask you to remove your clothing and wear a hospital gown for the procedure. For this reason, make sure the clothing you choose is easy for you to remove.


If you remain in your own clothing, you will need to remove/open the clothing and remove any jewelry that is near your thyroid (which is located in your neck, just below your adam’s apple but above your collarbone).
Consider wearing a button up top/shirt as this makes accessing your thyroid easier.

