 You must have enough time and patience to go through all the steps.
 It's recommended that you make it either mild or hot, just because spicier is better and you are dealing with a bunch of red peppers after all, so it would make sense rather than to make it sweet.

It's all a matter of preference. If you want hot peppers, look for red hot peppers. If you want sweet peppers, look for sweet.
For the mild flavor, if you are fortunate enough to find that kind of pepper, then good! If not, you may have to mix up hot and sweet peppers together to get that milder flavor.
 Depending in what type of climate you are surrounded by, you can either grill the peppers outside or cook them on a stove in your kitchen. There is no specific time while preparing these peppers, just sitting on top of them and watching their skin turn black and ready to peel. This is when you know they are ready. While cooking, flip the peppers carefully so there is char on all sides., After all the cooking is done and you can see that the red peppers skins are black, immediately put these peppers in a container or plastic bag and tightly seal it. The reason doing so is to help keep the steam away from the skin of the peppers.

When the peppers are cooled down, take them out of the bag or container and set them down on a kitchen table where they are ready to be peeled down.
Carefully peel the unwanted black skin off the red peppers, then remove and discard the stem and seeds.
 If you do not own a grinder, chop them up. If you make big batches of this, chopping all of it up would be a big hassle, so your better choice is a grinder or processor.

If you have a bigger batch, you may want to let the red peppers drain overnight. The purpose of draining is to remove as much excess and moisture from the peppers.
 Add vegetable oil, salt and any other type of spice you would like to mix it up with, if you choose to do so., If you have a bigger batch, it will require more time., This means that the moisture is completely gone and it has reduced to somewhat of a paste. At this point, the red peppers should be a dark red color., Have plenty of sterilized canning jars prepared ahead.

Smaller jars are best.
 Put the lid on and allow it to cool down. You will hear a pinging noise; when this happens, it means that they are sealed tightly., You have created possibly one of the best dishes you have ever made.