 This can be difficult if you’re a regular smoker or drink socially, but if you’re going to share space with an addict, you need to remove all addictive substances from the home. Removing these temptations is essential to ensure your own safety and that of the addict in the home., If the addict is able to go for a significant period of time without using, celebrate. If the addict maintains all of the agreed upon boundaries for a month or a year, celebrate. Positive reinforcement reminds the addict that there are good things in life apart from drug use., Don’t keep secrets, sugar coat, or gloss over the situation. Be honest with others and with yourself. If you make excuses or minimize the addicts behavior, it makes it easier for them to do the same., Don’t insult, judge, or criticize the addict. These sorts of verbal confrontations may trigger the addict’s desire to use. If the addict tries to push you to fight with them, remove yourself from the situation., Addicts are manipulative. They are willing to make those closest to them feel guilty, if they are able to get access to drugs more easily or make excuses for themselves to use.


Addicts often threaten things such as, “I’m going to use, if you don’t let me borrow the car.” Don’t buy into that. You are not in control of their drug use.
Don’t apologize for saying no. You should not be sorry for standing up for yourself and your loved ones.
Leave if the addict’s behavior is dangerous or the addict refuses to stop behaving in an unacceptable way., This help is for you. Not the addict. Attend meetings with others who are coping with having an addict in their lives, or schedule regular appointments with a therapist or counselor. Living with or near an addict can be stressful, it’s important to get the support you need., Addiction is a disease. People who are addicted to drugs need the help of professionals. However, you can’t force them to get that help. Do what you can to be part of the cure, but remember, you are not responsible for the addict’s actions., Remembering the three “C”s of living with an addict is a common edict espoused by support groups and counselors who work with the family and friends of addicts. Remember you did not Cause the addiction, you cannot Control the addiction, and you cannot Cure the addiction.you