 Your resume is going to be in a pile of resumes that the recruiter has to quickly reduce to get their positions filled. They are not going to spend a lot of time looking at your resume, so you have to have something that says, "I am a game tester and can do this job" - Education, experience or something.;
, You now have the contact information you need to apply for the position. To make this easier, find the free lists of game testing jobs that are out there in the market. Look for lists that have jobs from the publishers you know.
 At the same time, don't be afraid to brag about your education and experience. Don't just say how many games and consoles you own and how many hours a day you spend gaming. Detail the Education and Experience, it counts!

, Chances are you'll eventually get your first assignment. Make sure to show up on time and listen to any instructions carefully. Study game testing so you don't make rookie mistakes. Especially make certain you know exactly what kind of information and feedback the company is looking for from you. Keep this in mind as you play the game they provide to you.


If you find you are not getting any response, realize that there are a lot of people applying for these positions. Make your resume and cover letter stand out. The easiest way is to enhance your education or gain some real world experience to increase your chances of getting a call back.
 This may not seem like part of becoming a video game tester, but if you want to continue the position with future companies and contracts, doing it well counts. Knowing how to write up bug reports is essential. Don't forget to check your spelling and grammar. Most importantly, make sure you get the data back to the company quickly! Even though you're having fun, don't forget you are getting paid for this.
 After completing your first assignment, you may be so excited when you receive that first paycheck that you spend all your time gloating about it. Don't! Keep up the process of submitting resumes. You will build up an impressive resume of game testing assignments that will help you get even more and better paying ones in the future.

