 At the company you work for, you will have a specific job role and this is how you make the company money. If you can't do your job well, you will lose customers and you may become a liability, meaning that you lose the company money. To ensure you do your job well, you must learn how to do it to the company's standards. Learn from other employees, get a mentor, enroll in training courses and be eager to learn as much as you can. The results you get at work are ultimately what you will be judged on.


This is the most important part. The whole reason the company employs you is to perform in this job role. Do it correctly and do it well.
Self-improvement and networking are important, but if your performance slips because of them, you won't be doing yourself any favors.Think about the company's return on investment (ROI) on you. How much money are you making for them in relation to your salary? Doing so will help frame your contributions and help you find ways to increase your measurable value.;
, Organize your tasks from most critical to least. When you've determined the most important 20 percent of your tasks, mark them separately from the rest. Spend the majority of your time and effort working on these, leaving the others to be completed quickly when you need to. This will allow you to do your best work on the most important tasks, rather than spreading yourself thin over both critical and non-critical tasks., Valuable employees don't stop working when the clock strikes five o'clock. If you have work to do on a project, stay later and get what you can done after hours. When you go home, bring your work with you and get it done around family time. Always be ready to respond to after-hours emails as well. This extra effort will get you noticed as a hard worker.Understand that this work is not overtime, which requires additional pay, but simply additional work with no expectation of additional pay.
Going the extra mile should also apply to the quality of your work. Some people do a good job and leave it there, whereas others will offer to do extra.
For example, some employees will offer to mentor, train new employees and suggest more efficient working procedures. Consider organizing charity and social events that bring company employees together and contribute to the community.
Doing so will improve your reputation and the reputation of your company at the same time., Companies often want their workers to be "self-starters," and for good reason. Employees who see problems and take the initiative to fix them save their bosses time and work by not waiting to be asked to fix that problem. Don't ask for approval before starting additional work or carrying out a customer request; just do it. If you have an idea of something that could add value to the company, approach your manager about it., A valuable employee is one that can be counted on to consistently meet and exceed the demands of their position and managers. Provide reliable work and consistently meet your deadlines to gain the reputation of being a responsible employee. Responsibility also extends to your mistakes. When you mess up, own it by admitting the error and taking responsibility, then immediately working to find a solution. Overall, work to gain a reputation as someone your employer can count on., Go beyond being good at your job; be the best at it. If you want to become truly invaluable to the company, become known as an expert in your field. Learn everything about your role first and strive to become excellent at every task you are required to do. Then, learn how to perform the tasks that your coworkers do that relate to your own. Look for extra details or facts that no one else knows.


Keep up with industry news by reading trade publications and relevant news articles. By doing so, you will become the person that everyone comes to for information.You can cement your expert status by attaining industry or occupation-specific certifications, if available.
 Having a wider skill set can make you more versatile, which can help you branch out in your current position and remain onboard if the company decides to lay off some workers. Look at gaining skills that your coworkers have, even if you don't need them for your job. These might include technical or vocational skills. To make yourself truly valuable, you could even try learning a second language.


Just make sure to learn one that might be useful to your company; there's no point in learning Russian if your company primarily operates in the United States and Mexico., Find someone higher up than you in the company and make an effort to connect with them. This mentor can provide you with deeper knowledge of company operations and advice on how to thrive as an employee. Working with this person shows your superiors that you have a desire to learn and grow within the company. It can even get your name out there as an ambitious employee., A strong network is a valuable tool that can be used to strengthen your own value at work or increase your value to a future employer. Work to build up a network with your coworkers and in other departments at work. You should also look outwardly to clients and other members of your industry. Make and maintain strong relationships with these people. It's very valuable to be known as the employee with connections that can be used to solve problems.Work to build up your network both inside your company and outside. Attend work functions, conferences, and industry events to network with professionals in your industry. Then, be sure to regularly keep in touch with your contacts.
Provide your contacts with favors without the expectation of having them returned. This is a good way to solidify your position with them and construct a strong network that you can use to further your own career.
Another way to increase the strength of your network is to get published in the media or industry journals. This will get your name and your company's name out there, and may lead to greater recognition and increased business opportunities., Be innovative and bring something new to the company. Come up with new ideas that could possibly be implemented across the business. Just make sure that you get credit for your ideas. Otherwise, you may be helping your boss to succeed without moving up yourself.


Focus on working effectively with your team or group, as these skills are crucial to displaying management potential and usefulness to the company.
 Depending on your job, you may find it worthwhile to obtain higher education. For example, some positions may require a bachelor's degree or graduate degree, meaning that if you want to move up, you'll have to get the required education. Even if you don't need it for a certain position, a degree can make you a more competitive applicant for any role. In addition, it can educate you on how to increase your own knowledge and productivity.


Make sure to weigh the costs of higher education versus the benefits; you don't want to be hurt by debt hanging over your head.Your company may give allowances for or provide continuing education for its employees. Talk to your supervisor and/or human resources for more information.
You can also reduce your cost and time commitment for continuing education by studying online with a self-paced course. This will allow you to learn without interrupting your work schedule.
 If you start work at 9am, it is better to get into work at 8:45am. This way you have time to make yourself a quick drink and then be ready to start work on time. Time is money and an employee who turns up late on a regular basis may lose the company money. Ideally, you should arrive and begin work early, before other employees. Punctuality is the foundation of building trust. Your goal is to give the impression that you care more about the work you're doing than just fulfilling the basic requirements of the job., You should dress yourself and behave according to your company's policy, both inside and outside of the office. As an employee, you represents company. For example, if you are in an office, a shirt and tie may be required. If you are working on a building site, personal protection equipment may be required. Adhere to the company's standards for conduct in all instances.


A company will always state the dress code, although there may be occasions where you are unsure on what to wear. For example, you may be attending a conference and are unsure whether to dress in a suit or go for a more casual look. In these cases, it is always best to look to a more senior member of staff and follow their example.
Focus on maintaining your appearance by improving your personal hygiene and making sure that your clothes are always neat and clean. Having a professional appearance will lead to being taken more seriously at work., Social media is designed for sharing opinions. However, these days it's possible that your employer might see anything you post to a social media account. Accordingly, your posts should never include negative comments about the company, your managers, customers, or other employees. You should also avoid sharing any racist, insensitive, violent, or distasteful comments.


A good rule of thumb is to never post anything that your mother would not appreciate.
Never post sensitive company information on social media.
Any post that is offensive or otherwise against company policy could result in your termination., Your personal life should stay behind you when you enter the workplace. Even if things are a mess at home, don't let that show at work, and certainly don't bring it up or complain about it. You want to be known as someone who is positive and works hard, not someone who constantly has difficulties in their personal life. This will draw the wrong kind of attention to you., It's important to be friendly with people at work. Your colleagues may need help at times and they may find it difficult to ask you for help if you are aggressive or unpleasant. Being personable helps to promote a good working environment. Strive to be the person that everyone enjoys working with. Never gossip or become involved in office politics, regardless of how you feel about a situation or coworker., To be at your best throughout the workday, you'll have to remember to maintain your own health. Staying active, eating well, and drinking enough water will give you the mental clarity that you need to perform. It will also contribute to your professional appearance and improve your mood. To improve your health, remember to bring healthy lunches and snacks to work and try taking a walk during the day.