 Double-click on your preferred browser’s icon on your desktop to open it.;
, Click the address bar at the top of your browser, type in www.elance.com, and hit Enter. You will be taken to the Elance home page.
 On the Elance home page, all you have to do is type your email address into the first box at the top of the page, enter your password on the second box, and finally, click “Log in” to access your account.
 Click on your username, which is located on the top-right side of the screen, and a drop-down menu will appear. Click on “Settings” from the options to load your Elance Settings.
 On the far-left side of the Settings screen is a list of submenus. Click on “Communication” then click on “Notifications.”


Now you can manage your Notification Settings. The first two headings are specifically for clients, the next three are for freelancers, and the others are for both freelancers and clients.
 You can select how often you get incoming proposals by clicking on the drop-down menu on the first line. Your options are “Immediately,” “Every few hours,” and “Once a day.” To select your options, click on the drop-down menu then click the option you want to use.
The next option is called “Activity Summary”; this will let Elance send you a record of your hired freelancers daily activity. You can first check the box to turn this on, then click the drop-down menu to the right of the box and select how often you want those emails.
Last is the option for weekly status report reminders. This is used to help you remember when you have to send payment to a freelancer. You can check this box to get the weekly reminder.
 For clients, you can check or uncheck all three options under this heading as you see fit.


The first option prompts Elance to send you an email for each workroom message.
The second option will let Elance send you a list of daily digest messages.
The final option will let Elance send you an email when you send out workroom messages.
 The first check box is for if you want to get emails from prospective clients. You should check this box if you want to get more job opportunities.
 You can toggle this on and off by clicking the check box beside the option.
 The final option is used if you want Elance to send you notifications regarding your saved job searches. This is good for backtracking on jobs that you were looking at to see its current status. You can turn this notification off by unchecking the box.
 The final subsection of options in the Notification Settings is labeled “Other,” and they range in importance. The first option that you can edit is receiving the Elance Newsletter. You can turn this on and off by checking or unchecking the box.
 The next option will let Elance send your special offers and promotions based on your job history. This is also a check box that can easily be toggled with a simple click.
 The final option dictates whether Elance will send you surveys; once again, it is a check box that can be turned off by clicking the box.
 Before saving, it is a good idea to go over your changes to see if everything is as you want it to be.
 Once you have been through and edited your notification settings is to your liking, click on the green “Save” button located on the bottom of the page. This will save all of your changes.

