 Since commercially-manufactured meat is produced under conditions that harm the environment, becoming a vegetarian or vegan is a green choice. Industrial-scale meat production is cruel to animals and causes both air and water pollution. In addition, mass-produced meat is often pumped full of hormones that are unhealthy for animals and humans alike.A vegetarian diet is meat and fish free, while the stricter vegan diet contains no animal products at all. Decide which lifestyle makes the most sense for you.
Ethically produced meat is a good alternative to commercially-produced meat if you don't want to give it up completely. Try eating only meat that you bought from a farm that you have visited.
 Planting a vegetable, fruit and herb garden is a fulfilling experience. Completely eliminating the processing that happens to get commercially-grown produce to your door is a very green choice. If you've never gardened before, start small. You don't need much space to grow enough vegetables and herbs to last the summer. Try these easy plants to start:Tomatoes
Squash
Lettuce
Potatoes
Onions
Garlic
Strawberries
Basil
Dill

, Most cleaning products can be made at home, and they often work just as well as the store-bought kind. In addition to making your own household cleaners, you can make your own body care products, too. You won't have to throw away plastic bottles or wonder what chemicals you're putting on your body. Try these recipes:


Make Disinfectant
Laundry detergent
Dish Soap
Shampoo
Body wash
Toothpaste

, If you've accumulated a lot of stuff in your household, don't just throw it in the trash. Make a habit of donating or selling items that still have some life left in them. You could also trade things you don't need anymore for something you want.


Consider holding a clothing swap with your friends. You can all get new treasures without having to pay a dime.
Or donate items to product exchange communities like Freecycle. Vow not to let any useful item end up in a landfill.

