 There are no special requirements to register as a Republican voter. However, there are general requirements that apply to all voters, such as the following:

You must be a U.S. citizen. Green card holders cannot register to vote.
You must be old enough. Generally, the minimum age is 18, but some states let you register at 17.You must also be a resident of the state where you are registering.
You must not have lost your voting rights. For example, many states strip felons of their right to vote. You can read a summary of state laws at http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/felon-voting-rights.aspx.
 Find the office by searching for “your state” and "voter registration." Some states have made it easier to register to vote online, but others require that you download or request a registration form. You can find links to your state office at https://www.eac.gov/voters/register-and-vote-in-your-state/.

Alternately, you might complete the National Mail Voter Registration Form: https://www.eac.gov/voters/national-mail-voter-registration-form/.
 Provide all requested information and double check that you have provided everything. You may need to send in supporting documentation along with your form. For example, you might need documents that show your current address, such as a copy of your state-issued ID, utility bill, or bank statement., The form should give you several choices for selecting a party. You can check the Republican box to register as a Republican. However, many states don’t give you the option to declare party affiliation when you register.

As a registered Republican, you can vote in the party’s primary, where you will select the Republican candidate to stand for the general election. In some states, primaries are open, meaning anyone can vote in them.
 Send it to the address on the form. You might need to call to check that you have been registered. Wait a couple weeks and then call the local elections board., When it comes time to vote, you may need to present identification at the polling place. Each state sets its own requirements, so you should learn about them ahead of time.

For example, Wisconsin, Kansas, and Tennessee require that you show a photo ID. If you don’t have acceptable ID, you can cast a provisional ballot. However, you must take your ID to the election office within a couple of days for the ballot to count.Other states require ID, but it doesn’t need to contain your photo.

