 Divide 1 ⅛ cups (253 g) of popcorn kernels evenly between two brown paper bags. Fold the top of the bags down to close them.1 ⅛ cups (253 g) of unpopped popcorn should yield approximately 18 cups (144 g) of popped popcorn.
It’s best not to put all of the kernels in one bag because they likely won’t fit inside a single bag once they pop.
If you’re concerned about the popcorn coming loose when you heat it, you can seal the bags closed with tape.
If you have an air popper, you can use it to pop the popcorn. You just want to be sure that the popcorn is unbuttered and unsalted when you add the caramel and chocolate.;
, Place the bags in the microwave one a time to pop the popcorn. Use the highest power setting and heat each for up to 2 minutes or until the popping slows to 2 to 3 seconds between the pops. After you’ve finished popping the first bag, repeat the process with the second bag.The amount of time required to pop the popcorn depends on your microwave. It’s best to start with just a minute or a minute and half and heat the bag again if there are still a large number of unpopped kernels.
Keep an eye on the popcorn as it pops. It can start to burn quickly if you don’t watch it.
 Once both bags of popcorn are finished popping, let them cool for 2 to 3 minutes. Next, dump them out into a large, greased roasting pan and spread out in an even layer.Grease the roasting pan with butter or nonstick cooking spray.
When you transfer the popcorn to the pan, take the time to pick out any unpopped or burnt kernels.
If you like, you can add a cup and half (200 g) of nuts to the popcorn. Toss them together so the nuts are distributed evenly throughout the popcorn.
 To ensure that the oven is warm enough to bake the popcorn, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 250 degrees Fahrenheit (121 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Make sure that you understand how your oven indicates that it’s preheated. Most models beep and/or flash an indicator light.
 Add 2 cups (400 g) of packed brown sugar, ½ cup (150 g) of light corn syrup, ½ cup (113 g) of cubed butter, and 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt to a large, heavy-bottomed saucepan. Place the pan on the stove, and heat it on medium until it comes to a boil, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.It’s best to use unsalted butter in the caramel. However, if you only have salted butter, you can omit the salt.
 Once the caramel mixture comes to a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low. Let the mixture cook for another 5 minutes, making sure to stir it the entire time., After you’ve cooked the caramel for several minutes, remove the pan from the heat. Add a teaspoon (5 g) of baking soda, and stir it in with a spoon until it’s fully incorporated.The caramel mixture will foam slightly when you add the baking soda.
 Immediately after you’ve mixed in the baking soda, add the caramel mixture to the popcorn in the roasting pan. Use a pair of tongs or wooden spoon to toss the popcorn and caramel so the popcorn is fully coated.Try to spread the caramel coated popcorn in as even a layer as possible. That will help limit clumping as the popcorn bakes.
 When the popcorn is coated with the caramel mixture, place the roasting pan in the preheated oven. Allow the popcorn to bake for approximately 60 minutes or until the popcorn is dry.Stir the popcorn every 15 minutes or so while it is baking.
 Once the popcorn is dry, remove the roasting pan from the oven. Pour the popcorn out onto a sheet of wax or parchment paper, and let it cool completely, which should take 15 to 20 minutes.If the popcorn is stuck together in large clumps, don’t break it yet. Leave it as is while it cools.
 Add 1 ½ cups (265 g) of chocolate chips and 3 teaspoons (13 g) of shortening to a microwave-safe bowl. Heat the mixture on high in 30 second intervals until the chocolate melts completely and is smooth. Be sure to stir the mixture after each interval.You can use semi sweet, bittersweet, milk, or white chocolate chips. You can also use a combination of two or more types. If you are using more than one type of chocolate, though, melt each one in separate bowl and add 1 teaspoon (4 ⅓ g) of shortening for every ½ cup (177 g) of chips.
If you prefer, you can melt the chocolate in a double boiler.
 Once the chocolate is melted, use a fork or spoon to drizzle the chocolate over the popcorn in a generous coat. Allow the popcorn to sit for 3 to 4 hours so the chocolate has time to set.You can also put the melted chocolate in a plastic zipper bag, squeeze out the excess air, seal it, and cut off a corner. Use the bag as a piping bag to spread the chocolate over the popcorn.
 After the chocolate has set, use clean hands to break the popcorn into pieces. Transfer the popcorn to an airtight container, and it will stay fresh for up to two weeks.The chocolate caramel popcorn makes lovely gifts. Place it in cellophane bags, and tie them closed with decorative ribbon.
