 If she has been making subtle hints about her feelings for you, you may be able to convey your disinterest through the way you respond to her actions.


Unnecessary physical contact can be a demonstration of affection. Create physical distance between the two of you to prevent it from occurring.Don't get too close. To avoid sending any mixed signals, make sure to maintain the physical distance you’ve created. Avoid making prolonged eye contact if she attempts it. The longer you maintain eye contact with someone, the stronger they may interpret your interest to be. ;
, When she mentions other guys, past or current relationships, or crushes, do not act jealous or question her choices.Getting upset about her mentioning other guys will indicate to her that you may be jealous because you have feelings for her.
If it bothers you that she brings up other guys, try to change the subject in a polite manner that won't give the wrong impression.
 If avoiding her flirtatious advances is not enough to let her know that you’re not interested, you may need to drop a few hints yourself. Remember to try to take her feelings into account in how you behave, however.


Don’t make effort toward spending time with her. While you may just want to spend some friendly time together, pursuing it could send the wrong signals.Treat her like one of the guys. Treat her with the same respect and courtesy that you would treat your other friends, but don’t go out of your way to be particularly nice to her. Special treatment may lead her to believe you have feelings for her.Mention other girls in a respectful manner. One way to hint that you aren’t interested is to bring up another girl that you are interested in. Be respectful in what you discuss, but it might serve to let her know that your interests lie elsewhere., You need to make sure your body language doesn’t send the wrong message. By paying attention to how you position yourself, you can let your body do some of the talking.


Cross your arms when standing and your legs while sitting. This position shows that you’re “closed off” and not looking to make an emotional connection.Don’t point your feet directly at her while speaking. While you may not consciously realize it, pointing your feet at a person while you interact is a good indicator of interest. She may be picking up on such subtle cues subconsciously.Position things between you and her. By standing on the opposite sides of furniture, fixtures, or even just holding something in your hands between the two of you, you can convey a message of disinterest., Spending a lot of time with someone is an excellent way to let them know that you have feelings for them. If you aren't interested in her, avoid situations where you two would be in contact.


If you are in the same group of friends, make sure there is always someone else around when you're together.
If you work together, try to avoid partnering up on tasks if possible and absolutely avoid social interaction outside of work.

