 When you stay up late, you wake up tired, not feeling refreshed and, by the middle of the day, craving a nap. However, napping for a long period of time in the middle of the day can make you less able to fall asleep with ease when you go to bed at night. Moreover, when you are tired at night and ready to go to sleep, you have less time and energy to think about being scared.If you feel that you must nap mid-day because you're too zapped to keep going, try taking a "power nap" just before lunch.These short naps of 15-20 minutes can give you some great benefits, including a burst of energy and alertness and increased motor performance. These shorter naps are what most people really need to stave off sleepiness and get the energy needed to continue on with their day.;
, Focusing on deepening your breath is one way to invoke the relaxation response to stress. Deep breathing, in which you expand the lungs and abdomen, encourages full oxygen exchange, the trading of incoming fresh oxygen for outgoing carbon dioxide. Deep breathing slows the heartbeat and stabilizes blood pressure.Sit in a comfortable position and close your eyes. Take one or two normal breaths to settle yourself. Inhale, or take a deep breath, for 5 counts. Hold for 5 counts. Then exhale, letting all the air out, for 5 counts. Repeat for several cycles until you feel more calm., Meditation is a helpful tool to feel more relaxed. Some people find it especially useful to meditate at the end of the days to help focus and quiet the mind after a busy day. Meditation is one way to become more aware of your surroundings and to achieve a higher level of awareness and inner calm. It is recommended that you meditate an hour before bed.You can meditate anywhere you like and for as long as you like. This basically allows you to access a sense of tranquility and peace no matter what's going on around you.
Sit in a comfortable position. Focus on your breath. Focus on being present and relaxed in your body, and notice every breath you take. Work on clearing your mind of any negative or stressful thoughts; this can be the hardest part. If you find your mind wandering, focus on counting your inhales and exhales.Some people find it helpful to focus on an object in the room, like a candle, or to harness their energy and focus into an audible sound, like "um"., Writing in a journal can help you understand and better cope with the emotions and fears that arise at night.There is no right or wrong way to journal; you could create a lists or write more narrative entries describe your feelings and emotions at a given time.In general, seeing your thoughts reflected on paper might help you identify some important patterns, which then you can learn to cope with or alleviate.


Try journaling for 10-20 minutes a day about whatever comes to your mind. Do not worry about spelling or grammar. Just let yourself process whatever you need to on paper.Ask yourself some key questions to try to figure out what it is that scares you: What fears come to mind about the night? What feelings are coming up in the night or when you try to go to sleep? Do you avoid any particular places or activities at night?
Listing-making can also be a useful part of journaling, especially if you find worrying a reason you are unable to sleep. Make a "to-do" list for tomorrow, make a list of all of the positive things about a day, or make a list of what you look forward to tomorrow.
 The reason a bath helps with sleep is because your body temperature increases while you are in the bath and then lowers after the bath. Lower body temperature helps you to fall asleep.


A bath should be taken about 2 hours before you plan to sleep because of the time needed to first raise and then lower your body temperature to enable easier sleep.To enhance the calming effects of a warm bath, try incorporating some essential oils or scents associated with relaxation. Consider using a bubble bath or soap scented with lavender. Research shows that the herb lavender can produce calming, soothing, and sedative effects when its scent is inhaled. , Avoid eating a heavy meal right before you go to bed. In addition, avoid all stimulants such as coffee, nicotine, alcohol, caffeine, and/or sugar within 4 hours of when you plan to go to bed. Stimulants keep your brain awake, which can make it harder to stop worrying and calm down before bed.However, eating a small snack about two hours before bed can be helpful. A good choice would be a banana and low-fat milk or a small handful of almonds., Nightlights are not just for children. It is recommended to have a nightlight in the hallway or bathroom, rather than your bedroom, where it may be distracting for you. Light can impact natural sleep patterns, making it harder for your internal clock to get ready for bed and for you to have a restful sleep.Having some light in your home will also make you more aware of your surroundings and help assuage any fear of the dark you may have.
 White noise, such as a fan or the sound of static, nature and ocean sounds, or other types of instrumental music can be soothing and help block out other noises that can trigger your fear.You can actually purchase white noise machines designed with an array of different sounds to help facilitate more restful sleep. In addition, there are many apps for smartphones to help people sleep that come with relaxation sounds and/or white noise.
 When your fear of the night stems from safety concerns, such as someone breaking into your home, take action steps to make your home safer.


Secure windows with locks.
Put curtains up to provide privacy.
If it make you feel safe, keep an item by your bed that could be used to protect yourself. However, avoid keeping an item near you that you or someone else in your home could accidentally use to hurt themselves or others, such as a gun or knife. Instead opt for a heavy object, such as a book or paperweight. The placement of this object nearby may help you feel safer, but will also not increase any risk or danger in your home.
 The temperature can affect how well and for how long you sleep. Your body temperature drops as you go to sleep and a slightly cooler, rather than too warm, room can help this process along and help you achieve a sounder and easier sleep. But if the room is too cold (or too warm), you are more likely to have trouble settling into sleep and will wake up more often. Though researchers can't say what is an ideal temperature because what is comfortable for one person isn't always the case for another person, a typical recommendation is to make sure your room is between 65-72 degrees Fahrenheit., A healthy amount of distraction is a good way deal with being scared. A "healthy amount" means enough distraction to engage your attention and emotions but not enough that you get hyper or overexcited and cannot settle down before bed.Read a book. Avoid anything too exciting or scary. Read something that you're interested in and that immerses you. This will keep you focused on the plot and/or subject, and not on your fear.
Watch TV or go on your computer, tablet or smartphone. The evidence is mixed on the impact of using technology before bed on your sleep patterns. The most recent research suggests that watching TV or using technology before bed in fact hinders healthy sleep patterns. However, if you want to use technology to distract yourself a few hours before you head to bed, this can be helpful in keeping your mind off of your fear. Just make sure you "unplug" an hour or two before you actually plan to sleep.Listen to calming music. The music should be anything that relaxes you, and makes you feel comfortable and happy.
Count. Count forwards or backwards as long as you can to keep your mind focus on something other than your fear until you feel yourself dose off.
Tell a story in your head. Play out a fictional scenario in your mind that distracts you from whatever worry you have.
 Some people find praying before bed can be relaxing and help alleviate worries and fears., Think "happy thoughts" before you go to bed - about your family, your friends, your favorite activities, so on. Remember all of the good things in your life and all of the people you love and who love you back; you are surrounded by love and protection.


It can also be useful to pause and use your logistical thinking. For example, if you live in an apartment, most of the sounds that scare you are probably just the sounds of other people in your building. Creaky floor sounds, muffled voices, occasional thuds as doors shut, etc., are not indications that anything sinister is going to happen to you, but that you live near other people - and that you are not alone!

, Do not be afraid to ask for support. Sometimes feeling isolated from the rest of the world at night is what intensifies the scary feelings.


If you are new to being alone because you've just moved into your own room, a dorm or a new apartment, maybe support means asking for a friend or relative to spend your first night in your new space with you.
You could have have the phone number of a friend who stays up late readily available in case you wake up from a nightmare or can't doze off and need to talk to someone.

