 The key word here is sell. You are not looking to get rid of things, like the baby clothes full of puke stains that didn’t come out in the wash. Or the dented garbage cans that smell like the puke that was on the baby clothes. Your items need to be in decent condition and ready to go to a new home.;
, Place your items against a bare wall in the house or in the yard with a well mowed lawn. Staging is everything.
 Fill it out completely. Do you think they put all of that stuff there because coding is fun? You need those boxes to promote your item.
 It needs to be clear, correct and compelling. Don’t get into too much detail, that’s what the body is for. Use correct spelling. Don’t use numbers in place of letters. This annoys more than it helps. Grammar and spelling do matter. Type it out in word and use the spell checker if you have to. Use terms like great, spectacular, affordable, there are hundreds of possibilities at your disposal. Use them.


Good example is: “Dream bike for a four year old”
You now know that it is a small bike, it must be good because it’s what dreams are made of, and the spelling is correct.
 Use as much detail as humanly possible. The more information you give, the more you educate the consumer. An educated consumer can now make an informed decision about whether or not to buy your item. If you post a one liner like “blue bike for 4 year old”, you will leave your potential buyer with too many questions.


Good example: ”Blue BMX bike perfect for four or five year old boy. Bike has new seat using stainless steel screws that will not rust. Seat is leather with crisscross stitch pattern for comfort riding. Over sized balloon white wall tires make for easy handling on muddy tracks. Great shape and hardly used, almost like new. Spokes were just tightened and brakes were lubricated”

, You can actually increase your asking price by a full 10% if you include every detail about your item, but don’t get carried away. Remember you are not selling the crown jewels, your diaper bin is not worth $2,000,000.00. Be reasonable. You may want to do a little research first to see what similar items are selling for.

