 Just like in any public space, keep your voice at a respectable volume, keeping in mind that noises will amplify in a locker room. Either place your things in a single locker, or keep them as compact as possible on a bench. Remember, this isn't your home bathroom. It's a shared space.


Lap swimming communities are generally friendly, but don't do be aware that many of the "veterans" have specific routines they like to observe, like placing their things in a specific locker. If you notice and chagrined or distressed glances, try moving your things the next time you use the locker room.;
, If there are empty lanes, choose them unless you are swimming with a friend or have been invited to share. If all lanes are full, pick a lane with one person in it and ask them if they would like to split the lane.


"Splitting the lane" means that instead of circling around the center line, you stay on one side of if and swim back and forth without ever crossing over. If they were there first, ask which side they would prefer or default to the side the least of their equipment is on.
 If there are no lanes with one or two people in them, then you will need to circle swim. As explained in the previous step, circle swimming is used when three or more swimmers are sharing a lane and involves consistently swimming on the right side. When you flip turn, you will cross the center line and swim back on the other side of the pool.


If you are circle swimming, always pick a lane with people relatively your speed or you will hinder the other swimmers' experiences. Always notify people you are joining their lane, especially if they were previously splitting the lane.
 If you are splitting, keep your equipment bag on your side of the lane and don't cross over or close to the center line when you are resting. If you are circle swimming, rest as close to the lane line as possible to leave the entire center line available for flip turns and keep your equipment bag neat and contained.
 It is immensely frustrating, not to mention dangerous, to have somebody push off the wall just as you do the same. Accidents happen, and your lane mates will be understanding with a sincere apology, but before you push off for a new set or a warm down, ask the other swimmers what their interval is or when they intend to leave. If somebody is coming in for the flip turn, wait until after they have passed to push off and begin, even if you have to modify your interval slightly.
 Many swimmers make this mistake, and it can quickly lead to you being shunned from the lane. Wait 5-10 seconds after another swimmer pushes off to start swimming, and if you notice yourself catching up, politely ask if you can pass them. It is acceptable to give another swimmer's feet a single touch before you pass them on the left to alert them to your actions. Think of it as the equivalent of a bicyclist holding out their arm to signal a turn.
 Avoid obnoxious techniques like the dreaded "straight arm" in which a swimmer swims without bending their elbows. Instead, keep your elbows high and your palms close to your body. This is both courteous and proper technique.


The same goes for swimming breaststroke. Try to keep your knees tight and bring them up under your chest instead of out to the sides (again, also good technique) Not much can be done for butterfly except warning your lane mates.
If you are using equipment, these techniques are doubly important. Tools like paddles or fins can harm other swimmers and even break the skin at times, so be very conscious of your space.
 A bucket sticker or a swim cap can make great conversation starters, and despite taking place mostly underwater, swimming is a pretty social sport.
 Limit your shower length if the venue is crowded or if you notice the water going lukewarm and don't hog the outlets, mirrors or bench space. Try to keep your space relatively dry. Nobody is asking you to wipe down the dirty floor, but swiping the puddle off your bench can go a long way.
 Everybody is there to swim recreationally because they enjoy it or its health benefits, and you will come off as arrogant or living in the past. You are also likely to get shut down by the occasional D1 athlete. Keep your conversations conversational, and let other swimmers move at the pace they enjoy. The pool should always be a cheerful place!

