 If you don't have any parchment paper, you can use wax paper instead., Make 7 dollops of Nutella on the parchment paper, using 1½ to 2 tablespoons (27.5 to 37 grams) for each. Smooth the dollops into flat disks using a knife, mini rubber spatula, or cake decorating spatula.

Aim to make the disks about 2½ inches (6 centimeters) wide and ⅕ inch (0.5 centimeter) thick.
It might be a good idea to made a few extra Nutella disks in case some break.
 They are ready when they turn firm. While the disks are freezing, you can start preparing the pancake batter. You can use your favorite recipe, or try the one in this method.

You can peel the disks off of the parchment paper, but you should leave them in the freezer so that they don't thaw.
 Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the baking powder, sugar, and salt. Stir everything together with a whisk., Pat the dry ingredients flat, then make a small hole in the middle. Crack an egg into the hole, then add the milk. For extra flavor, add some vanilla extract as well., Keep whisking until the batter is smooth and free of lumps. Do not over-mix it, otherwise the pancakes will turn tough., Place about ½ teaspoon of butter into a small, nonstick frying pan, Melt the butter over medium heat, then wipe it off with a paper towel. Leave a very thin layer of butter behind.

While the butter is melting, take out 1 to 3 Nutella disks out of the freezer. Leave the rest in the freezer.
You can also try using cooking spray instead., You have to work quickly for this step, so have everything you need on hand. Pour about ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of pancake batter onto the pan. Quickly place a Nutella disk on top.

This is the secret to getting golden-brown pancakes!

, Plan on using a little less than ¼ cup (60 milliliters). Use a rubber spatula to help smooth the pancake batter over the disk. Make sure that it is completely covered., Let the pancake fry a little first. After about 2 minutes, it will start to form bubbles around the edges. Once that happens, slide a spatula under it, and flip it over., This will take another 1 to 2 minutes.As soon as the pancake is done, move onto the next one., Frozen Nutella thaws quickly, so it is important that you work in small batches. If the Nutella thaws, it will become difficult to work with and give you very messy pancakes. Only take 1 to 3 Nutella disks out of the freezer at a time.

This recipe has enough batter to make 6 or 7 pancakes.
If a pancake bursts, scrape off the leaked Nutella before moving onto the next pancake.
You will have to re-grease the pan after every couple of pancakes. Remember to wipe the excess butter off!

, You can eat them just as they are, or top them with some sliced strawberries or strawberry jam.