 Both anxiety and paranoia are caused by fear and manifest themselves in excessive worry and perceived danger. Paranoia is an unfounded belief or fear that something bad is going to happen. Often, an individual experiencing paranoia will be suspicious of another person or group, believing that other person or group will be responsible for the negative occurrence. Paranoia comes with a sense of threat and the exaggerated nature of an individual's beliefs is what sets paranoia apart from typical fear and worry., Stress can be a major contributor to paranoid thoughts and feelings, which is why it is important to destress. If you’re starting to become suspicious, take a moment and practice relaxation. When you feel paranoid or suspicious, your body can respond in an alert manner similar to fear. This can be exhausting. Tune into your body’s responses (such as increased heart rate, knots in your stomach, or faster breathing) and purposefully bring a sense of calm to your body. Practice guided imagery, say a prayer, or practice deep breathing.To begin deep breathing, focus on each breath. lengthening them so that they are deeper and longer. This should slow your body down and induce feelings of calm.
Take up meditation. Meditation can help you learn to focus and to relax. It can also be used to increase your feelings of well-being and inner happiness.
 If you want to engage in some self-discovery-- especially about your paranoia-- writing can be a great way to work through your thoughts and feelings. Write down when you have felt hurt, betrayed, helpless, or humiliated and the feelings you remember from those experiences. Writing can help you to sort through and settle your thoughts, as well as help you to clarify the relationships between your thoughts and the external influences.Write about any childhood experiences that made you wary in trusting people’s motives. Were there times you couldn’t tell if someone was lying or telling the truth?
Was there a time in your life you felt betrayed by someone that made you approach trust differently?

, Suspicion and paranoia often result in distrust, so begin building trust back into your life, starting with a therapist. Attending long-term therapy is often the treatment of choice. If you suffered a traumatic situation or event, your therapist can help you work through this. Your therapist can help you learn and practice calming strategies and techniques to lessen your paranoia.When beginning treatment, it’s important not to let your paranoia seep into your therapy; see your therapist as someone you can trust and who will not share information with others. After all, therapists are required to keep information confidential.
Your therapist can work with you to challenge what makes you feel distrustful toward others, and help you build skills in relating to other people in a more beneficial way.

