 There is a host of things you can try or ask yourself when there is a thought or feeling that just keeps repeating. Here are some good things to consider or try:


Have you ever read a book, seen a movie or done anything so many times you know everything about it and it just seems uninteresting and boring? If you do the same and watch the thought and be uninterested with it, there is no more attachment to it so its easier to let go.
 You're tired of thoughts and feelings that never seem to leave your mind, but have you taken the time to face them head on? When you try to ignore thoughts and feelings instead of acknowledging them, they may never go away. Allow yourself to deeply feel what you need to feel before you start the process of letting go. If your mind is trying to force-feed you thought chains or emotions, judgements are another tool it can use to dominate you. It is wise to remember that our mind is the source of all our manipulative skills so the mind knows more tricks than we are often aware of. It does this as the parts of the mind that crave and are addicted to things want to stay wild with our desires running and controlling us. By and large it is our addictions that drive us all.


A useful mantra in facing the feelings and thoughts is to recall that you must be responsible for your own happiness and they don't have to control your life. Ultimately if you let the past or worries about the future as well as other desires control your happiness, they will never come up with the goods.
Manipulate the thought. Run it backwards, twist it, bend it, change it - eventually you can see that you are running the show. By substituting an unpleasant thought with a more soothing thought chain, is a temporary fix, but still a good one in times of need. You can let go of the issue easier when you feel you have more safer ground to stand on.
If your racing thoughts and feelings are related to a problem you have yet to solve, think it through, then take measures to remedy the situation, even if you have to accept that the situation is completely beyond control.
If the thoughts and feelings are related to a sad event, like a breakup or a death in the family, allow yourself to feel the sadness. Look at a picture of the person you're missing and think about memories you shared. Let yourself cry if it helps the process - remember its perfectly all-right to be a human being. It might also help to write down your emotions in a journal.

