 Include all the things about yourself that you like, such as your personal character strengths, and those that might need improvement in order for you to accomplish your goals. Doing it this way helps you to recognize that there is a balance in all things – in other words, there are things in which you excel and there are things in which you struggle. Brainstorm ways you can foster growth in these challenging areas.
 SMART goals are those that are specific, measurable, achievable, results-focused, and time-bound.Following this method helps you to design powerful goals that you are more likely to be motivated to achieve. Consider several goals that you would like to accomplish in the next several months towards your personal transformation, such as gaining acceptance into college. Then, create an accompanying SMART goals for each of them.


Specific: Is your goal clearly defined, providing information about WHAT, WHY and HOW?
Measurable: How will you know that your goal has been accomplished (e.g., college acceptance letter, etc.)?
Achievable: Is your goal realistic while still challenging you to gather the knowledge, resources, and skills to obtain it? For example, you wouldn't expect to get accepted into college if you have not met all the requirements for high school.
Results-focused: Does your goal measure outcomes as opposed to specific activities?
Time-bound: Does your goal fit within a time-frame that stimulates a reasonable sense of urgency?

, If you have any goals that span several months, such as getting accepted into college, then you will need to reduce these goals down into manageable steps.


For example, if your goal is get accepted into college, you might have multiple smaller goals (that also require smaller steps within them) like the following: maintain grade point average in high school, pass the ACT, get letters of recommendation, write personal essays, and apply for scholarships.
 Regularly come back to both your larger and smaller goals and see how you’re progressing. Are you well on your way? Does the goal(s) need to be modified to account for new variables? Knowing where you stand in attaining your goals can ensure that you are on the right track and build motivation.
 You can give this person weekly updates (via email or phone) outlining your goal progression. Having someone that is reliably checking in can influence you to actually keep moving towards accomplishing your goals.

