 Traditional children's picture books are often geared towards children ages 4-8. You should think about what themes might appeal to this age group and how you can connect with children who are at this age level.You may focus more on early picture books, which are written for children ages 4-6. These books are simple and usually under 1000 words. Many picture books are printed in board book format, making them easier to hold and turn the pages.
You may focus on easy reader books, which are for children age 6-8. These books have color illustrations on every page but focus on a more grown up audience. They usually have a smaller trim size and the story may be broken into short chapters, with two the five sentences per a page. Often they are 200-1500 words, though they can sometimes be 2000 words long.;
, You may decide to explore a certain subject category that is popular with children in your book, such as science, history, relationships, or writing and reading. Use a subject category that will appeal to younger children who are just starting to get curious about the world and how it functions.


For example, you may choose to discuss science in your book, where you write about underwater animals or the process of evolution in a fun, interested way using scientific facts. Or you may choose to write about history, where you write about an historical figure in a simple, engaging way. You may focus on a specific time period and explore it in your picture book.
 You should also consider themes that have not been discussed in children’s books in the past or approach a common theme in a creative way. This will help your book to stand out among a sea of books made for children. This theme could be a more general idea like “friendship” or a more specific theme like “friendship between young girls.” You could then approach this theme in a creative, interesting way.You may want to focus more on themes that are simple and still entertaining. You may choose universal themes, such as "love is everywhere" or "share with others" that will appeal to three to eight year olds. You should avoid complex themes or themes that may go over the heads of younger children.
For example, you may decide to write about the theme of “friendship between young girls.” You could then build characters and a setting around this theme, using your own life experiences of friendship or examples of friendship between young girls that you have witnessed.
You may want to consider asking any children around you what excites or surprises them. You may also ask them what they are interested in and what they enjoy reading. You can then generate a few possibly subjects for your own book.
 Many children’s picture books contain a positive message or a moral. Often, children’s picture books focus on teaching children a certain value or lesson. You may choose a well known moral or message and brainstorm story ideas around it.For example, perhaps you are interested in exploring the moral of “do unto others as you would do to yourself.” You could then create characters or a storyline around this moral so it is appealing to children.
When using a positive message or moral in your book, you should try to disguise it or keep it hidden. Being preachy and heavy on morals in a children’s book can make the story feel stale and dry. Instead, you should think of ways to place the positive message or moral in the background of your story., With so many children’s picture books out there, you may end up choose a concept that is well known and that has been written about before. This is fine, as long as you try to approach the concept from a unique angle.For example, you may decide to write about bullying. You should then consider how you can approach the topic of bullying in a unique way or a way that has not been done before. You may think about your own experiences of bullying as a child and see if you can focus on a specific detail or moment that feels unique.
 You can get inspiration for your children’s picture book by reading well known examples of this type of writing. You may read:Where the Wild Things Are by Maurice Sendak

The Other Side by Jacqueline Wilson

Mr. Tiger Goes Wild by Peter Brown

Oscar’s Spots by Janet Roberson

