 Look for patterns with light colors, especially those that have iridescent ink or reflective, metallic accents. Avoid wallpapers that use dark colors if you want the room to appear larger.For example, you may want to add brightness to a dim hallway, or a room that is windowless and/or facing north.
Try a pattern with subtle pastels, neutral colors, and/or a glossy finish.;
, Opt for large-scale patterns for a more formal but intimate look. Large-scale patterns also help a sparsely furnished room look more complete. Pick a small-scale pattern to make a room look more spacious.Small-scale patterns in light, cool colors visually expand the room. For instance, light shades of blue, green, purple, or cool gray.If you want the room to appear smaller, use a large-scale pattern in a warm, dark color. For example, dark shades of red, orange and yellow.
 Take into account the furniture, floor covering and general décor, unless you’re revamping the whole room. Avoid using a busy wallpaper pattern in a room with other bold patterns. You can choose a busy or subtle pattern if your current décor has solid colors for the main pieces, such as furniture.For example, a sofa with a vivid plaid pattern would not pair well with a heavily patterned marble wallpaper.
Area rugs with strong patterns should either be replaced with something more neutral, or paired with an understated pattern.
 Tape a large piece of wallpaper to the wall. Leave it there for a week or so. Then decide if you still love it and want to live with it.Try asking yourself, “Does the wallpaper make the room feel harmonious? Or does it stick out in a bad way?”

, Decide if you’ll paper only the walls, or the walls and the ceilings. Including the ceiling creates a “jewel box” effect. You may appreciate this technique most in a room you visit occasionally, such as a guest bathroom. That way you can enjoy the room’s transformation, as opposed to a more common living area where you’re more likely to get bored with a pattern.A wallpapered ceiling is especially impressive in a room with molding that separates the ceiling from the walls.
Wallpapering an entire room takes a significant amount of effort. You should paint the room with primer first. Consider hiring a contractor for a large wallpapering project if you don’t want to undertake the time and effort yourself.
 Consider a wall that is furthest away from the entrance to the room, as a welcoming way to draw guests in. To make the wall stand out, use contrast: a dark accent wall in a light room or vice versa.Patterned wallpaper helps to camouflage flaws on your wall.A marbled accent wall can be used in a bathroom, kitchen, or even living room or dining room.
 Remove the shelves first, if possible. Otherwise paper the back sections in between the shelves. This creates a focal point with a high-end vibe, adding interest to the room and your bookcase.Try this with a plain bookcase, such as in beige or white. Or opt for a bookcase in a solid color that includes a hue included in your wallpaper.Avoid wallpapering a bookcase that has its own pattern or heavy woodgrain.
Examples of items you can display on your dressed-up bookcase: a basket full of magazines, framed photos, and modern or vintage decorative items.
 Achieve the look of wallpaper with a much less permanent solution! Get an even amount of picture frames. Alternate them checkerboard-style by framing wallpaper in some, and simplistic words or quotes in others.Use at least four frames. Minimal words or quotes go best in this alternating style, since incorporating other patterns or prints can look too busy.
For example, you may want to frame the words “Relax” and “Unwind.” Or you could frame “Splish” in one and “Splash” in the other.
 Decorate using color families found in your wallpaper pattern. For example, if your wallpaper has gold accents, use gold hardware on your furniture. If your wallpaper has peach tones, you may want to choose hand towels or even a chair in shades of peach.If your wallpaper is neutral or gray, choose whatever color(s) you like to design the room around. Or, you can stick with either a black and white or entirely neutral color palette.
 Marble goes with either a classic or a contemporary theme. Optionally, add extra touches of marble in the room’s decoration to enhance the décor.Examples of marble accents you can add to the room are accessories, tables, lamps or clocks.
Emphasize elegance using flowers, candles, fluffy towels and luxurious details.Style marble in a modern way using black and white décor, metallic, modern lighting, and furniture with crisp lines.
 A marble pattern makes a statement all on its own. Thus, you should favor simple accents over those that can compete with your wallpaper. Monochromatic furniture, pillows with metallic fabrics, mirrors, and simple vases all marry well with marble.


For example, keep area rugs neutral and simple.
You may want to put a few solid white vases on display, with a single flower only in the middle vase.

