 The peel of an orange not only has essential flavor, it contains pectin. Pectin is the ingredient that causes liquids to gel, making it essential for marmalades and jellies.
 Pith contributes a lot of the bitterness to your marmalade. Thus, you can add or subtract it based on your desired taste -- save a ton for a bitter, well-balanced marmalade and ditch about half for a sweeter spread., The rimmed dish will help you save all the juices easily instead of splattering them all over the kitchen. Add the fruit and juices into a large saucepot -- at least 8-quarts.
 Cut up the rind as you see fit. If you don't mind little chunks of softened rind, leave them as 1/2" ribbons. If you really hate the idea of seeing rind and want a smoother marmalade, you can cut it very fine, or grate it into a pulp., These two ingredients contain most of the pectin, but also a lot of bitterness. By soaking them in this cheesecloth bag instead of directly adding to the marmalade, you can extract the pectin without all of the added bitterness.
 This will slowly break down and extract the pectin, as well as remove some of the bitterness., You want a nice, rapid simmer, not a boil. You should be able to feel it in the muslin bag, and it should feel soft and pliable when squeezed.
 This will extract the last bits of pectin, helping ensure that your marmalade sets properly. Discard the muslin bag and contents.
 Keep the spoon moving as you add the sugar, helping it dissolve in slowly without burning. Don't start boiling until all the sugar has dissolved., Remember -- don't do this until all the sugar has dissolved. If the mixture starts to rise and seems like it will overflow, simply lower the heat a bit until it falls again.
 Put a plate in the freezer while the mixture boils. After 8-10 minutes, spoon out a little marmalade and put it on the cold plate. Wait 30 seconds, then tilt the plate to see how the jelly reacts. It should appear gel-like and move slightly, but not have runny liquids coming out of it.


If it seems too set and doesn't move at all, add a little hot water to the pot and stir in.
If it seems too runny, let it cook for another 2-3 minutes.
 If there is any foam that rises to the top as it cools, simply spoon it off and throw it away.

