 There are a lot of options to choose from when it comes to video editing software (often called Non-Linear Editing programs, or NLE), from free programs like iMovie and Windows Movie Maker to complex, professional-grade powerhouses like Final Cut Pro and Adobe Premier. What you choose to use is largely a matter of personal preference and the type of project you are working on:



Free software, like iMovie and Windows Movie Maker, is really only useful for small movies, usually anything under 20 minutes. They aren't designed to handle a lot of video and camera angles and have a limited number of transitions and options for effects.

Paid Software is necessary for any aspiring filmmaker. If you use multiple cameras on a scene, need smooth text, transitions, or effects, or simply want a professional-grade program, you need to invest in good software. Currently, the three "industry-standard" programs are Avid, Final Cut X, and Adobe Premier, and each comes with a hefty price tag, often $400 or more. You can often, however, subscribe to these programs for a small monthly payment.
 With a short film (under 20-30 minutes), you can likely import all the footage at once. But if you're making a feature film, or simply working with a lot of camera angles, you'll want to edit your movie in pieces. Import only the footage you need for the scene, as well as any relevant B-roll.


If you have multiple cameras on the same scene, use your program's "Sync" option to line all of them up together. Find your programs "multi-camera editing mode," which makes it easy to switch between multiple shots simultaneously, by searching for "Multi-Cam Edit" online. This matches up all the cameras so that you don't have to spend hours making sure each cut is in time with the last shot., The first shots will establish the focus of the scene. You have an almost infinite number of choices, but some of the most common include:



The Establishing Shot: This is by far the most common way to start a scene. This shot shows all the main actors, the scene, and the location at one time. This allows the audience to get a feel for the scene, and they can then follow along with the rest of the cuts to come.

Character Focused: Whether they say the first line or not, following the main character of the scene the tells the audience that this is the person they need to pay attention to -- something will happen to them or they will have some realization.

Setting the Scene: Use B-roll and shots of the room/environment to get a feel for the location. This is used in a lot of movies, particularly horror, where a scene might start with 5-6 creepy shots of a haunted house of dangerous room.
 Rewatch your footage and see which scenes you like the best -- where everyone hit their marks, the dialog felt natural, and the footage is clear and in focus. If you can find one take where everything is well done, you're in luck, and your work will be much faster.
 This rule is not hard and fast, but you should almost always begin with it. From there you can decide if it is more important to watch a character listening or a character talking. Watch Whiplash or There Will Be Blood for a good idea of where scene focus should be in dialog oriented films.


The best character to show in a scene is usually a matter of feel. Who does it feel like needs to be the focus of the line? Does an actor give a particularly good expression or reaction to something? Where would your eyes go if you were sitting in the room with the actors?

, Sometimes you don't get one good take, and you need to combine a lot of footage to make the scene work. This is incredibly common, but it should not be difficult if the actors hit their blocking correctly each time. This is when you add the detail and color to the scene. For example, a character might offer someone the cake on the table, and you can cut to a shot of the cake. Or, in a tense interrogation scene, you might show the criminals face up close, sweating and worried, before cutting back to the next line of dialog.There is no right way to edit a scene, as long as you remember that you are trying to tell the story above all else. Let the images do the talking as much as possible.
 Editing is about pacing and timing. You need the film to flow naturally. This is why editors think in terms of individual frames -- the micro-second still shots you see if you pause the screen -- instead of seconds. Many editors work to music for this reason, editing the frames to fit a beat or song and give the scene rhythm.You do not have to stick to the natural rhythm of the actors on screen, and in many cases you shouldn't. Adding or deleting pauses, even by a few tenths of second, can make a good performance a great one. For example:


Comedic, action oriented, or high-energy scenes have very quick timing. There are not a lot of spaces between the lines, and the words almost fall over each other to come out. This makes the scene feel quick and lively.
Tense scenes are usually slower. Pauses are drawn out, B-roll is used heavily, and shots are held for a long time to make the viewer uncomfortable. For a master-class in slow editing, watch 12 Years a Slave, particularly the hanging scene in the middle of the movie.
It takes a human brain 3-5 frames to recognize an image. This means that, if you're trying to be too quick with things, you may just confuse the audience., Editing is the art of telling a story through cuts. In other words, a movie is simply a series of videos put back to back, and how you cut from one to the other is how the audience perceives the story. Therefore, how you order cut from one video to the other is all the "matters" when editing a film. The best cuts are seamless, telling the story without the audience every realizing that we've jumped from one scene to the other.Hard Cut-- an immediate cut to another angle, usually in the same scene. This is the most common cut in film.

Smash Cut- An abrupt shift to completely different scene. This calls attention to the cut, often signalling a surprise or big shift in the plot.

Jump Cut-- An abrupt cut made within the same scene, often of a slightly different angle. These are rare, and usually show confusion or the passing of time.

J-Cut-- When you hear the audio from the next shot before you see the video. This is a great way to link two scenes thematically, or provide narration.

L-Cut-- When you see the video from the next shot before you hear the audio. This is a great way to show a character talking about something, like a promise, then doing it (or breaking it).

Action Cut-- A cut in the middle of an action, like someone opening a door, that "hides" the cut in the action. For example, one character could move in for a kiss, and as their head crosses the screen you cut to the head entering the screen of another angle, usually the person about to be kissed., Once you've made your scenes, it's time to start pulling them together. If you've editing all your scenes as separate files, import them into a new "Master Film" project and put them in order. Then, use your B-roll, coverage shots, and transitions to make them flow seamlessly together. Whereas you originally looked at the scene timing, now you're looking at movie timing -- can you trim a scene back here and there to make things move faster? Do you need a little more B-roll between scenes to give the audience time to react to a dramatic moment? Again -- timing is everything.


This is a good time to ask a friend to watch the movie with you. Do they get everything that's going on? Are there any plot points that are lost in the shuffle and need more time? Any that are over-explained and can cut away?
In general, the more you cut, the better the movie. If a scene isn't working, and it doesn't add anything useful to the plot, get rid of it.
 Once you have the movie as good as it can be it's time for the long process of clean-up. The last, and most important, steps for a professional movie are color correction and sound mixing. While there are entire books written on the subject, the best advice is to just make it all look consistent -- the scenes have similar lighting and color, and there are no spots where the sound is glaringly loud or difficult to hear.


There are many studios that, for a small fee, can be paid to do professional color correction and sound mixing. If you are unsure how to do this and want a professional movie, you should absolutely pay for professional color grading and sound mixing., There are a lot of flashy, famous, and stylized movies out there that seem like a great idea to copy. Quentin Tarantino and Guy Ritchie, in particular, have seen their animated, kinetic styles in movies like Pulp Fiction and Lock, Stock, & Two Smoking Barrels, appropriated by young filmmakers everywhere. What these people don't realize is that those directors chose that style because it fit the movie. The editing looks effortless because it simply let the stories (kinetic, action-oriented stories) take center-stage. Your number one job when editing is to let the story tell itself naturally. You guide the viewer, but at no point should the viewer comment on the editing. The best editing is invisible.