 Depending on how large you want your mobile to be, and where you want to hang it, you have size options. If you’re hanging it over a large buffet table at a party, you might want to grab a larger hoop. If you’re hanging it over a small changing table in a nursery, you will probably want a smaller hoop. It’s important to think about the space and the purpose of your ribbon mobile before you select the hoop you’ll use.


You can buy these hoops at most craft stores, and can also certainly purchase them online.;
, This step is completely optional, but you may want to do it if you dislike its color and are planning on having a bit of the hoop showing through the ribbons. Many of the hoops available for purchase are wooden or silver. Use a spray paint to paint the hoop whatever color you want. You can paint it a more neutral color, or a color that will match your ribbons.


Make sure you let the hoop dry completely before attaching any ribbons.
If you’d rather not use paint, you can also wind ribbon over the hoop.
 If you want to add even more character to your mobile, you can skip the plain hoop all together. You can purchase any sort of fun wreathor even a hula hoopto create your mobile. If you’re super handy, you can even create your own hoop from materials you have in your house. Anything circular can work!

, Decide how far you want the ribbons to hang. Then, fold each on top of itself and cut, so that you are getting ribbons that are twice as long as you want them to hang. You can cut all of your ribbons same length, but varying the length can add a lot of interest to the mobile. Just remember, always double the ribbon over before cutting, so each strand is twice as long.You can purchase a variety of ribbons from your local craft store.
Don’t be afraid to mix patterns, colors, textures, and so on. A good variety can make your mobile eye-catching and fun.
 The mobile won’t be quite as pretty if all of the ribbons are tied to the hoop in clunky knots. A hitch knot allows you to attach the ribbons to the hoop without any unsightly knots. Fortunately, these knots are pretty easy to master.Fold your ribbon in half, so that you have two strands of ribbon.
Place the fold of the ribbon where you want it on the mobile, on the inside of the hoop. In other words, there should be little ribbon loop where you want the ribbons to be tied.Pull the fold, or loop, of the ribbon over the hoop.
Grab the two strands of ribbons and pull it through the loop of the ribbon, which is wrapped over the hoop.
Pull both ends equally to secure your hitch knot on the hoop.
 Continue knotting your ribbons on your mobile. You can add just a few strands and create a minimalistic mobile, or you can cover every inch of the hoop with ribbons. It depends on your personal preference, as well as your ribbon supply!

, Decide where you want to hang your mobile. If you aren’t quite sure, get a chair or a stool to hold your mobile up to the ceiling at potential spots. That way, you can avoid drilling a hole into your ceiling only to discover it’s in the wrong spot. Once you’ve selected the hanging location, screw a cup hook into the ceiling., There are a few different ways you can do this. If you’d rather not tie any more knots, you can use this method with fishing line. Decide how far down you want the mobile to hang, and measure out that length in fishing line. Then, like you did with the ribbon, double it and cut. Do this twice. Then, lay them on the floor so that they form a large plus sign. Lay the hook on the plus sign, and pull the four ends of the fishing lines over the hoop, so that they can hold the hoop in suspension. Tie the four ends together.Because fishing line is clear, you can certainly also just tie the fishing line to the hoop, then tie the opposite ends together.
 Once you’ve gotten your fish line securely in place, hold it up to make sure the mobile hangs evenly. You don’t want your mobile to dip to one side. Then, slip your fishing line over the cup hook. Take a step back and admire your work! You’ve created an easy, affordable ribbon mobile to spruce up any space.

