 There are a wide range of online text art tools that allow you to combine your quote with an image. These tools will allow you to choose from a selection of fonts, templates, colors and background images, so you don’t need to be a graphic designer to make an inspirational or sarcastic quote on social media.There are various text art tools that you can use, which include both free and paid platforms for making social media quotes., You can choose between an image from a template or your own image. If you want to get really creative, you could take a photograph of something that inspired your quote, upload it and then insert your quote over the image. If you have less time, you could just pick one of the image templates., If you wrote the quote in a text edit program, you will need to cut and paste it into the text box in the text art software. Some of the programs will give you one text box to include both the quote and the author, whereas others will give you a text box for the quote and another box for the author attribution., Once you have your image and your quote in the text art program, you can play around with the formatting. For instance, you could try putting the quote in italics or bold. You could also try changing the colors of the quote so that it is more or less visible against your chosen background image. In addition, you might want to play around with the level of transparency and color saturation of your background image., If you want to create your social media quotes with your mobile phone or tablet, there are a variety of text art tools that can help. Mobile applications allow you to create a quote, choose a font and background image and then share it on social media. You can also save the images to your phone or email them to yourself.Whims is a popular mobile quote application. It is a free application for iOS devices.
PicLab works on iOS, Android and Windows phones.
 Once you have added photos or background images to your quote, you can share it on social media platforms such as Instagram of Facebook. The combination of text and image makes for a more popular social media post than text alone.