 Your first step is to consult your vet and have them examine your dog and run basic diagnostics. By examining your dog, your vet will be able to rule out a variety of conditions and better narrow down potential problems.


Allow your vet to physically examine your dog.
Tell your vet about any symptoms you’ve observed. Symptoms might include increased urination and increased thirst.
Have your vet do first-step diagnostics. Such diagnostics include blood work, a urinalysis, and possibly a fecal test., If your vet suspects a metabolic disorder, they may refer you to a veterinary specialist or a specialty group. Veterinary specialists often have more training and experience dealing with diseases and disorders that are somewhat uncommon.


Not all vets will refer you to a specialist. Your vet may feel comfortable treating your dog. However, you should request a referral if you feel your vet may not have the experience or ability needed to treat your dog.
Most major metropolitan areas have veterinary specialty groups that may be able to help you.
Depending on your region, your vet may refer you to a veterinary school at a major university. Depending on the school, it will likely have a specialist who focuses on canine metabolic disorders., After meeting with your vet or a specialist, they might recommend advanced diagnostic tests to gather more information about your dog’s medical problem. This testing will help pinpoint whether your dog has a metabolic disorder and what type of disorder it may be. They may recommend:


Imaging tests. Your vet or a specialist may recommend imaging testing on your dog. Imaging will allow the vet to see potential growths on organs like the kidney or liver.
an A1C test. Your vet will run this if they suspect your dog has diabetes. It measures the long-term blood sugar levels in your dog.
an ACTH stimulation test. Your vet will run this test if they suspect your dog has Cushing’s disorder. It measures the cortisol levels in a dog’s blood., Depending on the type of metabolic disorder, your vet will recommend a course of treatment for your dog.


Your vet might treat diabetes with insulin injections and a specific diet.
Your vet might treat liver disease with medication and a special diet.
Your vet might treat kidney disease with fluid therapy and possibly antibiotics.
Your vet might treat pancreatic disease with fluid therapy and a special diet.