 Even if you aren't changing your name because of marriage or divorce, there are plenty of reasons you might want to change your name. You can change your name if you don't like it, for religious reasons, to reflect your new gender, or to create a combined name.Invalid reasons include:Changing your name to avoid legal judgements, debts, or obligations
Changing your name to defraud someone else
Changing your name to hide from the law or police

, If you were born in Iowa, you can get a certified copy from the Iowa Department of Public Health, Bureau of Health Statistics. You'll have to pay $20 and it may take up to 6 weeks before you get it in the mail.If you were born in another state, contact the government agency in that state that maintains the vital records. If you're not sure which agency to contact, check with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. They keep a list of agencies tracking vital statistics., You can find the form online or at the county clerk's office. Most counties will allow you to file the form online, but check to see if your county accepts e-filing. You'll need to provide basic information, including:Your current name
Your description, including height, weight, hair and eye color, race, sex, place and date of birth
Where you lived for the past five years
Why you'd like to change your name
A legal description of all real estate you own in Iowa or in which you have any legal interest
The new name you want
Your marital status

You'll also need to attach the certified copy of your birth certificate when you file the form. If you don't have one, you can submit identification given by the U.S. Department of Immigration and Naturalization Service.
 This legally informs your spouse that you're changing your name. You can work with a lawyer to create a document that notifies your spouse of the change. Your spouse will need to sign the document so you can file it along with your Change of Name form.If you're not married, this does not apply to you. The form only serves to legally tell your spouse that your name is changing.
 You'll need to pay a $185 processing fee when you submit your application. You'll be informed of the state's decision 30 days after you submit your application., If the court doesn't accept your petition for a name change, understand the reason why you may have been refused. Courts can deny name changes for a number of reasons, including:Changing your name to avoid legal judgements, debts, or obligations
Changing your name to defraud someone else
Changing your name to hide from the law or police