 Use a miter saw to cut the 1x4x6 boards into individual pieces. Take your tape measure and mark three lengths of 33 inches (83.82 cm) on each 1x4x6. Then cut three arms.You can buy 1x4x6 boards at your local hardware store. Simply ask for 6-foot (1.83 m) pieces of 1x4 board.;
, Once you have made your arms, adjust your miter saw to make 30-degree cuts. Use your tape measure and mark off the cuts for each piece. Then, cut 12 V pieces at 8 inches (20.32 cm) long. Finally, use the remaining wood to cut 12 3-inch (7.62 cm) triangle pieces.A miter saw will have a slot for cutting a 30-degree angle on your board.
If you want to save time and make your cuts more accurate, cut one V piece and one triangle piece to use as guides for your remaining pieces.
 Use a paintbrush to apply standard white paint to each piece of wood. Once painted, allow the boards to dry for a few hours. If the boards feel sticky or paint comes off on your fingers when you touch it, let the boards continue drying.If you want to hang your snowflake outdoors, consider using exterior paint.
 With a hammer and nails, attach four V pieces and four triangles to one of the 33-inch (83.82 cm) arms. First, hammer the V pieces on each end of the board, being sure to form a V shape about one inch (2.54 cm) away from the ends. Then, attach two triangles immediately below the bottom of each V. The two small triangles should make larger triangles with the base facing the V pieces.Repeat this step two more times to make the remaining arms.
 Once you have finished assembling all three arms, stack them up on top of each other. Create an X with two arms and place them across the middle of the third arm. Then drill a hole through in the center of the snowflake where the three arms intersect. Finally, insert a 3-inch (7.62 cm) bolt into the center hole and tighten it with a nut.You can find a bolt at your local hardware store. It will hold the snowflake together and allow you to take it down for easy storage.
 Once you assemble your snowflake, attach a heavy-duty hanger used for mirrors or pictures onto the snowflake’s back. Place the hanger towards the top of the arm stacked on the bottom. This will allow you to hang your snowflake securely indoors or outdoors.You can find a hanger at your local hardware store.

