 Because of the slow orbit of the earth around the sun, the nebula is not visible all year round. The nebula is visible from late autumn to early spring.The constellation Orion, which contains the Orion Nebula, is highest in the sky around midnight in mid-December., Due to the spherical nature of the earth, the direction the nebula will appear in is relative to your position on our planet. In the northern hemisphere, look to the southwest. In the southern hemisphere, look to the northwest., The nebula is best seen from latitudes of 85 and -75 degrees. In other words, if you’re hanging out with polar bears in the North Pole or penguins in the South Pole, you won’t be seeing the Orion Nebula.You can identify what hemisphere you’re in by looking at a map. If the country you’re in lies south of the equator, you’re in the southern hemisphere. If the country you’re in lies north of the equator, you’re in the northern hemisphere.
 The Belt of Orion is one of the most recognizable asterisms (a group of stars in an identifiable cluster). It is composed of three very bright stars -- Alnitak, Alnilam and Mintaka -- in a line, relatively equidistant from one another. The Belt and the Orion Nebula both lie within the constellation Orion, so knowing where the Belt is will help you know you're in the neighborhood of the nebula.
 If you imagine the Belt of Orion as perfectly parallel to your line of sight, and thus forming a vertical line, Betelgeuse and Rigel are two stars which sit on either side of the Belt. The path from Betelgeuse through Alnilam (the middle star in the Belt) and on to Rigel forms an almost straight line. Rigel and Betelgeuse are about equidistant from Alnilam.


Betelgeuse is a red supergiant and, true to its name, glows a dull red-orange. It is located up and to the left of the Belt of Orion if you’re in the northern hemisphere, and down and to the right of the Belt if you’re in the southern hemisphere.Rigel is a blue-white star located down and to the right of the Belt of Orion if you’re in the northern hemisphere, and up and to the left if you’re in the southern hemisphere., The Orion Nebula is located just to one side of the line between Rigel and Alnilam, the middle star in the Belt of Orion. The nebula is a faint, fuzzy blue patch in the Sword of Orion, an asterism composed of Iota Orionis (just below the Orion Nebula if viewed from the northern hemisphere), the Orion Nebula, and NGC 1981 (an open star cluster visible just below the Orion Nebula if viewed from the northern hemisphere).