 To sterilize the jars, you can run two wide-mouth pint jars in the dishwasher. You could also boil the pint jars for 10 minutes. If you want to boil them, leave the jars in the pot of hot water, so the jars stay warm while you make the rhubarb.If you sterilize the jars in the dishwasher, remove them and place them in a warm oven until you're ready to fill them or use them right when they're out of the dishwasher.;
, You'll need two new canning lids with fresh seals and bands. Fill a small saucepan halfway with water. Bring the water to a boil and turn off the heat. Set the two lids into the pot. The seals will soften which will help them fit on the jars. Keep the lids in the pan while you pickle the rhubarb.You don't need to sterilize the bands or keep them warm. You can even use old bands, so long as they haven't been dented.
 Stir together the pickling ingredients in a small saucepan until they're combined. Turn the heat on to medium-high and heat the liquid until it comes to a boil. The sugar and salt should dissolve. You'll need to heat:1 cup (240 ml) apple cider vinegar
1 cup (240 ml) water
1 cup (200 g) granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon fine grain salt

, Measure 1 teaspoon of mustard seeds, 1/4 teaspoon of black peppercorns, 1/4 teaspoon of whole cloves, and 1 star anise into each of the sterilized pint jars., Place a large pot on the stove and set a wire rack in the bottom. Fill the pot with water and turn it to medium, so it can begin to heat up as you pack the jars., Wash 1 pound (453 g) of rhubarb stalks. 1 pound is usually around 4 to 6 stalks. Use a sharp knife to trim off and discard the ends. Slice the stalks, so they're as tall as your pint jars.If the stalks are very wide, you may need to slice them in half lengthwise.
 Fill the jars with the sliced rhubarb. The rhubarb will completely fill each jar. Ensure that you can close the jar with the lid or you may need to trim the rhubarb more. Carefully pour hot pickling liquid over the rhubarb in each jar and leave 1/2-inch (12-mm) of space at the top of the jar.Tap the jars gently to remove any air bubbles. Look at the jars again and ensure that you have only 1/2-inch (12-mm) of headspace. Add more pickling liquid if you have too much space.
 Place a warm lid on each jar and screw on the lids just so they're fingertip tight. If you screw them on too tightly, air will have trouble escaping as the jars process., Be careful handling the jars of pickled rhubarb, since they'll be hot. Lower each jar of rhubarb onto a wire rack in the bottom of your water bath canner. You may want to use a jar lifter to lower it into the water. The jars should be covered by 1 to 2-inches (2.5 to 5-cm) of water. Turn the heat to high and bring the water to a boil. Start your timer and process the jars for 10 minutes., Fold a clean, dry towel and set it on your work surface. Turn off the heat to the water bath canner and carefully lift the processed jars out. Set the jars on the towel and let them cool for 12 hours or up to one day.Keep the area draft-free since shocks in temperature could cause the jars to crack.
 Once the jars are cool enough to handle, remove the bands. Check the seals by pulling on the lids. It should stay firmly attached to the jar. Always check the seals before you open preserved food.You can store the sealed jars of pickled rhubarb for up to 1 year. Once you open a jar, you should store it in the refrigerator and use it within 2 weeks.

