 Sealing the cracks around your windows, doors, and around your foundation sill is a low cost way to put a dent in energy costs. You’ll typically use caulk around windows, weather stripping around doors, and aerosol foam to seal large gaps in out of sight areas (such as inside kitchen cabinets).Since houses, windows, and doors all come in different sizes, there’s no typical cost. But it’s pretty standard to use about a half tube of caulk on a typical 24”x48” window. Depending on whether or not a threshold is installed, weather stripping a door will cost about $15-$40 per door. A can of aerosol foam costs a little more than $5.
If you want a detailed guide on applying caulk to windows, check out the one at Caulk Windows.
 Replacing your old incandescent bulbs with LED lights or CFLs can provide you with tremendous energy savings on a lightbulb per lightbulb basis. CFLs and LEDs last ten to twenty five times longer than incandescent and they cost about 75% less to operate., Planting small trees and large shrubs around the exterior walls of your home is a surprisingly effective way to cut down on energy costs. This is because they cut down on energy in two ways:The proximity of the plants themselves acts as an exterior insulator. They make it harder for the ambient temperature inside of the house to escape.
Shade trees save energy costs in the summer by shielding your house from the heating effects of the sun.
 A water heater blanket helps prevent the heat from inside of the water tank from escaping into the air around the water tank. They’re usually made from fiberglass, and cost about $20 for a wrap large enough to fit a sixty gallon tank.
 Programmable thermostats save you the trouble of having to remember to cut the thermostat down every day before you leave the house. They have proven savings over conventional thermostats, and are easy to install.You can get a programmable thermostat from $25-$250, depending on how much you want to spend.
Installing a thermostat requires a little more technical competence than sealing windows, but it’s still an easy project. You can find a guide at Install a Programmable Thermostat.

