 Even normal girls never go around with BO and greasy hair. Tips:


Shave your legs and underarms, and remove any mustache or excess eyebrow hair. This is completely optional, but it gives you huge points. It also helps prevent too much sweating.






Wash your hair often. In middle school, your hair is likely greasy. If that is true, never go more than 2 days without a washing. Some people in middle school have dry hair. You'll have to go through trail and error, but generally you should not wash your hair more than every 3 days if you have dry hair.
Wear deodorant. Perfume is up to you, but don't wear too much.






Shower every 1-2 days. If you sweat a lot, it's hot outside or you exercised a lot, shower everyday. You should shower if you feel gross or your hair is oily, because you probably smell too.
Wash your face twice a day and apply lotion at least three times a week.





;
, Apply foundation, concealer, brown mascara, and a lip gloss close your natural lip color. Or if you have good skin, go natural.
 Wear accessories and wear your hair differently at least once a week. (Not a simple ponytail!) Read up on fashion and find stuff that fits. Don't use colors that don't match (like brown and black, red and green etc.) and dress for the weather. Avoid anything stained or dirty. Don't wear overly revealing clothes; you're in middle school!

, Don't go flirt with another guy every day. Stick to flirting to one or two guys per week max. If you have a crush or boyfriend, do NOT flirt with anyone but him.You want to be a guy magnet, not a slut.
 Have at least 3 different hobbies. Join at least one school club. Arts and crafts, music, and sports are great examples.
 Limit junk food to once a week. Exercise at least 4 times a week for 60 minutes. Do something different everyday to give a toned body and a great glow. Run one day, bike the next etc.
 This doesn't mean you have to be a genius, but do your homework on time, study, don't fall asleep in class, as simple as that. Don't get anything lower than a C.
 Don't ditch your old friends, but make some new ones. Smile, be nice, go on Facebook or your e-mail, or text often! Keep in touch with your peers!

, Just smile and be happy. There are many ways to be happy 100% of the time! My favorite methods are: Look at where you will be in 10 years, when all your current problems will seem small and insignificant! Or you can simply find something your looking forward to and working toward! And my personal favorite: Play music, a happy upbeat, fast song and just get excited for the day! Get pumped!

