 Dial the exit code, then the Singapore country code, mobile code, and finally the local number. The exit code for the United States and Canada is 011. The Singapore country code is 65. Singapore has multiple mobile networks so research whether the code is 8 or 9. The local number is the number someone would be calling within Singapore.Use this template: 011 +65+ Mobile Code + Local NumberExit code is also known as the international access code and provides the signal that you are attempting an international call.You may need to dial the + (plus) before you dial the mobile code and local number if you are calling to another mobile phone in Singapore.If you are calling from your mobile phone you may incur additional charges from your mobile provider. Be sure to inquire about the long distance rates and use an alternative to save you money.
 Land lines are often more reliable and provide better quality. Use the same formula as calling with a mobile phone: dial the exit code, Singapore country code, mobile code, and finally the local number.Use this template: 011 +65+ Mobile Code + Local Number, There are a variety of apps and digital calling plans that use VOIP that can be purchased or download for free. VOIP stands for Voice Over IP and it allows you to make digital calls. Make sure you have access to the internet or wifi when using a message app like Skype or a calling plan like Vonage. Apps can only be used if you ask your recipient to download the same app and exchange contact information.


Follow the prompts of the app to begin a conversation. The prompts are usually rather intuitive with a "call" button next to an icon of the person you wish to call. Apps can be used on a computer or smartphone. Digital calling services must be purchased but can be used via your mobile phone or landline.
Most messaging apps simply need you to set up your contact information with either a phone number and email. Click on your contact’s name or icon to begin a conversation. Some apps may also tell you when your contact is online as well as provide video calling.
Digital calling works by routing calls over internet lines rather than traditional phone lines. Your contact in Singapore does not need voip to receive your call and you still will be charged like using a regular phone line. Research the best rates for voip calling to Singapore.

