 Ask someone you trust to come with you when you get the shot. Having someone you know with you could provide you with a confidence boost.Ask them to hold your hand tightly during the procedure.
 Tell your doctor or nurse that you are scared. Talking about your fear can let that person know to treat you with extra care. He or she might even be able to talk you through it and offer you tips to help you relax and keep things in perspective.If you would like to donate blood you might find it less scary if you tell the person drawing your blood that he or she has one chance to get it right.Doing this can help you feel more in control of the situation.
 Many people focus on getting the shot, but taking your mind off of the injection by, among other things, looking the other way, can help allay your fears.Strike up a conversation with someone else in the room, be it the doctor, the nurse, or the family member or friend who has accompanied you.Research has found that doctors who talked to trauma patients about something other than the trauma itself were able to significantly reduce the patient's anxiety levels.Concentrate on something else in the room. Try rearranging the letters of a sign to make as many new words as you can.Play a game on your phone, listen to some soft music, or read a book or magazine , You might find that lying down or having your legs elevated while you receive and injections can help to ease your fear and symptoms. Lying with your head down and feet slightly elevated will lessen the chances of fainting. Even after the injection stay prone for a while, and don't try to jump up and run out. Take your time and listen to what the doctor or nurse is telling you.When you are lying down, place one hand on your stomach and concentrate on your breathing., Tensing up during the injection will make it hurt more later. Relax your arms, shoulder, and jaw. Look away, focus on your breathing, and take deep breaths. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth.When the shot is about to be administered, take a deep breath and slowly count down from ten before breathing out. By the time you get to zero the procedure will be done!

