 Eating out of a restaurant all the time is not a cheap prospect. When a single burger can go for $3, and a good meal can be as much as $20 per person, the ability to spend less and have more to eat will soon become very apparent. The ingredients to make Italian Style Spaghetti would cost less than $20 to feed 5 people well (with a number of the ingredients, especially spices not being limited to use in just one meal but several meals), but a plate of spaghetti out of an Italian restaurant could go for $6-$35 each!;
, And, the ability to produce fine food at will is a very good way to have a good fifth or sixth date. Invite her over for dinner, home made. It may not sound like much, but she will most certainly appreciate the effort!

, When you cook food for yourself, you know what is in it. There is no guessing game about whether cutting boards were properly sterilized, or whether the ingredients were of good quality. Ask anyone who has gotten food poisoning from a restaurant, it pays to know that food was cooked correctly, that dishes were cleaned correctly, and that the food was prepared not only with flavor in mind, but with consideration for the consumer to survive the meal and the night thereafter.
 Pizza and chips are alright for snacks, but you need nourishment, and the ability to walk into the kitchen and make a quality meal cooked perfectly to your liking will make living on your own a lot easier.
 Some of the greatest chefs in the world are men. Cooking is not 'women's work', unlike what some people would like you to believe.
 For many, the essence of cooking is not to adhere to the directions within a recipe as if one were building a cabinet, it's about making food that is unique, individual, and delicious. The process of learning what spice goes with what base, what foods flow together well, and what dishes compliment each other gives you, the cook, power to create endless possibilities.
 Once you get past the initial fears, cooking is straightforward and simplistic. With only seven main ingredients (one meat, three veggies, one starch, one fruit and one spice) and a few common household food stocks, it is possible to create over one hundred and fifty different and unique dishes. Potatoes Au Gratin, Beef Stroganoff with mushroom sauce, with a Fresh Peach Crisp for dessert. About an hour and 15 minutes of effort, and a 18 year old laying the table out with that meal would stun the socks off of a four star chef. And, every recipe is available on the Internet for free! And, the real shocker, with a little practice, that meal could be performed to perfection with less then two weeks of cooking training!

