 It isn't fair on anyone to have the possibility hanging in the air. You could say something as simple as: "We'll be happy to spend the weekend days with you when we've time off from work and we know some fantastic places to stay." That makes it very clear that you have no intention of putting them up.;
, You don't want to create bad feeling between you. The way in which you approach this will make all the difference between icy relations and outright acceptance of the need to find their own accommodations. Use your personal needs as the reason for asking them to stay somewhere else. This is much more thoughtful than suggesting it has anything to do with them, even if that is the case! For example:


"I'd love to have you stay but I am having a really hard time at work currently and I've got all the work manuals and laptops piled up in the guest room because I need to work there till really late at night. I won't be able to make a change in this habit while you're visiting because the deadlines are looming."
"Little Rachel's been very upset at school lately and we are doing a lot of things to ensure her routine is as stable as possible. At the moment, this means we just can't have guests because it'd create instability for her. I do hope you understand how important this is to us. We can suggest some great places to stay near us and we'll catch up for meals each night."
"Oh we'd love to have you but our house is just too small. We don't have a guest bedroom and we're not able to ask the kids to share rooms because they're all doing exams at the moment. We can give you some ideas of good places to stay though."

, For examples, if it's your parents and you really don't want them getting on your spouse's nerves but you know they're skint, see if you can shout them the accommodation. Given that you live locally, you'll have the opportunity to scout out the best bargains in the nicest locations and to look for a good deal. Even though you end up paying, this can be a great sanity saver and also maintains family goodwill.
 You're making a trade off to give yourself peace and space in your home and in return, you do need to take them to see places, and perhaps to shout them a dinner or two.
 Consider visiting their city or town instead and put yourself up in local accommodation to avoid the hassle of obliging them to have you to stay.

