 There are certain medications that can help combat a yeast infection on your skin. For skin infections, doctors generally recommend antifungal creams that are applied directly to the affected area. These creams will generally clear the infection within a couple of week. The two most common antifungal creams for yeast infections on the skin include miconazole and oxiconazole. The cream have general instructions for application, but make sure you follow the doctor's instructions carefully.


To use cream for your skin yeast infections, wash the affected area with water and then dry it off very thoroughly. The skin should not be moist at all. Apply the recommended amount of cream as indicated by your doctor or the manufacturer's instructions. Let it absorb into your skin before you reapply clothing or do any activities that might cause the area to rub against another object or material. , To fight a vaginal yeast infection, you can get over the counter medications or get a prescription from your doctor. For infrequent episodes of yeast infections that only have mild to moderate symptoms, you can use over the counter medication that either comes as a cream, tablet, or suppository that gets inserted directly into your vagina.The common yeast-fighting medical creams include miconazole (Monistat) and terconazole (Terazol). They are generally used as a cream or suppository, given intravaginally every day at bedtime, for as many days as specified in the instructions. You can get medications that last one to seven days.
You can also get oral antifungal medication that can be taken, such as clotrimazole (Myecelex) and fluconazole (Diflucan), which you take by mouth.
You can also take clotrimazole as tablets, which are taken intravaginally at 100mg every day at bedtime for six to seven days, 200mg every night for 3 days, or 500mg daily for 1 day.Some yeast infections may be more complicated. These have to be treated for seven to 14 days, rather than one to seven days.
 Boric acid is available for yeast infections as a vaginal insert suppository by a prescription. This may provide relief from infections that occur frequently if conventional treatments have not been as effective as expected. Additionally, boric acid may provide increased resistance against other strains of candida that may have become resistant to certain antibiotics over time.


Boric acid is toxic, especially to children when ingested, and can cause irritation to skin.Abstain from oral sex while using boric acid so your partner does not ingest the toxic acid.
 If you develop a mouth yeast infection, you can combat it with medical mouthwash with antifungal capabilities. To use this medication, you swish it around in your mouth for a short time and then swallow it. The medicine helps the surface of your mouth as well as from inside your body after you swallow it. Also talk to a doctor about additional prescription oral medications that you can take. Oral antifungal medications also come in the form of tablets and lozenges.


If you have a very weakened immune system and are combating other illnesses like cancer or HIV, your doctor may also prescribe Amphotericin B, a medication that combats oral yeast infections that have become immune to antifungal medications.