 Sweep the area around the birth site to sweep away bad energy pertaining the baby and mother.;
, A broom is a supposed amulet against malefic magick.
, A handmade broom can be placed on your alter to help channel your spells.
 There are plenty of books describing many more ways to incorporate a broom into your magick!

, "Buy a broom in May, and you will sweep your friends away." This is a superstitious old English rhyme.
 There are those that believe doing so will chase away happiness or hurt a wandering soul.
 Some people believe that if a young girl steps over a broom, or over a broom handle she will become a mother before a wife. You may, or may not, see this as undesirable.



Some American country folk say no good can come of carrying a broom across water so avoid doing that.
Try not to lean a broom against a bed
Don't burn a broomstick.
Good luck can be had by sending a new broom and a loaf of bread into a new home before entering it.
Never use a broom when there is a dead person in the house.
Never use a broom to sweep outside of your house, unless you have swept inside the house first.
Never walk on a broom.
Never sweep upstairs rooms in the afternoon.
Never sweep the room of a departing guest until they have been gone for some time. Sweep too soon and your sweeping will bring them back.
Never bring old brooms into new houses, when moving house for instance. A broom becomes attached to a home. It is, apparently, best practice to leave the old broom behind. Whilst this seems like simple superstition, in the days before vacuum cleaners, an old broom might have harboured all manner of nasties like fleas and bed bugs. Getting a new broom for a new house seems sensible.
Always sweep dust balls into the middle of the room, they will protect against bad luck

, Measure a wart crosswise with a broom straw, then bury the straw. The straw, so intimately connected with the wart, will decay, and so too should the blemish.
 This allows your departed friends and family to speak to you, if they so choose. As long as the broom remains in place, they can communicate freely.

