 Place the lunch bag inside the fridge to be taken out when you open the fridge for breakfast, then place it beside the backpack by the door before you eat breakfast. If you buy lunch, make sure you have lunch money!;
, which need to go to school inside your backpack or school bag before you go to bed.
 This is in case you run short of time to eat a full breakfast. Some good choices are granola, yogurt, and flavored oatmeal.


On your way up to your bedroom, place your backpack/schoolbag by the door you normally exit through.
 Lay out the clothes you want to wear the next day before you go to sleep. If your school has a uniform, make sure it is clean and well-pressed.


Also take a shower at night before bed and brush your hair. You may put it in a bun or however you like then when you wake up put on styling creams/hairsprays and decorate your hair.
 Try to get 8-10 hours of sleep on school nights.Set your alarm clock for the best time that you think will wake you up for school. For example, 6:30 is mostly good for many people.
 Set an alarm or have your parents wake you up. Most cell phones have alarms, so if you hate the sound of your alarm clock, that's better. It will make you want to stand up and turn the alarm off. Don't go back to sleep after the alarm!

, Splashing some cold water on your face first thing in the morning may seem horrible, but is very refreshing once you get used to it. Gently clean your face with a warm washcloth and some face wash.
, If there are 2 people, the person getting their hair done can eat breakfast while the other person is doing your hair. When your hair is done, you can switch.
 Brush your hair and style as you see fit. For girls: Slick your hair into a high pony. Or, you could decide to leave it down and put in smoothing cream, curling mousse, or whatever you need. For guys: Wet your hair and brush/comb it, or put gel in it.
 Prioritize - do the hard stuff first, such as putting on eyeliner and eye-shadow. Easier stuff such as lip gloss and cover up can wait until you get on the bus or in the car. And remember, wear as much or as little makeup as you want.
 And you can also bring your lunch with you to school if you don't have time to eat.
