 While you may not be interested in breeding or showing your pug through the American Kennel Club, or comparable organizations in other countries, these standards were put in place to help describe the healthiest dogs in the breed. Choosing a pug that meets the breed standard is the best way to ensure you’re selecting a dog who will lead a long, happy life as part of your family.


From the tip of the shoulder to the floor, pugs stand between 10 and 12 inches.
The length of the pug from breastbone to tailbone should be equal to the height from the shoulder.
A healthy adult pug should weigh between 15 and 20 pounds depending on height.The coat should be smooth, soft, and shiny. The pug standard allows for full black and fawn colored with a dark face, but there are rare silver and white varieties.
The gait when walking or running should be even with a slight roll to the hips and back end. The pug should hold its head high and appear jaunty., Unfortunately, pugs are prone to a number of chronic diseases, and it’s important to check for warning signs of these illnesses before choosing a dog. Some of the most common diseases include hip dysplasia, obesity, arthritis, melanoma, and breathing concerns like atopy.Check the eyes for watering, a glaze or film over the pupils, and squinting.
Listen for signs of rasping or wheezing when the dog breathes. Make sure the pug is breathing through both the nose and mouth.
Watch the dog walk looking for signs of limping or uneven gait. Also, listen for clicking or grinding sounds when the dog walks., Any past or current conditions, vaccination schedules, and ongoing treatments should be provided before you purchase an adult pug. You should also ask for health history of the dog's parents as this can be indicative of future illnesses., If you decide to adopt a fully-grown pug, you'll be able to see exactly what the pug will look like and get to know their personality. Spending time with an adult pug before purchasing or adopting it will give you a good idea what type of personality the pug has. Ask for a trial period, so you can take the pug home to see how it interacts with your family, home, and other pets. Also, make sure to gather as much information as possible about past behaviors before buying the pug.


Ask if the dog has ever bitten a person, fought with other animals, or otherwise demonstrated aggressive behavior.
Ask if the dog is house trained.
Ask about past behavioral issues like chewing furniture and excessive barking., As the saying goes, you can’t teach an old dog new tricks, but this intelligent breed may be the exception that makes that rule. With persistence, even a fully grown pug can and will learn new things. The key is to be consistent in your training.