 Double-click the icon of your preferred Internet browser on your desktop.;
, On the address bar of your browser, type in http://www.adrive.com then hit Enter.
 If you don’t have an ADrive account yet, sign up for one. Click on the “Sign Up” button found at the upper-right side of the page. You will be brought to a registration form. Complete the registration accordingly.


If you already have an ADrive account, skip this step.
 Click on the “Login” button found at the upper-right side of the page. Input your email address and password you used for ADrive then click the “Login” button to proceed.
 ADrive’s landing page can be a little cluttered. You may go directly to your main file directory by click on the “My Files” button found on the left side of the page.
 From the main file directory, notice the three action icons on the header. These are the basic actions you need in ADrive. The last menu here has a folder icon with a plus sign. Click on this.
 A dialog box will appear where you need to name the new folder. Type in the name and click on the “Save” button.
 The new folder you’ve just created can now be accessed. This new folder is placed in the main directory under “Home.”

, Repeat steps 1 to 3 to create more folders under the main Home directory.

You can also create subfolders under these main folders. Just go inside the folder and create the new folder from there.
 The folder menu or directory is directly accessible from the left panel box on the page. Use this to navigate through your folders and subfolders.
 Click on the folder names to access the folders.
 From the main file directory, notice the three action icons on the header. The first menu here has a cloud icon with an arrow pointing up. Click on this uploader icon to bring out the upload options, and select “Files” from the menu. You will be brought to the page for the file uploading methods.
 The first uploading method is drag and drop. This is located on the first tab on the file upload page. Go to your computer and select the file(s) you’d like to upload. Click and drag them to the Drag and Drop window. Once you release, the files will start uploading to ADrive.


You will be able to see the upload progress from the page.
 Another uploading method is by using the traditional dialog box in Windows. This is located under the Classic tab. Click on the “Browse” button there and select the files from your computer you’d like to upload. Once you’ve selected them, they will start uploading to ADrive.


You will be able to see the upload progress from the page.
 If you’d like to upload whole folders or multiple files, ADrive supports this as well. From the file directory, select the Uploader option from the header menu then select “Folders.” You will see a Java-enabled upload tool. You can just drag and drop whole folders into this tool.


You will be able to see the upload progress from the page.
 If there’s a file existing in the Internet that you’d like to directly copy to your ADrive account without needing to download it first to your desktop, you can do so by doing a remote upload.


From the file directory, select the Uploader option from the header menu then select “Remote.” You will be brought to the page where you can input the location of the file. Type in the web address, or URL, of the file and click the “Retrieve” button.
The file will immediately be accessed by ADrive and copied to your ADrive account. This option is way faster than downloading the file first and then uploading it to ADrive.
 Navigate through the ADrive folders until you find the file you’d like to download to your computer. Select it by clicking on it, and the file will be highlighted. On the right side, the Actions section will appear. This section contains the list of actions that can be applied on the file. Click on “Download” to start downloading the file.
 Navigate through the ADrive folders until you find the folder where the files you’d like to download to your computer are located. Select them by clicking on them, and the files will be highlighted. On the Actions section to the right, click on “Download as .zip” to start downloading the files.


The multiple files will be packaged and downloaded as one zip file.
 From the main file directory, notice the three action icons on the header. The second menu here has a cloud icon with an arrow pointing down. Click on this downloader icon to bring up the Java-enabled download tool.


The Downloader tool will display your ADrive file directory with all the files and folders ticked by default. Select the files and folders you’d like to download by ticking on the appropriate boxes. Once done, click on the “Download” button.
The selected files and folders will be downloaded as they are; they won’t be zipped in one file.
You will be able to see the download progress from the page.

