 The first step to improving your overall balance is to strengthen the muscles in your legs, calves, and thighs. This can be done through doing squats on a weekly basis.


Stand with your hips and knees wide apart. Keep your arms out, abs tight, and your back straight.Bend your knees and hips and slowly lower yourself until your thighs are parallel to the floor. If you're not used to doing squats, you may not be able to get your thighs quite parallel so just get as close as possible.Slowly rise back up, contracting your glutes. Try to do three sets of 10, with a one minute break after each set.;
, Weight shifts are another exercise that address improving balance. It's a good exercise to start with if you're just beginning to work on improving your balance.


Stand, keeping your feet hip-length apart, and distribute your weight equally between both legs. Shift your weight to the right and lift your left foot off the floor. Hold this position as long as you can, aiming for around 30 seconds.Return to the original position and then repeat the exercise on the other side. Do as many repetitions as you can without getting sore. As time goes on, you should be able to gradually increase the number of repetitions., Once you get used to doing squats and weight shifts, move on to move complicated exercises. A single leg balance will help you work on strengthening your lower body and improving overall balance.


Begin in the same position you used for the weight shifts, with legs hip-length apart and weight equally distributed.Place your hands on your hips, lift your left leg to the side, and bend your leg back at the knee. Hold this for 30 seconds and then return to the starting position.Repeat on the other side. Do as many repetitions as you are comfortable with and, with time, increase the number of repetitions., You can add strength training aspects to your exercises, which should further improve your balance and form. Using a dumbbell, you can do bicep curls.


The weight of the dumbbell depends on your fitness level. If you're not used to lifting weights, pick something in the five to 10 pound range to start off with. You can always add weight with time if this feels too easy.Hold the dumbbell in your left hand, keeping your palm facing upward. Stand with your legs hip-length apart and weight equally distributed. Lift your right leg off the floor and bend it back at the knee. Hold this pose for about 30 seconds.Return to the original position and then repeat on the other side. You can increase the number of repetitions and amount of weight as you become more fit., There are a variety of activities that promote good balance. Joining a yoga, Pilates, or tai chi class can help you improve balance.


Tai chi is a form of movement training that promotes coordination, strength, and balance. Many fitness and community centers offer tai chi classes. See what's available in your area by browsing the yellow pages, checking online, and looking for ads in the local paper. If there aren't classes offered in your area, you can buy or rent DVDs or find videos on YouTube that teach basic tai chi poses.Yoga and Pilates are both forms of exercises that promote strengthening core muscles by moving between a variety of poses. Yoga has the added benefit of teaching mindfulness and meditation. In addition to improving balance, yoga could reduce overall stress. Like tai chi, fitness and community centers may offer yoga and Pilates classes. You can also buy or rent DVDs or find instructional videos online., While you're doing day-to-day activities, practice balancing. Try to stand on one foot while brushing your teeth, waiting for a bus or train, doing your makeup or brushing your hair, and other daily activities., Your balance will improve greatly if you strengthen your buttocks, hamstrings, and quadriceps. Aerobic activities, like running and jogging can help. You can also engage in low impact weight training, like lifting weights at home or doing push ups, sit ups, squats, and other easy exercises to do without heavy equipment.Try incorporating a medicine ball into your workouts to build core strength.

