 This article discusses the medical syndrome of blood anemia in humans. Anemia is by definition low content of red blood cells in the arteries and veins of the body. Red blood cells are the main cellular components of this essential fluid in the body. Red blood cells are one type of many cells in the body that are important due to their role in the transport of oxygen molecules to the various body tissues. This is a very basic and fundamental process in the body that is essential for the maintaining of consciousness and life in individual humans. Red blood cells of humans are usually obtained in cellular differentiation processes that involve precursor cells that are called reticulocytes. Red blood cells of erythrocytes do not have the biochemical machinery to divide and replicate. This is so because they do not contain nuclei.;
, Reticulocytes which are the precursor cells of erythrocytes do contain nuclei. These reticulocytes differentiate into erythrocytes by the process of nuclei expulsion from the reticulocyte cells. When the nucleus of the reticulocyte cell is removed the cell is then called a mature erythrocyte or a mature red blood cell. Red blood cells in the body of humans serve several functions but their main function is the transport of oxygen form the lungs to the various body tissues through the blood stream. This important physiological process is mediated by several metabolic processes that can be involved in the etiology of anemia in affected persons. For example the transition metal ion of iron is one metal that is used in the process of binding oxygen in the heme molecule of the hemoglobin protein.
 This iron metal ion has very basic but also very important function in this process of oxygen transport in the blood. The oxidation state of this metal ion is very crucial here for the proper binding of the oxygen molecule in the heme molecule. For this reason there is in the body a special form of enzyme that is used exclusively to modify the oxidation state of this metal between +2 and +3 oxidation states. Due to its importance in this process of oxygen binding it is not surprising that iron metal ion deficiency in the body is one form of anemia in humans. This metal ion level in the blood can be corrected by the administration of supplementary amounts of iron salts that are easily absorbed into the blood and are easily transformed into its free ionic metal forms. Commercially available forms of iron metals ions for medicinal purposes include the sulfate salts of iron metal.
 Other forms of blood anemia include folic acid deficiency in the blood. This form of anemia is due to metabolic defects in the pathways for the synthesis of the DNA and RNA molecules of the red blood cells. Folic acid is one form of essential vitamin that is not synthesized in the body of humans. It must be administered exogenous in the form of tablets that range in its quantities. This acid in involved metabolically in the synthesis of DNA and RNA bases in the red blood cells.
 The lack of this vitamin in the body makes these metabolic processes absent or dysfunctional. The net result is low yield of red blood cells production in the body. This type of metabolic anemia can be corrected by the administration of supplementary amounts of this vitamin into the body. Excessive amount of this acid in the body can sometimes cause metabolic acidosis in the body.
 Red blood cells are usually produced in the red bone marrow under the stimulatory effect of the hormone erythropoietin. This is an important hormone for the normal production of red blood cells in the body. It is usually synthesized in specialized cells in the kidneys. Anemia due to absence of this hormone can be triggered in cases of chronic kidney failure. This type of kidney disease has several clinical manifestations. One of them is related to the development of anemia. This is the inability of the kidney cells to properly synthesize this protein hormone into the blood circulation. This type of anemia is common in people who have dysfunctional kidneys.
 Treatment of this type of anemia can be performed through the administration of analogues of this hormone into the body. Other forms of anemias in the human body include blood disorders due to genetic defects in the hemoglobin molecules. One form of such a genetic disorder is called thalassemia. This is one form of anemias that occurs due defective function of one of the polypeptide chains that are attached to the porphoryne molecule of the hemoglobin protein. This genetic defect makes these red blood cells dysfunctional and disabled in its normal function of oxygen transport in the blood. The other common genetic disorder that can also cause blood anemia is called sickle cells anemia. This genetic disorder of red blood cells is characterized by the abnormal cellular structure of the red blood cells that is sickled in its morphological form.
 This form can impair the function of these cells to transport oxygen in the blood. These two forms of genetic anemias can predispose to jaundice or bilirubin accumulation in the body. Red blood cells in these two disorders are easily destroyed. This in turn allows the digestive enzymes of these cells to digest their cellular contents such as the heme portion and the protein portion of the hemoglobin molecules.
 The net result is the build up of large number of amino acids in the blood and the accumulation of the yellow pigment bilirubin in the skin epithelium and in the white sclera of the eyes. Anemias can also develop due to other reasons. Notable here is the anemia due to malignant tumors. Cancer is usually accompanied with the development of anemic blood. This can be logically explained by the fact that cancer cells consume most of the body energetic resources in the form of amino acids and glucose molecules.

