 Nature is of value in itself because God created it. We are disrespectful when we do not heed this. Genesis 9:12-13. And God said, "This is the sign of the covenant I am making between me and you and every living creature with you, a covenant for all generations to come: I have set my rainbow in the clouds, and it will he the sign of the covenant between me and the earth.;
, God did not place us here to destroy but to protect, to use well, to hold things in trust for each generation. A good Christian will recycle, be frugal and care for the environment as a matter of course, without even having to call these actions "environmental". Luke 12:15,23,34. And He said to them, "Beware and be on your guard against every form of greed; for not even when one has an abundance does life consist of his possessions. For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
 There are many in every country; be with like minded people who share both your faith and your cause. Exodus 23:2. Do not follow the crowd in doing wrong.
 Even Sunday School classes can teach students about God's creations in an environmental context. Leviticus 26:3-4,6. If you follow my decrees and are careful to obey my commands, I will send you rain in its season and the ground will yield its crops and the trees of the field their fruit... and I will grant peace in the land.
 This is what the Bible states that God expects from us, not to be environmental vandals who destroy all before us:


Lev. 25:23-24. The land is mine and you are but aliens and my tenants. Throughout the country that you hold as a possession, you must provide for the redemption of the land.
Ezekiel 34:2-4. Woe to the shepherds of Israel who only take care of themselves! Should not the shepherds take care of the flock? You eat the curds, clothe yourselves with the wool and slaughter the choice animals, but you did not take care of the flock! You have not strengthened the weak or healed the sick or bound up the injured. You have not brought back the strays or searched for the lost. You have ruled them harshly and brutally.
 The environment needs our care and we are in charge of fixing the damage which we have done. Revelation 11:18. The nations were angry and your wrath has come. The time has come for rewarding your servants the prophets and your saints and those who reverence your name, both small and great - and for destroying those who destroy the earth.

