 If you have access to a phone and are only interested in acquiring your balance, calling your card’s customer service is the best choice.


The benefit of calling is that you can speak with a live representative and access the information you need.
The downside is that the wait time to reach a representative may be long.
Another downside is if you have math-intensive questions about previous transactions and their effect on your balance, it may be difficult to follow along over the phone.
 You will need a few pieces of information. First, the customer service representative will need some personal details in order to verify your identity. These would include your social security number, birthdate, and answers to safe questions that you created, such as your mother’s maiden name.


Secondly, make sure the card you are inquiring about is available. You may be asked for the account number of the card you’re calling about.
 The number you want to dial is located on the back of your card. The vast majority of customer service numbers will route you through an automated system that either tells you your balance automatically, or gives you an option to hear your balance before you reach a representative.
 If you are talking to an actual person, they will ask you questions in order to verify your identity. If you are connected to an automated service, you will need to input answers to security questions with the buttons on your phone.
 An automated system will walk you through the steps to get your balance. You will most likely be asked to input numbers on your keypad to indicate what choices you have picked. If you talk to a representative, they will be able to share your balance with you and answer any other questions you have.


You may have to navigate through several menus to get to your balance information. The first menu may ask you to press a certain number for the account you want to access. For instance, if you want to check your business credit card you need to press the number 2. Then the next menu will usually ask you what type of information you want on that account, in this case it will be the credit card balance.
If for any reason you cannot access balance information through the automated system, a representative will be able to give you the same information. You can usually get transferred to a representative by pushing the zero key when in an automated menu.

