 Your age as of August 31 is what determines your cohort. Those between eight and eleven apply for the Junior Associates; those between eleven and thirteen apply for the Mid Associates; those between fourteen and fifteen apply for Senior Associates; and those between sixteen and seventeen apply for Advanced Associates. These classes are meant to supplement existing ballet classes.


Junior Associates (eight through ten years old) is located at eight centers throughout the UK.
Mid Associates (eleven through thirteen years old) is located at five centers throughout the UK.
Senior Associates (fourteen and fifteen year olds) only has training locations in London and Birmingham.
Advanced Associates (sixteen and seven year olds) are trained solely at the Covent Garden location.
Full-time training is also available to those between the ages of eleven and nineteen. Students sixteen and under attend the campus in Richmond Park. Older students attend the Covent Garden campus.
 These are a great chance for you as a potential students to meet people from the school and talk about your future plans. Insight events are held at various locations to give you a look what to expect if you are accepted.


Primary and Secondary Insight events are open to potential students between the ages of eleven and sixteen. They allow you to attend a chance to see current students taking classes.
Junior Insight lets dancers between eight and ten attend a two-hour class typical of what they could expect if they were selected.
Audition Insight gives you the opportunity to see how the auditions work in an informal setting without stress.
 The newsletter is published once per term, and it includes news and updates on the programs. It also lists conferences, exhibits, and events that aspiring students can attend., If you know what to expect, then you can start preparing before you even submit your application. Classes for lower level students are simple and include warm up, barre work, and port de bras, while higher levels are expected to take classes in pointe, allegro and repertoire.
 You should spend most of your time preparing for the hard work that you will be taking on, but there are smaller details that you need to keep track of so that your work does not go to waste.


Check the date for the cut-off. Once it’s past the deadline, no applications will be accepted, regardless of your situation.

