 You don't want to consume too much salt at an airport, because the sodium could cause problems with dehydration on your flight, but that doesn't mean you can't have a crunchy snack.Crackers are a decent option, and the fiber of whole grain crackers will keep you full on your flight.
If you want potato or vegetable chips, look for an option that's unsalted or lightly salted with sea salt.
Pistachios are a good option if you want nuts, with lower fat and calories than most other nuts and plenty of fiber to help you feel full. However, they are a little messy, so you may not want to get them if you want something you can eat on the plane.
Almonds are another good nut option that will give you a good helping of healthy fats as well as a protein boost.;
, In almost any airport, you can find fresh fruit and yogurt fairly easily at self-serve snack bars or news kiosks. Make sure the yogurt has a resealable lid, and get a small plastic bag to dispose of any fruit leftovers such as an apple core or a banana peel.Apples have fiber to keep you feeling full, as well as plenty of antioxidants. Bananas, which have high potassium and vitamin B6, are another good choice — especially for long flights.
Try to avoid messy fruits, such as oranges, especially if you plan to take it on the plane with you.
 The newsstands and snack bars located all over airports typically stock these healthy snacks, which will give you savory flavor as well as a healthy boost of protein from the chickpeas.Chickpeas also are low in fat, and this snack has relatively few calories and likely won't cause any digestive issues that could turn your flight into a nightmare.
Hummus is thick enough not to spill easily if you want to take it on the plane with you, and many of these packages are designed to be resealable if you don't eat it all at once.
 Granola and protein bars are a fixture at most airport newsstands and snack bars, and can easily be tossed in your carry-on bag for convenience. Get more than one in case of delays.Look for bars with natural ingredients and stay away from those that have added sugar or are loaded with preservatives.
Keep in mind that some granola bars that are sweet or coated in chocolate can have as much fat and calories as a candy bar.

