 Old brushes can add to your existing paint brush or roller work and create a rich texture that hides minor wall flaws like scrapes and chips. In the end, you’ll likely have fun by using your brushes to add extra texture to your wall. Start by gathering different sized brushes from around your house.


Wash your brushes so there is no dirt or other debris attached to them.
Take your brushes and brush texture in all over your wet paint. Leave enough brush marks so the wall damage blends with your newly created texture.
If you need more paint, feel free to use it.
Try to complete one small section of wall at a time. For example, paint and texture one 8 foot (2.44 meter) by 10 foot (3 meter) section before moving on to another., By dabbing sponges on your wet paint, you’ll create a texture that will conceal wall damage or wall flaws like a poor mudding/taping job, indentations, and more. In the end, you’ll have a unique paint job that reflects your personality and taste. Start by taking sponges and lightly dabbing them on wet paint.


Make sure your sponges are clean and don’t have any dirt or other debris attached.
Repeat your dabbing over the entire surface of the wall. Create any pattern you want.
Do some extra dabbing around wall flaws so they seem like they're just part of the overall pattern.
If you need, dip the sponge into more paint so you can create a richer texture over your wall., Faux painting is a great way of concealing flawed wall by making it seem like a deliberate part of your overall design. Thus, faux painting offers a unique opportunity to use large and small wall flaws to enhance your larger paint scheme.


Paint a color lightly over a bright base coat, like a white.
Take a cloth and wipe down the wall unevenly. In addition, take a brush and brush some uneven lines into the paint. Do this so it mimics any pre-existing wall flaws. That way, wall flaws will seem like they're just part of the faux paint job.
To add more texture, use a sponge with a darker shade and dab over the wall flaw. For example, if you’re main wall color is a cream color, use a slightly darker cream color to accent wall flaws and other textured areas.
If you need to repair the wall, don’t spend a lot of effort smoothly out your putty work.