 Many everyday foods that we eat can be harmful, and even lethal, to dogs. Make a comprehensive list of “never” foods and hang it on a wall or on the refrigerator, so that the entire family knows to keep them away from the dog. These foods include:Chocolate
Alcohol, which can be life-threatening even in small amounts.
Artificial sweeteners (e.g. xylitol)
Grapes and raisins
Macadamia nuts
Onions and garlic

, Kids, especially very young ones, will think little of sharing their favorite snack with the family pet, so it is important to talk to them honestly about the dangers involved. Make sure that children understand the difference between human food and dog food. Convey the consequences of feeding your dog the wrong foods gently but firmly.For instance, say something like, “We can’t feed the dog chocolate because it will get very, very sick if it eats it”, and prompt your child to repeat it back to you (e.g. “Can you tell me why we aren’t going to feed Rover chocolate?”).
 Any foods that can be dangerous to dogs should be kept in locking containers that they cannot open. Most store packaging can be chewed through easily if your pet gains access to it. Tupperware with airtight seals and snap-lock latches can be purchased at department stores, or online., To make sure your dog can’t get to foods that are toxic to it, store them in the fridge or in a high cupboard. This will remove the opportunity and temptation for your dog to eat them, and provide peace of mind when you leave the house. To make things easier, clearly label all containers., Make sure that your dog can’t gain access to the trash by purchasing a dog-proof trash container from a hardware store. Common trash items like food scraps, fruits pits, or chicken bones can be both inviting and toxic to your dog. Look for a model with a tight-locking and a sturdy enough base to prevent your dog from knocking it over.Look for a garbage container that is also charcoal lined, to prevent the temptation of food smells.

