 Depends if you’re there with your partner, and depends on your age, and depends whether children are around, but if you’re of age, and circumstances permit, here’s your chance to get romantic.


Ask for a hotel room with a whirlpool or at least a whirlpool tub. No question about it; in the right circumstances, this can make the visit a lot more fun!
Even if you’re in the hotel room alone, taking a whirlpool bath can be relaxing. If you just have a regular tub, try a bubble bath!

, This works well with kids. Let them give mom or dad or a sibling a makeover.


This can mean they get to put makeup on you or put your hair in a goofy ponytail. This will distract many children, and they will think it’s fun.Take hotel selfies. OK, maybe this one is a little goofy, but hotel lighting can make for some nice selfies because it’s sometimes dimmer. You will want to chronicle the makeover!

, Most hotels have movie on demand services on the television. Whether you’re alone or with family, renting a movie is a great way to pass the time.


You could also watch cable television in most hotels. If you’re renting a movie, hit up the vending machine so you have your own version of movie snacks.
Try watching a movie outside of your normal favorite genre. Look at your time in the hotel room as a time to learn about yourself and try new things. Everyone could wear pajamas and, climb into the same bed.
 The stresses are gone. For now, at least. So take the time to think. Write down plans for your future. Work through any problems.


Consider the hotel stay a “staycation.” You don’t have to be doing something. Pamper yourself by doing nothing. No worries. No deadlines. No pressures.Take a nap, catch up on reading, watch a TV show that doesn’t require much thought, turn off your cell phone, or just lie back and think. If the hotel has a spa, you could visit it for a massage or other service.
 Some people do this. They throw secret parties in hotel rooms. Do not do this if you are underage.


If you do this, keep guests to a minimum, and don’t destroy the hotel room or do anything that could attract the attention of the police!Secret hotel room parties usually involve sending out invites to select people a couple weeks before. You will have to smuggle in food and drink and limit people who show up. Again, do this at your own peril! Never violate any laws! Be careful not to be too loud or you could generate a noise complaint!

, It may sound absolutely mad, but it can actually be very interesting. It's even better doing it out of a window because no one will notice you're staring at them.


Choose one or two people to watch, and see how they interact with other people and objects.
See how much you can tell about someone's character by the way they walk, what they do, what they eat, what they drink, and about half a million other things. Humans are fascinating creatures.

