 Once you've found a suitable route to learning hip hop online, begin practicing basic dance moves. One basic move is the hip pull. To start, stand with your feet apart.Move your right elbow and right hip to the right. As you do so, transfer your weight to your left leg. Repeat on the other side. Go back and forth like this in quick motions. Your movements should be fast and abrupt. Spend a minute or so getting this rhythm down.
Now, incorporate your arm into the move move. When you shift with your right hip and elbow, reach your right arm to the left and twist your torso sideways. It should look like you're grabbing something from the air. Return your arm to the side, get back in the starting position, and repeat on the other side.
This is a basic move you can add to any hip hop routine. Remember to keep your moves abrupt and direct. This move should not be smooth. It should be kind of disjointed and fast-paced.
 The chest pop is a really easy step that involves your chest and hand. To start, place one of your hands in front of your chest. Do not touch your chest. Just keep your hand spread out in front about an inch away from your chest.Pop your chest out and touch your hand. Then, immediately move your chest back into the original position.
Do not leave your hand on your chest for too long. Only stop for a moment before moving your chest away from you hand.
Alternating which hand is over your chest, you can do this move to the beat in a hip hop song.
 Happy feet essentially has four parts. To start, stand in a normal position with your legs stretched out slightly. When the beat begins, you will move your body into four different positions following four beats of music.For the first two beats, you will pivot on your heels. Pop your right foot up, placing your weight on your heel. Pop your left heel up, placing your weight on the ball of your foot. You will then turn both your feet to the left on the first beat. On the second beat, turn your feet to the right.
For the third beat, you would jump forward. Propel yourself using the balls of your feet. Make sure to land on your heels. Then, hop back placing your weight back on your feet.
For the fourth beat, repeat the above move again. This time, however, make sure to land on your toes.
 This is a simple hip-hop move you can practice at home and then throw into a dance routine. To do the arm wave, start off by holding your arms out in a straight line perpendicular to the floor. Keep your fingers pointed outward.Start by lifting your right hand up slightly. Then, move your hand down until your fingertips are lined up with your shoulders. Bend your elbow to move your hand and shoulder downward, while raising your elbow slightly. Then, straighten your arm out while lifting your shoulder.
Lift your left shoulder up while your lower your right shoulder. Drop your left shoulder while raising your left elbow. Then, move your left wrist up while dropping your elbow. Bend your left hand down at the same time. Lastly, drop your wrist down and point your left hand upward.
You are trying to make it look like a wave is running through your body. At any given point, the body part that is moving should be higher than other body parts.

