 Look for the Viber app on your smartphone. It’s the one with the app icon with the purple background and with a phone inside a chat box. Tap on it to launch it.;
, From the bottom menu, tap the icon with the three dots to reach Viber’s extended menu.
 From the extended menu, scroll down and tap on the Sticker Market item. The Sticker Market screen will appear.
 In the Sticker Market, all the stickers are properly categorized. The basic categories are displayed in tabs, namely “New,” “Free,” and “Top.”


More categories can be accessed by tapping the last tab with the three horizontal lines. This will bring you to the wide Collections of stickers.
 Tap the corresponding tab to view the stickers under it.


If you want to see the newly added stickers, tap the “New” tab.
If you want to see the free stickers, tap the Free tab. If you want to see the most popular stickers, tap the “Top” tab.
If you want to see stickers from a particular collection, tap the last tab, scroll through the list of collections, and tap the one you like.
 From the list of sticker packages under your selected category or collection, scroll through it until you see something you like. The list is displayed with the sticker package names and prices. Tap the one you’d like to see.
 Your selected sticker package will be displayed. All the stickers bundled with the package are displayed. You can see the exact stickers you’re getting here.
 If the sticker package you like is available for free, tap the “Free Download” button found on the top of the screen. Downloading will begin immediately.


The green “Free Download” button will change into a gray Downloaded image.
 If the sticker package you like has a price, you need to buy it. You won’t see any “Free Download” button. Instead the green button will display the price of the package.


If you want to proceed, tap the green button with the price. Follow the on-screen steps to complete your purchase. Once the purchase is completed, the sticker package will be downloaded.
 To go back to the main menu, tap the back arrow from the upper-left corner of the screen.
 From the bottom menu, tap the Chats icon. This will display your chats inbox with all your conversations. Select the person you’d like to chat with by tapping on his corresponding name. The chat window will appear.
 Stickers are shared and sent as messages on Viber. Tap the bear icon from the left of the Compose field. This will bring out all the stickers you can use.
 The available stickers are grouped in their respective collections. These can be seen and accessed from the purple sticker menu at the bottom. Each collection is represented by its own icon. Tap on the tab representing the collection you want to view.
 From the bottom sticker menu, you can identify the newly downloaded sticker collection by the green star imposed on it. Tap on this icon to view your newly downloaded stickers.
 To send a sticker to your contact, just tap on it. It will immediately be sent to your contact.

