 People who do this are often referred to as geeks or nerds. "Geeks" and "nerds" often do well in studying, so it's not all bad -- just don't act so smart that it alienates others. If you can answer a teacher's question in words everyone else knows, people will be impressed. Only then will you will be called smart rather than "geeky".;
, Try to run fast especially. If you are slow with the mile or PACER test, don't worry. You can practice at home by jogging around your neighborhood (in daylight, of course). Sometimes girls like self-deprecating people. If you get an unsatisfactory score, just laugh and joke, "Oh, wow, I really am a klutz," or something like that. Your classmates may like this sense of humor.
 If people are playing a game and you want to join, go up and say, "Hey, what's going on? Can I play?" In most elementary and middle schools, kids are supposed to let new classmates join a game, and if they're mean to you, a teacher can get involved. When you have to leave, say, "See you later, (their names)" or something like that. Try not to just walk away or disappear.
, Wash your face with water every day. Apply lip balm. Have perfume.


Boys don't need too much looks. Try to bathe regularly, as boys have been known to sweat more. Use a deodorant, and style your hair in a cool way. Try to have a clean shave or little face hair marks. In markets, there are many men's products. Use them.
 Hang out with friends, and go places outside of school if your parents approve.
 Ask about a solution to a problem or anything related to academic studies.
 Don't do anything people would gossip about, and also don't start gossip about others. When you have something negative to say, don't say it. This will make others trust you.
 Present yourself by showing others your art. Participate and get involved.
, In all likelihood you two will soon be friends. Common interests is one of the biggest friendship-starters.
 So many people who want popularity make the mistake of trying to act "cool" or using words nobody else knows. Don't sacrifice your personality and act like someone else just to be popular.

