 Fill a spray bottle with warm water. Spray your hair until it is damp. Use a fine tooth comb to detangle your hair—carefully remove snarls and knots from your locks.As your hair dries, use the spray bottle to re-wet your locks.;
, Part your hair down the center of your head—from the top of your forehead to the base of your skull. Part your hair horizontally twice—once at the top of your ears and once at the base of your ears. You now have one top section, two side sections, and 1 section at the base of your skull. Twist each section and secure it with a large hair clip.Make sure the right sections are even with the left sections.
 Unclip the top section. Section off a small segment of the hair at the top of your forehead.This segment will be your first traveling guide. Determine the length of your first layer. Cut between 1 to 2 inches off your layers at a time—you can always go shorter!Insert your traveling guide between the forefinger and middle finger of your non-dominant hand. Slide the fingers towards the ends—pulling the segment at a 90° angle—until your fingers have reached the part you would like to cut off. Trim the excess hair with a pair of sharp shears.A traveling guide moves with the area being cut.The most recently cut segment of hair in a section assumes the role of the traveling guide. It is held up to the next segment of hair and used as a ruler., Use your travelling guide, the most recently cut segment of hair, to determine the length of the next segment. Slide the traveling guide and the next segment of hair between your forefinger and middle finger. Move the fingers towards the ends—pulling the hair at a 90° angle—until you reach the end of your traveling guide. Cut the new segment of hair so that it is the same length as the traveling guide. The freshly cut segment is now your travelling guide. Repeat the process until the entire section is cut.Check the evenness of your trim periodically. Pull the hair in multiple directions and at varying angles to check the evenness of the cut. Trim any uneven pieces before moving onto the next section of hair., Unclip the left section. Use the first layer as a guide to determine how much hair to trim off the second layer. Begin by cutting 1 to 2 inches off—take off more length as needed.Gather a small segment of hair at the front left side to use as your first guide. Pull the segment of hair straight at a 90° angle. Slide your fingers towards the ends of the hair until you reach the point you would like to cut off. Trim the excess hair. Cut the remainder of the section with the aid of your traveling guide., Unclip the right section. Gather a small segment of hair at the front left side (your travelling guide) and the front right side. Insert the two segments between your middle and fore finger and pull them forward at a 90° angle. Stop your fingers at the end of the left segment. Trim the excess hair from the right segment. Cut the remainder of the section with the aid of your traveling guide.Check the evenness of your trim periodically. Pull the hair in multiple directions and at varying angles to check the evenness of the cut. Trim any uneven pieces before moving onto the next section of hair., Unclip the bottom section. Use the layers above to help you determine the length of your last and final layer. Start by trimming off 1 to 2 inches—take off more length as needed.Gather a small segment of hair at the center of your bottom section. Pull the segment of hair straight at a 90° angle. Slide your fingers towards the ends of the hair until you reach the point you would like to cut off. Trim the excess hair. Cut the remainder of the section with the aid of your traveling guide.