 Your site should be user friendly and should be set up to include an internet data exchange (IDX) or Multiple Listing Service (MLS) feed that allows prospective clients to search listings anonymously without needing to contact you. These systems allow your website to stay current and gives customers the freedom to research your listings without pressure from an agent.


In the modern real estate market, a strong internet presence is critical to be competitive and successful. Having a poorly-designed or infrequently-updated website can cost you business and even gain you a reputation for incompetence. Avoid this pitfall by making your website a marketing priority.
Consider hiring a web developer to design your website if you do not have website programming knowledge or experience. This can be a tricky thing to accomplish without the proper know-how. Considering the importance of having a functioning website, this is probably a worthwhile investment.
Make certain your website implements search engine optimization (SEO). This is a means of ensuring that your website will show up high on major search engine results lists.Make it easy for visitors to your website to contact you. Don't bury your phone number or email address under three levels of page tabs; put this information at the top or bottom of the website's front page.
Consider including a lead capture system on your website along with a backend database. This will allow you to develop a drip campaign and/or send out general information.
 Much like having a good website, social media is becoming an essential element of business marketing in the 21st century. While the importance of having a social media presence may vary depending upon your target market, there is no denying that the quickest way to spread information about your business is through social media.


Go to where your clients are. Whether it's Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Twitter, or some other hot new site, find out what your target clientele are using, create a profile, and use it every day. You can share images and listings on these sites as you build a network of connections, each of whom could later become clients. You can also add the IDX search feature on Facebook so that people can search for homes on your Facebook page.
Stay up to date on social networking tools like Flowtown.com or Ping.fm that save you time by updating all your social networking accounts at the same time.
While it might be a good idea to have some fun with your social media accounts, be careful to keep your posts tasteful and free of political or social statements. You don't want to alienate potential clients!

, Given the high user traffic on websites and in social media, one of the fastest ways to spread positive testimonials to potential clients is to post them to your web site and/or social networking sites. This shows others that you are capable of satisfying your clients.


When choosing to post testimonials from former clients, be sure to first obtain written permission from the author to post their statement(s) online.
If you don't already have testimonials you can use, ask satisfied clients to provide some specifically for the purpose of sharing them online. Be sure to obtain their permission first, such as by having them sign a permission form, and specify where their names will appear as well, such as on presentations, emails, or regular mail.
Set up a Yelp business profile and encourage previous clients to write reviews and post ratings of your business there.
 There are a host of online mediums that can add visibility and legitimacy to your company's image. A few examples are listed below:


Post video tours of current listings to your website and on YouTube. This allows potential clients to view your listings in detail any time of the day or night.
If you are a good speaker with a great deal of real estate knowledge, consider producing webinars and advertise them on your website and social media accounts. This will reassure potential clients that you are knowledgeable and qualified to meet their needs. To check out how this works, research webinar systems online.
Blog about real estate. Put your career expertise to work by blogging about real estate issues and developments, and personal experiences. Don't forget to post the link to your blog on your company website and share new entries on social media!

