 Choose to open an existing document or create a new one. You may want to open an existing file and save it as a new file to create a document on which you can practice using the lasso tool without making mistakes to your original file.;
, In order to use the lasso tool adeptly you need to be able to see it closely, because you will need to draw around the object you want to select. Either click the "Command" key and the "+" key, or go to the View Menu and select "Zoom In" from the list.
 The box will look like a cursor and a dotted circle, and it should be close to the top on the right. The lasso tool allows you to freehand select objects, or parts of objects in your document.
 It can be 1 or more objects, and even portions of objects. Once you draw a complete circle around this portion, you can make changes to the vector graphics anchor points that were selected.


Illustrator is a vector graphics editor, rather than a bitmap editor. This means that Illustrator selection tools, like the lasso tool, select anchor points on the image, rather than the edges of the whole image itself. You can select anchor points on a number of different images, and then you can move and change those points.
 You can draw clockwise or counter-clockwise. Complete the circle and let go of your mouse button.


If you have zoomed in close enough, you should see highlighted anchor points on your images. These are places that you can now change using effects or by moving them with your mouse.
 You can also go to the top Effects Menu and choose a way to warm or change this selection. You can copy or delete your anchor points after they have been selected.
 You can select as many objects, or anchor points, as you wish before copying, editing or deleting the objects you have selected.


The lasso tool is good for editing objects, logos and typography, because they allow you to select portions of objects or paths and change them. You can select a large number of anchor points by drawing a circle around them. The white direct selection tool only allows you to select a whole object by clicking on it. The black direct selection tool makes you select your anchor points 1-by-1.

