 Cortisol is a very important steroid hormone which has many physiological functions in the body that are related to homeostasis of body tissues. This hormone is secreted by the adrenal gland in its cortical area in response to stimulation by the adrenocorticotropic hormone which is secreted by the anterior pituitary gland in response to stimulation from the hormone corticotropin releasing hormone which is secreted by the hypothalamus.;
, Cortisol has many functions in the body so that its disorders are manifested clinically by many symptoms.
 Cortisol is an anti-inflammatory compound which usually functions by suppressing cells of the immune system. It is usually prescribed by doctors to treat inflammatory reactions such as allergies. Also cortisol has an important effect on glucose level in the blood. Its excess in the blood can cause a state of hyperglycemia with the development of diabetic symptoms in the affected individuals.
 Also cortisol can have an effect on blood pressure in the sense that its excess can increase the blood pressure due to the increased metabolic rate in the body that cortisol enhances.
 There are two main disorders which involve the hormone cortisol. These are: cushing syndrome and Addison's disease. Cushing syndrome is by definition a medical condition in which cortisol is excessive in the blood. This can have several causes. One of them is the result of administration of cortisol as a supplement for various reasons such as to treat inflammatory conditions of the skin for example. This is called iatrogenic cushing syndrome.
 The first cause that is related to increased secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland can be caused for example due to an adenoma of the gland which oversecretes this hormone.
 The net result in both of these two conditions is the excessive stimulation of the adrenal cortex to synthesize and secrete cortisol to the blood circulation with its concomitant symptoms of obesity and other symptoms.
, This occurs in up to 20% of all patients with cushing syndrome. Adenoma is more common in females more so than in males.
 This is primarily a disorder of the adrenal cortex in which it occurs due to an autoimmune destruction of the adrenal cortex by circulating antibodies. Also tuberculosis is another possible cause to this disorder. The autoimmune cause is however the main culprit to this disorder.
 Also one of the signs of addison's disease is hyperpigmentation of the skin, especially in areas where the skin creases.
 Also this condition can sometimes cause hypoglycemia and decreased blood pressure due to the usual effect that cortisol makes.

