 Go about your business as usual and refrain from reaching down to touch the dog, unless it shows a direct interest in you. It is quite possible that it will grow increasingly curious about you and will try to nudge or bump you for contact. If this happens, just stand still until the dog has had its fill., If this is not your dog, it is a good idea to ask the owner, if present, if it is okay to pet the animal. They will generally decline if the dog is aggressive and then you’ll know that bonding will have to occur at a distance, if you want to try at all. If you see an aggressive dog running around without an owner, it is a good idea to keep your distance and call your local animal control office for assistance.With an owner, you might say, “What a pretty dog. Is it okay if I pet it?”
With an openly hostile and unaccompanied dog, it is probably not a good idea to get close enough to attempt to read the tags. The dog may bite or scratch you. Instead, wait for the animal control officers.
 Looking directly into a dog’s eyes will generally be interpreted as an aggressive act, which will be returned in kind. Instead, try to find a focal point directly above the dog’s head. You can also look at one of the dog’s ears or its collar instead.


If you accidentally look directly at the dog, quickly flick your eyes away. This will often prevent any additional conflict.
 Whether you are sitting, standing, or crouching, try to position yourself at a non-direct angle to the dog. If you interact with the dog in a head-on way, it may increase the aggression. Don’t be surprised if the dog readjusts to directly face you. If this happens, simply slightly shift over to get off-kilter again., If you do decide to get closer to the dog, don’t move in a straight line. Instead, walk in an arc, aiming to get closer to the side of the dog. Only take a few steps at a time and pause if you sense any increasing signs of aggression., Offering a treat directly by hand isn’t a good option when interacting with an aggressive dog. But, you can toss a handful of small treats, such as little pieces of cheese, near to the dog. If the dog remains hesitant, try looking away for a moment to encourage it.If this is not your dog, make sure that you get the owner’s permission before offering any food. It is possible that it may be on a special diet or may react poorly to food treats.
This is an especially good method of positive reinforcement for dog owners to use. Your dog may associate you with good food and may even look forward to your attentions.
 If you’ve spent enough time with the dog for it to positively respond to you, it may be time to take the next step. Slowly position yourself closer to the dog and then reach out with a single hand. Keep it palm up and just hover it in the air for a bit. If the dog sniffs you, that is a good sign. If not, you can always try again in a bit.Be very careful with this step as it makes you vulnerable to an attack. Watch the dog’s body language closely. If the dog growls, begins pawing the ground, or lays its ears back, then it is probably best to stop and try again later.
If the dog loosens up enough, you can even try petting it gently. But, keep your petting to the side or back of the dog’s body. Stay away from the dog’s face.

