 Self-confidence doesn't mean having a big ego or thinking you can do anything. It means knowing that you are worth the things in life you want to have. Thinking positively about yourself makes a world of difference in the way you personally fell and the way you perceive your surroundings.If you want to win over someone's heart, you need to first feel like you're truly worth being loved.


Of course, having self-confidence is easier said than done for most people. You may find it helpful to make a list of things you like about yourself. Try to think of ten things, no matter how big or small they may be. Making a list is no time to be immodest, so go for broke and see what turns up. If you ever feel down on yourself, remember the list an all you have to offer.;
, There are so many reasons you should put emphasis on health. While it has the most obvious effect of helping you look your best, taking proper care of yourself will maximize your self-confidence and boost your mood. Of course, all of this is recommended if you want to show a guy everything you can be.Get enough sleep.Sleeping at a regular time each night will give you energy throughout the day.
Hygiene is practically mandatory for self-confidence's sake.Not to mention guys are not usually into someone who doesn't tend to simply things like teeth-brushing or nail trimming.
Exercise is an essential part of feeling your best.Eat a healthy, balanced diet.This includes introducing healthy things like vegetables into your meals as much as cutting out things like fast food and candy.
 It should be noted that there is no single style that is going to work for everyone. Adding to that, guys' tastes are all over the map, so you shouldn't be dressing to cater to anyone but yourself. Rather, maximizing the benefits of fashion has a lot to do with dressing to suit yourself as an individual. If you're drawing a blank, look to the style of a celebrity you admire. Use her fashion sense as a starting point and go from there.Although a personal sense of style should be most important in choosing your wardrobe, there are certain looks that geometrically fit certain body types better than others. Look into what generally suits your body type, or ask a salesperson at a clothing store for tips., It is natural for people to be attracted to people that reflect something of themselves. If you think you have a type, whether it's outgoing, funny or confident guys, you can maximize your chances of hitting it off with one of them if you demonstrate some of those personality traits yourself.Bear in mind that this does not mean changing any part of yourself to match a guy's type. Instead, it's most likely these positive traits are already a part of you. Emphasizing them will make it more likely to grab the interest of a guy who shares those traits as well.
 This bit of advice is so often used that it may have made you roll your eyes when you read it. Even so, if you want to win a guy over, learning to be truly comfortable and attuned with yourself is the best service you can do yourself. Learn to follow your instincts more, and learn to be conscious of your thoughts.
 In the scenario that you haven't met a suitable guy yet, you should maximize your chances of meeting someone special. If you're open to the idea of being approached at an event, keeping yourself in a smaller group will make it easier for guys to approach you.If you're part of a large group, guys are far more likely to feel intimidated.


The most common way of meeting someone is through mutual friends, so you shouldn't feel the need to depend on meeting strangers for your next relationship.
While places like bars and clubs are the go-to destination for meeting singles, they're bound to attract certain types of guys moreso than others. Moreover, there are a great many more places you can meet people.
 A mutual acquaintance is the most common way of meeting someone.If you want to met a guy, look to your existing circle of friends as a resource. Most introductions will happen naturally. Of course, if you already have your eye on one guy in particular, you can ask a friend to introduce the two of you.


When you're introducing yourself, keep the context of the situation in mind. Introduce yourself in terms that relate to the situation you're sharing with the guy.For example, if you're at a party, you might say: "It's nice to meet you. I was invited here by . Who do you know here?"
Even if you don't have a means of being introduced through mutual friends, you shouldn't hesitate to approach someone on your own if you're interested enough. Introducing yourself without help can be pretty anxiety-inducing, but guys will often react better to it much better than you think they will.
 There has been an incredible amount of research put into the act of smiling.Suffice to say, whether or not you think you have a brilliant smile, there are few better ways to attract positive attention. When a girl smiles at a guy, it can also be construed as flirtatious.


Smiling doesn't come naturally to everyone. If this is the case, practicing in your own time can go a long way.Smiling is also a great way to signal someone to approach you if that's what you want., Ask questions, and allow him to open up to you. Depending on how assertive the guy is naturally, this may come through naturally. If it doesn't at first, it may be a case that the guy needs time to warm up to you.


You can ask open ended questions if you want the guy to take the lead in a conversation. An open-ended question is something where the guy could take the answer in a number of directions.The most common open-ended question is "Tell me a little about yourself."
Once you break the ice, you should ask him questions that sincerely interest you. For example if you've overheard him talking about what he does for work, you might ask something like "Why did you get into your current line of work?"

, When you meet a guy, there is a charged momentum, and catching the wave can mean everything when it comes to stealing his heart away.


Keep in mind there is a difference between openly admitting "I love you" and simply making your attraction apparent. Flirting can say every bit as much, especially if it's mutual and the right chemistry is there.
 The question, then, is to figure out whether he feels the same way already. Common signs can include whether he's introducing you to his friends or opening up about more personal topics.


If he's not doing this yet at this point, it doesn't mean he's not interested, nor does it even mean you don't have his heart already. Certain guys express affection differently than others.
 If mutual attraction is already there, openly discussing personal things, whether they are painful experiences or insecurities, makes the connection feel more important and real. Being personal and candid about your feelings shows a longer-lasting commitment between the two of you, but it's only truly meaningful if the exchange goes both ways. If the guy you're interested in doesn't have an easy time talking about his feelings, it's best not to press it. You should let him know you are there for him whenever he feels the need to talk about things like that.


State your intentions about wanting to grow closer if your partner is confused as to why you're approaching him with touchy subjects.It is more important for you to understand rather than be understood. Especially at first, guys tend to be more closeted about their feelings. In time, he'll find it easier to open up to you., When you're making an earnest attempt at winning over a guy's heart, it pays off to understand that men interpret and demonstrate feelings in a much different way than women. If you're getting frustrated the guy isn't showing enough feeling, it may be because he's been more conditioned to hide the way he feels than you have. Whatever the case may be, it is important to be patient in navigating the differences between male and female psychologies. Chances are high he is feeling just as confused about the way you act.