 Losing weight could help your mate enjoy activities with your family that were previously unavailable to you due to the restrictions placed on an overweight individual.


Amusement parks and water parks are safer and more accessible when a visitor is of a healthy weight.
Playing Frisbee, taking 5K walks or runs as a family team, using the swing set, and chasing after young children are examples of family activities that are easier to perform when an individual is of average weight.
Family-oriented events that require stamina or considerable time standing, such as cheering at a child’s daylong sporting event or volunteering at a school fair, will be easier and more pleasant for your mate to participate in once he or she has lost weight.
 Carrying excess weight can make travel more expensive and less comfortable. By losing weight, your mate can join family and friends in trips with less inconvenience and expense.


Planes often have narrow passenger seats that make air travel uncomfortable for an overweight individual and the passengers traveling next to them. In some cases, significantly overweight passengers are required to purchase tickets for two seats so that they do not infringe on the space of neighboring passengers. Although this can quickly escalate travel costs and be an embarrassment to overweight individuals, this problem can be eliminated with even moderate weight loss in many cases.
Travel often requires significant amounts of time walking, standing in line, carrying luggage, climbing steps, and touring on foot. Listing a few travel dreams of your mate and demonstrating how visiting these places would be easier without the strain of excess weight (and thus with increased mobility, stamina, and energy) may help goad him or her into attempting weight loss.
 Having a concrete list of things you and your mate wish to do together but cannot experience due to the discomfort or inconvenience of his or her excess weight may encourage your mate to drop the extra pounds.


Think of all the places you would like to travel, the outdoor activities you would like to accomplish, the type of jobs your mate would like to achieve, and even the activities you would like to do together once he or she has a slimmer physique, and present the list of goals as more easily achievable with less excess weight.
Climbing Mount Everest, walking a famous pilgrimage trail, being a model, looking great in a wedding gown or tux, and many other activities may fit well on the “bucket list” for your mate once he or she sheds some weight.
 Making a commitment to an activity that you can do together will reduce feelings of isolation in your mate and encourage him or her to lose weight in order to participate or may help him or her lose weight by virtue of participating.


Playing on a rugby team, taking yoga classes, or joining a club of mothers who take regular walks together may help your mate focus on the enjoyable activities he or she could take part in once weight loss has been achieved (or in order to achieve it).

