 Every body type looks best in a different style of swimsuit. Whether you’ve got curves or a straighter waistline, purchasing a suit that flatters your figure is a guaranteed confidence builder.


For a big bust, opt for a halter-style bikini top with cups or inner support or a bra top with underwire support.
For a tummy, try a tankini, especially A-line style tankinis. If you are worried about your hips/bum, boy leg shorts always look hot.
For a small bust, find a top with ruffles, a bow or any textural embellishments to emphasize.
Pastel colors suit paler skins, whereas bright colors look great on tanned or dark skin. Keep in mind you need to be confident in whatever swimsuit you're in!;
, Hats are both good sun protection and a fun beach accessory. If you’re feeling self-conscious about your body, hats help to draw the eye upward and bring more attention to your face., Try out a bright summer color that will stand out, like yellow or orange. Getting a manicure and pedicure will make your nails pop, and also get rid of unwanted flaky skin on tricky spots like the bottoms of your feet, palms and cuticles.
 Between sun, ocean water, and sand, your hair is inevitably going to get messy at the beach. Why not prepare at home by giving yourself a cute hairstyle that lends itself to frizz and mess? Top knots and side braids are casual, cute, and naturally cut down on frizz and sun exposure.If your hair starts to feel dry after a few days at the beach, go heavy on the conditioner and purchase a leave-in cream with SPF.For the adventurous, throw on a colorful headband or scarf to take your hairstyle to the next level.
 Jewelry at the beach is eye catching and makes you stand out. Wear a long, delicate necklace, a leather bracelet to class it up, and a pair of sunglasses that flatter your facial features.


Pick out a colorful beach bag with modern print to glamorize the process of lugging around towels and other beach necessities.
Kaftans are chic and act as useful cover ups when the sun gets a little too overbearing., The best accessory anyone can have at the beach is confidence. Try practicing a few mindfulness exercises a day such as meditation or yoga to feel more comfortable and relaxed in your own skin. And don’t forget to smile and have a good time at the beach. If you act confident, you’ll feel confident!

