 Attend some direct sales parties to get an idea of what they are like and learn how to have a jewelry or crafting party to sell your work.;
, Parties can be formal demonstrations, similar to direct sale companies like Tupperware, more informal gatherings, or teaching parties. At a demonstration type of party, the guests will gather around while you show them various items and talk about each one. A more informal open house party, your craft items or handmade jewelry items are simply displayed around the room and available for sale. Another option is a teaching party, where you show participants how to make items and go through the process. Many scrap booking and stamp direct sales representatives host parties like this. Use low cost materials and simple items that are easy to make and are related to the products you plan to sell for this kind of party.
 Choose smaller items that are easy to transport and display. Be sure to have photos, brochures and order forms for items that are too large to bring to the party, and try to include smaller items that show the larger items' colors, finish and style. Consider inviting other craftspeople to sell their items at the party too.
 It's best to pick people who like to have parties, are comfortable with hosting parties and well organized.
 Go over details and explain what will happen at the party. Go over general ideas like the party theme and decorations, if applicable.
 Let them know how items can be paid for and whether you accept credit cards. Make sure the invitation has an attractive logo and graphics, and make an email version of the invitation that is just as attractive. Online invitation sites like Evite.com can make sending the invitation and tracking responses easier. Be sure to include your company website on all invitations for those who can't attend the party but are still interested in ordering products.
 Make sure you go over what is expected of the host, including what type of refreshments and seating is necessary. Be sure to reward the host with a gift.
, Before your first party, practice by laying the items out in your own home or workspace to make sure you are prepared.
 Include incentives like free products or discounts for party hosts.

