 Hold the needle between your thumb and forefinger with the eye pointing up. Hold the tip of the thread between the thumb and forefinger of your other hand. Insert the thread through the needle's eye.


If you have trouble seeing the needle's eye, turn on a bright lamp to provide better visibility.
Wetting the tip of the thread with your tongue, then flattening it with your lips, creates a stiffer tip that is easier to insert into the eye.;
, Pull several inches of the thread through the eye of the needle so that you have a generous tail hanging down. This helps to keep the needle from becoming unthreaded as you work on tying the knot.
 Make sure the thread doesn't slip through the needle as you grasp the other end.
 Use your thumb to hold the loose thread end in place against your forefinger. Use your free hand to wrap the thread once around the forefinger, so that you have one complete loop of thread around your finger.
 Use your thumb to start rubbing the thread loop against your forefinger. Continue rubbing and rolling it toward the tip of your finger, then carefully slip it off, keeping the loop intact.









The thread loop should now be wrapped around itself like a vine, with the end poking out from the loop.
If the loop comes undone, try again. Practice makes perfect with this method.
 Use your fingers to grasp the thread end sticking up from the loop. Hold the other side of the thread, which should still be threaded through the needle, between the thumb and forefinger of your other hand. Pull on the thread from either side with both hands so that the loop shrinks and becomes a knot.









If the loop doesn't knot, that means the thread wasn't properly woven together at step 4. Repeat the process and focus on creating a woven loop.
For a larger knot, repeat the process, making sure the knot falls into the woven thread loop. When you shrink the loop into a knot it should fall directly over the first knot.
For a more durable strand of thread, use the double strand method. Instead of leaving a tail after you thread the needle, pull the thread through and hold the thread tips together. Follow the same directions for tying a knot with one strand, keeping the two strands together throughout the process.

