 If it is a glass surface or other surface that is not sensitive to alcohol, soak the sticker residue in rubbing alcohol.


This can be done by spraying the alcohol if you have it in a spray bottle, pouring it directly on, or soaking a paper towel in the alcohol and placing it over the sticky residue to saturate it.
Using a razor blade, exacto knife, or box cutter, carefully wedge the blade underneath the sticker or residue and scrape away.
 The best way to get sticker residue off is by using a product like “Goo Gone” or a similar product.


These products are not very expensive and are easy to use. You just open the bottle and use a small piece of paper towel, or kleenex, and dab a bit of the product onto it, and then rub the area until the residue is removed.
You can also use “Goo Gone” and some other commercial products to remove sticker residue from clothing.Check the instructions to see if it is advisable to use it on the product with the sticker residue. You could also apply baby oil and let it stay on the surface for a minute or so and then wipe with cloth or paper towel.
 To remove sticker residue, one of the most effective cleaning products is nail polish remover. Before you use it, though, be sure your surface can stand it.For example, leather, dyed things, or wood with varnish, will be negatively affected, so avoid using nail polish remover with these things. Anything that is easily flammable, shouldn't be used with nail polish remover.
Once you're sure your surface can withstand it, just put a little nail polish remover onto a cotton ball or paper towel, and scrub it on the residue until the residue can no longer be seen, nor feels sticky to the touch. You may have to rinse your surface with water once finished, to be sure no excess nail polish remover or residue remains.
If used carefully, nail polish remover can also help remove sticker residue from clothing., Use the lighter fluid to dampen a rag. Use the rag to wipe off the sticker residue, and rub a little if needed.


Remember to clean the surface with water, and wash the rag out. Ensure that there are no naked flames around as you clean.
Take great care with this method because lighter fluid is flammable. So you need to make sure you get all of the lighter fluid off after you’ve removed the residue.
 Simply spray some WD-40 oil on the residue and wipe it off. WD-40 releases the bond on the adhesive and the sticker and sticker residue is easily wiped away.


It is safe to use on metal, rubber, wood and plastic. It can also be applied to painted metal surfaces without harming the paint.
This method doesn't always work immediately; sometimes you may have to leave the solution on the residue to soak for a couple of minutes.

