


Start by looking at all of your bank account balances as well as getting a handle on how much debt you owe. Remember to include things such as credit cards, student loans and car loans in your assessment. It is also important to make note of how much money you may have in stocks, retirement accounts and any other fund, whether the account is liquid or not.;
,


Make a list of your total bills on any given month. If you haven't been saving your bills, you can go online to view your bank statements on the bank's website. There, you will be able to determine, on average, how much you spend on utilities such as gasoline, water, electricity, cable, Internet and phone, as well as other loan payments or deductions you make every month. At the same time, you should also take note of how much you spend each month, on average, on entertainment, shopping, groceries and other amounts that may not be the same every month, but can make up a large portion of your monthly spending for a single woman. From here, you can adjust accordingly and set a limit for yourself to spend in each of the categories to keep your spending under control.



Every single woman's finances should include a savings account. Open one if you don't already have one and start transferring money to. Your savings account should be off limits and be reserved for large, necessary purchases or for emergencies. While you should have money saved in other untouchable accounts such as a 401K or an IRA, it is important to have an account that is accessible in case you should fall on hard times. Financial experts recommend having at least 3-6 months of your salary in a savings account.



Determine how much money you can afford to put toward your debt every month. After you have counted up the amount of money you have to spend each month on the necessities, set a reasonable amount aside to put toward your debt. While you are only required to pay the minimum on credit cards and loans, making larger payments will reduce interest payments and the savings will be well worth it in the end.



You should know how much money you have in the bank at any given time so there are no surprises. This will also encourage you to make adjustments to your monthly budget if you find you have less in your account then you expected.

