 If you want to save money on clothes, look into discount or sales stores. At such stores, you can often find slightly damaged or out of season designer outfits sold at a discount rate.


There are many discount stores, like T.J Maxx and Marshall's, that offer discount prices on designer outfits. There are also a lot of online outlets that offer discounts on certain clothing items.Be careful when shopping online. You may dislike the way a certain clothing item looks on you after trying it one.
 If you plan ahead, you can save a lot of money by shopping off season. A swimsuit may be on sale in February, for example, if you live in a warm area. Be on the lookout for items you know you need. If it's finally spring, but you noticed your winter coat was getting a little shabby, keep your eyes peeled for discount coats during the early spring months., Thrift stores and consignment stores are excellent means to find cheap clothing items. Oftentimes, high quality items are sold for incredibly low rates. You don't always find exactly what you're looking for at such stores as items are not sold in multiple styles and sizes. However, if you make a point of periodically checking your local thrift store you might find some low price clothing items you need., Spending a little extra money now on quality might translate to saving in the longterm. If you're going to wear an item a lot, like a pair of pants for work, it might be worth it to spend an extra $10. Items made with higher quality materials are less likely to wear down. Therefore, they need to replaced less frequently. If you're going to be wearing an item a lot, go for a higher quality.


You should also strive to care for your best clothing items. Fold delicate clothing instead of hanging it and do not wash your nice clothes too often. You can stand to re-wear the same shirt a few times, especially if you weren't doing anything physically demanding that day., Sometimes, you can get a discount by simply asking. If you notice a zipper is broken, a shirt is slightly stained, or some other minor flaw, try asking for a discount at the register. Most companies are more interested in fostering positive relationships with customers than making an extra $5 or $10. If you ask for a discount, there's a good chance you'll get one.