 Seeking advice from people you know and trust to find a reflexologist. It is important that you find a practitioner who feels right to you.;
, You need not limit yourself to seeking advice from alternative healthcare providers since reflexology is often employed in traditional health care facilities.
 There are several professional associations for reflexology. Their websites provide information on reflexology both locally and around the world. Links to trusted websites are provided at the end of this article.
 Some people will write an unflattering review because they have an axe to grind and some businesses have many reviews by family and close friends. It’s best to read between the lines of all "unsolicited" reviews with discernment. Look for a reflexology practitioner with at least five user-contributed reviews so that you can have enough comments to make comparisons.
, Many day spas offer alternative healing treatments and can probably offer recommendations for a reflexologist even if they don’t offer that particular service. If a day spa does offer reflexology, make sure they employ certified reflexologists. Otherwise, you may end up receiving a simple foot massage and not a healing modality.
 You want to find a reflexologist who is certified, not someone who simply attended a weekend workshop. Ask them how many hours of reflexology training they obtained. A good reflexology certification program can require as much as 1,000 hours of training. Find out if the reflexologist you are considering has passed a national board exam. Nationally certified reflexologists have not only trained at an accredited institution, they have also passed a national board exam. You are likely to benefit more from your session if you choose a reflexologist who is nationally certified and experienced. Your time, energy and money will be wisely spent.
 For example, some reflexologists prefer not to use firm pressure. If deep pressure or gentle pressure matters to you, discuss your preferences with the practitioner before you schedule an appointment.
 In most cases, insurance does not cover private reflexology sessions. Occasionally reflexology is reimbursed under employee flexible healthcare plans, but you should double check your company’s policy to make sure. Be sure to discuss payment details with the reflexologist you have chosen before you schedule a private session.

