 Identify the things that are happening in the friendship that you're uncomfortable about. This might be any number of things, but some key things to be concerned about include:


Your friend keeps putting you down all the time, criticizes you and makes fun of you. Your friend may also do this in front of other people.
Your friend makes you feel uncomfortable, unhappy or distressed, a lot of the time.
Your friend is stealing from you, taking things without asking and pretending it's "sharing", breaking your things, etc.
Your friend is really nasty about all your other friends and/or family members. Your friend tries to keep you away from other people.
Your friend is nasty to you.
Your friend lies to you a lot, tries to cover up or pretends to be or have things that aren't real.
Your friend is abusing you in any manner, emotionally, physically or both.
Your friend is committing crimes, is trying to get you to commit crimes or cover up for them, etc.;
, Keeping the contact details only tempts you to call them or email them when you reach a time where regret clouds your judgment.
 Don't be too harsh, but just calmly say that you weren't happy in this friendship and you think it would be better for the both of you if you cut ties.
 Think to yourself of all the cruel or abusive things they've done. If they were a true friend in the first place, they wouldn't have made you feel this way.
 People like to have the last word. When they confront you, say exactly what you said to them before, it will show you're the better person if you stay calm. Eventually they will realize that it's over.
 It's time to live in the moment and plan for the future. The past is the past and it's not coming back. Living in the past will only make you regret and miss them more, and then you'll come crawling back to them, and the bad friendship will start all over again.
 If you jump back into the friendship, they may seem like a great friend at first, but they will go back to their old ways.
 They might do this by acting like a 'wounded puppy' or telling you all the bad things you've done. They're just doing that because they're sad and scared of losing their punching bag (you).
 It will get better. You'll begin to think less and less of them everyday and you won't even notice. It'll all be okay.

