 Before you can start looking for legal information and assistance, you need to be able to explain your problem. A family law issue is going to have a different answer than a problem with a contract or your landlord.


Have you received legal papers from a court. If so, identify who is suing you and what they want. It could be a business suing you for an unpaid bill or your landlord trying to evict you.
Some common legal problems include divorce, child custody, child support or visitation, problems with a business, or problems with your landlord. Be prepared to identify the other party and what you are disagreeing about.
Don't worry if you don't get it exactly right. Your lawyer will interview you and get all of the details. You are creating a starting point.;
, Legal services range from sliding-scale fee services to assist the poor to full cost attorneys that charge by the hour. Have an idea about what you could pay in fees to a private lawyer. Costs will run from $100 to $150 per hour for private representation and most attorneys will want a retainer of $500 to $1500 depending on the complexity of your case. Public legal services, such as legal aid, have strict income limits and competition for representation is fierce., The sooner you start looking for legal information and assistance, the more time you have to find the best resources for your situation. Do not wait until the last minute. For example, if you receive a notice that you are being sued or foreclosed, do not wait until a few days before the time deadline to try and find legal help.
 Legal Services Corporation (LSC) was formed in the 1970s as an governmental non-profit corporation to help Americans with civil and domestic legal issues.Every county in the United States is covered by a legal aid office.If you believe you may meet the strict income requirements, you may qualify for assistance ranging from telephone consultations to full representation.


To qualify for assistance your household must not have an income greater than 125 percent of the federal poverty line. For example, a family of four generally cannot exceed $29,438 in annual gross household income.Most legal aid offices have a telephone hotline that can answer your questions and advise you on your rights and self-help options. Full representation is often limited by scarce resources.
In domestic violence cases, the local legal aid office will typically assist you in filing for a protective order.
 With the right information, you can solve many of your legal issues yourself without a lawyer.LawHelp is the biggest online portal to legal assistance across the United States.With support from LSC, the LawHelp site connects you with resources in your state, including any forms and self-help options that are available.LawHelp is constantly expanding and upgrading. In some states you will be directed to your local legal aid office. However, in fully developed states sites like Texas, you will have access to a database of information and many interactive forms., Most law schools have clinics where second and third year law students provide basic legal services under the supervision of licensed attorneys and professors. Typical programs include elder law, tax assistance, family law, and general civil law issues. The American Bar Association (ABA) maintains a directory of the types of programs offered by all law schools in the United States and contact information for the program administrators.Law school clinics will seldom offer representation, but instead will offer legal advice and help with document preparation.
 Under ABA rules, all lawyers are encouraged to participate in low cost and pro bono programs. Many fulfill this recommendation by working with non-profit and community legal assistance programs. To discover if there is an organization that could assist you, check the ABA directory of "modest means" programs.Each organization will have its own eligibility requirements. Some will provide free services, others will be sliding scale or fixed low fee. Contact the organization for information on applying for their programs.
Some organizations offer general legal assistance and information. Others are very narrow and focused. For example, "The Cancer Legal Resource Center," in Los Angeles limits its services to those facing legal issues associated with cancer., Every state has a bar association. These organizations often have a reduced or fixed-fee program. Some larger counties have their own "low-fee" programs administered through the county bar. In these programs, for a modest fee, usually $25 to $75,you can meet with an attorney and discuss your issue. After the consultation, you and the attorney can often come to a reduced-fee retainer agreement., If you are comfortable talking about your legal issue, ask for referrals from family, friends, and business associates. Make sure the attorney practices in the area you need. The best real estate attorney in town won't be much help with your divorce. However, that attorney may also be able to point you in the right direction. You want someone who is experienced in the county or federal courthouse where you will be litigating.
 Besides word-of-mouth referrals, you can do a quick online search of the attorney's name followed by "scam", "complaint" or "review." Scattered bad reviews doesn't mean you should not consider the attorney, but a large number or a pattern of complaints should make you wary.


Each state has an attorney discipline authority. The serious infractions, such as disbarment and suspensions, are published online., Depending on the complexity of your legal issue, you should seek out more than one opinion. Most attorneys will offer a free or fixed-cost consultation and evaluation of your legal issue.


Ask about their experience with your type of case. Make sure they are familiar in the court system where it would be litigated.
Make sure the attorney has the resources to handle your case. If your case may require investigators or will reviewing copious amounts of documents, make sure the prospective attorney can handle it.
Discuss a potential timeline for your case. The attorney should be able to tell you if it is something that can be resolved out of court or if a trial might be necessary.
Discuss cost. Some cases, such as personal injury, lend themselves to contingency agreements. Others, like criminal or family law, must be handled on an hourly basis. Compare prices. Hourly rates will vary as much as 50 percent in an area. Don't sign an agreement until you feel comfortable with the projected cost of your case.
 During your initial consultation, the lawyer will be frank if there is nothing they can do for you or if it is a matter you can clear up yourself. If this is the case, discuss the actions you can take and if the lawyer would be available for further consultation on an hourly basis.


For example, many legal issues that involve government agencies can be resolved with a letter. The legal papers look very intimidating, but the agency is only seeking information. Inquire about the cost for the lawyer to either draft the letter or review and edit a letter that you draft.

