 Enzymology is a discipline of science that belongs formally to the area of study which is called biochemistry or molecular cell biology. This area of science deals with the investigation of structure and mechanism of function of the various enzymes in the body of humans and also in microorganisms such as bacteria. Kinetics of enzymes function is one important area in the research of enzymes mechanism of metabolic reactions catalysis. Usually metabolic reactions in humans and in living microorganisms are all mediated by specific enzymes each is specific for a given specific metabolic reaction. These metabolic reactions are mostly different in their mechanism than reactions that are usually processed in the organic chemical laboratory.
 Many organic reactions proceed without the assistance of catalysts but others require catalysts that can be solvent soluble or solvent insoluble. In addition most reactions in the organic laboratory require heat to proceed. This condition of using heat to promote reactions is not possible in the body. Therefore other conditions are used in the body in order to force the reaction to proceed. In the body all reactions are catalyzed by specific enzymes that usually function by lowering the free energy of Gibbs of the metabolic reaction that they catalyze. For this reason that metabolic reactions are unable to proceed without the help of the enzyme the investigation of this unusual function of this catalyst was crucial to the understanding of how these reactions occur., Enzymes are polymers of amino acids that have unusual structure and function. Each enzyme in the body has different sequence of amino acids which is called the primary structure of the enzyme. This primary structure is built based on a genetic code that is mediated by the sequence of the DNA bases on the same strand. This unique primary structure of enzymes can be altered and changed based on a change in the sequence of DNA bases that can be triggered by cancer for example. Cancer is usually caused by a change in the sequence of DNA bases or by a change in the manner of pairing between bases of DNA on different strands. This in turn can alter the genetic code for the translation process of enzymes making them defective in structure and function.

Enzymes in the blood have unusual tertiary structure that has an active site which is a small hall in its structure. This active site is of utmost importance for the catalytic process of metabolic reaction in the body. This active site contains few amino acids which are responsible for the whole catalytic activity of the enzyme. Therefore knowing the structure of these amino acids is very important in order to identify the mechanism by which the catalytic activity of the enzyme proceeds. Also the kinetics by which the enzyme performs its catalytic activity is studied based on knowing the amino acids that participate in the catalysis of the metabolic reaction.
 Kinetics of enzymes is a whole branch of enzymology. The design of pharmacological drugs that target the enzyme active site and block its function is a main strategy to fight diseases in humans that originate due to infection by microorganisms or due to cancer in the body. In both cases the drug blocks the active site of enzymes that are crucial for the normal metabolic reactions in the life of the microorganism or the drug can target key enzymes in the process of cancer cells formation in the body. The inhibition process of enzymes has also its own laws of kinetics describes the type of inhibition that each drug makes. The most useful type of inhibitor is of the irreversible type of inhibition. This type of inhibition can potentially neutralize completely the catalytic function of the enzyme. This type of enzyme inhibition is called noncompetitive inhibition. The other type of enzyme inhibition is of the reversible type of inhibition. This type of inhibition is characterized by its reversible nature that can be removed by increasing the physiological substrate in the blood.

Usually enzymes primary structure is composed of hundreds of amino acids. However for the purpose of elucidating its mechanism of catalysis it is sufficient to know the composition of amino acids in its active site. Inhibition of enzyme function is one way of treating diseases in the body of humans and is major area of research in the biochemical science.

