 Boxed cake mixes are easy enough for even the most novice bakers to make, so you can enjoy pineapple-flavored baked goods no matter what level your cooking skills are at. Simply replace the oil, milk, or water called for in the recipe with pineapple juice in equal proportions.


A yellow or white cake works best, since the pineapple flavor could clash or get lost if you use chocolate or another flavor.
Alternatively, you can use a fruit flavored boxed cake, like orange or strawberry. The pineapple juice will complement the flavor of the fruit already included in the cake mix.;
, A quick bread is any bread made with a leavening agent other than yeast, including baking soda and baking powder. Common examples include banana bread, biscuits, and muffins. If the recipe you use calls for oil, you can replace the oil with equal amounts of pineapple juice to create a sweet, moist bread.


This substitution can taste especially good if the quick bread already has some hint of fruit flavor, such as banana bread or blueberry muffins.
 This works well for most cookie, cake, and bread recipes. Simply replace either the water or milk with pineapple juice in equal proportions.


Note that if a recipe calls for multiple liquids, like milk and oil, you should only substitute the juice for one of the liquids.
When making yeast bread, you generally warm the yeast in milk or water before adding it to the dry ingredients. Replace the water or milk with pineapple juice to create a simple pineapple bread. The pineapple taste may not be especially strong, but there will be a hint of fruitiness.
Replace the milk in a simple pancake batter with pineapple juice. Your pancakes will immediately get a boost of tropical flavor. You can further accentuate this flavor by mixing shredded coconut into the batter, as well.
 Fruit contains a sugar called fructose, so any fruit juice will make a recipe sweeter than milk, water, or oil would. When you choose to replace one liquid in a recipe with pineapple juice, you may also want to consider reducing the amount of sugar you use in the recipe by 1/4 the original amount.

