 For some schools, especially college courses, each course has a number of credit hours. Credit hours are units schools use to measure the work load. Generally, credit hours are based on mode of instruction, number of hours spent inside the classroom, and number of hours spent studying outside the class.Find out the number of credit hours assigned to each course you are taking. It should be listed on your transcripts or in the school catalogue.


Some schools mostly offer 3 credit hour courses, other colleges 4 credit hour courses, and some schools do a mixture. For many schools, labs are 1 hour.
If you cannot find the credit hours for each of your courses, talk to an administrator or the registrar.
 Use the common 4-point GPA scale to assign the values: A = 4 points, B = 3 points, C = 2 points, D = 1 point, and F = 0 points.


If your school allots 5 points for upper level classes, such as Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB), you will be using a weighted GPA scale.
Add .3 for each plus value or subtract .3 for each minus value. If you have an A- in a class, mark it as 3.7. Match up each letter grade with its scale value and write it next to the grade (e.g. B+ = 3.3, B = 3.0, B- = 2.7).
 To find the GPA, you must do a little bit of math to determine the different values for the scores that go into the overall GPA.


Multiply each scale value grade by the number of credit hours to get the grade points. For example, if you made a B in a 4 credit hour class, you would multiply the scale value of 3 for the B by 4 credit hours, which gives you 12 grade points for that class.






Add the weighted grade points for all of your classes together to calculate your total grade points.
 Add together the number of credit hours you have taken in total to get the total credits. If you took 4 classes that were 3 credit hours each, you will have a total of 12 credit hours.
 For example, if you have a total of 45.4 grade points in a total of 15.5 credit hours, you would have the following math problem: 45.4 / 15.5 = 2.92. Your credit hour-weighted GPA is 2.92.

