 All of the software you’ll need is available under the “Support” tab on the PEC website. Read all of the instructions about downloading software download before doing so. If you do not already have a compatible computer and monitor for use at your commercial counter, these can be purchased through PEC. See the “Supplies” tab on the PEC website., The best place to start learning about how to run a UPS-affiliated package processing and shipping center is the PEC website. Here, you’ll find tutorials and manuals that will train you and your staff to learn how to navigate PEC and UPS software, advertise and promote your in-store UPS Commercial Counter, and help safely prepare packages for shipping. In particular, go through the Package Express Center Training tutorial. This will guide you through instructions on how to use the computer interfaces you’ll need to know. It includes visuals on how to navigate all the tasks necessary to ship or receive a package, and concludes with the specifics about what information needs to be shared with UPS each day.
 Mainly accomplished via advertising, PEC can help you increase the number of people who come to your store. Customers that use your shipping services may also be drawn to other services or products your business provides. The PEC website contains a guide on specific advertising options, but there are a few steps you should be sure to take.Have your business listed on the UPS Store Locator. This will be automatic once your commercial counter is up and running, but ensure the information on the UPS website is accurate.
Buy official UPS signs. Get signs that indicate your business has an in-store UPS Commercial Counter. These signs range in price from $12 to $70, and are available on the PEC website.The PEC website also offers other free advertising materials, including print media templates and radio advertising transcripts., You can buy shipping supplies and other retail products directly from the Package Express Center. Download an order form from their website, print it out, and simply check the boxes next to the items you need. These may be the hardware necessary to equip your counter, or simply ink refills and shipping envelopes.Read the “Traffic and Profit” newsletter included in your monthly invoices. These will include both advice as well as product specials. The newsletters are also available online., The PEC website also offers a step-by-step guide on filing a claim if a customer’s package is damaged. As directed, file a claim with UPS before filing with PEC. There are certain types of shipments that cannot be claimed for any reason. Be prepared to provide PEC and UPS with both the customer’s information and specific shipping information.