 Look through your collection of books, you can use one that you wouldn’t mind cutting into for this project. Or go to your nearest bargain bookstore, where you can find an assortment of books sold for $1.


When choosing a book, make sure to keep in mind what you are going to place in this secret box. The size and thickness of the book used affects what can be placed inside.
 Leaving these pages untouched from glue will give the illusion your secret box is just another book. Put a rubber band around the first few pages and the front cover to keep them in place. , Make sure the front and back covers are not glued down. You can use plastic bags to protect the front and back. When wrapping the front cover with a plastic bag, make sure to include the first few pages as well.
 Now that your covers and first few pages are protected, close the book firmly and glue the outside pages. Using a paint brush, spread the glue evenly on the outside pages around the book. Try to spread out any globs that may arise, since these will dry white if left.


To make a glue mixture, mix together regular glue and water. Try to make the mixture 80% glue and 20% water. Too much water in the mixture will warp the pages. , To keep the pages from warping, place a large weight on top of the book. Use free weights, or a pile of other books. Let the book dry for an hour with the weight on top.
 Check to make sure the glued pages have completely dried. Remove the plastic bags protecting the covers and the rubber band from the first few pages. Decide how big you want your compartment.


Using a ruler and a pencil, draw an outline for where you are going to cut a hole in the book. It can be any shape and any size you want, but try to make sure to leave at least a half an inch border all around the outline. , Using a box cutter, carefully start cutting your outline. You should take your time for safety reasons and to make sure your edges do not come out too rough. Depending on how thick of a book you chose, this may take some time. Try cutting away layer by layer, going back now and again to clean up the corners.
 Place your secrets in the book compartment, then store your book on a shelf or desk. Either way, its inconspicuous design will keep everyone at bay.


To add some color to your book compartment, glue some colored felt or fabric inside.

