 This simplest way to get a big head start is to purchase a character that is already level 90. To begin, visit the in-game store by clicking the “Shop” button in your UI.
 In the in-game store, you can purchase a level 90 character boost for around USD$60.00., Once you’ve purchased the boost, select it, and a list of your current characters will be displayed. Choose the character that you’d like to apply the boost to, and confirm your choice., You can open your friend’s list by clicking the social icon near your chat box—this location will vary depending upon how you’ve setup your user interface., “Recruit-A-Friend” (RAF) is a service Blizzard offers to World of Warcraft players. One of the most desirable features of this service is the bonus experience it offers.

RAF offers other notable benefits as well: friend summoning between the linked players allows them to quickly and easily join one another, wherever they may be. Also, the recruit (presumably your friend) is able to grant levels to their recruiter’s characters (one level for each two they earn).
 Your friend can either subscribe to a monthly service, which automatically deducts from their chosen account, or they can purchase game time cards and apply the codes to their account online.

Players linked through the service enjoy 300% XP from quest turn-ins and kills, so long as they are within the required distance of one another.
 Heirloom gear refers to weapons, armor, and jewelry that are unique from other types of gear in several ways:

Heirloom gear is account-bound rather than soulbound. Rather than being bound to a particular character, heirloom gear is bound to an account, so it can be used on any one of your characters (for whom it is suitable in other regards). So, while it can be pricey or time consuming to purchase, you can use it to level other alts in the future.
Heirloom gear grants experience bonuses. Most pieces of heirloom gear you equip will increase your experience gained by a certain percentage.
 For example, a paladin requires Strength as their main stat, and heavy armor (the armor type) will scale as the character scales if they are initially unable to wear heavy armor due to being a lower level. Your optimal heirloom gear set will feature the same main stat as your starting gear., Depending on your budget, you may want to prioritize certain gear pieces first, based on their experience boost and/or stats (e.g., a cape only boosts your experience 5% but costs the same as a chest piece, so if your gold is limited, go with the chest!)., If you want to use Darkmoon prize tickets as currency (they’re obtained by winning games and doing favors at the Faire), visit the Darkmoon Faire vendor first. Then, hit up your guild vendor and faction heirloom curator for the rest of the gear!

Most pieces are around 500 gold each.
 Ghost Pirate Rings can be obtained via Shipyard missions. You can equip one ring from this category. A Dread Pirate Ring can be obtained via placing at least second in the weekly Stranglethorn Fishing Extravaganza, which on many realms is a very competitive event. Note that to obtain the Ghost Pirate Rings, you will need a max level character with a garrison of at least level 3. You you will also have to develop your Shipyard to the appropriate level to receive the mission. Your other heirloom gear will still give you a big boost if you choose not to go for these., Remember that Heirloom gear scales (i.e., the stats grow along with your levels), so take note the level at which your initial gear stops scaling (typically 85). Once it has stopped scaling, you can upgrade your Heirloom gear.

There are two upgrades available so that the gear will continue to scale to 90 and then to 100. The items required to upgrade your heirlooms are obtained from the same vendors as the heirlooms themselves.
 The Darkmoon Faire is active once a month. Whenever it’s in town, make use of the XP boosts it can help provide. Ride the carousel until your “Whee!” buff (10% XP boost for up to one hour) reaches 60 minutes, and play a few games to buy a Darkmoon Top Hat (increases XP by 10% for one hour) for 10 prize tickets., This potion increases XP by 300% for one hour. It drops from a rare spawn known as Krol the Blade and from rare beasts in Nagrand. You’ll need to have a max (or close to max) level alt to farm for these if you want to use them on low-level characters., This potion increases experience gained from quest completion and killing monster by 20%. Once your leveling character has a garrison, they can purchase these from their innkeeper., Running instanced content is the single most important thing you can do, at least up through level 85. Instead of focusing on questing, focus on dungeons. A quick search for “WoW dungeons by level” or similar will help you find the right instances for your level. Keep in mind too that many instances are faction specific, so make sure to check Horde or Alliance specific lists!, The advantage to running the instance with a max-level friend is speed, but you’ll take a small hit on total XP for the whole instance.

Whether you run an instance solo or with a group, you can still level up quickly.
 You’ll get an XP bonus for successfully clearing the instance objectives, which should be listed in your UI once you enter the instance.

You can run ten instances in an hour, and each level-appropriate dungeon you complete grants a large XP bonus. The best thing about the completion bonus is that it isn’t affected by the presence of a higher level character, so you can have a level 100 friend take the beating for you.

