 Whether you make you own invitations or use a service, be sure that the paper is eco-friendly. Many providers will give you the option of choosing alternative paper materials, such as bamboo, soy, or hemp.If you’re feeling especially ambitious, try making your own paper from your old newspapers and scrap paper. You can even press petals into the paper.;
, Hand-scripted invitations will be lovely and unique. This method also eliminates the energy used in the normal printing process. In addition, if you’re able to use a local calligrapher, you can support your town’s economy with your business., Send out evites and create a personalized wedding website If you’re willing to completely forgo paper invitations and save-the-dates. Your wedding website can include all the necessary instructions that would normally be sent in an invitation, as well as extra information about local hotels and activities.


You can also skip paper name placards and table signs by writing the necessary words on stones or reusable objects, such as small flower pots.
 Rather than using disposable materials, rent your party items from a rental service. Many of these companies expressly commit to using green cleaning practices. Even if you can’t find a “green” rental company, it’s much better to reuse than dispose of these items., The more you’re able to limit your purchases of new items, the smaller your environmental impact will be. If you have access to a family gown and tuxedo, see if they can be altered to fit your needs. There’s also nothing better than getting to wear family heirlooms on your big day. Reach out to family members, and see what people are willing to lend you!If your family’s collection isn’t cutting it, you might also be able to find the perfect outfits by looking in thrift stores. This may require some patience and browsing, but the result could be lovely - and eco-friendly!

, If you’re set on a newer style, you can rent your gown and suit for the day. Because others will be able to wear these outfits after you, this practice also adheres to your principle of reusing everything you can on the big day. Not only does renting limit the overall production of new clothing, it’ll also keep you from dedicating a corner of your closet to a something you’ll almost certainly never wear again.There are several companies dedicated to fulfilling your rental needs while also providing you with beautiful designer gowns. Check out Rent the Runway, and ask local bridal shops if they have rental options for their dresses.
 Ask your bridesmaids and groomsmen to either wear items they already own, or to employ a rental service. If you let them pick from their own closets, they’ll probably never stop thanking you for letting them save their money.If you’re worried about having coordinated pictures of your wedding party, you can still suggest a general color palette and style. If you can, however, try embracing everyone’s unique colors and styles. It’ll make your wedding more memorable and fun.
 The mining of gold, diamonds, and other precious metals leaves environmental devastation in its wake. Either look in thrift shops for antiques you can have resized, or ask your family about your options for heirloom wedding rings. See if there is unused gold jewelry that could be melted down for new rings.