 Diluted bleach is a highly effective sanitizer. In order produce an effective sanitizer, you must carefully mix the solution. When cleaning bathroom surfaces, the proper ratio of bleach to warm water is 2 ½ tablespoons bleach to 1 gallon warm water. If you are making a quart of sanitizer, the ratio becomes 1 ¼ tablespoons bleach to 1 US-quart (950 ml) of warm water.


Locate a clean 1 US-quart (950 ml) spray bottle and take off the top nozzle.
Measure out 1 ¼ tablespoons bleach. Carefully pour it into the spray bottle.
Measure out 1 US-quart (950 ml) of warm water. Carefully pour it into the spray bottle.
Screw on the top nozzle and shake the mixture.
Since bleach evaporates quickly, it is important to mix a new batch of sanitizer every time you clean.When bleach comes into contact with your eyes, skin, or lungs, it can cause damage or irritation. You can protect yourself from the corrosive substance by wearing protective eyewear, gloves, and working in a well ventilated area. Rinse off any body part that comes into contact with bleach.
Do not ingest bleach. Keep out of the reach of children and pets., When urine evaporates, ammonium salts are left behind; when ammonia interacts with bleach, a poisonous gas is formed. As a result, it is highly recommended that you do not clean the exterior of your toilet or bidet with bleach. Instead, first clean the surface with a mild cleanser and then sanitize with a diluted bleach solution. Wipe down the surface of your toilet or bidet with a damp sponge and an all purpose cleaner. Don't forget to clean these areas:


Front and back of the lid
Top and bottom of the seat
Rim
Pedestal
Outer bowl
Tank, Use the spray bottle to spritz the entire surface of the toilet or bidet with the diluted bleach solution. Allow the product to sit on the surface for at least 1 minute. After 60 seconds, you may wipe down the surface of the toilet of bidet with a clean towel.


For the most sanitary results, allow the diluted bleach solution to air dry.