 Unfortunately, there are some children that will still remove their diaper at inopportune times. Bribing the toddler to leave their diaper alone is not a good idea because it actually reinforces the unwanted behavior.


Instead, the parent should try to redirect the toddler’s attention to something else such as looking out a window. This will usually cause them to forget that they were about to remove their diaper.
While the toddler is distracted, the parent should take a closer look at the situation. If they can figure out why the toddler was attempting to remove the diaper, they can correct the problem and prevent unwanted diaper removal.
 The toddler may be removing their diaper due to discomfort. It might be too tight, too loose, scratchy, wet, or dirty.


Before they remove their diaper, toddlers that are uncomfortable will usually show signs that they are about to do it. They might rub, scratch, pinch, pull, or look disapprovingly at their diaper area.
The way that they walk or move might also appear different. Reading these signs and fixing the diaper problem will keep the toddler from removing it on their own.
 Since toddlers don’t have the necessary words to express themselves they will often act out because they are frustrated. For example, removal of their diaper may simply be a way of asking for some one-on-one time with the parent. They know that, no matter what the parent is doing, they will stop in order to re-diaper the toddler.


If there seems to be no other explanation for the diaper removal, giving the toddler a bit more attention may be all that is necessary to break this habit. This can be done even if the parent has a very tight schedule because it does not need to be a large chunk of time.
It can be as simple as the parent sweeping the toddler up in their arms and kissing them or getting down on their level and giving them a big hug.
 If the toddler still continues to remove their diaper, it is important for the parent to remain calm even if there is a mess to clean up.

Punishing, yelling, and threatening the toddler should be avoided because they are negative actions that the toddler is likely to end up copying.






By remaining calm, the parent does not give in to the toddler that might be removing their diaper just to see the parent’s reaction.
 The parent should keep an even tone to their voice and simply state that they love the child but do not like them removing their diaper.


If it is an older toddler, the parent can have a simple talk about the diaper-removing situation and then you can try to resolve the issue together.
If there is a mess, the parent should not make the toddler clean it up. Instead, they can have the toddler help in the process by letting them carry a roll of paper towels or cleaning rag to the scene for the parent to use.

