 When you are going through IVF, you should increase all your fruits and vegetables. These foods provide your body with essential nutrients, vitamins, and minerals needed to support a healthy pregnancy.


Be aware that pesticide use may be associated with decreased fertility.There is a commonly held belief that organic produce is not treated with pesticides — this is not true. If you're looking for pesticide-free produce, find out the source and how they treat their crops. If you shop locally, you may be able to ask the farmer directly.
Increasing fresh vegetables help increase your intake of iron, which is important for fertility.;
, The majority, roughly 90%, of the total carbohydrates in your diet should be complex carbohydrates.This can help control any weight gain because complex carbohydrates take, in general, longer to digest and allow you to feel fuller longer. In addition, complex carbohydrates are recommended to lower the risk of gestational and type 2 diabetes.Avoid simple carbs. Simple carbohydrates are often found in processed foods. Eat complex carbs instead. Complex carbohydrates are found in whole, unprocessed foods, such as whole grains, peas, lentils, beans, and vegetables.
The reason that processed foods should be avoided is that they include both simple carbohydrates along with added sugars.
 Fiber helps keep you full and aids in digestion. Beans, legumes, fruits with rind, and vegetables provide great sources of fiber. These foods also provide vitamins and minerals, including the important B vitamins, which boost your health and lay the groundwork for a healthy pregnancy.Eating beans also helps increase your iron intake., When you are pregnant, limit the consumption of red meat. You should aim for three servings or under each week. When you do eat red meat, make sure to antibiotic and hormone-free beef and buffalo.Consider buying lower fat beef, such as 90/10 or 93/7. Lean meats may help boost fertility, while meats with high fat contents are believed to lower fertility., If you want to eat meat, increase the amounts of skinless poultry you eat. The poultry you buy should be hormone and antibiotic free and free-range.Don’t eat the skin on the poultry. The skin can be high in animal fat as well as any added hormones and antibiotics. If you are trying to get pregnant, you definitely do not want to add outside sources of hormones.
 Wild caught fish is another great meat source. They are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids, which are essential for your health and are anti-inflammatory. They are also good sources of protein. Wild caught fish also tends to be lower in contaminants, such as mercury.Look for wild-caught fish, such as salmon, cod, haddock, and tuna.
 If you are trying to get pregnant, studies have shown that women who increase the amount of plant protein in their diet have fewer problems than women who eat more animal protein.Plant sources of protein include beans, legumes, nuts, soy, and seeds.
 When you are trying to get pregnant, choose full-fat dairy instead of low-fat or skim. A glass of whole milk can help boost your fertility. You can have one to two servings of full fat dairy per day.You can also get full-fat dairy from other sources, like yogurt or ice cream.
 Sugary foods and drinks should be limited in your diet. Added sugars can come in different forms: glucose, sucrose, fructose and high fructose corn syrup are often listed on food labels. Ingestion of large amounts of the aforementioned sugars is linked to diabetes in pregnancy (gestational diabetes) and adult onset diabetes (type 2 diabetes) as well as other conditions like obesity and cardiovascular disease., Avoid trans fat when you are undergoing IVF. These fats have been shown to decrease fertility.Trans fats are not found in nature, but are man-made and found in processed foods, fast foods, frozen dinners, and meals.

