 Part of the reason why you might fear making new friends may be due to having negative experiences with new friends in the past. To start choosing people who will be good friends, look for good friend qualities in the people you meet. Some good friend qualities include:Trustworthiness.
Honesty.
Dependability.
Loyalty.
Being supportive and encouraging.
Empathy.
Being a good listener.
Making you feel good when you are around them.
 Trying a new activity can help you meet new people in a low-stakes, comfortable environment. It will give you a chance to get to know the people and become comfortable with them, which can help you overcome your fear of making friends.Meeting people at an activity introduces you to people in a situation where you are doing something, which can be less awkward. Plus, you meet people with similar interests.
You may decide take a sewing or gym class, go to a social meetup, or join a hiking organization.
 Socializing in large groups may make you too nervous to talk to anyone. Large groups may exacerbate your fears. Instead, get together in smaller groups, which can take some of the pressure off. It’s easier to interact when you are with a small group of people.You can go out with friends of friends, or get together with friends of family members or co-workers.
 Befriending people who have similar interests makes it more likely that you will make a friend and enjoy each other’s company. You may find people with similar interests at the local book club who loves reading or someone at a painting class who shares your passion for art.


Pay attention to the people you interact with every day. This may be people at your job, in your neighborhood, or at places you frequent. These people are already familiar to you, so they are all potential friends.
 Clubs or interest groups are filled with people who are interested in the same thing as you. This can help you interact with people in a safe environment. Talking to people who share your interests can help you get over your fear of making friends.Try finding an art club, a board game meetup, or a kayaking group. Intramural sports or community arts organizations are also good groups to check out.
 Find a cause or organization in your area that you support or are passionate about. This will allow you to help others while meeting people who share your enthusiasm for a cause.Check around your area for good causes to volunteer for.

