 Once you’re out on the road, you’re stuck with what you got, so be sure that have the essentials before heading out. Most importantly, check that each order matches its receipt so you don’t show up at the door with something missing or the wrong order. Also, make sure you have:Enough cash and coins to make proper change if the customer is paying with cash.
At least one pen for the customer to sign credit card receipts, but preferably two in case one dries up.
A cellphone to contact the store, customer, or emergency services if necessary.;
, Keep in mind that the customer probably doesn’t want to reheat their food in the oven once it gets there. Put all hot items in one or more heat bags so they retain their heat. Be sure to seal them tight so no heat escapes.Don’t rush it and shove everything into a heat bag. Take the time to separate hot and cold items. The customer doesn’t want to have to reheat their pizza, but they don’t want a melted cannoli, either.
 First, place it on a level surface. Expect melted cheese to slide over the pie if it isn’t set flat. Use seat belts, straps, or something similar to hold it in place during sharp turns, sudden brakes, bumpy driving, and anything else that might cause the bag to move.
 Even with a heat bag, expect hot items to start cooling off as soon as they leave the oven. Refer to a map or find directions on your smartphone before you get moving. Find the shortest and/or quickest route to the customer’s door so the food is still as hot as possible upon delivery.Keep a map on hand even if you have a smartphone, just in case your phone goes on the fritz for some reason.
 You may feel tempted to put the pedal to the metal in order to make your delivery quickly, but don’t drive recklessly. Keep in mind that getting pulled over will cause a major delay (plus ticket fines and other hassles). Also, remember that getting a high tip isn’t worth the risk of getting into an accident. Make haste, but play it safe and observe the rules of the road., This can be a challenge, especially in the dark. Remember that odd-numbered buildings are usually on one side of the street, and even-numbered houses on the other. If you don’t find the one you’re looking for right away, use the ones that are easily read as reference points. For example, if you’re looking for 407 but can only see 411, then 407 is probably two buildings down.Depending on the neighborhood (how far apart the buildings are, how much parking is available), it may be quicker to park right away and find the right address on foot, as long as you’re sure you’re on the right block.
 Hold the heat bag by its bottom and keep it level. Greet the customer with a smile when they answer the door. Be patient with them, even if they’re slow in paying, impatient with you, or otherwise less than ideal. Be sure to give them the correct change if needed so they don’t feel slighted.Always keep an upbeat attitude, even if you’re having a bad night. Remember that you’re the face of your store, and acting out of sorts or impatient will dissuade the customer from ordering again or giving you a big tip.Some delivery people adopt the practice of rounding the total charge up to the nearest dollar to avoid the need for coins. Some customers may be fine with this, but others may take offense. If that’s the case, treat it like you made an innocent mistake and give them a simple apology, like, “You’re right! My bad. The exact charge is $17.60.”

, When the customer is paying cash, make a note of how much covers the total charge and how much is meant for you as a personal tip. Keep in mind that if the charge was, say, $17.37, they may just hand you a single $20 bill to cover both. Keep a log of the night’s deliveries with the total charge paid for each one, plus the tip amount and the tender used.


The same holds true if they use a single check to cover both the charge and the tip. Note the difference when you reconcile your receipts and cash out for the night according to your store’s practices.

