 Wash your hands with warm soap and water. Rinse thoroughly to remove any soap residue and turn off the tap with your arm or elbow. Dry them thoroughly with a paper towel. Never use hand wipes or hand sanitizer as these can affect the result. Clean the finger you’re going to prick with an alcohol swab, or with rubbing alcohol on a cotton ball.Alcohol evaporates rapidly so there's no need to dry the area; that will just recontaminate it. Let the alcohol air dry.
 Make sure the cap is on the lancing device. Press the button on the side of the lancing device to prick your finger. This process should not be very painful — you might not even feel it. If the blood doesn't come out on its own, try squeezing or massaging the finger on either side until you squeeze out a drop. Let the blood form a small bead on your finger.


Always switch fingers during the day and switch hands every day to prevent scar tissue buildup on your fingertips.
If you find it hard to get a drop of blood from your finger, let your hand dangle at your side for several minutes before you prick your finger to increase blood flow.
 Hold the bead of blood to touch the tip of the strip at the right place, which should be indicated on the strip.Some newer strips offer a "wicking" action that will draw the blood up into the test strip. Other meters and strips will require you to drop your blood onto the strip. The screen will indicate when there is enough blood on the strip to run the test.
 The glucometer will start to count down in seconds until your results are ready to read. Newer glucometers usually take five seconds, and older versions can take 10 to 30 seconds.The meter may beep or indicate on the screen when it has a reading ready.
 The results will appear on the screen. Your results will vary depending on what time of day it is, how recently you ate, and what you ate.Your results are specific to you — a good reading for one person may not be a good reading for someone else. Make sure you and your doctor have discussed what is a healthy reading for you.

