 Even if you plan to portray the opening moment over the course of the first few pages – which is totally fine – consider how you would convey the moment in a single line. You may even wind up using this line, whether to literally start the story or within those first few pages. Either way, thinking about specific, attention-wrangling lines will help you keep the start of your love story focused on the potency of the first emotional moment you want your reader to experience., There’s nothing like a dose of sensuality to get a human intrigued. You can do so with a bit of taste, while still guaranteeing an uptick in your reader’s blood pressure. Contemplate your own response to such a beginning: “Suddenly, she felt the secret of a kiss ripple through her body and bloom beneath the surface of her skin. Her joints softened, her breath caught, her lips fell heavily against one another and her tongue swelled against them, reaching for a taste of air tinged with enticement.”


For a more romantically comedic approach to a sensually-charged opening: “She adjusted her pose, ensuring that the features she assumed had caught his eye were catching as much sun as possible. He removed his shirt. Both pretended not to notice the other was looking. Finally, their eyes betrayed them both, just as a bird relieved itself above, it’s excrement somehow landing on each of them simultaneously.”

, A particularly fun and unsurprisingly effective way of grabbing your reader’s attentions is by throwing something at them that’s unexpected and demands explanation. This will intrigue them both by making them wonder what’s going on, and by simply surprisingly them. In other words, begin with a premise that raises questions in the reader’s mind.For instance, “Sarah jumped down from her intricately-saddled elephant and handed the reins to a shirtless man she had never met before.”
Alternatively, “The cauldron boiled thickly and looked of effervescent syrup, but her heart sank quickly as she tossed it into the stew.”

, Some of the most compelling emotions – for both your characters and your readers – are not necessarily the most pleasant. Play to people’s desire for the unsavory and depressing by beginning with a scene that is completely absent of romance.For instance: “He woke up, rose slowly, counted the stains on his ceiling as he did every morning, glanced at the empty spot beside him, and decided not to eat breakfast.”
And of course: “Her cats began licking her ankles where their tongues had already thinned the fabric of her tights as soon as she broke the threshold. She sighed at the site of a darkened patch of carpet in the center of the apartment’s only room, knowing she could remove the visual evidence, but never the aroma.”

, Both contemporary and classic story tellers can be a great source of inspiration. For instance, tune in to your local pop station. Depending on the level of literary legitimacy you’re shooting for, radio singles are ripe for the romantic-one-liner picking. Take, for instance: “We were both young when I first saw you”.Note that even the contemporary artists reference classic storytellers. Consider the lyrics from a popular radio single: “Marry me, Juliet, you’ll never have to be alone.” This line pays homage to Shakespeare by referencing a well known romantic narrative and incorporating into a more contemporary narrative.

