 This physical intervention is also called splinting and is commonly prescribed since it is a cheap and non invasive way of treating carpal tunnel syndrome. With this method, a lightweight plastic or wooden splint is applied under your palm, wrist and lower arm and is fastened around these areas to minimize the amount of bending that your wrist can do. By decreasing the amount that your wrist can bend, you can decrease the pain, numbness, weakness and the tingling sensations you are experiencing.The brace will keep your wrist in a neutral position, which will not only minimize your symptoms, but also allow your compressed nerve to begin to recover.
Splinting is usually prescribed by your orthopedic specialist; he or she will prescribe the length of time that you have to wear the brace based on your own specific condition.;
, This is a form of rehabilitation that uses various methods to restore the functional use of your upper arm. Hand therapy is usually performed by a licensed physiotherapist or a registered physical therapist because they have the specialized skills to assess and evaluate each patient with carpal tunnel syndrome.


Your physical therapist may manually manipulate your affected hand, massage the area that is in pain, and apply a special tape (kinesiology tape) around your upper arm to promote recovery. These will be described further in the following step.
 Massage therapy involves soothing and relaxing the tensed and inflamed muscles of your hand and wrist. It employs repetitive, circular, and one directional strokes that help to ease the pain of the inflamed area. It is generally performed by a physical therapist.


Another intervention used in hand therapy is manual manipulation. This method is used by orthopedic surgeons, chiropractors and physical therapists to realign the affected joints and bones. Your therapist will make a sudden, but smooth, motion of extending and flexing your bone or joint to correct its anatomical position.
Lastly, the use of kinesiology tape enables your therapist to bind the muscle fibers firmly together, relieving the affected part of pain and inflammation. It is also known to improve circulation in the affected area to facilitate healing and repair.
 Certain hand exercise routines can be conducted to improve the functioning of your affected hand as well as decrease the occurrence of the symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome. Two of these exercises include: nerve gliding exercise and tendon gliding exercise. They will be discussed in detail in the following steps.
 Place your hand nearly level with your face so that your hand is in front of you. Your wrist should be in its neutral position and your palm should be facing away from you.Clench your fingers to form a fist while maintaining the wrist in its straight or neutral position. Straighten your fingers with your thumb close to your index finger.
Bend your wrist backward and hold this position for several moments. Bring your thumb forward and away from your other fingers then rotate your palm to face you.
Using your other hand, stretch your extended thumb out for two seconds.
Repeat this process five times, three to four times a day.
 This exercise is also called the rubber band finger stretch. This exercise is intended to strengthen the muscles that open the hand and create balance with the muscles responsible for closing your hands.Place a thick rubber band around all of your fingers and thumb. Spread your fingers widely against the resistance exerted by the rubber band and hold this position for two to three seconds. After this time has passed, bring them back to the starting position.
Try to repeat this process 10 times during the duration of one hour. If you find that it is easy to do this exercise, add another rubber band for extra resistance. Allow yourself rest in between repetitions.

