 The better you understand PTSD, the more effectively you’ll be able to cope with it. Familiarize yourself with the reasons PTSD occurs, what kinds of symptoms it causes, and what types of therapy are used to treat it.Start by searching the internet and your local library for information about PTSD. You can also ask your doctor or therapist to help you find resources for learning about the condition.
PTSD can be caused by any kind of trauma, including rape, childhood sexual abuse, or the loss of a pregnancy. Some women develop PTSD without realizing it after experiencing one of these events.
If you think you have PTSD but you haven’t been diagnosed, see your doctor.;
, PTSD is most often treated with psychotherapy. Ask your doctor to refer you to a therapist who works with trauma survivors. If you are already in therapy, continue to attend your sessions as usual.Your therapist will probably use different types of cognitive behavioral therapy, such as exposure therapy and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR), to reprogram your thoughts and help you move past your trauma.
 Some studies have found that pregnancy is riskier if you have PTSD. Women with PTSD are more likely to give birth prematurely, and their babies may be smaller than those of women without PTSD. Talk to your doctor about how to minimize these risks.Pregnancy is known for heightening emotions, but it won’t necessarily make your PTSD worse. According to one study, as many as three out of four women with PTSD find that pregnancy actually reduces their symptoms., Don’t try to tackle all your fears while your hormones and emotions are in flux. This can heighten your stress and possibly complicate your pregnancy. Instead focus on learning good coping strategies for your current symptoms, so you can feel safer and more peaceful throughout your pregnancy.Good coping strategies are relaxation exercises like deep breathing, meditation, and grounding.
If you feel overwhelmed, let your therapist know that you need to slow down.
 Communicate frequently with your therapist, obstetrician, psychiatrist, and any other specialists you see on a regular basis. Make sure they are all informed about your pregnancy, your PTSD, and any medications you are taking., Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are sometimes used to treat PTSD, but they’ve been linked to birth defects, so they are usually not recommended for pregnant women. If you’re currently taking any medications to treat your PTSD symptoms, talk to your doctor about whether you should stop or switch to a different kind.Your doctor may advise you to keep taking a medication if they think the side effects are less risky than untreated PTSD.

