 The key to dating an extrovert is the same as the key for dating anyone — honest communication. Talking with your extrovert will help you understand each other better and find the things you have in common.It will also help you prevent and overcome any misunderstandings.


Extroverts like to talk a lot, so make sure you are actively listening to what they tell you.
At the same time, make sure that you express your feelings when you disagree or something bothers you.
For example, you could say, “Can we talk about our plans for this weekend?”
Ask your extrovert for their input and opinion just as much as you tell them what you want and need.
For instance, you might ask, “How do you feel about stopping by the party for a while and then the two of us go for pizza?”

, Extroverts like to get out and do things. If you are dating an extrovert you will have to accept this and also socialize with them. You don’t have to hang out with them every time they go somewhere, but you should plan on socializing together.


Volunteer together at a local community organization or for a charity event you both support.
Go out on a double or group date. Or hang out with a group. For example, you could join a group for bowling or a game night.
When you are hanging out with others remember to give your extrovert time and space to interact with the others in the group. An extrovert gains energy by conversing with many other people, so they may not want to spend all their time in one spot, talking to one group. Accept that you might not have their full attention when you are out with others, but it doesn't mean the introvert doesn't like you or isn't interested in you.
For example, if you all are at a party, give your extrovert time to work the room and greet people.
 Although extroverts are social people, they also need quiet and peace sometimes.When you date an extrovert make sure that you are spending one-on-one time to balance the time you spend time socializing. Spending time with just the two of will also give the chance to get to know one another better.


Do something that doesn’t involve other people. Plan a quiet night at the movies or dinner at a cozy restaurant.
Spend some time just talking with each other, getting to know one another. For instance, the two of you could take a quiet afternoon walk.
Be careful, though, because too much one-on-one time can bore an extrovert. Try doing one ‘quiet’ activity for every two or three social activities.
 Extroverts like meeting new people, going new places, and trying new things. When you date an extrovert, plan new and exciting experiences for them.This will let your extrovert know that you understand them and their energetic lifestyle. It will also give you also something to talk about during your one-on-one time.


For example, if your extrovert mentioned zip-lining then plan a surprise trip to your local outdoor adventure park.
Or, for instance, you could plan a surprise dinner party to celebrate your extrovert’s promotion at work.
 If you are not also an extrovert — you may be an introvert or simply less of an extrovert than your partner — you will need to take care to make sure you are getting the alone time you need to recharge. If you find you "recharge" when alone, as opposed to when you are around other people, plan some "me" time to make sure you don't get burned out or resentful of your partner. You don't need to keep up with their social lifestyle. You can let your partner know you need some time to yourself in order to enjoy going out with them. Let your partner go out while you stay home and take a bath, read a book, watch a movie, or do something else that helps you feel replenished.


You might say, "It's important to me that I have at least a few hours each week when I can be by myself and recharge. You go ahead to the party — I'm going to stay at home and do a little reading. We'll catch up later!"
Just as the extrovert paying attention to other people isn't a reflection of their feelings for you, let them know that your need for some alone time isn't a reflection of your feelings toward them or your relationship. Assure them that it doesn't mean you don't like them or don't want to spend time with them — this is simply how you take care of yourself.

