 You may choose to work with a close friend who you might agree with well or another writer who you know has good skills. Also, choose the amount of people you want in your group - you may just want two people to write, or you may want five, ten, twenty, whatever you feel would be the most fun. Keep in mind that too many friends may become overwhelming, but other than that, there's no limit.;
, Because you are in a group, you can bounce ideas, characters, themes, and plots, rather than having to come up with all of it yourself. Write down good ideas that you all seem to agree on to save them for later. Once you have all the ideas, begin compiling them into one storyline.
 This is a great idea to organize everything in a manner that all of your writers will understand and be able to save for later. Once you have all of your ideas together into one story, keep your main characters and their personalities, the setting or settings, the theme, the conflict, and other story elements on the graphic organizer for later reference.
 You can write your story on paper or online. If you choose to write online, you can pick a private network, such as Google Drive, or publish it publicly on a website like FictionPress or Wattpad. If you want to write it on paper, try making a schedule with the others on when to meet and write your story.
 After all, this is a group effort. While you're writing the story, be sure you don't only use the ideas you came up with or like. If you're writing on paper, try passing the paper around for each paragraph, chapter, page, e.t.c. to make sure everybody gets a chance to add something.
 While writing, talk with your partner/partners and make sure your story is consistent and that you agree on a situation in the story. You won't get anything done if you can't agree on how to complete the chapter.
 Have the others read over it and celebrate the finishing of this stage if you'd like!

, You can either do this yourselves or ask someone else to help out, maybe even both. Be sure there are no major grammatical errors, confusing sentences, or otherwise hard-to-understand parts of the story.
 After you have fixed the grammar in your story, look over scenes, characters, and other features of the story and see if you all like them. Feel free to take out irrelevant scenes, add ones that are needed, shorten or lengthen the story, and do anything else that would help the flow.
 After you've finished revising and editing, you're ready to publish your story! Print it out, share it on a website (if you haven't already), or leave it be. Be sure all of the writers have a finished copy at least.

