 If it feels like there are eight billion TVs on the market, all with different stats and figures, you're not alone. These stats are meant to overwhelm you into buying something more expensive, but you don't have to fall for it. You can safely ignore the following terms and words when shopping -- they are just sales tactics:


Refresh rates (anything above 120Hz is fine)
Contrast Ratio
Motion Rate, ClearMotion, TruMotion, etc.
Viewing Angles
Premium HDMI ports (all HDMI will look the same, no matter the port)., HDR, or High Dynamic Range, is a newer color format meant to capture the greatest array of colors possible. The problem is that most sources (cable, Netflix, etc.) don't even send HDR quality color yet, so you'll likely notice little difference. That said, to better "future-proof" your TV, it might be a good option.


Obviously, more color is better. That doesn't mean that this small uptick now, however, is necessarily worth the extra $2-300.
 Unless you love watching 3D movies, skip this feature. Most companies have already passed over them, quietly shuffling 3D TVs out of their inventory because consumers were largely unimpressed. Why? Because you need expensive glasses for every viewer, a 3D compatible player, and extra-expensive movies that cannot be played on non-3D players. So, unless you really want to recreate the home theater experience at any cost, skip this feature.


All 3D TVs can play normal 2D movies. If you want the option, and money is no concern, you might as well go big for the 3D capabilities.
 Smart TVs have apps built in to show Netflix, Amazon Prime, YouTube, and other popular internet videos. While this may seem appealing, there are so many other streaming devices you can get cheaply that Smart TVs are often redundant. If you already have a way to stream media, skip the extra cost of a Smart TV.You can get a Google Chromecast, Roku, Amazon FireStick, Apple TV, or video game system with all the same features for $40-200.
 They are really just a fashion statement, with no real bearing on picture quality or enjoyment. Some people even lobby that they are worse, making it harder for a large group to all enjoy the screen from multiple angles.