 He will hopefully notice you and start wondering why you do that. ;
,, He should start returning that soon after. 

,, If he catches you, smile cutely and look away not as fast. Do this around his friends and hope they notice and pick up the situation, and maybe hint about you liking him. 

, If you sit with friends in that particular space and eat or relax it won't look as obvious. 

, Eventually you can move onto other topics. Make sarcastic comments and jokes where appropriate.  

, If it wasn't very funny, put your hand on his and say sarcastically, "Hilarious" while rolling your eyes. 

, If you think he may be looking at you, abruptly turn your head to something away from him, then look back at him quickly. If he is watching you, he should look at whatever 'distracted' you subconsciously. 

,, If his friends tease him when you are around, then there is a very good chance he likes you back. 

, Boys are generally the ones expected to ask out girls, so he may feel flattered and relieved and then accept, or he may decline. If he does decline, nod and smile and say, "That's okay, I'll ask somebody else if they want to come" then walk away calmly. Do NOT hold this against him, but instead continue to be nice to him. Show him that you don't mind the rejection, even if you do. Do not shy away from him, but continue to pursue him subtly. 

, Speak your mind on topics that come up during conversation with him. Don't hold back on saying what you think is right and just, but don't overdo it and accidentally offend him. 

, If you are athletic, get into a sport he is involved with. If you are smart, join a debating team or do something that he is involved with academically. But don't change the person you are just to get him to notice you. If he doesn't notice you after a few major hints, like actually asking him out, or if he acts snobbish around you, forget him, he just isn't worth your time. 

, Smiling means confidence, and boys like girls with self-esteem, as it makes talking less awkward and more communicative. 

, Add to this by saying thanks- but don't try to deny what he says, it will lower his self-esteem and make things awkward between you. Graciously accept the comment and perhaps make one of your own. 

, Don't push too hard for information though- you don't want to come off as a stalker. 

, If he walks up to you, don't be afraid to talk. Ask him how his day has been and what class he has next. Hopefully he will return this and you will move onto another topic. 

,, Everybody tells you to do this, but reality is, not everybody does. If you lie about who you are and what you do and don't like, then chances are you have ruined the relationship before it has begun. He will like you for that 'person' you say you are, instead of who you really are. When he finds out, things WILL get awkward, so it's best to be honest from the start. And then, if it turns out he doesn't like you, then he just isn't worth it. 

