 Think about what she likes and her interests. Ask her if you're not sure. Understanding her interests helps you find common ground so that you have a reason to see and talk to her, which brings you one step closer to physically flirting with her. As you get to know her, be kind and considerate or she might not let you get much closer.


Go slow. If you walk up and put your arm around a girl without knowing her well or flirting first, she might get offended and think you’re too forward. Flirting gradually over a period of time -- even if it is a short period of time -- is the best way to get a girl to go out with you.;
, Compliments give you the ability to let her warm up to you so that you can get close to her physically. When you talk to her, give her a compliment that sounds genuine. Otherwise, she might think you’re trying to "game" her.


Girls like compliments as long as it doesn’t sound like a pick-up line. Superficial compliments might make her shut down and not want to talk to you.Give compliments that are unique to her and be specific. For instance, compliment her cute ears, freckles or eyes.
Remember that a lot of girls -- even the pretty ones -- are very insecure. When you try to compliment her, she might not take you seriously because she thinks you are joking. So, reassure her that you’re not.
Don’t neg her or give her a backhanded compliment. “You’re pretty for a brunette” is not a compliment.Never make her the object of a joke, and if people say something rude -- even if they're teasing -- tell them to stop. Then, quickly glance at her. If her eyes get bigger or if she smiles slightly, then she is impressed and thankful.
 It not only lets her know that you’re listening, but it also gives her the feeling that she is worth your undivided attention. Eye contact creates tension and attraction. Try to hold her gaze for a while without breaking it -- even if there are distractions around. Ignore them. She will be impressed that you didn’t let the chaos around you distract you from her. Then, she’ll be more likely to open up to you., If she leans forward, you lean forward. If she steps to the side, you step to the side. Mimicking her body language is a subtle way of letting her know that you are into her. Even if she is consciously unaware of this, subconsciously she may start to pick up the signal.Watch her body language as well to see if she mimics you. Mimicry is a sign that she is warming up to you even if she is not quite ready for flirtatious touching just yet., Sometimes girls can feel lost when they are standing in a large crowd or even if she is standing amongst friends -- especially if her friends are attractive. She might think that some of her friends get more attention than she does because they are prettier or more outgoing, which means it can be difficult for her to feel like she is being seen and heard. So, make her feel like she is standing out from the others by giving her more attention. When she speaks, pay special attention. Make a point to talk to her directly instead of speaking to others. When the group is making a decision about where to go or what to do, ask her what she thinks the group should do., Make sure that she knows that you really want to get to know her better. Calling her just to chat -- especially since texting is far more popular -- lets her know that you really are interested in getting to know her better.Chat about her interests or current events. Or, just give her a hello and a short chat to let her know you’re thinking about her. You don’t need to be some extreme version of yourself that doesn’t really exist. Just be “normal.", Nothing major. It can be something small like a snack item that you see her eating often. Make sure that you come off like an observant person and not a creepy stalker who likes to watch her.


Don't be put off if she refuses your gift. She may not want to immediately accept something from you. She doesn’t want to feel as if she is indebted to you because you gave her something. If you ask a couple of times, she may eventually give in and accept it., If she agrees to meet you, don't comment on any other girls or talk about subjects that would make her think you aren't interested-- unless you know she likes those subjects. You don’t want her to think you only like her as a friend. You want to make her feel special, not like just another member of your group