 There are many rules that govern the minutiae of Jewish prayer, but these are beyond the scope of this article. This article deals with one who is praying alone on an ordinary weekday (not on a Sabbath, holiday, or fast day). It also does not delve into the ways prayers change throughout the course of the year.;
, The "Nusach" refers to the text of the prayers, which differs between Jews of different ancestries. If you are aware of your ancestry:


If you are of Eastern European descent, you are probably Ashkenazic. Pray in Nusach Ashkenaz.
If you are from Spain, Portugal, Morocco, the Arabian peninsula or surrounding areas, your are probably Sephardic. Use Nusach Sefard.
If you are a Chabad Chassid, use Nusach Ari.
 This is the same Nusach used by the Chabad movement, and they are very involved in helping people grow closer to Judaism.
 This can be an actual book, a pamphlet, or even a smartphone app! The type of Siddur you use will depend on your needs:


If you speak and understand Hebrew, you can use any Siddur.
If you can read Hebrew but do not understand all of the words, consider purchasing a Siddur with English translations.
If you cannot read Hebrew, you may be able to find a transliterated Siddur.
 On an ordinary weekday, Jews must pray three times over the course of the day. Shacharit is the prayer recited earlier in the morning, Minchah is prayed in the afternoon before sunset, and Maariv (or Aravit) is prayed in the evening.
 Say them out loud, but only loud enough so that you can hear yourself (remember, this is a personal experience). Do not just recite the prayers--concentrate on their meanings.
 This is the most important part of the Jewish prayers. It is more often known as Shemoneh Esrei, as it was originally comprised of 18 blessings ("Shemoneh Esrei" means 18, though there are currently 19 blessings). This is the most complex part of the prayer in terms of rules, so be sure to familiarize yourself with them before beginning.
 Instead of rushing to finish, reflect on you experience. Can you improve?

