 Fill a sink or bucket with warm soapy water. Be sure to use a mild soap designed for cleaning vehicle finishes (car wash soap).;
, When cleaning a chamois, do not use soaps intended for general or other uses. Dish soaps, especially degreasers such as dawn, that are intended to break up grease and oils will strip the protective tanning oils from the chamois cloth leaving the leather unprotected (and if used on a vehicle will completely strip the wax finish).


The unprotected leather will become stiff and begin to fall apart. Other degreasers, such as Simple Green, will have the same effect. Laundry detergents will also break down and remove the chamois’ protective tanning oils so laundering or using these types of soaps should also be avoided.
 Soak the chamois in clean rinse water. Fold the chamois over several times and twist until all of the water is squeezed out. As excess tanning oils are removed, the soapy water and the rinse water will take on a yellow tint.


These excess oils help preserve the chamois during shipping, if stored for long periods, or when stored in a hot dry climate, but it is important to remove these before using. If not removed, the oils may streak on a surface of the vehicle. This process is also essential for removing any lint produced during the buffing process.
In order to avoid leaving lint or streaks on the vehicle’s finish, steps 1 and 2 should be repeated, with clean water, until the rinse water is no longer tinted yellow and is completely clear.
 Once the cloth has be properly cleaned, it is ready for immediate use or can be hung up to dry.


If the chamois cloth isn’t used immediately, it should be stretched back to its original form (which is roughly rectangular) by pulling on opposite edges until the desired shape is achieved. Once back to its original form, the chamois should be hung, away from direct sunlight, up to dry completely.
Leaving a little soap (car wash soap) in the cloth when storing will not damage the cloth. Never store a chamois wet by balling it up or putting it in a sealed bag.
As a chamois dries, it will become extremely stiff, due to its ability to completely release water, but can easily be re-softened by wetting it. It can also be re-softened for dry use by rubbing the cloth against itself or drawing it across the edge of a clean surface.

