 You will find the cost of steel pipe, copper or schedule 80 PVC and their fittings are not in the "cost" ball park for this project. Aluminum pipe is a good choice, but again the cost is just too much for this project. Conduct is another possible pipe and cheaper, but it will rust if you just talk about water in front of it., This white pipe just doesn't look like it would do the job at first glance, but with a bit of the proper drawings and instructions as offered here, you will find it to be a good choice for this project. Most of the info on PVC pipe and its properties comes from the "AWWA Research Foundation" in Denver, Colorado, 1994. This info will lead you to more info and you will began to see how diverse this stuff (PVC) really is.

If your first thoughts on the use of PVC are of schedule 80, than take a good look at the cost of schedule 80 pvc and the fitting that must be used with it, oh, don't forget that schedule 80 has to have it's own type of cleaner and cement also. So it's on to the next, schedule 40 and its fittings which work very well for this project and at a cost you can live with.
It should be noted here that when your using PVC that you should use the proper PVC fittings of the same schedule and the proper cleaners and cement for that type of pvc. The clear cleaner that goes with the schedule 40 works very well and without the mess of the purple stuff, it just leaves you with a much better looking project.
 A few large white sticky balls were produced while trying different methods of building this boiler, but experimenting proved that the proper placement and type of fittings along with the lengths and the type of heating element made the system work very well and not turn into that white sticky ball.

The trick here is to make something that works not just once, but time after time, safely and without any problems.
 The utmost issue here is 'safety'. This system has been in use for about 1-1/2 years now (at the time of writing this article)and without any problems, when testing the boiler during the construction of this system the results need to show no leaks. (After construction is complete and cement has cured for 24hrs.) Be sure that there is no over heating of the boiler at any point and do all this with complete safety. And no interruption of the steaming when water is added during the steaming process. Here is where one must be ones own keeper, think before you act, if you don't know about something or are unsure, ask questions and get answers!
,, Building a 2x4" frame under the platform with locking wheels to make it both portable and keep it in place when in use. Note: Never move the platform and system when in use, this is unsafe for you and the system!!!