 Clean your side windows thoroughly, inside and out, using window cleaning solution and a squeegee. You may need to clean them two to three times to remove all the dirt. It is important to clean the glass carefully otherwise it will cause air bubbles on the film.










Remember to clean the gasket holding the window in place.
Use a razor blade to scrape off any residue.
 Unroll the film onto the inside of the window, liner side up (The sticky side is the film and the silk side is the liner). Trim the film to the approximate size of the window using a razor knife. Do this with extreme caution.










Always cut the film leaving at least one extra inch on each side, to ensure the entire window will be covered.
 Position the film so that the straight bottom edge extends to 1 quarter inch below the top of the inside casket. Using the razor knife, trim the vertical edges of the film first. Then lower the window down to about 2 inches (5.1 cm) and trim the film to fit the shape of the top of the window.










Make sure to press the knife gently to avoid any damage of the glass.
Accuracy with the trimming may require multiple tries to get desired shape.
 Spray the inside of the window generously with application solution. Next, peel off the film liner and spray the exposed adhesive with application solution.
 Carefully position the window film onto the glass, adhesive side facing the glass. Slide the film into place, starting at the bottom and working towards the top. The window should still be rolled down slightly.










Use a squeegee to press the film onto the glass, working from the middle out.
Apply more and more pressure as you feel the film begin to grab the glass. Make sure there are no air bubbles.
Roll up the window and continue placing the film into position on the bottom part of the window. Slip the end of the film underneath the window gasket.
Push all the water and soap towards the edge of the window, and blot away using a squeegee wrapped in paper towel.

