 Make sure that you have protein on hand, and cut out as many preparation steps as you can, so as to make it easily accessible. For example, you may be used to buying chicken breasts and cooking them yourself, but it may be a better use of energy to buy a rotisserie chicken.;
, Keep frozen dinners on hand, as well as protein bars. Frozen vegetables are much easier to quickly heat up in place of dealing with fresh ones, and you'll still get a lot of good nutrients from them.
 If your ability to get around the house comes and goes, keep things like protein bars and jerky near you at all times.
 If this type of planning ahead is too much work for you, consider a program that is able to deliver meals to you on a daily basis. They will also check in on you, and make sure that you are not stuck on the floor. Missing a meal may have disastrous consequences for your overall health, which is likely already very fragile.
 Keep a case in every room. Water bottles are better than cups, because you don't have to worry about keeping them upright. If you cannot get up, it is important to have water on hand, so be sure to plan ahead.


Consider adding an electrolyte mix, as many people with this disease experience Orthostatic Intolerance or Postural Orthostatic Hypotension.The electrolytes can help keep your blood pressure stable, and relieve some of these symptoms.
 Hygiene can be difficult to maintain. You are likely having enough trouble getting food for yourself, so hygiene may not feel very important. Take care of your hygiene needs when you are on the up-swing of the cycle. To help yourself, try some of the following suggestions:


Consider cutting your hair short to save trouble. If you have long hair that you cannot brush for a few days, it will take a colossal amount of energy to de-tangle all of the matting.
Keep a toothbrush nearby, with a bowl if you cannot get to a sink.
It is smart to have floss where you normally eat, because having things in your teeth can greatly contribute to headaches.
Consider getting an inflatable basin for washing hair. You can have clean hair even if you can't leave bed! Otherwise, dry shampoo may be a good option.
Wet wipes may also help if you cannot get into the shower.
 If you are lucky enough to have a caretaker or care provider, you may have a better option. Let this person know what particular needs you would like addressed and formulate a plan together that lets this happen in a way that preserves your dignity, minimizes the pain and helps you to feel better.
 To keep your place of living relatively clean, try not to make too many messes. This is a good strategy, because moving things takes energy twice: once to move them, and again to put them back.


Consider grilling, so that you don't have any dishes or dirty counters. Use parchment paper, too, so that your counter stays clean. Or, do a one-pot meal, so that only one pot gets dirty and can be left to soak until the next day.
Some items can be purchased that will do cleaning for you, such as robotic vacuums and mops. If you can't afford these, find someone you know who owns one and ask them if it's possible to borrow it occasionally.
 Many people have a cleaner for their home, to free up time to do other things. Moreover, it's standard to get help whenever you're injured or ill, so if you can afford it, do not feel guilty about making use of such help.


If you cannot afford household help, ask family members and friends if they're willing to give an hour or two of help here or there. With a group of people dropping by to do discrete tasks around the house, you can get a lot done without feeling as if you're expecting too much from anyone.
 Find things to do that don't require a lot of energy but occupy your mind and help you to focus on something beyond the pain.


If you can read, read. Sign up for your library's homebound program, or read ebooks to save the energy of leaving home.
If you can watch movies, do!
If you can play games on a digital device, this can be a source of soothing yourself. However, be very careful not to play too long or to sit in an awkward position, as your muscles will begin to hurt.
If you have a pet that is willing to stay with you, stroke the pet and talk to it. If you're up to it, brush the pet's fur. Spending time with a pet can be a peaceful and uplifting exercise.
People watch. If you have a room with a view, watch what people are doing outside; this can help you to feel connected with people as you observe their comings and goings.
Use scents in your room that you find pleasing. This can help you to feel a little happier than the stale odor of your room. Be sure to open the window to let in fresh air whenever you can. If this is hard to do, have somebody fix the window to make it easier to open.
 Do whatever you can to pull your mind away from the suffering. If it works for you, then it's appropriate.

