 Tea is versatile enough to allow for sale both in person and over the Internet. If you want to open up your own tea room you need to follow some of the same steps as for an online business, but particularize them for your business. A tea room will be in a fixed locality so when you research the market you are not looking at worldwide sales as much as what is going in your town, or where you plan to do your business.


Take a look around and evaluate areas where a tea room might be successful. Think about the neighbourhood and the businesses that are already there.
If there are already tea rooms nearby this could indicate a strong demand in the locality, but that doesn't necessarily mean there is enough demand to support a new tea room too.
The sunk costs and liabilities for this kind of business will likely be higher that an online business so be sure to research your local market thoroughly.
 Once you have decided which part of town to have your tea room you need to find the premises that will house your business. This is a decision that could make or break your business so don't rush it and regret it. Your location needs foot traffic as well as parking opportunities. It needs to be easily visible and easy to access.There might a tea room available to buy, so check your local listings. This could potentially save you money on furnishings, but it might be for sale because it's poorly positioned.
Remember that when you are negotiating a lease, everything is negotiable. Stick to your guns and don't get involved if you are not comfortable with the landlord.
Seek specialist legal advice for any contracts and lease agreements.
 The same principles of the business plan for an online tea shop apply. You should aim for a clear, concise and achievable business plan that is well-researched and fleshed out with all the detail you need. The trajectory, goals and strategies for a tea room will be different for an online store, but a clear timeline with estimated dates for break-even and turning a profit should still be the corner stones.


Other landmarks could include the date you sign for a lease on premises, by when you will have purchased or leased all the required equipment, and the date you begin the marketing campaign.Again, there are examples of tea room business plans you can read on the web for an outline., Just as with an online store you will need solid and dependable suppliers. If anything it is more important at a physical store. If someone has travelled to your tea room and you are out of stock, don't expect them to come back. In the initial period, when you don't really know how many people will come through your door, it's important to have enough stock.


Choose your teas carefully and test as many as possible. There are a huge number of tea varieties, and the ones you go for will help shape your tea room's identity., You will need to register your business with all the appropriate official bodies as well as having proper business banking arrangements. You should consult with a legal expert with specialist knowledge on small business start-ups and not take any chances with legal and financial stipulations.


The legal requirements will vary depending on where in the world you are, so be sure to seek expert help.You also need to investigate any licences and permits that you will require. These could include food hygiene and health and safety certificates for you and any staff.
 When you are getting ready to open your doors for business you need to have a clear idea of how it will look and what will distinguish it. As well as having a particular selection of teas, you might want to go for a particular look and atmosphere that you think will attract your target customers. Everything from decor, to music, to staff can have an impact on the impression someone gets when they come through the door.


Coffee and tea shops can develop a strong core of regulars who provide reliable and consistent custom for your business. This can make it hard to break in, but if you find your niche it can be very fruitful.As well as the decor, don't neglect the actual equipment that you will use to make teas and coffee. You can have a great looking tea room, but it is not likely to be successful if the drinks are lousy.
 Depending on the type of business and the customer base, marketing and advertising can be done on the Internet, through magazines, newspapers, or even in television commercials. If you are opening a local tea room, target your promotion in the nearby area. Consider using an online promotion on social media with special offers to attract customers at the start.


In an increasingly crowded market, it's essential to emphasise what makes your tea room unique and special.Think about the various ways to market your teas which will appeal to different people. Some will be attracted by the health benefits, others by the uniqueness and unfamiliarity.
Update your advertisements on a regular basis to stay fresh and attract new customers.

