 Familiarize yourself with all of the information in the books that were given to you and notes that you took while taking any required classes. Read through and memorize rules, road sign symbols, and other information that will be necessary to know during your test.This will take a little of the nervousness away because you’ll be mentally prepared to pass the test.
 Take advantage of having your learner’s permit and drive with someone as much as you can. Think about what they might ask you to do on the test, such as parallel parking, and practice executing those techniques. Have the person riding in the car with you grade you on your driving skills and learn from their constructive criticism., If you schedule your test early in the day instead of in the afternoon or evening, you’ll have less time to obsess about it and overthink everything. Otherwise, your anxiety might build up throughout the day and throw you off., Well beforehand, make sure you have all of the documents together that you’ll need on the day of your road test. This might include your permit, your insurance, and a form of identification. Having these things all in one place and ready to go prevents you from becoming flustered moments before your test while you’re digging through your bag to find a required document., It’s especially important that you’re eating right the day before and the morning of your test. Don’t skip any meals and stay away from excessive amounts of sugar, because sugar might make you jittery or lethargic.

Consider bringing a banana to the DMV for a quick, healthy, energetic snack that’ll help you focus during your test., You might want to load up on coffee before your test, especially if you had trouble sleeping the night before. Unreasonable amounts of caffeine will only make you more agitated and on-edge. Instead, stay hydrated with water and calm yourself with a camomile tea., Especially if you’re already on the verge of being nervous, running late will probably extinguish any chance you have at a calm and confident mindset. Leave your home with plenty of time to get to the DMV, and once you’re there and waiting, read a book, watch TV, or check social media on your phone to distract your mind.