 If the person is married, and particularly if the person is your friend's spouse, you need to draw the line on their flirtations. Make sure to quickly and directly shut down their advances. While it may feel good have others hit on you, avoid getting that attention from your friend's spouse.Be direct and clear. For example, say, "No, I'm not interested."
If they hit on you with more than just words, make sure to create physical space between you and them. Remove their hand if it's inching towards you. Switch chairs if they are coming over to sit next to you. Walk away to a different area of the room. Say, "Excuse me. I'm not interested."
If you think they're flirting but aren't sure, consider saying, "Not sure if I'm misinterpreting this, but it feels like you're hitting on me and I'm not interested."
Avoid lecturing them or criticizing them. It is better for you to reject them and create distance between the two of you. This will enforce your boundaries.;
, If they seem to be undeterred by your decline, and they continue to hit on you, make it clear that you are good friends with their spouse. This can help them to understand that you value your friendship more.


If they don't know you well, explain how you know their spouse. Make it clear that there would be serious repercussions if they continue to flirt.
If they know that you're friends, explain how long or close your relationship is with their spouse.
Consider saying things like, "You know I've known your spouse for three years. Our offices are just a few doors down from each other. She's a great person."

, While you may feel awkward, creeped out, or uneasy after being hit on by your friend's spouse, focus on remaining calm. Just make sure that your words and actions make it clear that you're not interested.Avoid getting too anxious or upset with your friend's spouse, unless they are sexually harassing or touching you inappropriately. If so, say, "Stop. That's really inappropriate."
Most likely they will make a comment or move that is suggestive rather than direct. Be calm and direct in your response back. If they think that they're making a joke, then say, "That's not very funny."
Avoid smiling, touching, or flirting back when they hit on you. This may suggest that you are giving mixed signals. Avoid any suggestive actions that could lead to further flirtation.
 Does your friend's spouse seem to be a flirtatious person, and enjoys complimenting others regularly? It may feel awkward, but this might just be the nature of their behavior to most people. Consider how "hitting on someone" can mean different things to different people.


Pay attention to their actions around others. For example, if the spouse is flirtatious with you, think about how she acts later on at a social event. Does the spouse seem to say things like, "You look handsome in that suit" to many other people at the event?
See if the spouse seems to hang around you more than your friend. If she seems to stick close to your friend, rather than you, there may be less need to worry.
 Do their actions seem squarely directed at you? They may want to find ways to be near you and talk with you more exclusively. Be aware not just of their words, but their body language.For example, does the spouse follow you at a dinner party, and seem to hang on your every word? Do they find ways to touch your shoulder, hands, or legs? This may be a more worrisome encounter.
Be mindful of how this may seem to other people. If there are other people present when the spouse hits on you, consider getting the perspective of others that you trust about whether it did seem like a come-on.
 Does the spouse make you feel uncomfortable when they are around you? Are they blunt and direct in their suggestion that they want to sleep with you or that they find you sexually appealing? Any unwanted sexual behavior that pressures you can be considered harassment.Notice their words or body language. If their words are graphic, vulgar, or very blunt, this could more likely be harassment if it makes you feel uneasy, intimidated, and offended.
Consider how their flirtation has developed. Is this a sudden attempt or has it been building for some time? Has it gotten worse recently? If they keep trying to get away with more and more, it may be harassment.
Do they suggest that they want to touch you in your private areas? This could also be a sign of harassment.
Sexual harassment is more about control and power. The spouse may feel like they can get away with certain unwelcome comments or actions.
 Depending on what transpired and what the actual remarks were, you may or may not want to tell your friend about what happened. If the situation made you feel very uncomfortable, and makes you question your friend's relationship with their spouse, it may help to lessen your anxiety if you talk with your friend.Some situations merit more action than others. For instance, if your friend's spouse blatantly told you, "I find you very attractive. Do you want to step outside with me privately for a moment?" this is a clear implication that they want you and are willing to act on their flirtation.
On the other hand, if it's more suggestive and without any touching, you may be less inclined to ruffle feathers and make more of the situation that it was. For example, your friend's spouse says, "You look very nice in that dress." This is more of a compliment than a come-on.
 If you're at a dinner party for example, there may be opportunities to watch what your friend's spouse does with other people there. This may give you hints about their personality, and their actions around others they may be attracted to. If you have known your friend and their spouse for a long time, it may be a different approach.If your friend's spouse has shown an interest in you just for an evening, and that's all, it may not be something to question or be anxious about with your friend.
If your friend's spouse has shown an interest in you, and in other people, both now and in the past, this may be sign that the spouse has a wandering eye, and may be more likely to cheat.
Think about your past and current interactions with the spouse. If their personality and actions make you feel uneasy, it may be worthwhile to let your friend know.
 If and when you decide to talk with your friend about their spouse hitting on you, make sure to come with some facts handy, rather than general statements that are filled with emotion only. This can help to provide clear details to your friend about what to do next.If your friend is not already aware of their spouse's actions, they need to understand the who, what, where, and when of the situation. Provide when it occurred, where it occurred, who was present, and what was said or done.
Try to keep the situation clear and simple without providing exaggerated or highly emotional details. Even if the situation was upsetting for you, simply be direct and say, "I was upset about something that your spouse did. Here's the facts of what happened..."

, Avoid turning the situation into gossip. Make the situation known to your friend in private without others present. This helps your friend to "save face" and be less in the spotlight of the situation.


Whether or not you decide to tell your friend, avoid talking first with other friends or other people who are likely to gossip or share this information inadvertently.
Allow for privacy on a sensitive matter such as a spouse's indiscretions. This could led to spousal conflict among your friend and their spouse. Make the situation a delicate matter.
Realize that your friend may not react well to this conversation. They may become defensive, upset, or angry. You may still want to have the conversation so that they are aware of their spouse's behaviors.
 Learn if your friend has been concerned in the past or present about their spouse, their flirtatious behaviors, or their possible indiscretions. If they have confided in you that their spouse has cheated or shown interest in other men or women, this may help you to understand your friend's perspective.Consider asking your friend, after they have confided in you about their concerns, whether or not they would want to know of their spouse's flirtatious behaviors towards you or other friends. If they seem defensive, or say no, this may be a sign that they are not ready to talk about what happened when their spouse hit on you.
Notice if there are any warning signs in what the friend says about their spouse's behavior, such as the spouse seems to look a lot at other women, the spouse is very flirtatious with everyone they see, and this makes the friend feel uneasy about their marriage. This may be a sign that the friend is aware, but unsure of what to do about their spouse.
 As a friend, it's important to be supportive, caring, and understanding to someone whose spouse is acting inappropriately. See this situation as an opportunity to be helpful to your friend, and try to prevent awkward interactions from happening in the future.Listen to what is bothering your friend about their spouse and their life in general.
If you are very concerned about their marriage, ask about if the friend and their spouse have open and honest communication about their needs and frustrations. If the friend seems to have difficulty with communicating with their spouse, this may be a matter of finding help for their marriage.
Reassure your friend that you have no intention of being with their spouse, and that you understand the importance of friendship. Give them hope that their spouse's indiscretions will not impact how the two of you support one another.

