 Choose a space that's quiet and unlikely to have a lot of distractions. Ideally, pick a spot in your home. This way, you can have all your study supplies in one place and won't have to carry them from place to place.Make sure you find a space with good lighting. Dim lights will make it hard to focus.
Select a spot that's free of loud noises or commotion.
Make sure the spot has good seating. If you're slouching or feel strained, you'll struggle to focus on your homework.
Find a space with a big desk or table you can use to spread out your supplies.
An office in your home, a desk in your bedroom, or the kitchen table can work great as a study space.;
, You want to make sure you leave distractions out of your study space. Unless you need them for an assignment, keep electronic devices like laptops, phones, and iPads/iPods out of your study space. Make sure the space where you work is quiet. Do not study in front of the television, for example., A home study kit can be placed near your work station. It should include all the items you need to get your work done. You can keep these items in a small container, like a shoebox. Fill it with some of the following, and anything else you need for homework on a daily basis:Pens and pencils
Scrap paper
A calculator
Ruler
Crayons or pens
A dictionary

, You need to keep your study space neat. After it's set up, it will start to fall apart quickly if you don't clean it regularly. At the end of each week, give you study space a quick cleaning.Remove any old tests and papers. Place them in a separate area, or throw them out if you no longer need them.
If you were eating or drinking anything in your study space, remove it from the area.
 It's vital to remember deadlines in order to stay organized. Each time something is assigned, write down the deadline somewhere. This will help you keep track of what needs to be worked on immediately and what can wait a few days.Keep a list of deadlines on a sheet of paper. Pin it up somewhere in your study space.
If you have a planner, write down when an assignment is due there.
Mark due dates on calendars. Use both electronic calendars and any paper calendars in your home. It may be helpful to have a calendar hung up in your workspace.
 You want to get on a schedule. This will help you stay organized and on top of assignments. Try to choose a specific time each day to do homework. Strive to stick to the schedule, even on the days you are busy or feel stressed.While you may want to get your homework over with, studying right after school may not be the best idea. Give yourself an hour or so to unwind before attempting your homework.
Find a time that works each day. You could try to do your homework about an hour after school, shortly before dinner, for example.
 Do not try to work through all your homework at once, especially if you have a lot of homework that week. When you start to feel stressed, take a break.You can do something fun for a few minutes, like returning some text messages, watching a video online, or reading for fun.
You can also simply get up and move around. Light physical activity, such as stretching or walking around, can really help you regain your focus.
 Checklists can help you keep track of everything you need to get done. Have a to-do list for each day where you write down all your homework assignments.In addition to writing down homework assignments, a to-do list can also help you break down big tasks. You can, for example, decide to write one page of a five page paper every day leading up to the due date. You can write something on your checklist like, "Write 1 page of research paper."
When you finish an assignment, cross it off your list. This can help you feel accomplished.
 A planner is an important tool when it comes to organization. Go to a department store or office supply store and choose a nice planner. Use it to keep track of assignments and upcoming tests and quizzes.Write down homework assignments as they're assigned. You should also flip ahead in the planner and mark when something is due.
If you have a syllabus with the dates of tests, quizzes, and due dates, go ahead and write down these dates in your planner.
Carry your planner to each class and refer to it at home when doing your homework.
 Color coding is a classics means of organization. If you color code your class supplies, you'll be able to quickly find the right materials when doing homework.You should try to color code all your course materials. For example, have a pink textbook cover, pink folder, and pink notebook for your math class. For your English class, have a red textbook cover, red folder, and red notebook.
 It's a good idea to have each folder for your separate classes follow a specific organization structure. This way, you'll be able to better keep track of papers between classes.You can have one side of your folder store new assignments, while the other stores completed assignments and in-class activities.
You can also have separate sections for things like syllabi and assignment sheets. In addition to having a folder for each class, keep a folder where you store these types of papers.
You should also have an electronic storage system in place. You should, for example, have separate folders on your desktop for each class.
 You should have all your study materials in once place in your home. You should also have a small pencil box or other small container to carry to school. Keep things like a pair of scissors, a calculator, pens, pencils and other items you need in this box.You can even organize how you store your supplies. If you, say, have a lot of materials you need for math class, have a separate container for math class.
 As with your study space, backpacks and folders benefit from regular cleaning. Clean them out once every couple of weeks. Remove any papers you no longer need, and any other garbage that has built up.Be careful when throwing out papers, however. You never know when you may need to refer back to a homework assignment. It may be a good idea to store all your old papers in one place and only throw them out at the end of the semester.

