 The first step would be to search for books on set design, preferably ones that give step by step guidelines for design which a young designer can follow. As quickly as possible, find a more experienced designer or technical director to mentor you. Also listen to advice from stage carpenters, painters, and other theater folk. Gain experience with as many kinds of theatrical spaces and show types as you can. Continue to read and study about set design and building, but also about architecture, interior design, art, design history, etc. Set designers need a wide knowledge base. They also need some artistic skill, since drawing, painting, and (in model building) sculpture are the main ways to explain visual ideas. As your knowledge, experience, and skills increase, your set design will become stronger and faster.;
,, Keep a sketchbook with you and draw every day. Consider taking a life drawing or painting class. Talented designers do not have to have virtuoso drawing skills, but improving your ability helps you both to design and to present design ideas. Drawing is a designer's way of explaining. Many media are used: pencil, pen and ink, or computer drawings are common as are colored pencil, gouache or watercolor paintings, or computer renderings. Models are also important to explain scenic designs. These design ideas must finally be drafted to scale as construction drawings for the scene shop. Hand-drafting has been the standard method but, increasingly, computer drafting is taking over that role.
 Many fine designers, however, come to theater design by other routes. Those hiring a designer generally care more about previous work and reputation, than about a degree.
 Get involved with theater as a volunteer; expect to start small, assisting a set designer, working as a set dresser, or assisting a prop designer. Help paint and build sets. Many young designers get their start working with high schools, community theatres, and/or summer theatre companies. Most jobs will come through who you know and what you prove you can do, but some of these places post job listings online at websites such as Backstagejobs.com or on their own websites. Summer companies tend to recruit at regional conferences such as the "Southeastern Theatre Conference" (SETC) where companies can interview on mass for their summer season. There are also companies like Disney and Carnival Cruise that look for longer contracts if you're interested. These conferences also offer the opportunity for theatre professionals to network and share their craft.
 Don't wait for the job to start designing. Pick a play, read it, and design it. Non-realized or "Paper" projects may be what give you the chance to design a fully realized project.
 Never leave a project without making sure you have photos and/or drawings of your work and process to show your next potential client your talent.

