 Whether you’re using the diamonds or cross pocket lines, there will always be some degree of inaccuracy. By striking the cue or object ball forcefully at either edge, you can generate a little English, or lateral ball spin. English is useful for helping overcome imprecise angles and making sure that the ball enters the pocket from just the right direction.English refers to the left or right rotation of a ball, and is not be confused with topspin.A good example of when English might be necessary is when you have the angle of your shot zeroed in but striking the ball directly would cause it to deflect off the rails.
 Striking a ball with medium-to-high force causes it to skid rather than roll, which results in a truer banking angle. It also eliminates other factors that can interfere with your shot, like friction and drag from the felt. A gentler stroke, on the other hand, will give you more control over cue ball spin and English, which can come in handy for delicate shots.The power you put into your stroke will usually be determined by the distance between the cue and object balls, and between the balls and the rails., Sometimes, you won’t have a clear path to a straight or banked shot. In these situations, banking the cue ball off the rails allows you to bypass obstacles and sink a ball in the process. It will then be a cinch to pull off shots that wouldn’t otherwise be possible.Kick shots are also a good way to avoid fouls, since they don’t require you to risk contacting the other player’s balls.
Unless you excel at kick shots, it’s typically safest to use them as a last resort.
 When it comes to getting a feel for the table, there’s no substitute for simply playing more. Even if a shot makes sense to you on theoretical level, you might have to attempt it dozens of times before you get the hang of it. This is especially true of bank shots, which force you to analyze the table and showcase impeccable technique.Make use of drills designed to refine your ability to size up bank shots on the fly.Start challenging players who are more skilled than you to gain crucial experience.

