 Prepare your hoodie for washing by closing the zipper to protect your fabric from snagging. This also prevents damage to the zipper teeth., When washing by hand, you need something to hold enough water to wash your clothing. Great options include your sink, a bucket, or a large cooking pot.
 As you pour water into the wash container, pour in your soap. Gently stir the soapy water to mix it well.


Don’t add too much soap. While you want a clean hoodie, too much soap will be hard to rinse out. Plus, excess soap attracts dirt and bacteria, keeping it in the fabric.Remember that laundry detergent is formulated for a full load, so don’t measure out a whole cup of laundry detergent. A teaspoon is recommended for small items.If you have a thicker hoodie, add a little extra.
 Place your hoodie into the water after you have mixed in the soap. Press it down with your hand until the entire hoodie is under the water., Let your hoodie sit in the container of soapy water for a few minutes so that it will absorb the detergent., Gently move your hoodie around the wash container. Be careful not to scrub the fabric because you may damage it., Lift your hoodie from the wash container and gently squeeze out some of the excess water. Avoid twisting your hoodie because that can damage it., Using a colander will help you rinse the soap from your hoodie without risking damage to the fabric.A colander is a bowl that has holes so that you can drain water. If you don’t have a colander, check if your pots came with a basket to steam veggies.
If you lack kitchen supplies, you could try a large funnel.
 While your hoodie is still in the colander, run cold water over it to rinse out the detergent.If you can’t find anything to rinse your hoodie in, just fill the wash container with clean water and rinse it that way.
Check to make sure that you’ve washed out all of the detergent by smelling the fabric. If you catch a strong whiff of soap, rinse your hoodie again., Gently squeeze your hoodie to remove the excess water. Don’t twist it because twisting will damage the fabric of your hoodie., Find a flat surface that won’t be damaged by dripping water, such as a countertop.

