 When it comes to making the UPS corporation run smoothly, there are two main pathways: the IT department and logistics and operations. If you want a job that involves working behind the scenes, consider these paths.


The information technology department of UPS works on continually renovating the technological aspects of the UPS corporation to assure things run smoothly. This position is great for someone with a background in computing, mechanics, or engineering.Logistics and operations make sure all aspects of UPS run together smoothly. This field is essentially responsible with connecting the dots between all other aspects of the UPS corporation. Requirements and experience vary greatly as a wide array of different professionals and with varying levels of interest are needed for logistics and operations jobs., Jobs in IT or logistics vary greatly in their requirements. There are a variety of educational pathways you can take to land one of the positions. Unlike driving/handling positions and customer service positions, these jobs usually require some level of higher education.


Education requirements for information technology jobs depend on which field you want to specialize in. If you're interested in streamlining how UPS trucks operate, a degree in automotive engineering might help. If you're more interested in jobs in computing, a computer science degree might be a worthwhile investment.
A logistics and operations job may require an associate's or bachelor's degree depending on the position. As your job involves streamlining UPS services, a degree in something like chain management or process engineering can help you see how the inside structure of businesses operate. There may also be certifications to obtain, depending state, in things like business management. These might be a good supplement to an education and help you stand out on the job market.In short, as UPS jobs are so diverse pursue your personal interests and passions and see how they fit with the UPS corporation.
 You should start looking for experience early on in high school and college. This can help you stand out to UPS employees when you apply for a position at the company.


If you want to work in information technology, having a tech background is key. Work in computer repairs for a few years. Take a few classes in technology or computer science. Work at a local mechanics to learn about car repair.
Experience working behind the scenes in businesses can help with a logistics and operations job. Try to get a part time job at a local business that allows you to work behind the scenes to help the business run smoothly.
Look for internships in the fields that interest you during college and high school. This can help set you apart from the competition when applying for a job. Ask your college career counselor to point you in the direction of good internship opportunities.

