 Blacklights are staples for psychedelic rooms. Paired with some posters, or even just a lot of white fabrics, black lights lend a trippy, hazy quality to any bedroom.Blacklights can be long, cylindrical lights, or you can purchase standard-sized black light bulbs to be placed in a lamp or overhead light.;
, To create a muted, flowy look, drape transparent scarves over your lamps each time you turn them on. This will soften the light of the lamp, and create different tones depending on the color of the scarf.Most thrift stores have an abundance of vintage scarves, so there is no need to spend a lot of money to achieve this effect.
 Lightweight curtains are a must for the windows, as they also mute light and create a softer, lighter touch. Avoid covering up all of the light coming in through the windows with heavy blinds or heavy, dark curtains. Opt for sheer curtains. Psychedelic rooms thrive on sunlight during the day.Rely on natural light as much as possible. Natural light creates a hazy, dreamy effect that artificial lighting cannot quite replicate.
 String lights are great for drawing attention to a large tapestry, highlighting a rustic wooden headboard, or even curled around the base of your mid-century furniture. Although you can use standard Christmas tree lights, many companies now have smaller LED lights in various colors and shapes.


Some companies have string lights that run on solar power. This can lend a hand to a hippie vibe in your room, as solar power reduces the need for carbon-based power sources.
 The final piece of the lighting puzzle is a lava lamp. Although they don’t give off a ton of light, the dancing shapes and trippy lava effect are absolute staples in creating a psychedelic, 60s and 70s themed room.If you are buying a lava lamp secondhand, request to plug it in before purchasing. The elements of the lamp can break down over time, and dissipate entirely, or stop warming enough to move around in the lamp.
 You can purchase vintage memorabilia on Ebay, Etsy, or in thrift stores, or you can make use of stores such as Target that occasionally carry items in the style of the psychedelic era. Memorabilia might be larger, including bean bag chairs, or might be small, such as a mushroom-themed trinket.You can also make use of wicker, whether that is in the form of baskets, shelves, or furniture.
 Although black lights are great on their own, they really pop when paired with black light posters with cool designs and wild colors. Stores such as Wal-Mart frequently carry black light posters, but they can also be found on sites such as Ebay and Etsy.Black light posters are widely varied, so you can probably find a poster that you’ll like. Designs include flowers, buses, landscapes, mandalas, and even abstract designs.
 Draping, flowing fabric is a staple of psychedelic decorating, so adorn your walls with large tapestries of peace signs, celestial bodies, mandalas, and other psychedelic images.A lot of companies sell simple, light tapestries that can be hung up with a pushpin or temporary hook. If you live in a dorm or apartment, these will help you decorate without doing any damage to the walls.
 When searching for decor for your psychedelic room, look for peace signs, VW vans, and mushrooms, as all of these items are associated with the psychedelic lifestyle and decor of the 60s and 70s.If you have tie-dye clothing or clothing featuring psychedelic imagery, you can also hang these up on the wall or a hanging rack and use them as a form of decoration.
 Flowers featured prominently in the hippie culture, and are a great way to invite a psychedelic vibe into your room. Pick wildflowers and place them in a vase in a macramé plant holder, or braid wildflower crowns to wear on your head or hang over your dresser mirror.If you don’t have wildflowers or are in the midst of winter, you can also bring fake flowers into your decor, focusing on sunflowers and other bright, sunny options.
 Mid-century furniture is a great addition to your psychedelic room, including beanbag chairs, record stands, and loveseats. Many of these items can be found for a good price at thrift and antique stores.Mid-century furniture is currently enjoying a moment, so try to find pieces in thrift stores or replicas in department stores to avoid a hefty price tag.
 The 60s and 70s were all about high-pile carpets. Whether you have carpet, tile, laminate, or hardwood flooring, amp up your 70s style by including a high-pile rug in your room.High-pile rugs are not as popular as they once were, but most large hardware stores such as Lowe’s and Home Depot possess a wide variety of rug options.
 Burning incense and candles will lend an air of mystery to your room and bring a hippie atmosphere to your space. Candles typically burn cleaner, while incense will release a bit more smoke.There are some scents associated with the 60s and 70s, including patchouli, nag champa, and earthy oils such as cedar and sandalwood.
If you are sensitive to smoke or scents, make sure you keep a window open or a fan going.
 Plants clean the air in your home and provide you with oxygen. Hippies are known for their attachment to the earth and nature, so bringing a bit of nature into your room with you will lend to a psychedelic atmosphere.Research your plants before you purchase, as some plants are toxic to pets if ingested. If you do have pets, try to keep your plants off of the floor or similarly out of reach.
 A psychedelic room will be rendered less so by deep, rich, saturated colors. Most 60s and 70s decorating opted instead for muted colors such as mustard yellow, mint green, or robin’s egg blue.Before painting the entire room, paint a few strips to make sure the color is one you like. If you cannot paint, you can stick to tapestries and wall hangings to create the right ambiance.
 Remember those breezy curtains you installed? Let their natural, flowing beauty shine with a light breeze coming in through the open window. This will help lend an air of mystery and earthiness to your psychedelic room--a staple of hippie culture.


Make sure your windows have screens installed before opening them, as all manner of creatures might want to enjoy the lights and warmth of your room.
 Room separating beads were all the rage in the 70s. If you want more privacy for your room, you can use the closet opening to make use of beads instead of the main entrance.Beads vary in both texture and color. Whether you prefer a muted vibe (browns and creams) or you like bright pops of neon color, there is a bead curtain for you.
Beads can be purchased online from retailers such as Amazon and Etsy, and have enjoyed a comeback in stores such as Target.
 Music was a powerful tool for change in the 60s and 70s. To round out your psychedelic ambiance, set aside a space for a record player (new or vintage) and your favorite records.Many new artists release their work on vinyl in addition to CD and digital downloads.
If you do not want to spend a lot of money, you can usually find vinyl for good prices at thrift and antique stores.

