 In addition to treating standing water with larvicide, you can also introduce species that like to feed on mosquito larvae. Try stocking ponds with top feeding predacious minnows.Controlling adult mosquitoes is more challenging. It may help to attract predators such as bats, birds, dragonflies, and frogs to your yard. You can do so by providing nesting areas for bats and birds and a garden and pond for dragonflies and frogs.
You might also consider raising chickens in your yard to help control your mosquito population., Adult mosquitoes like to lounge in shrubs and tall grass, so try to eliminate these habitats as much as possible. This is especially important in areas very close to your house., If you have a serious mosquito problem in your yard, you may want to consider contacting a company to have it professionally treated with chemicals. These treatments are typically effective for several weeks at a time. The active ingredient is most often Pyrethrum, which kills most insects, but is believed to pose a low toxicity risk for humans.If you are concerned about killing beneficial insects or overusing pesticides, you can also purchase non-residual fogs, which repel mosquitoes for short periods of time, but do not harm beneficial insects. These products are ideal for use right before an outdoor gathering.
 Citronella is an organic insect repellent that is available in various forms, such as candles and oils. It is effective in repelling mosquitoes, but only in very small areas.If you are gathering for an outdoor meal, place several citronella candles on the table for the best results.
 There are many different kinds of mosquito traps on the market, and most of them have mixed reviews. There is little independent evidence that proves that bug zappers, ultrasonic repellents, vacuum traps, or similar devices are particularly effective, but you may find that one of these products does work for you.There are new products coming out all the time. Before you purchase one, research it thoroughly and ask the manufacturer if they offer a satisfaction guarantee.
 Using an outdoor fan in the immediate area where you will be spending time outdoors may help repel mosquitoes. This technique is especially helpful for outdoor meals, when everyone will remain in one area.