 Although the path of an MMA fighter is straightforward, at the same time it requires 100% dedication and hard work. You need help from others for training and guidance. So, place your ego aside and never be reluctant to ask others for help. You also need to make up your mind to follow this grueling path. Stay focused on what you want to achieve and toil away in groups to make a mark.;
, You don’t necessarily need to join a high profile gym or club at this early stage. Find any club that has all the basic equipment and qualified trainer who will help you with your basics. Even if you can’t afford to pay the gym fee, don’t worry; just remember that all the top champions started from zero.
 It is quite important what and how the trainer trains you so you must find yourself a good, expert trainer who has all the knowledge regarding MMA. He will get you trained in the best way possible in order to become a pro mixed martial artist quickly.


Coaching styles and tracking progress: Ask you coach what coaching style he follows, some coaches are very aggressive while others have a calmness about their methods of teaching. Now it’s up to you, if you can work with their coaching style, if you can’t then it’s better to find a coach who is able to help you. Remember the coach can only show you the right direction and it’s up to you to follow it. You must also tract your progress on daily basic, if you think there is no progress then start looking for a new trainer.
Fitness trends and injury preventive strategies: Fitness is the most important aspect of all combat sports. For this you need to research on latest trends in fitness and see if you can follow them, but before starting anything take advice from your trainer if you can follow them. Injuries are part and parcel of any MMA athlete, ask your trainer to help you with techniques that prevent injuries.
 Your health undoubtedly plays a vital role in your performance. You need a healthy and a fit body if you want to excel in mixed martial arts. You must eat sufficient amount of proper, nutritious food and drink plenty of water daily. Moreover, you should sleep well as it keeps both, your body and mind fresh. You should stay away from drugs and alcohol as they affect your body very badly.


Eat healthy food- Stuff yourself with carbohydrates as they give the much needed energy before the workout. Eat lots of protein as they will help you build muscle. Go easy on fat, good fats (saturated fats) are fine but stay away from bad fat (unsaturated fats), which are very bad for your health.
Take lot of fluids- Water is extremely important for you to remain hydrated, so drink lot of water throughout the day. Besides water, drink lots of fresh juices that will give you much needed energy.
 The gear which you use for fighting, training and practicing has a great impact on your performance and results so you need to buy the best MMA gear and equipment for yourself before starting your MMA journey. You can seek help from your trainer and search the internet to make sure that you get appropriate gear. Furthermore, you shouldn’t go for cheap equipment to save money.
 Even though defence is must, exceptional attacking skills are also mandatory if you want to reach the top. So you need to practice attack in several ways. There are many exercises and workouts which help you improve your attack efficiently. Consult your trainer and start improving your attack to get remarkable attacking skills.
 Defence is the best offence. You must develop outstanding defensive skillset if you want to stay undefeated throughout your professional MMA career. You must know how to block your opponent’s punches and when to throw the right punch. Start using intelligence along with strength and see how you achieve success in no time.
 Shadowboxing is a technique which is used to practice and analyse your skills. You can improve your footwork, attacking and defensive skills using this method. In this method, you fight in the ring without facing an opponent and practice all the moves which you are supposed to use inside the ring while facing an opponent.
 An individual develops a dominant hand right from the start, after birth. Dominant hand is the one that is used the most. Well, developing the stance also depends on your dominant hand. The majority of the population is right handed while only 7-10% of the population is left handed and they also tend to have a little ambidexterity in them. The fighting stance is the most vital factor that a fighter needs to learn in any type of Martial Art. Proper stance allows the fighter for strong and effortless movement and easy transference of force. The stances are of two types and one needs to choose one of them:


Southpaw – it is the stance in which fighter has his right hand and foot forward. He uses right jabs followed with let cross and right hook. This stance is common in left-handed boxers.
Orthodox – orthodox is simply the mirror image of southpaw stance and is common in right handed boxers. A traditional orthodox stance is the one in which fighter has his left foot in front of the right one.
 There are some fighting techniques that are necessary for an MMA fighter. Like bending you knees, never dropping your guard, and keeping a good defence. You will perfect these techniques with the help of you trainer over the period of time. You need to study the sport and learn from experience during an actual fight.


Bend your knees- By keeping your knees bent you can ease your movement in any direction. This give you freedom to defend, attack and counter attack.
Never drop your guard- When you are facing your opponent never drop your guard, this is very important whether you are a budding or expert MMA fighter. Keep your hands up to protect your face or elbows tucked in to protect your rib cage.
Fight from you head- MMA is not just about aggression alone; there are times when you need to defend and you can defend well if you have the ability to dodge your opponent. It is also far less damaging as compared to blocking. Blocking not only protects you but it also gives you a counter attacking option.
 Nowadays, social media is one of the best ways to get famous and popular. So you need to target all those who are connected through different social networks like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, YouTube, Tumblr, etc. To build your audience, you should upload the videos of your fights in which you performed amazingly.
 There’s no shortcut to success. You should not wait for a big fight (which is never gonna happen unless you show the world what you’re capable of) and start signing contracts with small fighters. You need to make sure that you don’t lose any fight (big or small) if you want to make history in MMA.
 Once you start winning small fights, you can contact sponsors and get yourself financed so that you can sign contracts with good fighters too. When you start winning big fights, you’ll definitely hit the eyes of many people and get famous pretty soon. You should keep this in mind that if you fail to win even a single fight in the beginning of your sponsorship, your sponsor will lose faith in you and stop financing you.
 When you defeat some good fighters, you’ll be able to challenge the top-class, renowned fighters. And if you win even a single fight against a well-known fighter, you’ll hit the highlights rapidly. Then your dream will start coming true. But you must know that winning against the big ones is not that easy so you have to get yourself trained in the best way.
 As soon as you start defeating expert mixed martial artists, you’ll be able to challenge the title holders in your weight class. And when you sign a contract with a champion, train hard for the fight against him and knock him down in the ring, you’ll reach your ultimate goal and become a world champion.
 Becoming a champion is a dream come true but that’s not all. When you wrap a belt around your waist, you need to make sure that no one steals it from you. You have to continue your legacy and keep fighting as hard as you can. That’s how you’ll become a legend in MMA.
 Building connections is very important nowadays. Visit as many fights and meet promoters. Another great way to build connections quickly is by visit people who are related to sport. You will find them on fight nights at the competitions. There you will also meet promoters, and introduce yourself to them. If they get impressed by you then they will help you arrange big fights for you, which will be very beneficial for your career.

