 Over the course of this project, you're going to paint changes onto an old painting to make it unique, new, and interesting. Any supplies that you don't have on hand can be purchased at a local general retailer, hobby store, or hardware store. You'll need:


Drop cloth (optional; recommended)
Old painting (or print)
Paint (acrylic recommended)
Paintbrush
Cup (for cleansing paintbrush)
Paper towel
Pencil
Palette (or paper plate)
Paper
Pliers (optional);
, In most cases, small fasteners will hold your picture in place in the frame. These can usually be released with your hand, but for especially old paintings or stubborn fasteners, you may need to use a tool, like a screwdriver, to remove the painting.


Frequently, you'll find a rigid piece of cardboard or card stock can be behind the painting, also held in place by the fasteners. Remove this as well, if necessary.
Some paintings may be nailed into the frame. Grasp these nails with pliers and twist while pulling gently to remove nails., Take stock of your painting. Look for spots where you might add a character, animal, or some other kind of embellishment. For example, you might add a pop culture image to your old painting, like a zombie, a character from a favorite TV show or movie, or something to this effect.You may want practice the image you plan on adding on a scrap piece of paper before modifying the painting.
If you're unsure of your freehand painting ability, you might want to make and use a stencil.
 You might want to lay down a drop cloth or newspaper on your work surface to prevent these from getting stained by drips or spatter. Fill your cup with water so you can easily cleanse your paintbrush of paint and switch to new colors. Pour the paint you will use on a palette or paper paint so it is accessible.
 Dip a clean paintbrush in your paint and wipe off excess paint on your palette or paper plate.Then, apply the base layer of paint, which will be the main color of your image. Then allow the paint to dry.Some examples of base layers include: brown for a brown dog, yellow for a giraffe, orange for a fox, black for a black cat, skin tone for a human, and so on.
If painting directly over top the old painting is daunting, you can trace your desired image, paint it separately, then glue it into place on the painting.
Depending on the kind of paint you are using, the drying time will vary. Check and follow your paint's label instructions for best results.
 Now that the base layer is dry, you can add detail to your image. However, less experienced painters might want to keep these simple to minimize errors. Cleanse your brush of paint by swirling it thoroughly in your cup of water, wipe excess moisture from the brush onto a piece of paper towel, reapply paint to the brush, and add your accents.Some details you might add include things like: eyes, nose(s), mouth(s), clothing, glasses, and so on.
Remember to cleanse your brush and remove excess moisture from it when you switch colors. Otherwise, the colors will mix and change.
Allow your detail work to dry completely before returning the picture to the frame. Check the label for best results, but generally, paint should be dry in 24 hours.
 Slide your modified painting back into its frame. If there is a rigid cardboard/card stock backing, replace this as well. Then close the fasteners to hold the painting in place. Your upcycled painting is ready to be hung.

