 You may find it necessary to rearrange your bedroom furniture. Doing so will open up spaces that are good potential nooks. Pick a spot that's as quiet as possible. You do not want a lot of loud noises, such as a radio or TV, to disturb your peaceful little getaway., Do you want a big fluffy chair that swallows you up? Do you want a chair that you can curl up in? Do you prefer a bunch of pillows on the floor or a beanbag instead? Or do you want a woven bench that doubles as a coffee table and an ottoman?, Ample light is the perfect way to capitalize on moments of inspiration that might come to you as you read. Find a light that strikes a balance between lighting needs and your level of comfort.For daytime reading, nothing beats glorious daylight. If it gets too bright, pull across the curtains to prevent the direct sunlight from beaming onto your reading material.
For reading at night, a simple lamp will do, as long as it is adjustable. Another option is to buy a desk or floor lamp.
 The most important part of a reading nook is comfort. It must be something that appeals to you and encourages you to curl up in it time after time. Think of softness and textures that delight you. Do not use anything that you do not like or that gives you a feeling of unpleasantness.


Surround yourself with the things that make you the most comfortable, such as a plushy throw or soft pillows.
Use colors, patterns and textures that make you feel safe and warm.
 This can be as simple as putting a low dresser perpendicular to one wall to give the impression of division, or it can be as complicated as hanging curtains around the nook to create a canopy. The division will give you a sense of ownership of the nook and keep others from invading your private space.


Treat your nook like a hideaway and keep a snack nearby that’s savory and sweet, like cheddar popcorn with candy corn. Unplug from everything and don’t introduce phone or electronics to your quiet space.Surround yourself and your personal haven with sweet aromas. Purchase a season-themed candle and place it in your nook to help you further unwind.

