 You'll need three different colors: a base coat plus two different colors that will look good swirled together on top of the base coat.









Apply the basecoat color and allow it to dry.
Apply a clear topcoat to seal in the base coat, and allow it to dry.
Apply a dot of the first swirl color using a toothpick.
Use a clean toothpick to apply a dot of the second swirl color on top of the first dot while the first dot is still wet.
Drag the colors outward together and create swirls using a clean toothpick, a striper brush or other implement. You can also create a marble effect by randomly placing several dots of the first swirl color on the nail, then placing several dots of the second swirl color around and on top of the first set of dots. Swirl the dots around and together by moving your implement in a criss-cross, S-shaped or figure-8 pattern.
 Ombre looks best with colors in the same color family, like purples and blues. For this look, you'll need three colors: a dark color, a medium color, and a light one.









Apply a coat of the darkest color to your nails and allow it to dry.
Dip a makeup sponge into a dark colored polish (only a dab of polish is needed on the sponge) and apply the medium color to the tips of your nails, starting at the tip and moving down to create a fading effect.
With a clean makeup sponge, dab the lightest color onto your nails in the same fashion, starting from the tip and fading downward toward the base of your nails. The resulting look should be bright-tipped nails that fade downward toward the darkest base coat color.
Apply a clear top coat while the polishes are still wet to more completely smear the colors together.
 In this case you'll need two or more colors: white, and another color or two of your choice.









Apply the white polish as the base coat.
Before the base coat dries, use a toothpick or other implement to place dots in another color or two on top of the base coat.
Dip a large brush in acetone and dab it onto the drops of polish. Use the acetone and the brush to thin and smear the dots over the white base coat. If you're successful, you'll have an impressionistic Monet-inspired design.
When the watercolor design is dry, apply a clear top coat.
 To simulate the look of acid-washed jeans, use blue and white polishes.


Use the blue color for the base coat. Allow it to dry and apply a clear topcoat.
When these coats have dried, paint a single layer of white polish over the basecoat.
Dip a makeup sponge in acetone and use it to lightly rub away and thin out the white polish. Stop when enough of the blue layer shows through to create an acid-washed look.
When the acid wash design has dried, finish with a clear topcoat.

