 Being a nerd isn't limited to wearing braces, suspenders, or glasses. You can wear anything you please, but demure clothing is preferable. If you do want to appear nerdy, conservative clothing, glasses, messenger bags, and neutral colors are generally accepted. It is also preferable to have natural beauty, as it can signify confidence and an interest in matters more important than your appearance.;
, Read magazines of your choice. Take an interest in mathematics, science, poetry, or classic novels. Constantly expand your knowledge. You should read magazines like Knowledge by BBC, The Smithsonian and Popular science.
 Practice writing neatly in both cursive and print. This will help to make less errors, and get better grades. Remember, you're graded on your grammar and punctuation!

, Try educational television if necessary, good examples would be "PBS Create", the Science Channel, the Discovery Channel, or the History channel.
 Put it in a place where everybody can see it. If you want it to really be convincing, make a whole bunch of the pages dog-eared so that it looks well-worn.
 It should have crinkled-up papers with writing on them, and books. For suggestions, see step two as well.


Your books do not have to be all nonfiction, as some fictional works greatly increase vocabulary. All books are welcome, the key is to have a large interest in them and become knowledgeable.
 Try not to be verbose, substitute some words (threw, building, bored) for those less commonly used (lunged, edifice, ennui). Make sure there's someone around to appreciate your vocabulary, otherwise those around you may become annoyed.
 If at any point you're not pondering, you need to try harder. Question yourself first and the world around you. Don't be afraid to ask others for their answer. Be ready to accept it and even adopt it if it's better than yours.
 If a challenging problem is asked by the teacher, rivet your eyes on the calculator, while clutching the device as close to you as you can manage, and press the keys non-stop. If in English class you are called to write an essay, always tap the edge of your writing utensil on your head. Having these idiosyncrasies may help you.
 Nerds can often make a lot of money by tutoring.
 Try very hard to excel in academics.
, If low hanging bags are fashion, put it up as high as possible.

