 These orders are also known as “orders of protection” or “restraining orders.” These court orders will help protect you and your children from your abuser. You can usually obtain one at your local circuit or county court. Many domestic violence agencies will help you apply for one.They are always free, and in many cases, free or low-cost legal aid is available to help you.Bring a statement describing your situation in as much detail as possible. Bring any evidence, such as photographs, police reports, etc., of your abuser’s behavior.
Make sure that the order specifies that you have custody of any children.Once the order is issued, carry a copy with you at all times. This will help the police enforce it if your abuser attempts to harass you.
Provide copies of the order to employers, your child’s principal, and others in positions of authority.
 To protect yourself from harassment, immediately change your phone number. Get an unlisted, blocked number so that it can’t be found easily by your abuser.Screen calls with caller ID and request your phone numbers not be listed in directories.
Some states offer confidential mail forwarding services for domestic abuse victims so you can avoid giving out your physical address. A post office box can also help keep your street address private.You can also ask to forward your mail to a friend’s house if necessary.
 This will help keep your abuser from running up huge bills in your name or wiping out your bank balances.Open up new accounts at a different bank.
 Take different routes home from work, and avoid shopping or visiting in the same locations.Stay away from places where your abuser might find you or look for you.Don’t travel alone if you can avoid it. Ask a trusted friend or family member to go shopping with you or check in with you to make sure you get home from work safely.
If you are staying in your home, change the locks., Give trusted people at your workplace and your children’s school a copy of your protection order. Provide a photograph of your abuser so that they can notify the authorities if s/he shows up.Many employers take domestic violence seriously as an HR issue.Employers may have resources to help keep your abuser away from you at work.Make sure that your employer and your children’s school know that they should never give your address or phone number to anyone.You can ask a security guard to walk you to your car if you feel unsafe.
 Show pictures of your partner to your neighbors and the local police so they can be prepared if he comes through the neighborhood looking for you. Ask your neighbors to call the police if they see suspicious vehicles or people at your home.

