 Havanese have long double coats that do not shed, but their coats may become matted if not brushed often. Get your Havanese into the habit of being brushed at least once per week to keep her coat soft and tangle free.Some people even recommend daily brushing to keep up with your Havanese’s coat.Make sure that you get your Havanese used to brushing from a young age. Responsible breeders will groom their puppies to start getting them used to the process, but you will need to continue this process with your Havanese.
Grooming is a good time to check for things like fleas, ticks, bumps, lumps, scabs, or other skin conditions that might need to be checked by your veterinarian.
 Your Havanese will need a bath a few times per year to keep him smelling nice. Before you bathe your Havanese, make sure that you have removed all tangles from his hair or the hair may become matted.Use special dog shampoo to wash your Havanese’s coat. Never use human shampoo on a dog.
Rinse your Havanese’s coat well to get all of the shampoo out of his fur.
Avoid getting water in your Havanese’s eyes, nose, and ears when you bathe him. Just clean his face with a damp cloth.
Use conditioner to soften your Havanese’s fur. This will help keep his fur tangle free and prevent static during cold weather., Havanese have hair that often grows over their eyes, so they may experience tearing as a result. You will need to keep this area clean and try to keep the hair out of your Havanese’s eyes as well.


Some people prefer to trim the hair down so that it does not grow into the puppy’s eyes, while other prefer to use a small amount of petroleum jelly to train the hairs to grow away from the puppy’s eyes.If you are not comfortable trimming the hair around your Havanese’s eyes, then take him to a groomer for trims.
 A Havanese's ears may become dirty or even infected if not properly cared for. Make sure that you check your Havanese’s ears at least once per week.You can clean them by wiping out the inside of the earflap with a piece of damp cotton gauze.Do not try to clean the inner ear, just the inside of the earflap.


If you start to notice that wax or debris is building up in your Havanese’s ears, then make an appointment for your dog to see the veterinarian as soon as possible.
 Trimming your Havanese’s nails is also an essential part of good grooming.If you notice that your Havanese’s nails are clicking on hard floors, then it is time for a trim.


Use a special guillotine style clipper for dog’s nails. You can also try an electronic nail grinder if using a clipper makes you nervous, but your dog may need some time to get used to the vibration.
Take care not to cut the quick when you clip your Havanese’s nails. The quick is the blood vessel that is inside of your dog’s nails. It will bleed and hurt your dog if you cut it.
To avoid cutting the quick, only trim off a tiny sliver nail and then check the trimmed surface. If you notice a circle near the trimmed surface, then do not trim any more. The quick is just below this circle.
 Try to brush your Havanese’s teeth a couple of times per week.Brushing will be easier if you start brushing your Havanese’s teeth when she is a puppy, but you can teach an adult Havanese to accept tooth brushing as well.


Only use a special dog toothpaste to clean your Havanese’s teeth! Human toothpaste contains ingredients that may harm your dog.

