 For a small size pond, digging with a shovel should be sufficient. Keep these factors in mind as you dig:








Since you want to facilitate the growth of wildlife, your pond should be deep enough that it won’t freeze solid over the winter. If you’re in an area that gets cold, you’ll want to dig the pond several feet deep so that the animals living there can live overwinter.
One side of the pond should have a gradual slope, a beach of sorts, so that animals that wander in will be able to make their way out. Animals can drown in ponds with steep cliffs on every side.
Reserve the topsoil in a pile as you dig. You’ll be using this later when you edge the pond.
When you’re finished digging, remove sharp rocks from the hole.
 First line the pond with a layer of sand, making sure to cover every crevice. Next add a layer of biodegradable or man-made materials. You can use newspapers or burlap, but biodegradable materials may rot in time, effectively leaving you with no protection other than the layer of sand. Stones may force their way up through this sand layer and damage the liner. So consider non-biodegradable material such as specialist pond underlay as an option. When you've placed this layer down, cover it with a large piece of waterproof pond liner.Different types of waterproof pond liners are available at home improvement stores, and often at garden stores.
 Use a hose to fill the pond up to the edge, making sure to stop before it overflows.You may also fill the pond with collected rainwater if you’d prefer not to use pumped water.








Trim the overlapping liner back to about eight to ten inches (20 to 25 cm).
 Lift back the pond liner and use a spade to cut a 6-inch (16 cm) slit into the earth around the entire pond. Insert the spade a few inches into the slit, maneuver it so it is parallel to the ground, and gently lift the grass around the entire slit, creating a sort of grass flap around the entire pond. Now lift back the grass flap and tuck the edges of the pond liner into the slit, replacing the grass flap over the top to conceal the slit as you go. This gives the pond a “natural” edge, which will be inviting to the wildlife in your area., Take a few empty milk gallons or other closed containers to a healthy pond nearby. Look for a natural pond that has been there for many years, as opposed to a neighbor’s backyard pond. Fill the containers with pond water, taking care not to capture any fish in the process. Return to your pond and add the natural pond water, which contains bacteria and microscopic animals that will help establish your pond as a more natural water source for wildlife.,









Don’t mow the area around your pond; instead, let wild grasses grow.
Don’t introduce fish to the pond for several years. Their presence will prevent the pond from attracting frogs, snails, and other wildlife.
Create a muddy pond bottom by dumping the topsoil back into the pond. You may plant reeds and other natural aquatic plants, such as water lilies, to help facilitate the growth of other wildlife. Just be sure to monitor it to keep it from becoming stagnant, as this could lead to a foul smell and increased mosquito activity.

