 Decide on the boundaries that you want to have with colleagues in terms of both friendships and potential romantic relationships. You should consider whether or not you would ever date someone from work. If you know your boundary on this issue, you will be prepared if and when a romantic relationship ever presents itself as a possibility. Further, you should consider the level of intimacy and friendship you are comfortable having with co-workers such as, for instance, whether you want to share your cell phone number or social media pages with colleagues.If you do not want to share your personal cell phone number, you could tell your colleagues to contact you by other means such as email or your work phone.
If you do not want to talk about personal relationships or beliefs with colleagues and one of your colleagues asks about your private life, you could say: “I don’t talk about my personal life at work. No offense, but I prefer to talk about work related matters or the news.”
If you do not want to date anybody from work and one of your colleagues asks you out, you could try saying: “Sorry, that’s very sweet but I have a strict no dating policy with people from work. I find this works best for me. Try somewhere else.”

, If you have a colleague who offers excessively frank or negatively worded criticism, try not to take it too personally. You have the right to protect yourself from negative energy and language in the workplace. First, remind yourself that you don’t have to take the burden of other people’s emotional baggage, since it is not in your job description. Second, you can follow up with someone to resolve the issue more directly, such as by talking to the human relations department or a superior.Tell a superior or human relations manager about your experience: “A colleague of mine is being really overbearing and negative recently. They took me aside after our last meeting and told me that all of my contributions were horrible and that I should go back to my old job. Their criticisms are not constructive and make me feel really terrible. What can be done?”

, If you feel very comfortable with someone at work and sense that you can be frank with them, try not to overburden them with your thoughts and feelings. Try to filter yourself a little bit so that you are not overbearing with colleagues. If you are not sure whether or not you are overbearing, ask a colleague:Ask a colleague: "Am I being overbearing at work right now?"
Inquire with a colleague: “Do you think I was too blunt in our conversation yesterday. Do you think I could have been more tactful in that conversation?”

, It can be difficult to find the right balance between being open and protecting yourself in the workplace. Figure out where you are in your workplace relationships and then work towards a balance between maintaining your boundaries and getting to know your colleagues in an open and professional manner. In the end, you want to find the sweet spot between too little and too much openness in your workplace relationships. This sweet spot is relaxed and professional, with established boundaries and a comfortable degree of openness.Avoid volatility in your workplace relationships. At one extreme of imbalance, some people are volatile in the sense of not being able to enforce emotional boundaries for themselves and exposing other people to their insecurities.
Avoid excessive vulnerability. You want to be able to protect your emotional boundaries at work, so avoid being too vulnerable to other people’s comments and opinions about you.
Avoid being overbearing. If you are excessively confident and frank, avoid imposing your opinions and feelings on your colleagues in an overbearing manner.
Avoid being walled off. If you are good at protecting yourself from others and also avoid sharing your thoughts and feelings with others at work, you may be too walled off.
Evaluate your work relationships every now and then. Are you benefiting from these relationships? If things aren't going well, distance yourself from your coworkers on non-work related matters.

