 You can log into your insurer’s website or call their helpline to find out about your plan’s specifics. More plans today have a high deductible, which is the amount of money you must pay in medical expenses before insurance covers costs.Having a high deductible reduces monthly premiums, but remember you won’t be covered until you meet the deductible out of pocket. In addition, premiums don’t count toward your deductible.If you can’t afford a procedure, discuss the potential consequences of skipping the procedure with your healthcare provider. If possible, consider having it done after the next time you sign up for insurance. When you search for a plan, sign up for one that has a low deductible, if any at all. Your premiums will be higher, but you could save thousands in the long run.
In addition to the deductible, check your policy to see if out-of-network providers are covered, and how much more expensive they are than an in-network provider. Doctors and other medical professionals will either be in your insurance network or out of it, and some policies won’t cover the cost of seeing an out-of-network provider at all.;
, If you have a chronic condition, make a list of all the prescription medications you take. When shopping for a plan, check to see if it covers your medications and first-tier generics. Also, find out if there are alternative medications that may be prescribed for your condition and are that are covered under the plan. Call that potential insurer to double check coverage before enrolling.If your doctor writes you a new prescription, ask them about its cost and what generics are available. Ask if they have samples on hand to help reduce your cost. Shop around by calling different pharmacies, as prescription prices can vary from one pharmacy to another.
 Whether you’re going in for a checkup, getting blood drawn, or undergoing any other medical procedure, contact your insurer with the name and location of your medical professional. Don’t simply call the doctor or other care provider, as they may not be as up to date about the insurer’s coverage as the insurer itself.Ask your insurer, “Is my doctor in my network? If not, can you refer to me to another local, in-network option?” Ask the person you speak to for their name and information. Keep a record of everyone you talk to and what information they give you.
If your doctor refers you to a specialist, such as a dermatologist or cardiologist, call your insurer before going to the appointment to make sure the specialist is in-network.
Never see a medical professional without making sure you’re covered. Going in blind could cost you hundreds or thousands of dollars, and you will most likely be unable to contest the charge.

