 Your new step-siblings aren’t an addition to your family, nor are they entirely separate. Rather, you have blended two families. They are different from friends, since you interact with each other in the home, but you don’t need to see them in the same light as your original nuclear family., It will be a big step forward if you can find one or two things both you and your step sibling(s) enjoy. You don’t have to want to spend every minute together, but inviting them over to watch a football game, for example, can go a long way. Making an effort to get along with your step sibling(s) will also improve your relationship with your new stepparent.


You could also connect by trying something you know your step-sibling likes. For example, if he enjoys building and playing with remote control cars, ask if you can join some time. This will show that you're putting forth an effort to be a part of his life, rather than only the other way around.
 One source of conflict with a new step-siblings may be that they are allowed to do different things, such as stay up past 10pm. You can’t change their household rules, and you can’t force your biological parents to give you the same privileges. If one of their privileges really bothers you, let your biological parent know. He may be able to come up with a compromise for you.If it is an age-related difference, such as a later bedtime, you may be allowed the same privileges when you're your step-sibling's age.
If it is simply a parenting difference, like using a parent's car to see friends, talk to your biological parent. He may not be prepared to give you that privilege, but telling him the difference in privileges bothers you should be a sign to him that you aren't entirely satisfied with the way things currently are.
 If your step sibling(s) do something differently than you, don't criticize or comment. You don’t have to be best friends with them, but you will have to interact with them whether you get along or not. Accept their customs. If they criticize you, try to keep your cool. Explain why you do something the way you do, and accept that they still may not respect you.
 If your new stepparent also has children, especially if they are younger than you, it is important to share. Let them know what they aren't allowed to touch. Also, keep things you wouldn't like them to be looking at somewhere where they are less likely to find it.


For example, you could invite your step siblings to your birthday party. Introducing them to your friends is a good way to share your life with them.

