 It may seem fairly obvious, but if you're suffering from fatigue, the first and foremost step is to ensure that you are getting enough sleep every night.


It's estimated that two-thirds of people experience sleep problems at some point in their lives, and these sleep problems negatively affect their energy levels, mood and work performance the next day.Therefore it's important that you go to bed at a reasonable hour, to ensure that you get at least 7, and ideally 8 hours sleep per night.
If you have trouble getting to sleep (no matter how tired you are), there are several adjustments you should make to your night-time routine.
 Aside from getting enough sleep, it's important that you try to go to sleep and wake up at approximately the same time every day (even on weekends).


This helps to set your body clock to a regular schedule - for example, if you go to bed at 10 pm and wake up at 6 am every day, your body will soon adjust to and accept this new schedule and you will naturally feel sleepy at 10 and awake and refreshed at 6.
However, if you follow an erratic sleeping schedule - waking up and going to bed at a different time each day - your body will be out of sync and you may have difficulty falling asleep at night and a hard time staying awake during the day.
 It's also important to make sure that your bedroom is a comfortable, relaxing space where sleep is the main focus.


Ensure that the temperature is comfortable for sleeping in - not too hot or not too cold. Invest in a fan or just open a window if your room is stuffy, as sleeping in a hot room is not conducive to good sleep.
Try to eliminate all sources of light - the window, electric lights and any blinking or LED lights on alarm clocks, televisions, or other electrical devices. If you don't want to turn them off, just cover them with a thick cloth.
Reduce noise levels as much as possible.Close your bedroom door and ask anyone still awake to keep the television/music turned down. If you find it difficult to drown out noise from the street, consider buying a white noise machine or just play some ambient music.
 Although a cup of coffee here and there can certainly help you to fight fatigue throughout the day, drinking too much or drinking it too close to bedtime can negatively impact your sleep.


Some people don't realize the effects that caffeine has on their sleep quality and generally energy levels. To figure it out, try slowly cutting coffee and other caffeinated drinks (black tea, cola and energy drinks) from your diet over a three week period to see if you notice any increase in your energy levels.
Even if you seem to have a high tolerance for caffeine and are not keen on the idea of giving up your morning coffee, it's a good idea to stop drinking any caffeinated drinks at least 5 hours before bedtime. Switch to decaffeinated versions instead., Although it seems like a nice idea to watch television, play a computer game or surf the net on your laptop or iPad to unwind before bed, these activities can actually do more harm than good.


The bright lights produced by these devices actually trick the brain into believing it's daytime, which prevents your body from producing the hormones (notably melatonin) responsible for inducing sleep.
In addition, watching action, thriller or horror movies/TV shows right before bed gets your heart racing, stimulating the body and brain and making sleep impossible.
Therefore, you should make an effort to switch off all technological devices at least an hour before bed and partake in a more relaxing activity instead. Try reading a book (although not from a backlit e-reader), meditating or listening to music.
 Taking a warm bath before bed is believed to be very effective at inducing sleep, for two main reasons:


Firstly, a hot bath helps you to relax and forget about the stresses and worries of the day - worries which are often responsible for keeping you awake at night. Secondly, the rise in body temperature (when you're in the bath) followed by the rapid drop (when you get out) mimics the body-cooling hormones your brain releases when you fall asleep.
Take a bath for at least 20 to 30 minutes before bed, and try to ensure that the water temperature is at least 100 degree F, or as hot as you can handle without scalding yourself! Keep in mind that a hot bath is not recommended for people with diabetes, gynecologic problems, low blood pressure, heart failure, varicose veins as well as during pregnancy.
Add some aromatic essential oils, such as lavender or chamomile to the water, light some candles and play some soothing music for extra relaxation value!

, If you're really feeling exhausted throughout the day, consider taking a short nap, as it can really work wonders for your energy levels. Keep it short and sweet through - 10 minutes to 30 minutes, max.


If you nap for too long, you may wake up feeling groggy and have difficulty sleeping that night. A short power nap, however, can boost energy levels and leave you feeling more awake and productive.
Also try following up your nap with a small cup of coffee and a quick snack for an added energy boost.

