 Should you choose a deck pizza oven or conveyor oven?


Conveyor ovens can be convenient and easy to cook with. You make your pizza, place in the pan, put it on one end of the conveyor and wait for it to come out the other side cooked. A conveyor oven can provide a high output with consistent results.
Deck ovens create an authentic fuller flavor for the more experienced chef. Traditional pizzas can be made by cooking the pizza directly on the base of the oven. Deck ovens also look the part when front of house.;
, How many decks do you need? Single deck pizza ovens are a good option if pizza is only part of the food you offer in your catering business.


There are models such as the budget Lincat LPO which have a small footprint making them ideal for adding that extra dimension to your business.
Some single deck pizza ovens are stackable meaning you could start off with a single deck oven and add another deck at a later date.
Models that have stacking kits for their pizza ovens have them listed in our online shop and in the buyers guide on our website.
Do I need a twin or triple deck oven? Twin and triple deck pizza ovens are for catering businesses with larger pizza requirements. The largest capacity pizza oven for those who pizza is their main product is the Cuppone Giotto. The space age design pizza oven has a revolving base which can fit up to 14 x 12” pizzas on its base. It is made from stainless steel with a panoramic glass door and internal light, sure to wow your customers.
 Do you want to cook more than only pizza in the oven?


Pizza ovens such as the Roller Grill PZ660 are designed to cook not just pizzas but also quiche, lasagna, pies, breads, tarts and pastries.
Also pizza ovens designed for cooking pizzas with pans such as the Cuppone LLKTZ7201 or our range of conveyor ovens can be used to cook other products in the pans such as wedges or garlic bread. If you have a limited amount of space and want to offer a varied menu a versatile oven may be the right choice.
 What type of oven base do you want?


Pizza ovens designed for the pizza to be cooked directly on the ovens floor have stone or brick bases. This enables the ovens to get to the temperatures needed to make a traditional pizza by trapping and radiating heat. The heat is distributed evenly across the pizza base so that the pizza is perfectly crisp. Stoned baked pizza is a phrase everyone will have heard off.
Firebrick is also a common choice for a pizza oven base, the material is efficient at conducting heat and is designed for the rapid heat up and cool down that your oven will experience. Refractory materials such as firebricks are materials designed to retain their strength at high temperatures.
 Do you want to cook pizzas in pans?


The second option for cooking pizzas is to cook the pizzas in pans. Cuppone produce a range of ovens designed for pan pizzas such as the LLKTZ201. These ovens have an extra wide deck to accommodate 2 x 12” pizzas and 2 x 14” pizzas at one time. Conveyor ovens lend themselves perfectly to cooking pan pizzas. The size of the pizzas is limited by the width of the conveyor belt on the oven. However the number of pizzas which can be cooked is limited only by the time the pizza takes to travel from one end of the conveyor to the other, making a conveyor oven capable of a high output.
 Look at where it will be stored and what you will be cooking. What size oven do you need? What size pizzas would you like to be able to offer? For example the Cuppone LLKTZ6201 can fit 4 x 12” pizzas on its base. When you have decided on the oven you feel is right for your business measure the space available in your shop.


Make sure there is room for the oven before you order it!

