 Try to remember that the direct object in a sentence is always a thing or a person who received the action of the verb.For example, in the sentence, “Alice baked her mother a cake.” You can quickly identify the subject who performed the verb (Alice) and the verb (baked). Now ask yourself, “What or whom was baked?” Was her mother baked? No, that’s not what the sentence says. The sentence says that she baked a cake. What was baked? A cake! You have now identified the direct object.
 A subject complement is a clause that follows the action verb, and describes the subject. It can be easy to confuse these because subject complements can only follow a linking verb, but some linking verbs can also be used as action verbs.For example, “appear”, “grow”, “remain”, “smell”, and “turn.” are all examples of linking verbs that can also be used as action verbs. In the sentence, “Michelle felt sick.” The verb, “felt” is a linking verb because it does not require any explanation of whom or what. However, in the sentence, “Michelle felt her forehead.” The verb, “felt” is an action verb because it requires an explanation of whom/what was felt, in this case, her forehead. If you were to remove this information, the sentence would not make sense.
 If you are trying to identify the direct object in a sentence, it can be helpful to remember that the direct object will either be a noun or it will be a pronoun.If the word you have identified as the direct object is a verb, adjective, or an adverb, try reading the sentence again. Ask yourself again, “To whom or what was the action done?” Hopefully, asking yourself this, and look carefully for a noun or pronoun will help you identify the direct object.
 The direct object will always come after the verb in a sentence, so it can be helpful to identify the verb first. This way, you will know that the word you are looking for will be after the verb.Keep in mind, though, that if you are trying to identify a direct object in a foreign language, such as German, this may not always be the case as word order can vary dramatically among languages.

