 This will determine how a player should use the playing cards they will acquire during the game.
 In BANG, “distance’ is defined as how many spaces away from other players a player is. Distance can be modified by Blue Bordered playing cards., A player can only have as many cards in their hand as life points they possess. For example, if a player has two life points, they can only have two cards in their hand at the end of their turn., To determine what each card does, use the "Symbols Key" card. Each card will:

give the player an ability
initiate a response from other players

, These cards contain the roles players are assigned in the game.
 These cards make up most of the cards included in your deck and are identified as cards with a brown, blue, or green border and the “BANG!” logo on the back of the card. These cards include at least one symbol that determines what the card can do and its equivalent Standard Playing Card value.


Brown Bordered cards are played once and then discarded into the discard pile.
Blue Bordered cards are played in front of the players. The effects of these cards last until they are discarded or removed, or until the special event described by the card comes true.
Green Bordered cards are played in front of a player just like blue bordered cards. However, players must wait one turn before using these cards.
 Certain Playing Cards are conditional. These conditional cards are identified as any Playing Card with a card symbol that includes a suit symbol from a normal deck of cards inside it.

For example, a “Barrel” is conditional because it includes a card symbol with a suit symbol inside it (seen as a heart in a rectangle). This card is conditional and only counts as a "miss" card if a heart is drawn.
 These cards are identified as green bordered cards with yellow bullet symbols on the upper right hand side of the card and images of bullets on the back of the card. These cards provide players with special abilities which are listed at the bottom of the card. The bullets on the front are the maximum lives the player can have using the character., These cards provide special rules that must be followed in a round and are identified as cards with black backs. It is not mandatory to use Round Rule Cards.
,,, The player with the Sheriff role reveals his card by flipping it so its faced up. This player is the Sheriff. All other players keep their role cards faced down. It is important all role identities besides the Sheriff are kept secret., Each player will pick one character card which will become the player’s character. The other character card will be placed faced down thus displaying 5 bullets to the player., The Sheriff gets one additional life point, with a maximum of 5.
 Then place the rest of the deck in the middle of the circle. This is the draw pile.

For example, the player playing as “Herb Hunter” in the above example gets 4 Playing Cards

, BANG! is a game played in turns, starting with the Sheriff and continuing in a clockwise direction. While following the turn, make sure to abide by the limitations of a turn which are listed in Part 1 "Important Concepts" section of these instructions. A turn consists of three phases:


draw 2 cards
play any number of cards
discard excess cards (only if you have more cards than you have lives).
 Starting on the Sheriff’s second turn, the Sheriff draws a Round Rule card at the beginning of his or her turn and reads it. The rules described by this card must be taken into consideration by all players during the round it’s played.
 Any used card is placed in the center faced up. This is the discard pile. If draw pile runs out, shuffle discard pile and create new draw pile.
 If during any time in the game, a player has no life points and no “Beer” cards in their hand, they’re eliminated from the game. The eliminated player reveals their role card to all players. If a player is in possession of a “Beer” card, they may place the card in discard pile and gain one life point.
 If the Sheriff is eliminated, the game is over. If the renegade is the only player left, they win. Otherwise the Outlaws win. If all Outlaws and the Renegade are eliminated, the Sheriff and Deputies win.

