 Tap the App Store on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in VLC Streamer on the search field then tap the “Search” button.
 Locate the correct app; the app was made by Hobbyist Software. Tap the “Install” button beside the app. It’s free.
 Go to http://hobbyistsoftware.com/VLCSTREAMER and click the “Download VLC Streamer Helper” button. The download will begin and store the file on your computer.
 Locate the setup file on your computer. The filename is VLCStreamerSetup_X.XX, where X.XX is the version number. Double-click on this file to run the setup.
 Open the Start menu, and look for the VLC Streamer folder. Open the program shortcut from there.
 On your computer, VLC Streamer Helper should be running. On the upper-left part of the application is the “Add movies” section. Click either the “Add Movies” or the “Add DVD” buttons to open the file explorer for your computer, which you can use to navigate and select the movie files to load.


You can also just click and drag the movies to the “Add movies” box to load them.
 The movie files from your computer won’t necessarily play on your iPad right away. They need to be converted into a compatible and playable format for your iPad.


On the upper-right part of the application is the “Conversion quality” section, which contains a drop-down list of available compatible movie formats for the iPad. Click the drop-down list to select the video resolution you want.
Select the best one suitable for your viewing and network or bandwidth.
 On the lower part of the application is the “Manage movies” section. All the loaded movies are listed here with their respective statuses. Movies being converted will be reflected here, and so do the movies that have completed their conversion. These are the movies that can be streamed to your iPad.
 From this same “Manage movies” section, you can remove movies. Click on the movie title you’d like to remove and then click the “Delete movie” button at the bottom for this section. The movie will be deleted from the application.
 On your iPad, locate the app you’ve downloaded from Part 1. It’s the app with the VLC logo. Tap on it to launch it.
 Upon launch, it will scan for visible computers within the same network. Make sure both your computer and your iPad are connected to the same Wi-Fi network. Once the app finds your computer, it will appear under the Visible Computers section.
 Tap your computer under the Visible Computers section to access the available movies. The list of movies will be displayed. Tap the movie you’d like to stream.
 Tap the “Watch” button to start streaming the movie from your computer. It may take a while for the movie to load and stream from your computer, depending on the file size and network speed and bandwidth. Once the movie has fully loaded, it will begin playing.

