 Your statement of purpose is often the first item in your application packet and often serves as a cover letter for the rest of your application materials. Particularly if the school calls the statement of purpose a “letter,” you should format it as such.Formal letter-writing etiquette dictates that you should include the following:

The institution’s mailing address
Greeting addressed to appropriate person (or To Whom it May Concern: if you are not sure)
Today’s date
The body of the letter
A formal closing (such as Sincerely,)
A signature at the bottom of the letter



, As with any essay introduction, you should try to grab the attention of the readers with a hook in the start of your essay.You may offer a vivid personal anecdote that provides the basis of your personal connection to your field of study.


For example, you may say “I stood feeling helpless while my twin brother attempted to begin his presentation to the class. He sputtered a feeble “w- w- w- when…” then fell silent, shame-faced and unable to continue. In the deafening silence that ensued, I vowed that I was going to devote my life to ensuring that other kids would never face similar humiliation. My future career in speech therapy was born in that moment.”

, The length of a personal statement varies, but it is important to use as many words as you are allowed. You should try to fit as much concrete, specific information about yourself into your statement as you can, so use as much space as you are allowed.


If the application instructions do not give a length requirement, limit the statement to 1-2 typed pages.If you may write up to 500 words but only write 200, you risk seeming glib or, worse, lazy.
If you go over the allotted length, it will seem as though you cannot follow directions or that you do not care about specific requirements. Neither is a desirable quality in a graduate student.
 Remember that the committee or individual reading your application is likely reading hundreds of applications. Providing generic material will not make your essay stand out from the others. Making overly general statements may lead the admissions committee to skim or skip over your letter. Instead, aim to make concrete, specific statements about yourself as a person that will motivate the readers to want to meet and work with you.Too vague: “I wish to become a historian.”
More specific: “I want to study the history and culture of indigenous persons of British Columbia to fight against their marginalization in the present day.”

, It is important to communicate your academic achievements. It is not necessary to list every class you have taken or boast about every good grade you made in college. You should communicate that you have been academically successful, particularly in courses related to your field. Also demonstrate that you have the intellect and work ethic required for graduate studies, and that you have experienced academic rigor in the past.Be sure to mention all the degrees you hold, as well as honors such as summa cum laude and any other honors listed on your diploma (e.g. “research honors” or “general honors” if you participated in an undergraduate honor’s program).
Include academic awards such as competitive merit-based academic scholarships and GPA-based awards. Also include special scholarly achievements like undergraduate research awards., Use caution when adding information that is not specifically academic.For example, the admissions committee is unlikely to care if you were president of your sorority. If you must include information that is nonacademic, tie it to your future academic achievement.


In the case of being sorority president, you may want to mention that you maintained a 4.0 GPA while serving as president and overseeing two very large fundraisers. This shows that you can manage both people and time effectively, a necessary skill for a graduate student who must balance research, teaching, and scholarship.
 If there is something in your academic history that may harm your candidacy, you need to address it head-on without sounding like you are making excuses.For example, if you suffer extreme text anxiety and thus have low GRE scores, you should make a statement explaining the scores. Then address how you plan to handle any high-stakes testing (such as comprehensive exams) the program requires.
For example, if you have one undergraduate semester in which you made all Cs, explain why (ie: depression, a death in the family, substance abuse). Then explain how you overcame the adversity and went on to improve from that point forward.
 This is the equivalent of an interview. At an interview, you would want to appear professional, put-together, and polished. Your letter should communicate a professional tone, effective organization, and careful proofreading.Avoid abbreviations, smiley faces, and exuberant punctuation such as explanation points!

, Be completely brutal with yourself while editing. Ask yourself whether each sentence you write is completely necessary and an accurate portrayal of yourself, your history, and your future goals. If it isn’t, delete or edit it.


Do not make any spelling or grammar mistakes. Proofread the letter yourself, have several other people proofread it, and take it to your school’s writing studio. If necessary, hire a professional proofreader.

