 Excess stress may affect your body in all kinds of negative ways, including making it harder for your body to heal itself.Find ways to manage your daily stress levels as part of your surgery preparation, and continue these practices following your surgery. There are many different ways that you can manage stress. Find something that works for you.

Try taking a long relaxing bath after a long busy day.
Call up a supportive friend or family member when you are feeling overwhelmed and talk about what is bothering you.
Try yoga, tai chi, or meditation.
Do deep breathing exercises or progressive muscle relaxation.
Avoid using alcohol, nicotine, or drugs to deal with stress. This will have a negative effect on your body’s ability to heal itself.
 Music may relax the listener and reduce stress, both of which are vital in improving your immune system. Listening to calm, instrumental music in the days leading up to surgery may help with your recovery. You may also try doing social musical activities, such as drum circles or singing groups., Patients who receive a series of acupuncture treatments prior to surgery may recover faster and with less pain.This is because acupuncture may be able to boost white blood cell activity. You can try to schedule two to three sessions in the weeks before your surgery.
 Sleep is the body's way of rejuvenating itself. In the weeks leading up to your surgery, make sure that you get plenty of sleep to reinforce your immune system. Aim for at least seven to eight hours of rest a night., Exercise may increase your white blood cell count. It may also prevent bacteria growth and lower stress. If you are inactive, you should start a moderate exercise program by working out every two to three days. If you exercise regularly already, you may not need to change your routine before going into surgery.Good examples of moderate exercise include:


Biking
Twenty to thirty minute walks
Running on the treadmill
Yoga

, While it is best for you to quit smoking entirely, you should at the very least avoid smoking for a week before you go into surgery. Smoking can interfere with your recovery by delaying wound healing and increasing your chances of infection.

