 Place the barbell on the ground in front of you and add plates according to your strength and fitness level. If it is your first time performing the deadlift, start lighter. It is always easy to add weight later. You want to perfect your form before you test your physical limits.


Secure the plates tightly onto the barbell with clips to keep them from slipping around.
Beginners usually start lifting just the barbell, since a typical barbell weighs between 25 and 45 pounds on its own. In this case, you'll want to prop the bar up so it's as high on your shins as it would be if it had plates (approximately 6-8 inches). Otherwise, you'll be bending too far down to pull the barbell right off the floor and could injure yourself. When you prop the barbell, be carefully that it can't easily roll off.;
, Step up to the bar so that your feet are approximately shoulder width apart, your toes are pointing forward or slightly outward, and the barbell is at the midpoint of your foot (as if it's dividing the front and the back of your feet in half).
 Pretend there's a short stool behind you; bend your knees and hips and sit back as if you were going to sit on that stool, while you reach down to grab onto the barbell (hands shoulder-width apart). Actively push your knees out; don't let them collapse in. Keep your back as straight as you can. Bend from the hips rather than from your waist. Bend your knees and hips just enough to reach and grab onto the bar. This is the starting position for the deadlift.


Your shins should be pretty vertical and touching the bar.
This is a hard position to stay in. As you figure out your form and check all these criteria, sometimes you'll straighten your legs and allow your back to curve to take a little break from this position. If you watch people deadlift, you'll see them do this between deadlifts. Just make sure you get back into this position before you actually lift.
 Grasp the barbell with your hands slightly more than shoulder width apart, just outside of your legs. Keep your arms straight. Your palms should face your body, and be equally far from the ends of the barbell.It's not uncommon for people to use a mixed grip as they move onto heavier weights, as it affords a stronger grip, but it's generally better to keep things simple as a beginner.
For Olympic lifting, some people use the hook grip, which is more secure but is painful at first. It is similar to the overhand grip, except that instead of the thumb over the remaining fingers, it is hooked underneath them.
The underhand grip alone is not recommended because it can lead to the rupture of bicep muscle and connecting tendons, especially in people who do not have full flexibility in the elbow joint.

