 Measure out your butter and sugar and then combine them in a large mixing bowl. Use a hand mixer or stand mixer to cream them together.You can also use a fork to cream the ingredients together. It will just take a little more time and effort.;
, Next add the flour, baking powder, vanilla extract, and milk to the bowl. Then mix together the ingredients until they form a dough. You can use a fork, a hand mixer or stand mixer, or your hands to mix the dough.Make sure that the ingredients are well combined.
You may even want to sift together the dry ingredients in a separate bowl before adding them to the butter and sugar mixture. Then, mix in the milk and vanilla extract with the butter and sugar before adding the dry ingredients to the butter and sugar.
 Refrigerating the cookie dough before you roll it out may make the dough easier to work with.Try wrapping the dough in plastic wrap and placing it in the refrigerator for an hour.

Before you begin rolling out and cutting your cookie dough, turn on the oven. You will need to heat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit to bake the cookies and to toast the coconut.
After the dough is chilled, place it onto a piece of parchment paper. Then, place another equal sized piece of parchment paper over the dough ball.Use a rolling pin to roll out the dough between the two pieces of parchment paper.
 Use a round cookie cutter to cut disc shapes in the dough. Then, use a smaller round cookie cutter or a frosting bag tip to cut a smaller circle out of the center of the dough.You can cut the cookies into any shape you like, but cutting them into rings will help to make the cookies look more like real Samoas.
 Place the cookie dough rings on a baking sheet and bake the cookies at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for about 10 minutes. The cookies should look slightly browned when they are ready. After they are done, remove them from the oven and let them cool.You can transfer them to a cooling rack after you remove them from the oven to help them cool faster.
 Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper and dump an entire bag of sweetened coconut onto the parchment paper. Bake the coconut at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 10 minutes. Do not allow the coconut to bake for any longer than this or it will burn.

You can also toast coconut over medium heat in a non-stick skillet if you prefer. To do this, you will need to watch the coconut until it is completely toasted.Remove it from the pan when it is done toasting to prevent it from burning.
 Unwrap the caramels and place them into a microwave safe bowl. Then add 1 teaspoon of milk to the bowl and microwave the milk and caramels for about 15 to 20 seconds.

You can add more milk (one teaspoon at a time) for a thinner caramel sauce if it seems too thick.Remove the bowl from the microwave and stir the milk and caramels together.
Combine the caramel with the toasted coconut.
 After the cookies are done and the topping is done, top each of the cookies with some of the caramel and coconut mixture. Try to place the topping so that it goes around the cookie’s ring, not over the hole in the center.Press the topping gently to make it stay in place.
 Next, place 2 cups of semi-sweet chocolate chips into a microwave safe bowl or in the glass bowl of a double boiler to melt them. Microwave the chocolate for about one minute or heat the water under the glass bowl of the double boiler until the chocolate melts.Stir the chocolate after a minute in the microwave or as it starts to melt in the double boiler.
 Dip the cookies into the melted chocolate so that just the bottoms get coated in the chocolate. If you prefer, you can also spread some chocolate on the bottoms of the cookies using a spoon.Place the cookies onto a tray or plate lined with parchment paper as you finish dipping them in the chocolate.
 Finish the cookies by drizzling them with chocolate syrup. You can do this by filling a pastry bag or a plastic Ziploc bag with some melted chocolate and cutting a small hole in the tip. Then, squeeze the bag over the cookies and move it side to side to add the chocolate drizzle.Make sure that the chocolate is still warm when you do this or it will not drizzle easily.

