 Your body needs a steady supply of protein throughout the say so that you can gain muscle. To gain muscle, you should eat .75 to 1 gram of protein per pound of your body weight, and protein should be 10 to 35 percent of your total calories for the day.Make sure you are eating high quality protein such as lean meat, poultry, fish, or beans.


1 large egg = 6 grams
1 cup low-fat milk = 8 grams
1 cup plain low-fat yogurt = 12 grams
½ cup low-fat cottage cheese = 14 grams
2 tablespoons peanut butter = 8 grams
1 cup quinoa = 8 grams
3 ounces of lean ground beef = 22 grams
3 ounces skinless, baked chicken = 26 grams
3 ounces grilled salmon = 21 grams

, Adults should get 7-8 hours of sleep a night.While you are sleeping, muscle building hormones (e.g. human growth hormone) are released and your muscles are able to recover from exercise.Not getting enough sleep may keep your muscles from growing and recovering from exercise as they should. #*If you do not get enough sleep, you also may be too tired to exercise or crave more unhealthy foods., Your muscles are comprised of mostly water and need water to function properly.Men need about 13 cups of water per day, and women need about 9 cups of water per day. If you exercise, you will need to drink about 1.5 to 2.5 more cups of water per day., Fat will help fuel your muscles during exercise. Limit saturated and trans fats and consume heart healthy fats. Extra virgin olive oil, canola oil, walnuts, almonds, avocados, salmon, trout, and sardines are good choices. Fats should make about 20 to 35 percent of your daily caloric intake.It is important to monitor serving sizes when consuming fats as they have twice the number of calories as protein and carbohydrates.For example, 1 tablespoon of olive oil contains 120 calories and ~14 walnuts has 185 calories.
 Carbohydrates will help fuel your muscles. You will have difficulty completing your yoga poses if your body does not have the energy it needs. About 50% of your calories should come from carbohydrates.Whole grain bread, rice, and pasta, quinoa, legumes, and sweet potatoes are good sources of carbohydrates.

