 The first step in choosing neutral decorations for your wedding is deciding how neutral you want to go with your color scheme. Neutrals are often paired with bolder colors in warm or cool tones as a way to balance the palette. However, using a mostly neutral palette can give you a chic, understated look.If you want to incorporate bold, bright colors in your wedding decor, such as red, turquoise, or yellow, you’ll definitely want to mix in some neutrals, such as beige, white, gray, or black, to soften the look of the decorations.
By using mostly neutral colors, it’s much easier to mix and match decorations.;
, When you’re trying to decide on what neutrals to use for your decoration, it’s important to take your wedding venue into account. In a small space, you’ll want to use lighter neutrals to help brighten the venue and make it appear larger. In a large space with high ceilings, using darker neutrals can help make the venue feel more intimate.Light neutrals that you may want to consider for your wedding decorations include white, cream, beige, tan, taupe, and light gray.
Dark neutrals that you may want to consider for your wedding decorations include black, navy, charcoal, and chocolate brown.
 Another factor that can help you decide which neutrals to use for your wedding decor is the season. In spring and summer, lighter neutrals are typically the best option. For fall and winter weddings, darker neutrals usually work better.While the seasonal color theory can help provide guidance, you don’t have to adhere to it. If you want to use light neutrals and pastels for the decorations at a winter wedding, go for it. Choose the colors that feel right to you no matter what season it is.
 If you don’t want to go all neutral for your wedding’s decor, you’ll need to choose accent shade(s) to pop against the neutrals that you use. Neutrals are particularly helpful if you want to use bold, bright accent colors because they’ll help soften the more dramatic shades.As a general rule, you don’t want to use more than four or five colors for your wedding’s decorating scheme.
You can pair multiple neutral shades with just a single accent color to help it really stand out. For example, white, gray, and canary yellow can make a striking decorating scheme.
You can pair just a single neutral shade with multiple accent shades to help create a balanced look. For example, you might pair white with chartreuse, cornflower blue, and powder blue.
The accent colors that you pair with the neutrals don’t necessarily have to be bright or vivid. You can create a pretty color palette for your wedding decorations by pairing the neutrals with soft shades, such as mint, sky blue, peach, sage, blush pink, lilac, and/or butter yellow.
 If you’re worried about the neutral decorations at your wedding looking flat or boring, it can help to incorporate some shimmer. For example, simple taupe chair covers may seem drab, but sequined taupe covers can add some serious glam to the decor.While shimmery neutrals can add sophistication to your wedding, don’t go overboard. Having too many sequined or metallic decorations can often make the decor look busy.
 One of the easiest ways to incorporate neutrals in your wedding decor is through the flowers in your centerpieces. Instead of choosing arrangements in bright, bold colors, create elegant centerpieces with white flowers. They will coordinate with virtually any other decorations that you plan for the tables and add a brightness to the display at the same time.Some white flowers to consider for your centerpieces include carnations, calla lilies, chrysanthemums, daisies, dahlias, magnolias, irises, tulips, and roses.
You can also use white flowers for the bridal party’s bouquets. Make the bride’s bouquet stand out by mixing a few brighter colored flowers among the white blooms.
 When it comes to the vases for your floral arrangements, you don’t necessarily have to use white or cream containers that might blend in too easily with the flowers. Instead, opt for clear glass vases that will essentially serve as a neutral in the display and allow the flowers to really stand out.Mercury glass is a striking option for vases at your wedding. The subtle silvering gives them a bit more interest, but it won’t ruin the neutral effect of the glass.
 Adding some candles to the centerpieces or table displays at your wedding is another easy way to work some neutral shades into the decor. Many candles come in neutral shades such as white, cream, or beige, so they’ll easily coordinate with the other centerpiece decorations.Candles also provide soft mood lighting that can give your wedding a more romantic feel.
 The wedding cake is often the centerpiece of the event’s decor. Continue the neutral theme by choosing a simple cake. A pure white cake can seem a little stark, but a soft neutral such as cream, beige, or nude can make an elegant statement for your cake.If an entirely neutral cake seems too plain, you can add decorations in muted shades to liven up its look. For example, blush, mint, and peach accents can dress up a simple cream colored wedding cake.
 You can easily incorporate more neutrals in your wedding decor through the table cloths and chair covers. White table cloths are an obvious choice, but you can opt for cream or ivory for a softer look. Light gray and taupe are also lovely options.Linens in darker neutrals such as black or navy are ideal for evening weddings.
 Wood may not technically be a “color,” but it functions as a neutral in decor. Consider using wooden signage throughout the venue, wooden trays for holding the guest cards, or wooden blocks as part of the centerpieces.Lighter woods, such as maple, oak, pine, and ash, typically work best as neutrals for decor.
If your wedding has a rustic theme, you can leave the wood unfinished.
You can also use paint in neutral shades that match your color palette to create a wash for the wooden items.

