 Dryer sheets contain positively-charged ingredients which are released only when in the presence of static electricity. Their presence ensures electrical charges will be neutralized. To use dryer sheets, simply place one (or two for large loads) on top of wet clothes in the dryer before running it.


Dryer sheets do more than just remove static. They also lend a pleasant, fresh fragrance your laundry.
You can also use laundry sheets to “wipe away” static after your clothes come out of the dryer. You can rub them on your clothes after you’ve dressed if you’re still experiencing static cling., Adding two safety pins to a sock will channel the static electricity into the pins. Think of them as a lightning rod for static charges in the dryer.Attach the safety pins to the sock when the clothes are wet and being transferred from the washer to the dryer.


A similar method which operates on the same principle is to rub a metal hanger across the surface of each item of clothing after removing it from the dryer. While this is time consuming, it will effectively discharge static charges which accumulate during the drying cycle.
 These are small balls of foil, plastic, or wool which, when placed in a dryer with your clothes, reduce static cling. Since static develops from the friction of clothes rubbing against each other, adding an object like a dryer ball to the mix can add a layer between clothes which prevents them from accumulating the electrical charge which causes static. Other benefits of dryer balls include keeping your clothes separated and fluffy.


You could, instead of using a commercial or homemade dryer ball, use a tennis ball or even some clean, soft sneakers., While similar to the dryer ball, the aluminum foil ball actually works on a different principle, and causes the static to accumulate in the aluminum foil ball, not in the clothes. Using regular aluminum foil of the variety commonly found in kitchens, cut about three or four square feet of aluminum. Crunch it loosely into a rough ball, then smooth it in your hands by rolling it between your palms until it becomes rounded. Each should be two to three inches across when finished. Toss three or four balls in the dryer along with your clothes., Soap nuts are a type of berry which possesses anti-static properties. To use soap nuts, drop a handful (5-6) in a muslin bag. Tie it off and drop it into the regular laundry load before starting the washing machine.


When using soap nuts, you can eliminate or reduce the volume of detergent used since the soap nuts (as their name suggests) also act as an effective laundry soap in addition to being an excellent static eliminator. Be sure to use them with hot water for best results.