 Savory recipes work best with bananas with a low sugar content. Some varieties are naturally less sweet, but your best bet is using bananas that still have green peels and firm, white flesh.


Plantains are a separate type of fruit, almost always cooked before eating. They have a more savory flavor, and can be used in place of bananas in cooked, savory recipes.
 Boil the bananas with the peel on for 7–9 minutes. Rinse them in cool water, then peel. Mash the bananas using a potato masher, adding a pinch each of chopped green chili, chopped coriander leaves, ground cumin, asafoetida, and salt. Once the mixture is thoroughly mashed, form them into balls or patties. Fry them in shallow oil until crispy, then serve.


This recipe pairs well with many Indian sauces, including tamarind sauce, tangy mango sauce, or tangy tomato sauce. Alternatively, serve them dry, with pomegranate, chopped green coriander, or red chili powder on the side.
 Peel and slice two bananas, and sauté along with one diced white onion, stirring occasionally, until the onion is transparent. Add ¼ cup (60 mL) dried raisins and ¼ cup (60 mL) dried sultanas. Cook for a few more minutes until the fruit is soft, then stir in ¾ cup (180 mL) coconut milk and ½ tsp (2.5 mL) curry powder. Add about a dozen medium, shelled shrimp, and cook for 2 or 3 minutes, until the shrimp are pink. Serve on a bed of white rice.


Add more coconut milk for a soupier consistency, or more curry powder for a spicier curry.
Bananas can be added to other curries as well, but curries with coconut milk tend to match their sweet flavor best.
 Slice green bananas and add them to a salad of lettuce, tomatoes, and cucumber. If the bananas are already ripe, you can try making a sweeter salad instead, using lettuce and chopped, glazed nuts.
 Select ripe bananas, with a few brown spots on the peel. Peel and slice the bananas, and drop them in a bottle of white rum or bourbon. Let steep away from direct sunlight for several days, then strain out the banana using cheesecloth or coffee filters.Some of the banana may dissolve into the liquor, requiring two or more straining sessions to remove.

