 Once you have calmed down, initiate communication with the person who has offended you. This may be done in person or by phone, email or text.


If you feel you may easily lose control of your emotions, it may be best to communicate in writing; this will allow you time to carefully choose your words and edit your responses.
 Expressing how you feel first allows you to naturally communicate using I-statements. I-statements may reduce the likelihood of the listener responding defensively.The beginning of the statement should be "I feel."
For example, "I feel hurt when you point out all of my mistakes in front of my coworkers. I feel like you're saying my work has no value to the team."

, The other person may be unaware of what triggered your reaction. The "fundamental attribution error" is a pattern of thinking that happens with most people from time to time, in which they attribute responses to an internal, individual characteristic rather than an external one.So, for example, your boss might see your emotional reaction as you simply being a "touchy" person, rather than the reaction as a response to something she did or said.An action you perceive as deeply offensive may also be perceived as benign by another. For example, if you felt hurt because your partner was late to a date, you could remind yourself that lateness is a culturally defined thing. For example, someone from an Italian cultural upbringing may not see being 10 minutes late to an agreed time as actually being not punctual, where someone from a German cultural upbringing may see even arriving right on time as being "late.", This may involve disclosing personal history, explaining social dynamics, or sharing cultural expectations.


Journaling and/or talking with others may help you discover why you were hurt by the action, as it may not be immediately evident.
 Often, understanding and support is all that is required to resolve conflict.Try phrasing this as a need to be heard.
 Identifying appropriate ways to modify future behavior will help to avoid future conflict.


Explore all possible behavioral responses to identify the options that best benefit all parties.
This discussion needs to involve coping strategies and plans for future communication on your part to be effective.
You are ultimately responsible for your emotions, so you must also modify your behavior.

