 Journal about why these things are important to you and the personal connection you have to them. For example, you may have witnessed a beautiful local forest become an industrial nightmare and now you feel strongly that this kind of beauty and natural resources should have more protection from development. Journal as much or as little as you like, writing a journal is a great habit, it helps reduce stress and also helps you become a critical thinker, which brings us to the next point.;
, Question everything and try to see as many viewpoints as possible. Expand your research beyond Googling, there are many resources for information, such as magazines, books, documentaries, newspapers and opinions and experiences of people you know. Be educated, stand for your rights. Know that even the news and school-teachers can give you information tainted with biases which may not be the whole truth. There are two sides to every story. When you research realize that issues are two-sided and both are valid healthy viewpoints even if you do not personally agree. Diversity is one thing that makes this world an amazing place to be.
 Know that a positive attitude will help you through many things in life, and also that you do not have to have another's praise to affirm your own worth. Know thoroughly and truly your own strengths and weaknesses, don't lie to yourself, it's a waste of time, live in courage and not fear. Embrace your strengths and even your weaknesses, use them to your advantage. We all have something to give and our voice is meant to be heard.
 Have at least a vague idea or even a list of what you want to accomplish for the day, be it one thing or many things or part of a larger goal. Don't completely waste your time talking negatively to yourself or other's or spend an excessive amount of time on the computer, though of course there are many constructive things you can do on the internet too. It can be used many ways so pick a meaningful use of time, like perhaps learning a bit of a foreign language. Know that you will achieve what you want to with patience and persistence.
 In the past religious values were very important to most and to some they are still but our values today are less rigid and you can define what you value personally. The way you perceive the world is different from anyone else, your spiritual views can shape them too.
 Know what goes on in the world around you. As an example of this, in European countries most people keep a careful watch of what goes on in the news, because they have dealt with tyrants and do not want leaders to take advantage of them. You have more power when you know what goes on because it trickles down and will perhaps, in some way, effect you. Make an effort to watch the news everyday and read the newspaper.
 It is so important, the greatest gift if you can, voting is a right women and various cultural groups fought for centuries. Still today in some countries people are trying to achieve this great right. It is a privilege and you must know it is and treat it as such.
 Write letters to your country's leader, a response to a newspaper article that sparked your interest, email companies you believe are using unethical practices. What you think matters.
 It looks great on resumes, it builds character, people and social skills, work ethic, improves your self-esteem, helps you see the bigger picture, use your time constructively, gives you experiences and maybe great memories too! Many people that volunteer learn of talents they never knew they had.
 See beyond appearance, as they say, looks are deceiving, imagine all the people that can prove you wrong. Be generous and sensitive to violence in our desensitized culture.
 You may not know how many things we buy from various stores, the worst culprits being Bargain stores but many others are produced by Third world labor, when something says "Made in China", it almost always means the people who made it were exposed to horrible conditions and paid barely anything. Research the effects on Third World Labor on the environment and on human rights. Know that the more people speak up about this issue, the more it will change. You can help this issue by buying Fair trade, which supports workers in developing countries by paying them fair wages which help break the cycle of poverty.
 Thank your "God" whoever he/she might be, that you are the unique you and nobody else like you and never will be. Make it a challenge to come up with the biggest list of blessings in your life you can.
 Save them, they will add up and you can put them in donation bins commonly found near cash registers for various charities. Every cent counts!

, Instead learn about an exotic culture, history, pop music from a different nation such as C-Pop, J-Pop and K-Pop, look at beautiful art, post your own art, upload beautiful photography, learn a recipe from a different culture that sounds yummy, go on magazines websites for free articles of information, write and read poetry, start a blog, etc. Some great sites that truly make a difference are Change.org, where you can sign petitions of things you believe in, SocialVibe.com which has sponsors that donate to the charity of your choice when you sign up and complete activities, thehungersite.com which has sponsors also that donate when you simply click and there is a site called blackl.com which uses less energy than standard Google and is also run on wind energy! Create Facebook groups for a cause, leave kind messages on the internet and try to say kind, truthful things in general even when you are angry. It makes a strong person to do this but something we are all capable of.
 Think of all the flags that represent you, first would be the flag your country, than state or province and city, maybe your nationality or cultural group has a flag, perhaps you are homosexual and the rainbow flag represents you. You will be surprised how many groups you belong to yet you are your own self regardless of your flags. They are part of who you are but do not define you.
 We all only have so much time on this earth, so seek to understand the power of love and peace and know no matter who you are or where you come from you are part of the bigger picture and you matter in creating a better future for the generations to come.
 There are many, many wonderful charities out there.
, You cannot be afraid to speak up in front of people. Speaking in front of people to make them believe in your idea may seem like a grand way to get yourself in trouble, but only if you really want to fulfill your dream you shall have the courage to do so. Most of the time people laugh at your idea and say that it is not possible, but if you work hard enough and never give up then you can prove them wrong.