 Use hot water and soap to wash your hands. Clean the finger you’re going to prick with an alcohol swab, or with rubbing alcohol on a cotton ball.Alcohol evaporates rapidly so there's no need to dry the area; that will just recontaminate it. Let the alcohol air dry.


Most glucometers instruct you to prick your finger for a sample, but some of the newer blood glucose meters let you use an area on your arm. Determine which of these areas is acceptable for your meter. In general, a finger prick is the most accurate. Alternative sites are okay to use when blood glucose is stable, but not when potentially changing rapidly, such as after eating or exercising, or when hypoglycemic or ill., Insert a test strip into the glucometer, ensuring your insert the proper end inward. Insert a lancet into the lancing device you use to prick your finger.


Glucometers may differ in when you insert the test strip. Usually it is inserted in order to turn the machine on, but sometimes you have to put the blood on the strip and then insert it into the machine. Make sure you know which way your glucometer works before you prick your finger.
 A readout on the glucometer will tell you to put the drop of blood on the strip. The readout may actually say "place sample on strip," or it may give you a symbol, such as an icon that looks like a droplet of liquid.
 Prick your finger with the lancing device. This usually causes no, or very minimal, discomfort. You may need to squeeze or massage the finger you pricked on either side to squeeze out a drop of blood. Let the blood form a small bead on your finger. Hold the bead of blood to touch the tip of the strip at the right place, which should be indicated on the strip.Some people find it more comfortable to prick the side of the finger close to the fingernail, rather than the pad of the finger – there are fewer nerve endings on the side, making it a less sensitive area.If you find it difficult or painful to prick your finger, it may help to rinse your hand in warm water for a minute or two and then allow your hand to dangle at your side for another minute. This gets blood flowing to your fingers. Do this before you wash your hands with soapy water and use alcohol to clean the finger you’re going to prick.
The newer strips offer a "wicking" action that will draw the blood up into the test strip. Older meters and strips require you to actually drop blood onto the strip.
 The glucometer will start to count down in seconds until your results are ready to read. Newer glucometers only take about 5 seconds, whereas older versions may take10 to 30 seconds.The meter will sound a tone, or beep, when it has a reading for you.
 The results will show up on the digital screen of your glucometer. Results will vary depending on what time of day it is, how recently you ate, and what you ate. There is no single good result for every person. You should discuss your diabetes with your healthcare provider and set goals for your blood sugar.

