 Depending on the location and use of your mirror, it may have accumulated special kinds of grime that need specific cleaning agents to remove. Limescale or calcium deposits are likely culprits, and should be pre-treated before you tackle lesser stains. You can:


Identify calcium deposits by white, slightly rough textured spots. These can be removed by white vinegar on a damp cloth.Spot limescale, which is difficult to remove, by its milky white deposit on the surface of your mirror. Remove these stains with lemon juice, pickling vinegar, or lime juice.;
, If you intend on using regular rags or paper towels, the rough material could cause scratches on your mirror over time, or may leave lint behind. A microfiber cloth is a great way to prevent lint. In addition, you should also make sure you have:


A bucket
Cotton cleaning rag (2)
Water
Rubbing alcohol
White vinegar

, You can also make use of pre-made window cleaner, which are generally available at most stores, but white vinegar is an affordable and safe cleaning agent that will easily cut through build-up on your mirror. To make a white vinegar window cleaner simply:









Dilute one part white vinegar per every four parts hot water in your bucket.So for every four cups of water you use, you'll need one cup of white vinegar.
You might also consider using a spray bottle, found in the home goods section of most stores, so that you can mist your mirrors with your cleaning solution.
If you know you have hard water, using distilled water in place of tap water will prevent minerals from leaving deposits on your mirror.
 Due to the fact that rubbing alcohol evaporates quickly, you should try to perform this task as swiftly as possible.
 Using the second of your two clean cotton rags, dampen it in the bucket containing your cleaning solution and wring out additional moisture.If you drown your mirror in cleaner, your microfiber cloth might not be sufficient to dry it.
 This way, when you notice one side of your microfiber cloth is getting dirty, you can use the opposite side. When that side becomes dirty, you can open it and use one of the clean inside parts of your cloth, and so on.









You can use any soft, lint free cloth. Some people use bar towels for mirrors and glass.
 Pay close attention to cracks, crevices, or contours in your mirror; these are places dirt and grime build up and escape notice. By cleaning from top to bottom, you will also prevent the appearance of drip marks.









Angled cuts, deep corners, or other embellishments can be effectively cleaned with a cotton swab or toothbrush.Never wipe in a circular motion. Side to side and up and down leads to less streaks.
 Observe your mirror from multiple angles, and if you see any spots:









Apply a small amount of cleaner to your cotton rag.
Wring out remaining moisture thoroughly.
Spot clean the offending spot with your rag.
Dry and buff with a clean portion of your microfiber cloth.

