 Lung cancer can be treated in a variety of ways. However, the treatment that your doctor chooses for you will depend on:


Your overall health.
The size of the cancer tumor.
The exact location of the tumor.
The stage of the tumor.
 This is done by a thoracic surgeon. The goal of the surgery is to remove the whole tumor and the surrounding lymph nodes. This is done to ensure that no cancer cells are left on adjacent tissues.The time taken for recovery will depend on the surgical procedure that has been done and the amount of tissue that has been removed. The recovery will also depend on your condition before the surgical procedure.
 Radiation therapy is a treatment option where x-rays that have high energy are used to destroy the cancerous cells. This procedure is done by a radiation oncologist. The most common type of this treatment is external beam therapy where a machine is placed on the external part of your body. Radiation can also be given using implants that are inserted inside your body, which is called internal therapy.The side effects that may occur after radiation therapy include decreased appetite, fatigue, sore throat and dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing). Your skin might also feel irritated where the therapy was applied.
 Chemotherapy involves taking drugs that may stop the cancerous cells from multiplying and dividing. Most of these drugs are given intravenously and work systematically through your body in an attempt to kill all the cancerous cells.You may receive several drugs at once. Side effects may include nausea, vomiting, fatigue, decreased appetite, hair loss, diarrhea and increased risk of infection.
You may be given other drugs that will help to reduce the side effects that may occur during chemotherapy treatment.
 Some of these modes of treatment may be combined to increase your chances of defeating the cancer.


For example, you may have a surgical procedure done to remove the cancer, followed by radiotherapy to kill off any remaining cancerous cells.

