 For food that is especially chunky, use your fingers or a tool, like a wooden spoon or ice pick, to break your powdered food into chunks that will fit easily in your blender or processor. After breaking up your powdered food, its ready to be blended/processed.


If your powdered food is less clumpy and more powdery, it may be difficult to transfer it to your blender/processor. In this case, use a funnel to prevent spilling good powder.
Use a tool, like a normal or wooden spoon, to guide your powdered food into the blender/processor from its container.;
, Reattach the lid of your blender or processor and fasten it tight. A poor lid seal could send your powdered food flying! Then you'll have to select the right blending/processing mode for your powder.


Powdered food that is very lumpy might benefit from a lower speed setting, first. On some blenders/processors, this might be indicated as the "Stir" function.
Your powdered food shouldn't require more than a short time at a medium speed to refine it back to its original, lumpless form.
It is generally recommended, when using a blender/processor, to keep a hand on its top when running to prevent it coming loose., You should prioritize a container that is airtight, as these will prevent opportunities for moisture cause more clumping. If you live in a humid climate or have regular issues with clumping, you might also want to store your powdered food in the freezer.The cold temperatures in your freezer will create a dry environment for your stored powdered food and reduce the formation of lumps., You can use your powdered food straight from the freezer. However, when baking, you may want to allow powdered ingredients to come to room temperature before using. Many times these recipes are created assuming all ingredients are at their normal temperature (e.g. - refrigerator cold milk/eggs, room temp sugar/flour, etc.).


The temperature of the ingredients you use can influence the outcome of your recipe. If you're concerned the temperature of your powdered food might affect the outcome, it may be best to allow your ingredients to sit until they are room temperature.