 Pull-ups function similarly to diapers, but can be pulled up and down just like underpants so your child can become more familiarized with the ritual when he or she uses the restroom.;
, This can help children grow more consciously aware of their body signals when it’s really time to use the potty.Spend time with your child in a clean room near the restroom so he or she can access the potty immediately when needed.
 This will allow your child to undress quickly when it’s time to use the potty.


Avoid dressing your child in onesies, overalls, and other articles of clothing that are too difficult for your child to remove quickly.
 Your child may fidget, make straining faces, announce their tummy hurts, look you in the face, hold up their hand, or run off to hide in a corner if they need to use the potty.


After you’ve learned your child’s potty cues, take him or her to the restroom immediately upon recognizing these signals.
 Children are more likely to use the potty when they know they’re going to be rewarded for doing so. Many parents offer incentives such as pieces of candy, stickers to place on the calendar, or pennies to store in a piggy bank.
 Being positive and recognizing your child’s accomplishment will motivate them to continue using the potty.
 Kid potties are available in a variety of different styles and colors. Allowing your child to choose a potty can empower him or her to use it when needed., Activities such as these can make potty training seem fun, instead of as a chore or lesson.
 Allowing your child to pick out their favorite pairs of underpants can make them feel more excited about potty training, and about graduating from diapers to underpants.
 In most cases, your child will have to use the restroom, and will most likely use the potty with success.
 This will help prevent confusion in the beginning as your child becomes more familiar with using the potty.


Consider placing pieces of cereal or candy in the potty when you’re ready to teach a boy how to pee standing up. These items can function like targets boys can aim for when they’re ready to pee standing up!

