 Though there are mixed reports about how long you should wait to follow up on a job application, the general consensus is that you should follow-up no sooner than three to five days. Some say that you should wait a full week or longer, while others say that five business days is appropriate. Just remember that it's likely that dozens, or even hundreds, of applicants applied for the same position as you did, and that it takes time to sort through applications and find qualified candidates for the next round; you don't want to seem pushy or impatient by following up too soon.In fact, some hiring managers say that they prefer not to receive follow up emails at all. They believe that this tactic is attention-grabbing and takes away from the time they need to select qualified candidates; that said, other hiring managers say that following up will make you stand out and will show your enthusiasm and passion for the position.;
, Ideally, you should address your email to the same person you reached out to when you applied for the job. If you have the person's name, then this will show that you've really done your research; if you've searched everywhere and can't find it, then "Dear Hiring Manager" may be the best you can do.If you do enough poking around on the company's website, you may be able to find the contact information for the hiring manager.
You can also check out the company's page on Linked In to see if you can find contact info for a hiring manager there.
You should avoid calling the office to ask about the name of the hiring manager. If you can't find the name of the point of contact, don't call just to ask.
Always check the spelling of someone's name. Nothing can create a negative connection quicker than misspelling someone's name.
 Once you know the name of the hiring manager, just write "Dear" in front of it before you get into the body of your email, just as you did when you wrote your cover letter; "Dear Mr. Smith" is an appropriate salutation. Don't try to get chummy or informal and say "Hi" or "Hey" just because it's an email; it's important to keep things on the formal side.


As for the subject of your email, something simple like, "Application Follow-Up for Editor Position" will do the trick. If the position had a reference or requisition number, then you can add that to the subject.
Remember that the hiring manager may be hiring for multiple positions at once, so it's important to be as specific as possible. You can even put your name in the subject to make it easier for the hiring manager to find your application.
 Keep it short and simple. Just start off by saying when you applied for the position, how you found it, and that you have not heard back. You can add that you would like to make sure that the hiring manager received your materials if you didn't get any kind of confirmation of receipt; this is a sneaky way of following up. You can say something simple like this:Dear Mr. Smith,



Last week, I applied for the Editor position you advertised through Jobster. I have not yet heard back from Writerly Company regarding this position and would like to confirm that my application was received.
 Now, in just one or two sentences, you should tell the hiring manager that you're excited to apply for the position and explain why you'd be a great fit. This makes the email more than just a pesky "checking in" email, but one that reinforces your qualifications for the position. You can say something simple, like this:My enthusiasm and experience make me a great fit for this position. I have been an editor for a lifestyle magazine for the past five years and am excited about the opportunity to take my writing and editing experience to the next level with your company.
 Close with a positive statement saying that you look forward to hearing from them soon; make an offer to resend any files in case they were not forwarded to them correctly and reaffirm your contact details while making sure to thank the hiring manager for his or her time. Keep it short and simple while showing how much the position would mean to you. You can say something like this:



Please contact me at any time if you have questions about my qualifications or need any additional materials. I look forward to hearing from you and want to thank you for your time.



Sincerely,
Martha Jones





, Give the email a break for a small period of time and come back to it. Check for spelling and grammar mistakes and assess and fine tune the general flow of the email. Getting this right can be as important as having a polished cover letter and resume, so give it the attention it deserves.


You can even try reading your draft out loud to make sure it flows smoothly and makes sense. This can also give you a sense of whether or not you've maintained an enthusiastic, respectful tone.
 Once you have completed the necessary checks and you are happy with the email, send away. But do not send more than once––the last thing the hiring manager needs is 50 emails from you by misclicking on the send button. Take a deep breath, click that send button, and step away from the computer for a while.
 Now that your email is complete, give it some breathing room. Do not follow up with a phone call 30 minutes later to make sure they got the email and do not write another email tomorrow. At this point, you can consider that you tried your best to apply for the position: You submitted a strong application and followed up on it. Be confident that the strength of your resume and cover letter coupled with your persistence in following up, will put you in a strong position to land an interview.


Don't be discouraged if you don't hear back right away. It can take hiring managers weeks to sort through the applications of potential candidates, and some of them may never reach out to you at all because they are so overwhelmed with work. Try not to take this personally and move on toward your next opportunity.
Though some people are tempted to follow up over the telephone, you should make sure you've been patiently waiting before you consider this move. This can also make you stand out as a candidate, but it may also come off as pushy, so make sure you sound confident, remind the hiring manager why you're a good fit, and stay respectful if you do decide to make that call.

