 Hitting your rabbit, yelling at it, or trying to force it to show you affection are all things you should never do. If you have a rabbit with aggressive or vicious tendencies, hitting the bunny will only make it more scared and stressed out. You want to earn its trust so that it will feel more comfortable around you., Try putting your bunny and its cage into a small room, like the bathroom. Close the door, and then open the door to your bunny’s cage. Sit in the room with your rabbit, but let it decide when it wants to come out of its cage. Ignore your rabbit while you let it sniff you and hop around the room. Don’t pick your bunny up or even pet it. Try this a few times. Eventually, your rabbit will be used to you, and won’t see you as a threat.
 Rather than jumping right into holding or cuddling your bunny, take some time to let it warm up to you. This applies for any new people (or even other animals) that your bunny will encounter in its everyday life. If you let your bunny warm up to people at its own pace without forcing it, it will feel more relaxed and willing to interact.At first, you might try wearing gloves to protect your hands when handling your rabbit. Then, after some time and a few sessions of letting your rabbit get to know you and it hasn’t shown aggression or viciousness, you can take the gloves off.
 Keep an eye on your rabbit to see what things might be triggering its vicious response. It could be a certain noise, like the garbage disposal or the hair dryer, or it could be someone moving too quickly. Once you identify the things that seem to trigger the bad behavior, make sure to avoid those triggers.Stress can lead to aggression in rabbits. Aggression is their way of defending or protecting themselves when they feel threatened. If you work to avoid putting your rabbit in the situations that make it feel stressed or threatened, its aggressive and vicious behaviors will likely lessen.
 Children sometimes misunderstand the proper way to handle and interact with animals, and your rabbit might bite or nip a child that handles it incorrectly. Encourage children to touch your rabbit gently, speak softly, and avoid startling it.

