 This atom is usually least electronegative. As such, it is most capable of forming bonds with many other atoms. The term ‘central atom’ is used because all the other atoms in the molecule are bonded to this particular atom (but not necessarily to each other).Atoms like phosphorus and carbon are often central atoms.
In some more complex molecules, you may have multiple central atoms.
 As a general (but not all-exclusive) rule, atoms like to be surrounded by eight valence electrons (this is known as the octet rule). When the central atoms bonds to the other atoms, the most stable configuration is one that will satisfy the octet rule (in most cases). This can help you determine the number of bonds that will be between the central atom and the other atoms because each bond represents two electrons.Some large atoms such as phosphorus can break the octet rule.
For example, carbon dioxide (CO2) has two oxygens covalently double-bonded to the central atom, carbon. This allows the octet rule to be satisfied for all three atoms.
Phosphorus pentachloride (PCl5) breaks the octet rule by having five bonding pairs around the central atom. This molecule has five chlorine atoms covalently single-bonded to the central atom, phosphorus. The octet rule is satisfied for each of the five chlorine atoms, but it is exceeded for the phosphorus atom.
 With larger covalent molecules, it is best to start the drawing with the central atom. Resist the urge to write all of the atomic symbols at the same time. Leave plenty of room around the central atom to place your other symbols after you have determined their place., For each unshared electron pair, draw two small dots right next to each other around the central atom. For each single bond, draw a line going away from the atom. For double and triple bonds, instead of one line, draw two or three, respectively. This maps out where the other molecules can bond to the central atom., Each remaining atom in the molecule will attach to the one of the bonds coming from the central atom. Write the symbol for each of these atoms at the end of one of the bonds you placed around the central atom. This indicates that electrons are being shared between that atom and the central atom., Count each bond as two electrons (double and triple bonds as 4 and 6 electrons, respectively). Then add electron pairs around each atom until the octet rule is satisfied for that atom. You can check your work on each atom by counting each dot as one electron and each bond as two electrons. The sum should be eight.Of course, exceptions include atoms that exceed the octet rule and hydrogen, which only has zero or two valence electrons at any given time.
When a hydrogen molecule is covalently bonded to another atom, it will have no other unshared electrons surrounding it.

