 If you are with the dog when it runs away, go after it and try to keep it in eye sight. At some point the dog will stop to check out a smell or dodge a person and that is a potential time to move in closer. Try not to make it obvious that you are tracking the dog or it will see your pursuit as a game of chase and run even faster., There is some controversy about this step. If you are dealing with an outgoing dog it is fine to call their name or clap your hands to get their attention. If you are pursuing a shy dog these actions can be seen as threatening and may cause it to run even more. All things considered, your best bet may be to make high-pitched yipping noises. This will make you sound like potential prey and the dog may turn around to check you out.You can also experiment with saying a few words, such as “Come,” in a low and deep tone. Sometimes this is off-putting enough to get a dog’s attention., Food is your secret weapon. Get out the smelliest, most noticeable treats that you have and take them with you on the hunt. You can simply toss a few in the direction of the dog or you could place a few on the ground and bend down to check them out. This action might trigger a dog’s curiosity and cause it to come over to see what you are looking at.If your dog makes a habit of running away it may be helpful to keep a bag of treats in your car for emergencies., Never approach a dog directly as it will cause them to freeze and then turn tail and run. Instead, try to flank them a bit and head into their peripheral vision. This may also trigger their hunting instinct and they may try to catch you instead., You may have to be a bit patient as your chase could take upwards of 45 minutes in some cases. Keep trying to close the distance between you and the dog without seeming frantic. This may mean that you maintain a brisk walk as you continually reposition yourself., Bursting out with an unexpected jolt of movement can cause the dog to take notice and try to chase you. You may get the best results if you yip a bit, jump around, and then sprint away. Run in the direction of a safe space., If all else fails you might try to adopt a submission posture, sitting on the ground and waiting for the dog to approach you. This will only work, of course, if you have the dog in your direct line of vision. Waiting the dog out can be a good option when you are trying to catch a runway dog in an enclosed area., Try to steer the dog way from busy, traffic congested areas. But, keep an eye out for your own well-being too. Some dog owners or good Samaritans have been hit by cars while trying to assist runaway pets.