 Keep in mind that marriage is not the only option for a long-term relationship. Many couples are opting not to get married at all.If you are worried about marrying someone on the rebound, then keep in mind that you have the option to have relationships without marriage.


If someone is pressuring you to get married, then try saying, “I care about you, but I am just not interested in marriage right now.”

, Emotional intimacy is the most important factor in a successful relationship.You should be able to talk to your partner about anything. One way to develop emotional intimacy is to spend time talking to the person. Spend time with your significant other as you would with a friend.


For example, you might go for coffee with the person and ask questions to get to know him or her better. Once you get past basic details, such as family, hobbies, likes, and dislikes, start asking about more personal things, such as dreams, fears, and life goals.
 Having sex within the first month of a relationship has been linked with lower quality relationships.Therefore, it is best to wait for as long as you can to become physically intimate with someone.


Try to wait for at least a month to have sex with someone you are dating. If he or she asks why you are declining invitations to have sex, you can say something like, “I just really like you and I want to get to know you better first.”

, Living with your significant other before you consider marriage might be a good opportunity to determine whether or not you want to get married to your significant other. Despite the findings of previous studies that indicated cohabiting was bad for relationships, more recent studies have shown that cohabiting before marriage can increase a relationship's stability and quality.Cohabiting also has other benefits that are similar to marriage, such as in increased sense of well-being, better health, and more social connections.If your partner is interested in moving in together, then you might want to consider it. It may help you to determine whether or not you want to marry this person.
 Although there are lots of negative possibilities associated with rebounding, there is also some evidence that rebounding is healthy for some people. Rebounding can help you to move past your ex more quickly than staying on your own for a long period of time.While you should still be cautious about remarrying, don’t be afraid to get into a new relationship.
There is no evidence that waiting to form a new relationship is healthier than forming a new relationship right away.