 Caring for a new baby may seem like a daunting task with many things to remember. Taking a newborn care class at a local healthcare facility can provide you vital new information or refresh any knowledge you already have.Newborn care classes address topics such as how to:


Hold your baby
Bathe your baby
Dress your baby
Swaddle your baby
Feed and burp your baby
Clean an umbilical cord
Care for a circumcision
Clear nasal passages
Recognize health concerns
Soothe your baby, No matter where you live, your baby needs somewhere to sleep. You’ll also need some space to store baby supplies including bottles, diapers and clothing.Keep in mind that any space will work. Babies don’t need much space in during their first few months. You can use a separate room or decorate one specific corner or area of a room for the baby.Decorate with non-toxic paint, wall decals or other features you’d like to use.
Measure the space so that it fits the baby’s bassinet, crib, or basket.
Set aside an area in your kitchen for bottles and formula.
 Every baby needs certain items at home for health and wellbeing. Purchasing these items before the birth can be a nice way to reduce stress and welcome your new baby home.Get the following items for your baby:


Federally-approved car seat
Crib, bassinet, or cradle with slats that are no more than 2 3/8 inches apart
Bedding
Bottles, nipples, and bottle cleaners
Changing table or non-slip pad
Diapers
Diaper pail for dirty diapers
Receiving blanket(s)
Clothing including onesies
Washcloths and baby wipes.Baby wash and shampoo

, Most facilities will not let you leave if you do not know how to use a federally-approved car seat.In the weeks before the birth, practice placing the removing the seat from your car. This can prevent any delays in going home and assure you that your baby is safe in the car.Use the LATCH technique when installing the seat. LATCH stands for “lower anchors and tethers for children.” It means attaching the seat’s anchors and tethers to the metal latches or hooks in the back of your car.Consult the car seat’s instruction manual before installing it.Make sure the car seat faces backwards., Babies have very sensitive skin. Before your baby comes home, wash any items such as clothing or bedding that may come in contact with baby’s skin.Wash items in a gentle, baby-friendly detergent that has no dyes or scents that can irritate delicate skin.Don’t use fabric softener or dryer sheets because they can irritate a baby’s skin.
 Your baby may not start cruising your home for a few months, but will grow quickly and become increasingly curious. Secure anything that could harm your baby before the baby becomes mobile to avoid potential accidents. This includes sharp corners or electrical outlets.


Keep in mind that no electrical device is completely babyproof.Install safety latches and locks on cabinets and drawers. This can keep babies from harmful items including poisons, medications, and sharp objects.
Use safety gates in areas where your child could encounter dangers, such as the stairs.
Put covers on doorknobs and locks on doors to any areas that you don’t want your baby to access.
Use anti-scalding devices on faucets and showerheads. Consider setting the water temperature to 120 degrees to prevent burns.
Install window guards and safety netting to prevent falls from windows or balconies.
Make sure smoke detectors are working properly.

