 Licensing by yourself means that you are going to do the legwork and the phone calling to get your music into the hands of music publishers. Doing this requires more work on your part, but you can retain a higher level of control. Joining an agency gives up a little of that control, but can benefit you with broader exposure. Talk with other musicians about their experiences to help make the decision. Licensing agencies are selective about who they take on, so the tips for licensing your own music or for getting accepted by an agency are pretty much the same.
 To license your music, you will need to reach out to music publishers, agents, and music supervisors. These are the people who make the decisions about what music gets purchased and what music gets played, on the radio, television, movies and online.The more contacts you make, the more chance you have that someone will hear what you have and give it a shot.Talk with other musicians for references.
Use the Internet to search out people online.
Subscribe to music journals and publications to keep up with the industry.
 It is important that your music be up to “industry standard” if you want to get serious consideration. This means that you can’t expect to just sing into your cell phone, upload it to YouTube, and be taken seriously. Music publishers and supervisors want to hear your best sound. If this means that you invest some money in a professional recording studio - or find a friend who has some professional equipment - it would probably be worth the investment.This doesn't necessarily mean that only professionally-recorded music will qualify - the process of "mastering" is often the most important step to your music sounding comparable to the industry, so regardless of how the music is produced, you may want to put extra emphasis or money into mastering.
 Most sources agree that if you want to catch a publisher’s attention, you need to let them hear your best sound right up front. Don’t send a CD full of everything you have ever recorded. They won’t listen to that. Send your very best one or two songs. If they’re interested in that, then they’ll ask for more., This will make the publishers more interested in working with you. A lot of publishers will be interested in licensing from new artists because they think they can move the deal more quickly, and probably cheaper.And if you’re trying to get started, this is probably true. So if you’re sending out samples of your music, include a note or letter that makes it clear that you own the full rights to the song. That should catch their attention., Once you get a music publisher’s attention and they’re interested in your music, you will need to negotiate a deal for their use of your music. There is a wide range of possibilities here. Someone could pay you a single fee for the right to use your song for a single purpose, such as a background track for a commercial. Someone could offer to pay you an ongoing royalty for repeated use. Or someone may like your lyrics but want to alter the overall sound of the song for some purpose you haven’t considered yet. None of these is necessarily the “right” way to go. You will have to make that decision. But it may be helpful to have an attorney or music agent help you review the terms of contract offers so that you completely understand what you are agreeing to.