 When you wash your face, wash it gently and with warm (but not hot) water. The heat will open your pores and make the cleaning process more effective. Make sure your water is not too hot, so you won't burn your skin.









Make sure your cleanser is suited for your skin. Select a hypoallergenic or acne-formulated product. A highly perfumed, harsh soap will often make acne worse.
In America and some other countries, the following are excellent and usually widely available: Cetaphil, Dove Sensitive, Neutrogena brand cleansers, and Basis. However, there are many "store brands" that may be less expensive and about as good. If you can afford them, higher-end brands like Boscia, Fresh, and Murad are good.;
, Both extremes need special care.


Too much washing is sometimes as bad as not enough. Acne is not caused by dirty skin. Washing once in the morning, once at night, and if the face is very sweaty or to wash off make-up is plenty. Too much washing can irritate acne, actually making it worse.
Dry skin can benefit from a face wash or soap that is oil-based or contains a moisturizer.
Oily skin does not usually need extra moisturizer in its cleanser. However, be careful not to go extremely drying, either. If your face feels tight after washing, the cleanser may be too harsh.
 If your hands are oily and dirty to begin, you will not get the best results. Wash your hands before you wash your face for best results.









Do not wash or scrub too hard. Some people prefer to wash their face with a washcloth but this can potentially irritate your skin more, making it more prone to acne. Gently washing your face with your hands is the best way to go.
 When you wash your face, you strip it out of oils and moisture, causing your skin to produce more oil and sebum to compensate for the dryness. Your skin needs moisture. Help it replenish that moisture by moisturizing after each wash.
 Depending on your skin type, you may want to choose a different moisturizer. The following are general guidelines, but everyone's skin is different, and you should feel free to experiment and find what works for you:


Oily skin: Choose a gel-based moisturizer.Gel-based moisturizers are usually better for oily skin, as they provide essential moisture without overdoing it.
Dry skin: Choose a cream-based moisturizer.Cream-based moisturizers are heavier and longer-lasting than gel-based ones. Doctors usually recommend these for skin that needs something a little more heavy-duty.
 Exfoliating means gently wiping off the outer layer of the skin (called the epidermis) in order to help slough off dead skin and unclog pores. See if exfoliating once a week improves the complexion of your skin. You can buy a commercial exfoliating product, or you can make one on your own. Whatever you do, don't over-exfoliate. Exfoliating once a week is plenty.









For some people with acne, physical exfoliation (e.g., with a scrub) can make the problem worse. Chemical exfoliants can be gentler on the skin, and some of them can be used daily (generally overnight). AHAs are chemical exfoliants that slough off dead skin, while BHAs clean out your pores. You can use one or both.
 Avoid going to sleep with makeup on. If you wear makeup, get into the habit of removing it before you go to bed. Make-up that stays on your face can clog pores, leading to acne. If you wear makeup make sure you get oil free foundation of any other makeups If you don't have oil free or can't get some use face powder. Face powder will soak up all the oils from your makeup or face If you know you're prone to leaving makeup on and you don't want to go through the hassle of washing your face, invest in some skin-cleaning wipes that you can use in a pinch.









Also be sure to wash off other cosmetics, such as sunscreen.
 Your hands are breeding grounds for bacteria because we use them to touch so many things. Touching your face is a big no-no because it cuts down on bacteria transmission. The less bacteria on your face, the lower your chances that you'll develop nasty breakouts.
 These include: towels, make-up brushes or kits, hair bands, etc.
 The oils on your pillowcases can cause acne by spreading dirt, grime, and dead skin. At the least, do it weekly, but you can do it every day if you find this tip makes a big difference. Consider having two pairs of pillowcases that you can switch out at the end of each week so that you avoid doing laundry constantly.


Try to avoid detergents with fragrances and dryer sheets. Both can trigger acne for some people.
 How you treat your hair can have a big impact on acne, especially around your forehead. Your scalp releases natural oils to keep your hair lustrous. But too much oil in and around your scalp, while healthy for your hair, can be dangerous for your skin. For this reason, wash your hair at least every other day. Try to strike a good balance between healthy hair and healthy skin.
 Gels, mousses, and sprays can get into the pores of your skin, clog them, and create pimples. Be selective about how much product you put into your hair, especially if you have acne around your forehead.
 Exposure to too much sunlight can be harmful to the skin. You probably already know that it can cause skin cancer, but did you know that it can exacerbate acne?When you go outside or expect to be in the sun for a long period of time, wear some noncomedogenic sunscreen to help block out harmful rays. Noncomedogenic just means that the sunscreen will not clog your pores. Wear a hat, too. Note that many acne topical treatments can make sun damage more likely.

