


Vault is a fairly easy event in level 6. If you competed level 5, you are very familiar with this vault. It is a handspring vault, punching off the springboard facing the vault and blocking off the horse, sticking on your feet. Although it is easy, it is an event that they take a lot of tenths off. To have a 9.0 on Vault, you must accelerate in you run at a very high speed to start the vault. If you don't accelerate, or run fast, you will not have enough power to block off the horse.
Practice at the gym or in your backyard, accelerating. If you are in your yard, pretend you are on vault. If you're at the gym, sprint past the vault table. Always remember to keep you arms to your side and swing back and forth, Practice swinging your arms like this. Next is punching off the board. Punch-backs are a perfect practice for this.
Just take two or three steps and, like a punch for a vault, punch forward and land on two feet and jump back.Do it while squeezing your bottom and tightening your thighs and abs. Always do a small arm circle(backwards) during your punch. After that is the flight.
Squeeze your bottom and every other muscle and block off your shoulders keeping your arms super-straight. Then its the after flight: all you have to do is squeeze everything super super hard and stick and salute to the judge.;
, A hard event. All your really need to do for a good routine is a straight-arm strait-leg kip, casting to 3/4 handstand, a clear-hip with your legs off the bars with straight- arms straight- legs and shootout 3/4 handstand.come out with a perfect push away kip, squeezing EVERYTHING.


Connect your squat-on, pike-on' or sole-circle, jumping to high bar with a hollow body into a long-hang kip cast 3/4 handstand, into a strait-legged long-hang pullover, connected to under swing(very big) tap swing, tap swing flyaway stick. Ask your parents to get a private with one of your couches. She will teach you about your routine?

, Schedule a private with your coach. The hard part about beam is the wobbles and falls. If you fall, don't get all worked up, but remember to stick always. Make sure you hold all your skills at the right time, and all your skills are exact. Have a graceful attitude like a Russian dancer.


Show your muscles though, and try not to shake. It makes you more wobbly. Focus on the end of the beam. Practice at home on a floor bean or tape on the floor, or even wood floorboards. They all make a perfect practice area.
 A favored event. You have to have excellent stamina for Floor. Do conditioning stuff(even if you do conditioning at your gym, you won't get strongest in your gym. Floor is fairly easy too compete. It shows your attitude and style. You have three major tumbling passes: front assault, front handspring step-out, front handspring rebound, and round-off back handspring backsault. Those are critical to stick. You have to have a good leap pass. Try taking a dance class. Always remember to SQUEEZE!!

