 You can treat a pilonidal cyst with at-home treatments. The at-home treatments are best done as soon as you feel any swelling or tenderness that may indicate a pilonidal cyst is forming. If it is showing signs of infection, see your doctor.


Wash your hands carefully before and after applications of any or the home remedies.
Signs of infection include redness, swelling, pain, warmth around the area, and a white, foul-smelling pus that may look like cheese., A warm compress can help treat the pilonidal cyst. The warmth can help reduce pain and swelling. The dampness from the compress can help soften the cyst.Take a clean washcloth and soak it in warm water. Apply the warm compress to the cyst at least four times a day for at least 10 minutes.
If you want, you can soak the cotton in diluted chamomile tea (½ cup of water and ½ cup of chamomile tea steeped for 10 minutes) or diluted apple cider vinegar (equal volumes or apple cider vinegar and boiled then cooled water). You can also add a few drops of the essential oils to the water before soaking the rag.
You can also make a warm compress by soaking a chamomile tea bag. Apply the warm tea bag directly on the cyst. Chamomile tea helps promote healing.
 The essential oils used to treat pilonidal cysts, such as tea tree or turmeric oil, have anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties, which help reduce the swelling and the chance of infection. Many of these oils are used to treat cystic acne and other types of infected cysts as well as used to reduce inflammation.Essential oils you can use to treat pilonidal cysts include tea tree oil, turmeric oil, garlic oil, and frankincense oil. Castor oil is commonly used as an anti-inflammatory agent and to soften the cyst.It may also be helpful in speeding the healing of a cyst.
The essential oils can be applied directly onto the cyst, though you can also mix them with castor using three parts essential oil and seven parts castor oil. Use a cotton ball or a Q-tip for application.
Apply to the cyst four times daily. You may cover the cyst with a bandage after application of the oil. If no improvement is seen with one to two weeks, contact your physician for advice.
 You can dab witch hazel or apple cider vinegar on the cyst to help heal it by drying out. Witch hazel will help dry out the cyst because of the astringent qualities of the tannins found in it. Apple cider vinegar also has astringent properties. Apple cider vinegar and witch hazel also help to fight infections.If it stings or your skin seems to be sensitive to the apple cider vinegar, dilute the vinegar with an equal amount of water.
Just apply with a cotton ball or a Q-tip.
 Dry burdock root can help draw out the proteins in the cyst. Burdock can be used to dry out the cyst, and is a common herbal remedy for skin conditions.Mix 1/2 teaspoon of dried burdock root with one tablespoon of honey. Apply to the cyst. The honey is an antimicrobial substance and will also draw out the material in the cyst.
 Bloodroot has been used traditionally in Native American medicine to treat skin disorders. You can mix ⅛ teaspoon of bloodroot powder with two tablespoons of castor oil. Use a Q-tip to apply directly on the cyst.


Use only small amounts of bloodroot and only on intact skin with no breaks or cuts in the skin.
It should not be taken internally and should not be used around the eyes, mouth, or around the genitals.

