 Daily brushing is ideal, but brush their teeth at least two to three times a week to help prevent periodontal disease and tooth decay.Take a toothpaste that is specifically made for dogs and a soft toothbrush. Gently brush your dog’s teeth while you examine their mouth for any signs of disease, like tooth decay or sores.
 Unless you regularly walk your Shar-Pei on pavement, their nails will need to be trimmed every month. A good way to tell that your dog needs their nails trimmed is to listen for any clicking when they walk on a hard surface, like tile. Trim their nails using a guillotine or scissor style nail clipper and cut a small portion of the nail. You want to avoid the quick, which is a vein that runs through the nail delivering its blood supply.It can be more difficult to locate the quick on black nails, so be very careful and only cut small pieces of nail at a time. Have styptic powder and cotton balls handy in case you cut the quick so you can stop the blood flow.
Shar-Peis are also prone to toe infections that are caused when the short hairs on their paws become impacted. While you’re clipping their nails, keep an eye out for any signs of irritation., Shar-Pei ears typically have small ears that sit at the top of their head. Folded ears tend to be more prone to ear infections, but you should check your dog’s ears once a week as a part of your grooming routine. Look for any signs of redness or bad odor, which could indicate an infection.Each time you check their ears, wipe them with a cotton ball that has been dampened with a pH-balanced ear cleaner.


Do not stick anything into their ear canal, like a cotton swab. Only clean the outer portions of the ear.
 Shar-Peis have deep set eyes that often have folds of skin that hang over them. They are very prone to eye diseases and infections, since these flaps of skin can be breeding grounds for bacteria. Check your Shar-Pei’s eyes at least once a week for any blisters, sores, pus, and redness. Use a pH-balanced and gentle cleaning solution on a soft cloth to wipe their eyes.Consult your veterinarian about products that are safe to use around your dog’s eyes.

