 In recent years, carbs have gotten a bad rap — in fact, they're one of the cornerstones of a healthy diet that gives you energy throughout the day. Being choosy about which types of carbs you eat and choosing reasonable, moderate portion sizes is important for getting the biggest nutritional (and energetic) benefit from your carbs possible. In general, you'll want to eat mostly complex carbohydrates, like those found in whole grains, as the body breaks these down slowly, providing long-lasting energy. However, eating some simple carbs, like those in fruit and honey, can give you instant post-meal energy.


Healthy complex carbohydrates include whole grain products (whole grain bread, cereal, etc.), oatmeal, quinoa, buckwheat, brown or wild rice,
Healthy simple carbohydrates include most fruits, honey, non whole-grain products (white bread, etc.) and white rice.
 Often, the distracting feeling of being unsatisfied or "not full" a few hours after a meal can go hand-in-hand with feeling fatigued. To help stay full throughout the day, try adding protein to your diet. Compared to other types of food, good protein sources leave you feeling fuller for longer, which, in addition to fighting fatigue, can also help with maintaining a healthy weight. However, since some sources of protein can be rich in unhealthy fats and calories, it's important to distinguish between lean, healthy proteins, which you should eat frequently, and unhealthier varieties, which are best enjoyed infrequently.


Lean sources of protein include chicken breasts, egg whites, most varieties of fish, beans, soy products, and some leaner cuts of beef and pork., We've all heard the old cliché before — breakfast is the most important meal of the day. In fact, when it comes to fighting fatigue, there's lots of truth to this advice. In addition to contributing to healthy growth and making it easier to maintain a normal weight level, breakfast is vital for giving us the energy we need to succeed throughout the day.People who skip breakfast have less energy in the morning (and, if they normally eat complex carbohydrates for their first meal, throughout the day). In addition, people who skip breakfast are more likely to overeat later in the day, which can lead to a bloated, lethargic feeling.Ideally, breakfast should include some simple carbohydrates for instant energy, some complex carbohydrates for day-long fuel, and a little protein for satisfying fullness. Here's a great sample breakfast idea to get you started:One cup Skim milk (10 g protein)
Two ounces Canadian bacon (12 g protein)
Whole-wheat bagel w/ light spread (52 g complex carbs)
Banana (27 g simple carbs)





, When it comes to reducing your fatigue through diet, it's not all about what you eat. It's also about when you eat. Some studies have shown that splitting your daily food intake over five (or more) smaller meals per day makes it easier to maintain feelings of fullness and high levels of energy throughout the day (though some of the other supposed benefits of this style of diet have recently become the subject of debate).Conversely, eating just a few large meals per day can leave people feeling fatigued when it's been a long time since their last meal.


Note, however, that if you plan to split your daily food intake into a greater number of meals, it's important not to increase your overall calorie intake (unless you're trying to gain weight). Your weight is ultimately determined by the absolute number of calories you eat per day, not the number of meals you eat.
 While healthy, nutritious food can be the fuel that gives you the energy that you need to get through the day, too much food can be a bad thing. Over-eating (even if your food is very nutritious) can lead to feelings of uncomfortable fullness, bloating, and fatigue. In addition, consistently over-eating can cause weight gain, which can lead to long-term feeling of fatigue and sluggishness. No matter what's in your diet, it's important to keep your daily intake under control to maintain optimal health and energy.


You'll especially want to avoid frequently indulging in foods that are rich in fat and/or sugar. These foods can be satisfying to eat, but they're usually sources of "empty calories" — in other words, they're calorie-rich but have no other nutritious benefit. Additionally, consuming these types of foods too heavily can lead to serious health problems, like diabetes and heart disease.
 Dehydration has long been cited as a cause of a variety of health problems, including fatigue.Though the seriousness of mild dehydration and the exact amount of water a person needs throughout the day are the subjects of continuing debate, moderate to serious dehydration is known for sure to sap a person's energy and cause fatigue. If you've been active throughout the day or have been exercising and are beginning to feel fatigued, try drinking a glass of water for a refreshing boost.


Pure water is best for curing dehydration (though certain sports drinks containing electrolytes can also be great for prolonged, intense exercise). Don't consume drinks containing alcohol or caffeine — these chemicals can contribute to dehydration (though not as much as is sometimes reported),decreasing the drink's benefit.
 Today, a huge assortment of dietary supplements are available both online and through traditional retailers that allege to help fight fatigue. Though some supporters of these supplements testify to these supplements' benefits, most have not been proven to be effective in a clinical setting. In addition, these sorts of supplements aren't subject to the same sorts of oversight and regulation that ordinary foods and drugs are, which means that, for many dietary supplements, there is little in terms of quality control. If you'd like to take a dietary supplement for your fatigue, talk to your doctor first — he may be able to recommend an alternative or help you judge the possible risks and rewards of your chosen supplement. Just a few supplements that can (allegedly) lower fatigue are:Black currant
Fish oil
Magnesium
Melatonin
Rhodiola
Evening primrose oil
Folic acid

