 Lip locking is a simple yet intimate form of kissing, so you'll need to be close. Once the two of you are close enough to feel one another's breath, close your eyes.


At minimum, your face will need to be close to your partner's face. Before closing your eyes, make sure that your mouth is positioned just above your partner's mouth.
Even if you don't feel comfortable closing your eyes completely, you should at least narrow your eyes to slits once your faces are aligned.
Ideally, your entire body should be close to your partner. Regardless of whether you are standing, sitting, or lying down, you should lean your entire body toward your partner until you at least brush up against one another.;
, Close the remaining distance between you and your partner, bringing your lips together. Move your lips until you feel them seal around your partner's lower lip.


Your aim doesn't need to be perfect when you first touch lips. Slowly shifting your lips to the right position can be just as sensual as landing them there to begin with.
Only use your lips during this kiss. Do not open your mouth, use your teeth, or use your tongue. You can do these things later when leading into another type of kissing, but strictly speaking, they aren't part of a lip lock.
 Keep your lips locked onto your partner's for approximately 5 to 10 seconds.The exact amount of time isn't important, but this is meant to be a slow, sensual kiss, so don't rush through it. Take your time and hold the kiss for as long as the mood demands, even if that means holding it for as little as 3 seconds or as many as 20 seconds.
 Once it's time to break away, do so slowly and hesitantly instead of quickly backing off.


Don't make your partner think that you're in a rush to get away. You need to send the message that you'd rather not separate at all.
Slowly open your eyes as you back away. Look into your partner's eyes to determine if he or she wants to continue or would rather stop there.
 You can continue locking lips as many times as the moment demands. When the time comes to end it completely, simply gaze away from your partner while easing your face and body away, as well.


Additional lip locks should can be performed in the same way as the first, but you should also give your partner a chance to lock your lip in between his or hers.
Take time to breathe in between or during your lip locks, too.
 By keeping your lips moist and preventing them from chapping, you can make any kiss more enjoyable for both you and your partner.A little lip balm can make a big difference, and both guys and gals can use it without feeling self-conscious.
For severely dry, damaged lips, you may want to exfoliate. You can gently brush over your lips with a clean toothbrush, prepare a DIY lip scrub, or purchase an actual lip exfoliator.
For girls, adding a light layer of lipstick or lip gloss can also make your lips look plump, moist, and more kissable.
 Bad breath can ruin an otherwise good lip lock, so make sure your breath stays fresh when you lean in for that kiss.Brush your teeth two to three times a day.
It can also be a good idea to freshen your breath before meeting the person you plan to lock lips with. Consider using a little mouthwash or breath spray immediately before your date.
Peppermints and mint-flavored gum can help freshen your breath, too, but make sure that they're out of your mouth well before you plan to kiss. Holding them in your mouth can make the lip lock more awkward for both you and your partner.
 Eyes are conventionally viewed as "windows to the soul," so making and maintaining meaningful eye contact can convey a deeper sense of passion during a lip lock.


Staring at your partner while your lips are locked can seem a little awkward, but peeking at your partner through hooded eyes in between kisses, before a kiss, or immediately after a kiss can create more intimacy.
 If your lips are the only things that touch during the lip lock, it won't seem like a very passionate kiss. You'll need to use your hands to show a stronger degree of desire.


Consider cupping your partner's face in between your hands as you draw in for the kiss. Doing so clearly lets your partner know your intentions while also making it easier for you to control the pressure of the kiss.
You can also let your hands roam during the kiss. Consider placing your hands on your partner's shoulders, around his or her waist, or on the back of your partner's head, using the leverage to pull your him or her closer.
 Your first lip lock should be light and gentle, but if the kissing continues past one or two, you might be able to apply a little more pressure.


Hard kisses can let your partner know how much you desire him or her, but the lip lock should still feel pleasant and not painful.
If you're locking lips for a while, consider varying the pressure back and forth between soft and hard. Doing so can keep things unpredictable and exciting.
 Once you feel comfortable with the basic lip lock, you can surprise your partner by locking lips without the standard build-up.


Instead of gradually easing into the kiss, grab your partner around the wait or neck and quickly bring your faces together, stopping just short of his or her lips. Quickly and firmly lock lips and break away after a few seconds. This is a passionate variation of the lip lock that is sometimes referred to as the "flash bang" kiss., As you become more experienced with different forms of kissing, switch between different types of kisses to keep things as passionate and exciting as possible.


You can ease into a different form of kissing by gently sucking or tugging on your partner's lip during an otherwise ordinary lip lock.Alternatively, you can move into completely different types of kiss after planting one or two lip locks. For instance, you might consider French kissing.

