 The quickest and easiest way to get in touch with Nick is usually through its website. For ordinary, everyday questions (like, for example, if you want to know when you can catch your favorite shows), use the site's "Write Nick" feature. With this, all you need to do is provide your first name and write your question or comment — it's super easy!


To get to the "Write Nick" page, simply search for "Write to Nick" on your favorite search engine or use the "Write Nick" option from the MyNick page on the main Nickelodeon website (www.nick.com).;
, Another way to send your questions and concerns to Nickelodeon is to use the official "Contact Us" page for Nick UK. This page is meant for Nick viewers in the United Kingdom, but you should be able to get responses for almost all general Nick questions, so don't be afraid to try it out!


To get to the "Contact Us" page, search for "Nick Contact Us" in your favorite search engine or click the "Contact Us" button at the bottom of the UK Nickelodeon website (http://www.nick.co.uk).To find this page, visit the main Nickelodeon website

, If you want to ask Nickelodeon a common question, there's a good chance that someone else has already asked it! Check the official Nick UK Help page for a list of frequent questions (and their answers). If your question's on the list, you don't even have to spend any time writing Nick — just read the answer!


To get to the Help page, click the "Help" button at the bottom of the main UK Nickelodeon website (http://www.nick.co.uk)., If you're a journalist or a member of the press contacting Nickelodeon for serious reasons, instead of using Nick's ordinary online contact resources, use an official press or PR contact. These contacts will ensure your question or concern is addressed by a Nick representative in a timely manner — if you use one of the online forms above, it may take time for your serious inquiry to be filtered from thousands of unimportant ones.


There are many official Nickelodeon press contacts — too many, in fact, to list here. For a complete list, visit the press page for the Nickelodeon section of Viacom's website.
 For serious matters like legal issues, business inquiries, and so on, it's usually best to contact Viacom, Nickelodeon's parent company, which has direct control over Nickelodeon's business operations. There are several ways to do this online, which are described below:


Use the official contact form at Viacom.com.Contact the official corporate blog at blog@viacom.com.Contact Viacom through its social media accounts (Twitter: @viacom, Facebook: "Viacom")

