 Cats that have a home will most likely also have a collar. Most pet owners keep a collar on their cat that has their name and a phone number to call in case the cat is lost. If you think a cat might be a stray, check to see if it is wearing a collar.Just because a cat is not wearing a collar, does not mean it is not a stray. It’s possible the cat lost its collar or was never given one.
 Another clue to whether or not a cat is a stray is its general health. Is the cat skinny and malnourished? Is it injured? Does it seem to be in distress? These can all be indications that the cat is a stray and is unable to find the food or help it needs.These factors can be tough to analyze, however. For example, maybe the cat appears to be well-nourished—you cannot see its ribs and it appears to be at a healthy weight—but it also seems very hungry. It’s possible this is a stray cat that has not been lost very long, but is hungry because it is not used to hunting its own food in the wild.
On the other hand, perhaps you found a cat that seems skinny, but does not act hungry. It’s possible this cat is feral and has always lived outdoors. It does not act hungry because it knows how to find its own food, but it is not as well-nourished as a pet cat would be. Do your best to make a judgment that takes both its appearance and behavior into consideration.
 Stray cats are most likely going to look dirty and disheveled. Since they probably came from a home where they were kept inside and groomed on a regular basis, they probably won’t know how to keep this appearance up on their own. Feral cats’ coats are usually clean and well-kept, despite the fact that they live in the wild., When a cat is spayed or neutered, the doctor sometimes surgically removes the tip of one ear to signify this surgery has already been performed. This is done so that, if the cat becomes lost, it hopefully will not have to go through the trauma of an unnecessary surgery. If the cat you’ve found is missing the tip of one ear, it is possible it is a cat that has a family and is cared for.