 If you are struggling with how to best help someone with BDD, reach out to a mental health professional like a therapist or a counselor. Ask them how you can best support the person and encourage them to seek professional help. Discuss tactics that you can try to address their BDD without being too involved or participating in their behaviors.


You may also set up regular calls or check ins with the mental health professional about your own mental health and how the person’s BDD is affecting you. This may help you feel like you can talk to someone about how you are dealing with a loved one's BDD.
 Another way you can help the person is to make sure you are educated on what BDD is and how it can affect someone. Take an educational class on BDD so you can learn more about it and recognize the symptoms of this illness.Look for educational classes on BDD through a mental health clinic in your area as well as online classes that focus on BDD.
You can also do your own research online to find out more about BDD. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America and The Body Dysmorphic Disorder Foundation are both good resources.
 Do not be afraid to lean on your support network for help. Reach out to family and friends for guidance and support as you help the person with BDD. Ask friends to also avoid participating in the person’s BDD habits and routines. Tell family members not to encourage the person’s BDD. Speak to friends and family if helping the person becomes overwhelming.
 Helping someone with BDD can be a challenge and you may end up feeling frustrated, angry, or stressed. Make sure you set aside time to do self-care and care for your needs. Do not neglect your physical or mental health, as this can lead to conflicts with the person and make you feel burned out.Explain to the person with BDD that though you want to help them, you also need to take time for yourself on occasion. Stress that having time for your own needs will make you more capable of helping them.

