 Your body will often tell you more about how you're feeling than you realize. When you're faced with a difficult challenge, you may feel anxious, angry, or sad. Pay close attention to your body for triggers before you get upset or overreact. These are signs that actually help you to see your emotional state.Notice if you are sweating more or have increased muscle tension. You may be feeling very anxious and not yet emotionally realize it.
Pay attention to any fidgety behaviors such as restless legs or constantly touching your face or hair. You may be upset or anxious.
See how your body may retract. Maybe you inadvertently face away from whatever is bothering you, or look away to avoid eye contact. You may feel sad or upset about the recent challenges you're encountering.;
, Be thoughtful about what you say and how you say it. Though you may initially react to a challenge out of frustration, be aware that that frustration often comes with impaired thinking. Give yourself a little time to gather your thoughts before you speak.Think of how to have a positive spin on a difficult situation. For example, if you're facing a difficult semester at school, think about the classes that you enjoy and challenge you in a good way. Some classes are hard for a good reason. They help you to think critically and look at things more deeply.
Make sure to pause for at least three seconds before you immediately say something. These few seconds can give you time to process in your head if this is the best way to react to the situation.
 When things are overwhelming, and you need a minute to gather your thoughts, consider stepping away from the situation. Find a space that is private where you can have a few minutes to focus on deep breathing exercises.Excuse yourself politely from the situation. Consider giving yourself an excuse such as needing to use the restroom, or that you need to take a minute to check on something. You can also simply say, "Hold on a minute. I need a moment to think. I will be back shortly."
Do deep breathing exercises. One example is to slowly inhale for a few seconds. Hold your breath for five seconds. Then slowly exhale for a few seconds. Repeat this a few times, or as many times as can help you to clear your thoughts and feel more refreshed.
 While you may want to handle a difficult challenge by arguing your point or fighting anything that comes your way, this will likely only stir up more negativity and trouble for yourself. Be mindful through patience, acceptance, and resolve.Try to resolve your issues or arguments in a diplomatic and peaceful way. Try to see at least one good thing about the situation until you feel less combative.
For example, let's say you are challenged by your parent's strict behaviors about what you should and should not do in life. While you may get upset and want to yell and scream, this is unlikely to change their mind, and can be physically and emotionally exhausting for you. Think about ways to argue in a peaceful and mature way about the points you want to make. Think about how they may have strict rules because they care about you.
Consider saying things like, "I don't want to fight or argue. I just want to come to some understanding" when things get heated.
 Overanalyzing what happened and why can be mentally and physically draining at times. While it is important to look critically at a situation, avoid dwelling on the what ifs of the situation. Try to stay focused on the present and future instead.Overanalyzing can lead to heightened anxiety about what to do. This may cause you to freeze up and avoid handling a situation. Pay attention to how often your mind wanders to negative thoughts about the challenges you're facing.
For example, let's say you're in a competition at school, and someone else gets first place in the competition. You may dwell on why they got first place and you didn't. You may feel frustrated by the results, or be hard on yourself for not being better.
When your thoughts appears to be dwelling on the negative, stop yourself. Write down three good things that are currently happening in the present for you.
 When you face challenges, you may be quick to blame yourself or someone else. Be mindful of this negativity and how it may impact your ability to move on. If you are constantly feeling resentful or guilty, focus on what you can do to make things better for yourself and others instead.For example, let's say you are facing a roadblock at work with a project. You feel like you don't have enough background or experience with something. You may feel like blaming yourself for not being more prepared or having the right skill set. Instead, focus on what you can do to make it better. Devote your energy to the present and future, rather than wishing to change the past.
If you are resentful of others, find ways to either work with them more effectively in the future, or spend more time with people who are positive and supportive of you.
 Being mindful means putting away the stressors and anxiety you may be feeling, and instead focusing on the simpler things in life. By slowing down your thoughts, your body, and your breath, you can feel more in control of challenges that you face. Consider these various exercises to help you calm down and stay in the present:Yoga. This can help to stretch your body and muscles in different ways, as well as slow down your movements.
Meditation. This can help you with racing or anxious thoughts.
Deep breathing and muscle tension relaxation exercises. This can help to release anxiety and focus on the present.
Visualization exercises. This can help to reduce stress and focus your mind on positive things.
 The more that you practice being mindful in your everyday life, the more you will be able to face challenges in a healthy way. Mindfulness isn't something reserved for times of stress or challenge. It can be a way of being in the world. Consider these ways to be mindful everyday:Take a walk in nature. Get outdoors more.
Be creativity with art, music, cooking, or other creative works.
Stop multitasking. Focus your attention on one activity at a time.
Avoid relying on technology and your phones 24/7. Instead, be more connected with people face-to-face.
Be grateful and have fun. Don't take yourself too seriously. Laugh and enjoy yourself more.
 While you may wish that you never had to face challenges, the reality is that challenges are simply a part of life. Be mindful of how each person is facing some sort of obstacle in their lives currently. You are not the only one who is facing difficult challenges.Find challenges as a way to get more connected with other people. Through common struggles, you may feel greater bonds.
Try to find meaning and value in the challenges that you have faced and are facing now. Often long after you've faced something difficult, you can find value and purpose in this experience. For example, let's say you had a set-back and failed an exam. After that, maybe you tried even harder to do well in the class. It changed your thinking about how to approach studying.
 Resilience helps to give you strength. It motivates you to keep going and not give up. Challenges in life, work, and relationships may make you want to give in and give up. Try to stay strong and remember your strengths.Write down three strengths in your personality, work, and life that make you resilient. Write a few sentences that are encouraging and self-affirming about your strengths.
Find a role model that can help you focus on the positives and build up your motivation to keep going. Reach out to friends, family, or mentors that have faces bigger hurdles and overcame them. They are likely to have wisdom.
 When you face a big challenge, you may get bogged down by all the things in your way. You may feel overwhelmed by how seemingly insurmountable the situation may feel. Try to break down the big picture into smaller and more manageable steps.


Consider creating a timeline for each the small steps that can eventually lead to the big steps. For example, let's say you want to apply for college, but aren't sure about all the things you need to do in order to get this done. Create a checklist of all the things you need to send or have completed for your application. Then create a timeline for how and when to accomplish each task.
Appreciate each completed step as a goal you've reached. See that as something to be proud of. Each step should be meaningful and uplifting as you make progress toward your ultimate goal.

