 To do so, either press your Wii's power button at the top of the front of the console, or press the Wii remote's power button.
 This will take you to the Wii's main page., It's in the bottom-left corner of the screen., This box is on the right side of the screen., You'll see it in the top-right corner of the screen. The version number here will say either 4.3U, 4.3E, 4.3J, or 4.3K., It's on the second tab of the Wii Settings page., This option is in the middle of the page.

You may first want to open Connection Settings on this page to ensure that you have Internet access

, It's the twelve-digit series of numbers and letters on this page. You'll need this address to download the Homebrew installation file., You'll do so by pressing and holding the Wii's power button until the light on it turns red., The SD card is the thin, flat card inside of the compartment that's left of the disc slot. Gently pulling on it will remove it from your Wii., Now that you have the information required to install Homebrew on your Wii, it's time to download the software., It will fit into your computer's SD card slot, which is a thin, inch-long slot that's most likely on the side of your computer (or in front of the CPU box for a desktop). A window with the SD card's contents should pop up.

The angled side should go into the slot, and the SD card's logo should be facing up.
If your computer doesn't have an SD card slot, you can purchase a USB flash drive adapter into which you can plug an SD card.
 It's located at https://please.hackmii.com/, which, despite its name, is a safe site to visit., You'll do so beneath the "System Menu Version" heading near the top of the page., It goes in the boxes beneath the "MAC Address" heading in the middle of the page.

You'll also want to make sure the "Bundle the HackMii Installer for me!" option below the MAC address area is checked.
 This step ensures that you aren't simply spamming the site., It doesn't matter which option you click; either one will prompt the Homebrew setup to begin downloading., If you're on a Mac, doing so will display its contents.

On a PC, you'll have to click Extract when prompted, then open the regular "LetterBomb" folder.
 To do this, click and drag your mouse across the files and folders in the LetterBomb folder to select them, then right-click a file and click Copy.

On Mac, you'll use two fingers to click instead of right-clicking.
 It will be in the pane on the left side of the LetterBomb window., It should be labeled "LOST.DIR". This will likely be the only folder in the SD card; if not, just look for a folder that ends in ".DIR".

You may first have to unhide folders on your computer to view the "LOST.DIR" folder.
 You'll do this by right-clicking (or two-finger clicking) the SD card's blank page, then clicking Paste in the drop-down menu., While you technically can just pull the card out of your computer, you should first eject the SD card to ensure that you don't lose any files. To do so:


Windows - Right-click the SD card's name in the left-hand pane, then click Eject.

Mac - Click the upward-facing arrow to the right of your SD card's name in the left-hand pane.
 You can now install Homebrew on your Wii., The label side of the card should face the disc slot., This will take you to the Wii's main page., It's the envelope-shaped button in the bottom-right corner of the screen., Depending on your timezone, you'll see this icon either in the current date's folder, tomorrow's date, or yesterday's date.You can scroll left or right with the arrows to check each of these folders.
The red envelope icon may take a few seconds to show up.
 You should see this icon in the middle of the screen. A black screen displaying white text will pop up., This will take you to the HackMii Installer page., It's at the bottom of the HackMii Installer page., This option is at the top of the page. Doing so will prompt Homebrew to begin installing to your Wii.

You'll use the arrow pad to select this option since the Wii's motion sensor won't work on this menu.
 It's at the top of the page. Doing so will prompt Homebrew to begin installing to your Wii., This option will appear once Homebrew finishes installing., It's at the bottom of the page. Your Wii will restart; once it finishes rebooting, you'll be on the Homebrew page.

You can return to the Wii's main page by pressing the Wii remote's Home button, selecting Exit to System Menu, and pressing A.
You'll see the homebrew channel listed on the main page. You can open Homebrew by selecting the homebrew channel, pressing A, and then selecting Start and pressing A.

