 When receiving a shot, most people experience some immediate redness and swelling around the injection site. This is a common occurrence and should go away with in a day or two.Place a clean cold cloth on the injection site for 5 to 10 minutes if it is flushed, sore, or swollen.Avoid rubbing or touching the point of injection. This will only lead to more soreness and inflammation.;
, Because the vaccine may make your child feel ill, it is likely that they will be more fussy or lethargic. This may be result of a mild fever or other discomfort. In most instances the fever will go away after one or two days, but it can last longer.Comfort your baby with cuddling or take them for walk in fresh air in order to help them feel better. If your baby seems very uncomfortable, try a dose of acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil). Your doctor should provide proper dosing information for these medicines.
 One in six people who receive an MMR vaccine will experience fevers. These fevers can occur at different times after receiving the vaccine because each begins working at different intervals. Typically, fevers become less common two weeks after receiving the injection. Treat the fever with pain and fever relievers like acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil), and keep hydrated, but remember that you should never give aspirin to children under 16.The measles vaccine begins working after six to ten days and may cause a fever at that time.
After two to three weeks the mumps vaccine may cause a mild fever.
The rubella vaccine may cause a slightly raised temperature around 12 to 14 days.
 One in twenty people who receive an MMR vaccine will experience a mild rash. Again this is the result of the various vaccinations and can occur at varying times following the injection. There is not treatment for the rash and it should go away after one or two days.If the rash appears immediately or within four to eight hours, visit your doctor right away because this may a sign of an allergic reaction.If the rash persists for more than a few days consult your doctor. Your child may be experiencing another skin condition.The measles vaccine may cause a rash to appear after six to ten days.
The rubella vaccine may cause a brief rash around 12 to 14 days.
 One in seventy-five people who receive an MMR shot will experience some swelling of the glands in the cheeks and neck. This is a mild form of the mumps and is a common side-effect of the vaccine. Children and infants may have some difficulty eating or nursing due to tenderness from the swelling. These symptoms can appear two to four weeks after the injection and generally only last for a few days., Because a raised temperature can cause nausea, a decreased appetite is a common symptom of the MMR vaccine. Nausea is typically the result of the measles vaccine and can last for two to three days.A loss of appetite may also be the result of sore or swollen glands in the face and neck.It is important to drink some extra fluids during this time, and watch for signs of dehydration, which may include decreased or concentrated urine, fatigue, or feeling weak or dizzy.

