 This website is especially great for beginners because there is no minimum investment and there are investor education tools that you can use. If you are a more advanced trader and looking for a site with low service costs, this site might also work for you. Options traders and advanced traders may also enjoy this site. There are no fees for being inactive on the site and it only costs $4.95 per trade for both stocks and options.If you are scared of making your first trade, you can use the simulated trading tool, which doesn’t use real money, to get the hang of how things work., This site asks you about your goals and the level of risk you are comfortable with, and then uses an algorithm to get your money working for you.Wealthfront offers free management for up to $10,000 of investments. If you have a large balance or a lot of taxable income, you might consider using the tax optimization services offered by this company., This site is especially notable for customer service but also has a variety of great tools such as the profitability calculator and stocks screener.It is great for active traders, options traders and fee-conscious traders. There is no account minimum and commissions cost $4.95.
 If you visit the Betterment website or download the related mobile app, you will have to enter your age, income and investment goal. For instance, perhaps you are trying to pay off debt or save for a car. The company will invest your money in a mix of stocks and bonds and there is no minimum investment. You can use direct deposit. Betterment is generally best suited to hands-off investors and for those with an account balance over $100,000.


If you have a balance of under $10,000, it can get expensive.They will charge you $3 per month if you are not investing at least $100 per month., If you are just getting started, Acorns is a good option. You simply invest spare change from everyday purchases and the company puts this money into six separate funds, which are based on your level of tolerance to risk.If you have a balance of under $5,000, you will be charged $1 per month. If your balance is over $5,000, you will be charged .25% of the balance every year.


If you are just getting into investing and have a balance under $5,000, you should consider how many transactions you make in a given month. If you make only fifty transactions each month, assuming you are contributing on average $.25 cents per rounded up transaction and investing $12.50, you will be giving Acorns 8% of your investment portfolio. This is a pretty high percentage. However, if you make a hundred and fifty transactions and invest $37.50 per month, you will only be giving Acorns 2.7% which makes a lot more sense., This site uses gaming systems, which can make investing more familiar and comfortable if you are a gamer. The icons allow for a greater level of comfort and you can become familiar with the site quite quickly.This site allows users to exchange tips and portfolios. It also offers 10,000 investing ideas., This mobile app allows you to make trades for free. It is simple and makes trading very accessible, since most platforms will require a fee for making trades.With no commissions, no minimum balance on accounts, and a streamlined interface, this is a great site.


However, you should keep in mind that there are limited securities and the sited does not allow broker transfers. If you are a mobile user, a frequent stock or ETF trader, this site may be right for you., This app allows you to share your investment allocations and percentages with your social network. In turn, you learn from the investment behavior of your social network.The site feels a bit like Twitter, with members constantly sharing investment ideas. You can learn about investment choices and portfolios from your social network.