 Thin curtain rods tend to look cheap and can bow under the weight of your drapes if they are heavy. When choosing a curtain rod, look for a rod that is at least 1 inch (2.54 cm) thick for good aesthetics and curtain support., Extending your curtain rod 3-6 inches (7.5-15 cm) beyond the frame of your window makes your window seem larger and allows additional light to stream in. This way, when your curtains are open, they will rest against the wall rather than blocking the light from the window., Select a rod with curtain brackets a maximum of 50 in (127 cm) apart for proper curtain-rod support. A rod that is longer than this without support brackets at this interval will have difficulty supporting the weight of your curtains., If you’re going for a designer look with your curtain rods, select a rod that picks up tones of the darkest furniture in your room. While this may not be your first instinct, it pulls the space together and creates pleasing contrast, a bit like eyeliner for your room.Note that if you choose wood curtain rods these require periodic turning so they don’t bow out of shape with the weight of your curtains. You’re better off going for a metal rod with a bronze finish if you’re looking for a brown-tone rod., If you have highly patterned drapes that are a focal point of your room, you can use your curtain rod to draw attention to them. Choose a color for your curtain rod that’s featured in the pattern of your drapes to highlight their hue.
 If you want your curtain rods to seemingly disappear rather than be a design element, choose rods the color your wall is painted. They will blend in seamlessly.
 Consider if the room where you’ll be hanging your curtain rod is casual or formal when you select a finial. For example, a crystal finial would likely be out of place on a sun porch. Similarly, a wicker finial would likely not be in keeping with the décor of a formal dining room.Take a picture of the room where you’ll be hanging the curtain rod, and bring it with you when you look at finials. This will help you visualize if the style of finial is complementary to the room or not.
 Finials come in many different materials: resin, glass, metal and wood, to name a few. You can choose a finial that will fit best with your décor by selecting a material that is already present in your room.For example, if you have a grand glass dining table, try selecting a glass finial for the curtain rods in that room to highlight your décor.
 Finials come in may different shapes, such as scrolls, leaves, and even novelty shapes like birds. Use your finial to highlight a pattern or motif already present in your room, perhaps a part of the upholstery or wallpaper, for a greater design impact.For example, if you have floral wallpaper, you could choose a fleur-de-lis finial to enhance the flower motif.

