 Delusions refer to strange ideas or beliefs that a person expresses. They are often unrealistic and illogical. Other people may find the ideas or beliefs to be strange and unbelievable.Types of delusions can include thinking that something that something is happening when it is not really happening, such as that your significant other is cheating on you when he or she is not. Delusions can also be more bizarre, such as believing that someone has taken out all of your internal organs and replaced them with robotic parts without leaving any scars.;
, Hallucinations refer to experiencing things that other people do not experience. This can include hearing voices or seeing things that others do not see.Some examples of hallucinations include feeling sensations in or on the body, such as something crawling or movement in the internal organs. A person may also hear sounds such as footsteps, voices, or music. If hearing voices, they may be critical, positive, or neutral.Sometimes people report hearing voices that command them to hurt people. If you hear voices telling you to hurt yourself or someone else, seek help immediately.
 Disorganized behavior can include strange or out-of-character actions. This can include agitated or excessive movement, strange or bizarre posturing, repetitive behaviors, or a complete lack of movement.This type of behavior differs greatly from normal behavior.
 Changes may occur in speech or language. These changes can include incoherence or derailment.With incoherence, it may be hard to understand what the person is talking about. With derailment, the person might jump from one idea to the next, such as saying, "I found an abandoned house in the woods...I saw my sister in the mall."The content of the speech may also be irrational or nonsensical, and it may be difficult to keep up.This type of speech makes it difficult to communicate.
 Along with being brief, this psychotic disorder may come on suddenly. The experience of extreme stress can cause a quick onset of symptoms and decrease in functioning.Some examples of the types of extreme stress that may bring on a brief psychotic disorder include:Losing a loved one.
Suffering from a traumatic event, such as a car crash or physical attack.
Losing one's job.
A family conflict, such as getting a divorce or ending a long term relationship.
Severe illness.
 Brief psychotic episodes result from a traumatic event or stressor that occurs. This can include the death of a loved one or another major life-altering event.It can also occur during pregnancy or within four weeks of childbirth.If you or a loved one may be experiencing a brief psychotic episode, ask yourself what may have triggered the episode. What events happened beforehand that may have contributed stress?

, Brief psychotic episodes are most commonly diagnosed in people in their 20’s, 30’s, and 40’s. If a person has been diagnosed with a personality disorder, this may increase the chance of having a brief psychosis., Typically, symptoms last for one to 30 days. People generally make a full recovery after the episode.If symptoms persist over 30 days, additional treatment may be needed. You may also want to consider medication or further services.
 One risk factor to look out for regarding brief psychotic disorder is an increase in suicidal thoughts or behaviors.Be especially aware of this risk if there is a past history of suicidal thoughts, a family history of suicide, or previous suicide attempts.If you are concerned, keep lethal weapons and other means away, such as knives, pills, or guns. Also, avoid alcohol and other substances that may alter one’s ability to make decisions.
If symptoms are violent or threatening in any way, seek immediate help. Go to the emergency department or call emergency services.
 The episode is not considered a brief psychotic disorder if the person has taken any drugs or substances recently. The symptoms cannot be a direct result of drugs, alcohol, or any substances.If the person has taken substances, it’s important to discuss when the substance was taken, how much was taken, and when symptoms began to occur.
 Both depression and bipolar disorder can involve psychotic symptoms. If ruling out depression or bipolar disorder, it’s important to examine previous mental health problems with depression and to also learn about any family history of depression or bipolar disorder.Delusions associated with depression also differ. For example, a person may express delusions consistent with mood, such as feeling dead. Bipolar delusions often present as over the top, such as believing you are invincible, have special abilities (like flying), or believe yourself to be a highly spiritual figure or God.
 If symptoms persist beyond one month, a psychologist or psychiatrist may diagnose the person with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.These disorders include chronic symptoms of psychosis. Monitor symptoms and see if they improve. If not, a form of schizophrenia may be responsible for the symptoms.


To properly treat schizophrenia, a combination of therapy and medication is best. Seek mental health treatment as soon as possible to decrease the likelihood of worsening symptoms.