 A fundamental in any classroom is respect. Not every student will agree with you and/or their classmates. Part of any learning experience is understanding that there are many points of view and respecting them. Showing your students respect for their points of view can not only encourage everyone to participate, but also teaches them how to respect others.Remind students that your classroom is an open and safe space to express their opinions. Some students may be shy, but by showing that you will listen to every student’s point of view, you can help stimulate further participation. For example, you might say: “We’re about to talk about the US decision to invade Iraq in 2003. This is a very controversial topic and everyone in this classroom has their own views on the matter. Please be respectful of everyone’s comments and feelings.”
Acknowledge students with different perspectives. For example, you might say: “That’s an interesting point of view, James. Based on what I know, I see it a little differently. Would anyone else like to add something to our comments or the discussion?”, Use caution when telling a student they are wrong about something. Keeping in mind that a student’s background and lack of experience may inform their position. It’s your job to acknowledge this and then expand their mind.Make sure you give a student time to speak without interruption. This can prevent you from making incorrect assumptions about what the student is saying.
Deal with offensive or problematic comments quickly. For example, respond to a comment such as, “The Jews in Germany took all of the jobs in medicine, law, and the media” with, “Actually, Sam, the Jewish population of Germany in 1933 wasn’t very large. It was less than 1%. They couldn’t have taken all of the jobs by a long shot.”, Many classrooms have one or two students who also volunteer to speak or will simply offer comments without prompting. This can intimidate the students’ fellow classmates and keep them from speaking. Limiting how often students who tend to over-participate speak can encourage their classmates to speak up more.

Ask students to raise their hands if they want to speak. This can ensure that everyone gets a chance to participate in class even if one or two students seemingly always have an answer. You could also give students 5-6 paperclips to use as “comments” per class.
Tell a student who is talking too much to give others a chance. For example, “Carter, can you hold on a second please. Hannah had her hand up before you and you’ve already had a chance to speak a lot today.”

