


Be aware of areas where potential clients could voice objections and address these in your sales presentation. For example, explain how your product is made better, is made in America, offers a longer warranty, or includes more standard features, if the client complains that your product is more expensive than a competitor's. This lets the potential client know you're not denying the objection and allows you to explain why it's irrelevant.;
,


A potential client with objections or reservations doesn't want to listen to a long explanation of why to buy your product. Make your argument short with only the necessary facts to get the client to change their mind. This will prevent the individual from feeling that you're wasting their time.



Ask direct questions to better understand an objection given to your sales pitch. Ask a client whose objection is the price of the product if they have budget restrictions, and if you can sign them up for a payment plan, or if it would help if you discounted the price. This will satisfy the objection if price is the real issue, or you will be able to get to the real reason they're hesitating if price isn't really it.



A client will be more likely to agree to a sale if they feel that you understand why they're unsure. Tell the client you understand the reservation and that you want to make them comfortable with the decision, then explain what facets of your product or service will work for them.



A potential client might reject a sales pitch because of legitimate issues relating to cost, shipment time, product details. Accept these disadvantages and then show the client how the advantages and positive selling points outweigh the drawbacks. For example, agree that the shipping time is 2 business days longer than the competitor, but explain that you guarantee delivery and the competitor doesn't.



A client could object to your sales offer because of 1 or 2 details that aren't being addressed or that aren't customarily offered to new clients. Agree to get the client the specific size, color or length of contract they want if they sign up with you that day. This helps you close the sale and satisfy the client's concerns.



A client that senses you're getting impatient or frustrated with their reservations will decide that you don't care about their concerns and only want the sale. Continue to smile and stay patient until you've answered all the client's questions and concerns.

