 Using a shadow box is similar to using a picture frame. The main difference is that there is no need to fold away parts of the clothing in order to display other parts more prominently.


Another bonus for using a shadow box is the fact that it is much deeper than a picture frame. This can give your display an interesting three dimensional look. For example, puffy sleeves on a dress can be slightly filled with tissue paper in order to give a fuller, more natural shape to them. If tissue paper is used for filler, it should be white so that it is less detectable. If colored tissue paper is used, there is a possibility of the color bleeding onto the clothing.
 In order to purchase a shadow box that is the right size, lay out the clothing the way you want it to be displayed. Measure the clothing once it is laid out. It is important to add at least an inch to every side so that there is a perimeter of the shadow box backboard showing around the clothing.


The backboard in most shadow boxes is lined with felt that may come in various colors. Choose one that compliments the clothing yet is subtle enough that it does not draw the attention away from the clothing.
 There are usually instructions about how to properly open the shadow box so that it is not damaged. Once it is open, the backboard can be easily pulled out so that the clothes can be mounted.


The clothing should be mounted to the backboard in the way that it is to be displayed. This can be done with pins. You can also gently tack the clothing in place, or sew it in place with thread.
If an entire outfit is being displayed, parents often leave spaces between the pieces to mimic where the baby’s head or other body parts would be if the outfit was worn.
 Before sealing the clothing inside the shadow box, stand the backboard against a wall to see how well the clothing stays in place. Look at it from several angles to be sure that it has the desired appearance.


If everything is fine, the backboard with the attached clothing can be reinserted into the shadow box. Close the shadow box and hang it on the wall.

