 Like other forms of depression, atypical depression can be caused by a mix of contributing factors such as genetics, environment, childhood trauma, and brain chemistry.The symptoms of atypical depression include:A mood that can lift due to positive things happening in your life.This differs from MDD, in which the mood is usually depressed even in the face of positive events.
Hypersomnia, which is sleeping longer than normal, either at night or during increased napping during the day. Sleep totals at least 10 hours or more a day.This is different than MDD, which may cause hypersomnia or insomnia (sleeplessness).Heavy feeling in the arms or legs, or the feeling of being weighed down, that lasts more than an hour a dayA consistent pattern of sensitivity or personalization in relationships, where a person often thinks they are being rejected or rebuffed when they aren'tIncrease in appetite that may cause weight gain.This is different than MDD, which may cause weight gain or weight loss.Body image issues or a fear of weight gainUnhealthy relationships with food, such as bulimia, extreme food restrictions, or bingeing;
, To diagnose atypical depression, your doctor will check to see if you have at least five depressive symptoms. These symptoms must occur over a span of at least two weeks.If you have not seen a doctor or therapist for an official diagnosis, see a professional as soon as you can. Your doctor or therapist will assess your medical and family history, any symptoms you have, and your current life circumstances to get a correct diagnosis., Cognitive behavior therapy has proven to be extremely helpful in treating atypical depression.A therapist trained in CBT techniques can teach you behavioral strategies to break the cycle of depression and engage in activities that alleviate depression.It is important that you work with a therapist to ensure your CBT treatment is effective. It's also important to have a therapist in case difficult issues arise, such as dealing with past traumas, that you will need help to work through.


A major part of CBT involves identifying automatic negative or unhelpful thought patterns and challenging these thoughts. The depressed person may have thoughts like, "I will never get better" or "Nobody likes me." The therapist will ask you to notice these thoughts when they occur and will teach you to question whether or not there is really any truth to these thoughts.For instance, if your negative thought is "Nobody likes me," your therapist may point to evidence the the contrary,such as the friends who reached out to spend time with you in the last week. You may have turned these people down because you were feeling depressed, but the evidence shows that people do like you.
Depending on your circumstances or history, your sessions may include stress management skills, social skills training, assertiveness skills, or ways to help your deal with draining relationships.If you have a history of trauma or abuse, your sessions will help you process your experiences to lessen their impact on your mood., Depression is not a condition that you can treat by yourself. It does not matter how strong you are or how rich your experience, you need at least some assistance if you want to beat depression. If you don't treat atypical depression, it may get worse.That is why depression treatment needs to always include psychotherapy and in most cases prescription medications as well.


It is essential to always stick to your treatment plan, even when you are feeling better. Quitting medication or therapy on your own or skipping session will likely cause a relapse and you will have to start all over again.