 A monogram can consist of one, two, or three letters, although three is the most common. Allow yourself to play with different combinations of upper and lowercase letters, as well as different fonts, to make sure your design flows naturally and beautifully.Remember that the size of your sketch should be the same size as the monogram you would like to embroider.
You can also find various designs for monograms on the internet or in embroidery design books. Select a monogram of your choice and adjust it to make sure it is the right size to embroider on your fabric.;
, Once you have decided on the monogram design and the piece of fabric you will use, you need to decide where you want the monogram to be placed. Mark the area in which you are going to place the monogram with tailor's chalk or any fabric marking tool.


It's a good idea to at least make a horizontal line on the fabric, which will serve as the bottom point for all your letters, assuring they are not crooked. This will allow you to better visualize how it will look when finished and will help you transfer your design to the fabric.
When hand embroidering, you will need enough room around the design to attach an embroidery hoop. Make sure that you have at least two inches of fabric around the outside of every edge of your design. It would make embroidering very difficult if you did not attach an embroidery hoop around the area you are working on, as an embroidery hoop keeps the fabric taut while you are sewing on it.
 Place a piece of carbon paper under the paper on which you have sketched your monogram. Then place both pieces of paper onto the fabric. Use a pencil to trace over the lines of the motif, this will transfer your sketch to the fabric via the carbon paper. Once the tracing is done, remove the carbon paper and the motif paper off the fabric. Your monogram should be clearly transferred on to your fabric.


Make sure your fabric is placed on a firm surface and that the pieces of paper are in the correct position (you may need to lift up the edges of both papers to make sure your design is aligned with the lines you drew on the fabric).
When your tracing is done, be careful while removing the carbon paper such that it does not leave any extra marks on the fabric.
 Secure a wooden or a plastic embroidery hoop around your design area. Choose the color thread you would like to use, making sure that it goes well with the color of the fabric you are embroidering on. Start embroidering on one edge of your design and work your way across.


Monograms are traditionally outlined with a back or split stitch and then filled in with a satin stitch.Complete the outlines of your letters first, then follow by filling in the letters. If you don't know how to do these stitches, you may want to visit How to Backstitch and How to Satin Stitch to learn how.
 Remember to trim any loose or long threads that remain. The finished monogram should add a delightful design element to whatever you have affixed it to.

