 Then it's off with the saddle. When you remove the Allen bolts, firmly push the riders backpad rearwards until the two white tabs at the front of the saddle clear the shelter bracket.;
, Check that the rubber spacers under the saddle (where the bolts go through) are still in place. Tip; Use plenty of soft cloths to cover any panels that are even remotely at risk from falling bolts, screwdrivers etc. GL1800 plastics are even more expensive than those for older Goldwing models.
 Note that the bottom two are fine threads and shouldn't be mixed up with the self tappers, unless you really like ruining Goldwing parts.
,, Tip; The middle bolt is different to the other ones, don't mix them up.


The trunk mouldings and lower cover have to be removed as well. First picture shows the side trim screws to be removed (highlighted), the two screws under them are for the lower cover and should be removed as well.
 Pull the side trims off. Second picture shows the screws to be removed for the long trim to be unclipped.


Third picture shows the remaining screws that hold the lower cover in place. Slide the cover (carefully) towards the rear of the bike and free of the trunk & saddlebag levers.
 Disconnect the bulb holders and pull the wires down through the holes in the trunk.


Second picture shows the large connector block to disconnect and picture three shows the other connectors to be unhooked. You can see where the Electrical Connections accessory (fitted between the blue connector block) that allows the trunk brake light to act as a running light as well.
 At this point, if you have the Hondaline passenger audio controller fitted, you should remove the trunk pockets by taking out the three screws inside the trunk, right behind each pocket.


Last picture shows two of the trunk mounting bolts removed, the other two are just at the rear and out of view in this picture. Don't forget to pull out the helmet holder knobs, they usually pop out easily enough. Take a good look and note how the wires are routed so you don't get it wrong at reassembly time.
 Our lunchtime football came in handy and kept the trunk from going too far forward onto the Goldwings frame.
,,, Repeat on the left side. Then drill the holes. Don't forget to put the grommets back.
 I've also drilled the hole on the right side as I was fitting the Hondaline CB radio at the same time as the Hondaline CD player. Honda have the positions of the holes marked precisely. Tip; If you are fitting the old type mounts, you don't need to remove the trunk to drill the hole. With the saddle removed, you can get a 28mm holesaw and heat it with a butane torch and just melt the hole in the trunk.
 First picture shows the left side bracket sitting loosely and below that you can just see the cardboard F template sitting astride the frame member.


Second picture is the view from the inside and you can see better where the bracket must touch the template. Make sure the bracket is fitted the right way around as shown, otherwise it won't fit through the 22mm holes you drilled earlier. Fit the clamp to the bottom of the bracket and bolt it in position. Repeat for the bracket on the right side.
 The CD unit is easy to screw into the cage so no need for pictures of that. Use the big chromed Allen bolts (highlighted in green) to screw the cage onto the visible mounting brackets (now you know why you had to drill the four 22mm holes) that you fitted earlier. The two small brass-coloured self tappers just behind the front chrome bolts will need to be removed and binned for the unit to open. Put a small dab of grease on the spring clip each side and on the two holes (highlighted in red) for the cover to slide along. You can see the CB radio that I was fitting as well. The wire harness for the CD player harness goes through the hole you drilled.
 Once it's in place you can close the unit and fit the large chrome Allen bolts. Job done.


Tip: Before you bolt the cover down, make sure that the hinged flap (where it meets the trunk) is turned upwards as shown in the second picture, rather than down, or it will most certainly break off in record time.
 When you've connected everything up, test the operation of the CD player before refitting the saddle to the Goldwing.

