 If a senior creditor has committed some inequitable act that injures you and your claim, you may be able to file a motion and ask the court for the remedy of equitable subordination.Equitable subordination allows the court to reprioritize claims when it determines that one creditor is guilty of misconduct that has harmed other creditors and that gives an unfair advantage to that creditor acting improperly. While a court can reorder priorities, they cannot completely disallow a creditor to collect at all.Talk with your lawyer to determine if this type of action might be right for you. Your lawyer will have to look at whether another creditor has committed some wrongdoing and whether you were harmed.
 Different courts have ruled differently on the question of whether an equitable subordination claim violates an automatic stay. During an automatic stay, creditors are not allowed to initiate litigation or adversarial proceedings against the debtor. Some courts see the filing of a motion for equitable subordination as an offensive tactic meant to gain an advantage over the debtor and other creditors, which means they do not allow it. However, other courts have allowed it.Ask your lawyer about your court's likelihood of accepting your motion. Your lawyer will be able to do some research and should be able to give you a pretty definitive answer quickly.
 In order to be successful in a claim for equitable subordination, you will have to meet the test that has been laid out by the courts. Specifically, you will have to be able to show that a creditor engaged in some inequitable conduct, that the misconduct harmed you or caused the creditor to receive an unfair advantage, and that equitable subordination is not inconsistent with other provisions of the law.To meet this three-part test, you will have to show, in your motion and attachments, enough evidence to convince the judge that misconduct has taken place and that you have been harmed.
Examples of creditor misconduct include the breach of a fiduciary duty or egregious conduct that causes damage.
To show harm, you will have to prove that the creditor's misconduct in some way made it more difficult to collect the money owed to you by the debtor. For example, maybe a creditor's action caused money to leave the bankruptcy estate, which means it cannot be reached by the bankruptcy court and cannot be paid out to creditors like you.
 Most motions for equitable subordination are filed by the debtor or their trustee. However, in some circumstances, the court will allow another party to file a motion for equitable subordination. To get permission from the court, your lawyer will need to file a request with the judge or ask the judge during a hearing. Your lawyer should be prepared to explain why you should be allowed to file the motion, and why the debtor would not be the proper party to file instead.
 If you are allowed to file a motion for equitable subordination, you and your lawyer will have to draft that motion. A motion is simply a legal document that asks the court to do something. In this case, you will be asking the court to reorder the priorities of specific creditor claims. Your motion will start with a caption, which identifies the court you are in, the parties to the case, and the case number. Your motion should also have a title, which in this case might be, "Notice of Motion and Motion for Equitable Subordination".


The first part of your motion will provide notice to other creditors and to the debtor that you plan on filing this motion. This section might read: "Please take notice that on July 17, 2016, I will move this court to equitably subordinate the claims detailed below."The body of your motion will explain to the court what you are asking it to do and why you have the legal authority to ask for it. In the case of equitable subordination, your motion might be as simple as stating: "I, Creditor Number Five in the bankruptcy proceedings described below, respectfully request that this court grant a motion for equitable subordination in accordance with 11 U.S.C. Section 510(c).", In addition to your notice and motion, you will have to provide other documents that will help persuade the court to rule in your favor. These documents will be attached to your motion and will be filed along with it. In general, you will need to draft the following attachments:Memorandum of points and authorities in support of motion. This document provides the court with any legal authorities and arguments you may have that support your motion. This is where your lawyer will lay out the test for equitable subordination and explain why you meet it.
Declaration in support of motion. This document will lay out all of the important facts that led you to file the motion. The declaration will be filled out by your lawyer but you will have to sign it because you are the one personally aware of the facts of the case.
Proposed order, which the judge will sign if they choose to grant your motion.
 Once all of your documents have been drafted, make enough copies to give to every interested creditor as well as the debtor. Send one copy to each interested party through the mail. Once you have done this, you need to sign, or have someone else sign, a proof of service form for each person you served. This form swears to the court that you have properly served everyone. These proof of service forms will be filed along with your original motion., Take your completed motion and attached documents to the bankruptcy court where the underlying bankruptcy case is being heard. Hand your paperwork to the clerk of courts and tell them it needs to be filed. The clerk will take your papers and file them according to the case number on the front of your motion., At the same time you file your motion, ask the clerk to set a hearing date. The clerk will look at what dates the court has available and assign a time to you. Make sure your hearing date is far enough in the future so that other creditors and debtors have an opportunity to file responsive motions if they want. Each court might have different rules about how much time you need to provide., On the day of your hearing, arrive at the courthouse early so you can park, get through security, and find your courtroom. Once in the courtroom, sit quietly until your case is called. At that time, move to the front of the courtroom with your lawyer. To start the hearing, the judge will announce what the hearing is about (i.e., hearing arguments for and against the motion for equitable subordination). Next, the judge will ask your lawyer questions to try and understand why you are asking for equitable subordination. The judge will have read your motion, so they will likely push your lawyer on certain issues to try and get a clearer picture.


The judge will also let any opposing parties speak if they are present. They will be able to make counterarguments to try and get your motion denied. Once the opposing parties have made their points, the judge will usually let your lawyer respond. Your lawyer should be prepared for this, as they will likely have read any opposing motions.
 Once the judge listens to arguments, they will make a decision. If your motion is granted, the judge will sign your proposed order and they will decide how to equitably subordinate the creditor that committed some wrongdoing. If your motion is denied, your claim will maintain the same priority it had before you filed the motion.

