 From your primary document, click the pane to open it. If you don't see it, open the Tools menu and select Mail Merge from the list.
 The mail merge tool in Office has a few steps designed to make your life easier by merging your files more cleverly and accurately.


Start by telling it what kind of document you're writing. Click the best fit, and then click Next.
Tell it what “starting document” (primary document) you want to use. If you've followed these steps, you should be able to select “use this document.” Click Next.
 This is the data file you created previously. Select the appropriate radio button and click Next to search for the file and connect it to your primary document.


If you'd prefer to use your Outlook address book, click that option instead.
 Office allows you to select or deselect rows of information as you please. This allows you to choose which items of information in the data file you want to merge into the primary document, making the data file more useful over time as you use it for various different things. When you are satisfied, click Next.


The data can be sorted by clicking the headers of each column. This can be useful if you need to quickly search through a lot of information.
 On the next page of the task pane, you will be prompted to write your document if you haven't already done so, and presented with an array of options for inserting data from the file into the document.


Insert a data field by placing the cursor where the field will go, and then clicking the appropriate button on the task pane to insert it there.

You can delete misplaced or duplicate data fields by pushing the Delete key, the same as an ordinary letter or number.


The preset options change slightly based on what type of document you told Office you were writing. Office does its best to fill in the appropriate information from the data you give it. For example, if you're writing a form business letter, you might see an option to insert an address block, which includes each recipient's first and last name and full address, neatly organized on a few lines.

Some of the preset options will open up additional windows for you to fill in appropriate information. These are all more or less straightforward and easy to understand.
If you are using a preset and it doesn't seem to be able to find the right information, click the button marked “Match Fields” to teach the program which of your field names correspond to its standard names. For instance, you can show it that it should use the “Family Name” category in your data file to fill in “Last Name” data in an address block.


To use your own fields, click “more options.” You'll be able to see the names you gave each column and use them instead.
 Mail merge won't display the specific information in the fields you apply to your primary document until you print it out, but Office does offer a preview function that allows you to check and make sure that information is appearing correctly according to how you placed the fields in your document. Feel free to use it until you're satisfied that everything is in order.
 The final screen of the mail merge task pane informs you that everything in place, and it is ready to print your documents. One set of information will appear per document printed, and the program will print out as many copies as there are sets of information.


If you want to make individual edits to specific letters, you can also do that from this task pane screen by clicking “edit individual letters” first.

