 Laminate counters will not work well with undermount sinks. Your counter should be made of a solid surface such as marble, concrete, soapstone or granite.;
, Most undermount sinks cost from $200 to $1,000.
 The type of sink you choose should match other appliances in your kitchen, and your overall décor.


Choose stainless steel for something durable and easy to clean. This is an especially good choice if you have stainless steel appliances.
Select porcelain if you have a specific color or shape in mind. Porcelain sinks are made in many varieties, and they are resistant to extreme hot and cold temperatures.
Go with a granite sink if you are concerned with surface damage or corrosion. Granite sinks are durable and resist stains.
 Most standard sinks measure 22 inches (55.9 cm) by 30 inches (76.2 cm). Your counter space may dictate how large or small your undermount sink can be.
 Most undermount sinks have 2 bowls and are about 8 inches (20.3 cm) deep.


Look for a deeper sink if you often wash large pots or need the extra space.
Choose the number of bowls that will work best for your cooking and cleaning habits.
 For an undermount sink, the faucet will need to be installed in the counter or on the wall.



Browse the selections at major home improvement retailers such as Lowe's and Home Depot.
Talk to your contractor or designer about options if you are using professional help to completely remodel your kitchen.
Check out the undermount sinks available online. Faucet.com has many selections in various price ranges, and you can even find sinks available on major retail sites such as Amazon.com and Overstock.com.
Look through design magazines, especially those that feature kitchens. You can get some good ideas by looking at articles, pictures and advertisements in magazines such as Better Homes & Garden, Architectural Digest and House Beautiful.
 Unless you are planning to install the sink yourself, or you have people who are going to help you, you will want a professional to put the undermount sink in for you.
 Find out if you can return or exchange the sink if it does not fit, or is defective once you get it into your kitchen.
 It will help to know what other users like and do not like about the undermount sink you might buy.

