 One of the first places to start is to get actual experience that will help boost a career in radio.


Take advantage of opportunities for local or institutional radio. Many radio presenters who work for radio stations and other larger broadcasting venues got their start in smaller, localized radio presentations. One example is hospitals, where a hospital network may have its own localized radio broadcasted over a PA system. One way to break into radio presentation is to volunteer or work in one of these local settings.
Find relevant emcee gigs or jobs. Another way to complement a radio presentation career is to work as an emcee at public events. This will help with honing presentation skills and also add to your resume.;
, While acquiring practical experience, it's a good idea to pay attention to the various kinds of verbal skills that will serve you well in future efforts to become a radio presenter.


Think about adjusting any verbal tics or irregularities that will take away from effective presentation. Try to hone the voice to sound as appealing to a wide audience as possible.
Develop microphone technique. Experienced presenters recommend working extensively with various microphones and listening to the results in order to figure out how to use a microphone effectively. This includes not crowding the mic, where the voice may become muffled, and figuring out the best microphone distances for optimal acoustics.
 Some types of communications degrees can help radio presenters and other broadcasters to get access to a greater set of jobs or positions in the industry.
 After having collected some experience and getting used to the idea of presenting on the radio, as a career-minded individual, you can set up a demo presentation that you can show to representatives of larger broadcasting networks.
 Some of the most successful radio presenters, for example, radio talk show hosts, have had a long career including extensive networking and brand development. Developing an individual as a brand means promoting the skills and reputation of that person as an effective broadcaster and a popular public figure.
 Some of the most prominent radio presenters have achieved syndication on various radio stations. This will generally boost a career and add to the future opportunities for a radio presenter.

