 Pinworms, which are also known as threadworms, can cause your skin to become irritated. This is because pinworms leak toxins into your blood. When these toxins accumulate in your skin, they can cause itchiness that may resemble eczema.Itchiness might be worse at night because the worms tend to lay eggs at night.
Itchiness could be worse around the anus because this is generally where pinworms lay their eggs.
 You may find that you have trouble falling asleep or that you are waking up in the night more often than is normal for you. This can be a sign that you have pinworms, as the eggs they lay can release toxins that can get into your bloodstream. When this happens, the toxin can be carried to your brain and may interfere with your normal brain functions.This can also lead to you experiencing mood swings where you suddenly feel anxious, when you were feeling happy the moment before.
 Like itchiness and trouble sleeping, the toxin released by pinworm eggs can also affect your muscles and joints. This is because the toxin from the eggs can be transported to your muscles and joints, which can cause:


Inflammation of the muscles and joints.
Dull or aching pain.
 If you have suddenly started grinding your teeth at night when you never have before, this could be a sign that you have a pinworm infection. The toxins that pinworms release can cause you to have simulated anxiety that may cause you to grind your teeth in the night. Signs that you have been grinding your teeth include:


Your teeth becoming flatter or more worn down.
Your teeth being more sensitive than normal.
Jaw pain.
Feeling like your jaw is tired.
Ear or headache.
Chewing marks on your tongue and the inside of your cheeks.
 In severe cases, pinworm toxin can actually lead to seizures. The toxin can cause an interference in the brain that can cause you to have a seizure. Signs of a seizure include:


Jerking movements of arms, legs, or other parts of the body.
Feeling fuzzy or spacey.
Losing control of your urine or bowel movements.
Unexplained confusion, or memory loss.

