 If you're putting strings on a new violin for the first time, you'll have to seat the bridge, which takes some care and measurement. The first step, though, is to put all the new strings on and leave them slack enough to slide the bridge under them and stand upright. Following the basic method for changing a string, letting them stay somewhat looser than you normally might.
 Hold the bridge facing down, and place it under the strings. After that, line the strings in the appropriate crevices are push the bridge up, into standing position, securing the strings into the notches before adjusting the bridge.


The back of the bridge, facing the tailpiece, should be perfectly perpendicular to the violin. Lots of bridges will be stamped with manufacturing information, which indicates the flat side that should face the tail. The other side should have a slight but noticeable slope.
The D string (second to the left, second thickest string) should be on the taller side of the bridge; the A (third to the left, second thinnest string) should rest on the slightly lower.
 The bridge should be horizontally centered on the instrument so that there is an equal amount of space between each string and the edge of the fingerboard. Use the small nicks on the insides of the f-holes to square the bridge to the center-line of the strings.


To center the bridge, use the curve of the "f" on the interior side as a guide. It should align equidistant between them.
 You can tighten the strings somewhat to reduce the rest of the slack when you've positioned the bridge, but let it rest for at least 24 hours before attempting to fine-tune the instrument. It's possible to snap the bridge and ruin all your hard work, and also to pop it out and flatten it against the violin. Let it rest and settle.
 When you've first strung any stringed instrument, it's common for the strings to periodically slacken and go quickly flat. A common exercise to get the tension correct and let the strings settle is to firmly but gently pull the strings away from the neck of the violin, pulling out that slack to flatten the strings, and then tuning them again.


It'll likely take several tunings before you can get the violin into a reliable tune. Stick with it and give the violin the appropriate amount of time to relax.

