 According to a study in the Journal of Pediatrics, being overweight at age 14 can increase your risk of diseases and disorders, such as Type 2 diabetes. Adults with diabetes are two to four times more likely to develop heart disease. Try to maintain a healthy body weight throughout your life, starting in your teenage years, to increase your chances of living past 100.You can determine if your body weight is healthy by looking at the estimated body weight for your height and gender. Use an online body weight calculator to determine your ideal body weight.;
, Research has found that individuals who do cardio exercises for forty minutes at least once a day have a lower risk of disease and cancer. Schedule in a forty minute walk around your neighborhood or a forty minute run on the treadmill once a day so your heart and your body stay healthy.You can also integrate cardio activity into your daily habits by walking to and from work every day, rather than driving. You can also get your cardio activity in by doing housework where you sweep, vacuum, scrub, or wash around the house for forty minutes a day. This can act as a workout that does not necessarily feel like mindless exercise.
 Reduce lower belly fat, which can lead to a shorter life expectancy, by doing strength training several times a week.Strength training your lower body, in particular, can also increase your balance, your flexibility, and your endurance. A strong lower body will help to prevent hip issues or injuries later in life and lower your risk of falls which can lead to health issues that cut your life short.
 Studies have shown that taking time out of your day to do a relaxing hobby or activity can greatly increase your physical strength and your mental strength. Your hobby may be knitting, sewing, or painting, or you may enjoy doing a sport with other friends or teammates. Focus on an activity that you can do once a day to de stress and unwind., Being outside can increase your life expectancy, especially if it becomes a daily habit. Take time after work or in the morning before a busy day to go outside and walk around your neighborhood or on your favorite hiking trail. Fresh air, exposure to the sun, and moving your body will all help you stay healthy., Sleep issues like snoring, sleep apnea, or insomnia, can lead to high blood pressure, memory problems, weight gain, and depression, which can all contribute to shortening your lifespan.If you have sleep issues and struggle to stay awake during the day or experience mood changes due to your lack of sleep, you should speak to your doctor about treatment options. Your doctor may recommend that you adjust your sleep habits and your sleep schedule. He may also suggest that you try getting treatment at a sleep center.
 According to a recent study, if you conceive naturally after the age of 44, you’re 15% less likely to die during any year after age 50. This is because if your body is capable of having children when you are older, you may have genetic markers that will help you to live longer.As well, if your mother had you when she was 25 years old or younger, you are twice as likely to live to 100 than someone who has an older mother. This could be because a healthy young mother’s best eggs go to fertilization first, leading to healthier offspring.