

If you're on your mobile device now, you can click here to download KK Emoji Keyboard from Playstore.

If you want to open the Play Store and search for the app separately, follow these directions:
Click this menu tree button to go to app screen.
Click "Play Store" to open Play store app.
Click "search" icon to open search text box. Just type "KK Dict" “KK app” "KK emoji” "KK app studio" or "KK"as the search keyword, then click "search" button.;
, After downloading the KK Emoji Keyboard apk, you can follow below screenshots to install.

It will show a list of apps. Click on "KK Emoji Keyboard".
Click "Install" button to install KK emoji keyboard.
A dialog will popup to show app's permissions. Click "continue" to download and install app.
 After the app installed, you need to enable it and then input characters and emotions and test face you like with it.

A notification will show up in the left of notification bar. You can slide down the notification bar and then click the KK emoji keyboard item to access the settings screen of the KK emoji keyboard

, Check "KK Emoji keyboard" to enable emoji keyboard.


Congratulations, you're all set! You're ready to download your native language dictionary to enable "swype".

Just type "KK Dict" as the search keyword, then click "search" button. There are over 20 languages for you to install and then you can enable and use "swype" function which improve input speed effectively: English, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Estonian, Finnish, French, Georgian, German, Greek, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Latvian, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese (Brazil), Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Ukrainian.
 Now you need to click on any textbox to show the KK emoji keyboard (in any app). To choose an emoji, click smiley icon or long press the "enter" key to input emoji. Wow, there it is! Cute smileys, emoticons and stickers!
, The keyboard features a number of great punctuation-based emoticons, which are certainly something different and all of your friends regardless of smartphone or not should be able to see these.
 You can create some very colorful looks for your keyboard.
 You can use KK emoji keyboard to create your own emoji keywords which you use very often to avoid jumping back and forth between emoji stickers board and your main board., Find “Personal dictionary” menu.

Click "+" icon, under the phrase section. Insert your emoji (or series of emojis and stickers). Nest to shortcut, type the keyboard you want to use to trigger the emoji.
 Ok, whenever you're using the KK Emoji Keyboard, in and application with inputting, you can simply type the characters in main board you picked and you will get the emoji stickers as one of the suggestions.
