 Launch Photoshop and set up your document. The size is your choice, although the bigger it is, the more room you have to work with. 3000 x 2000 is a comfortable size.


Set the background color to black.
This will give you the backdrop you need to begin building your space scene., Select this tool and begin adding white stars to the background. The stars should vary in size, so change up your brush size as you’re creating. Make stars that range in size from 1 pixel to 4 pixels. The amount of stars is up to you.


Scatter the stars in a few choice places if you’re planning to add a lot of additional elements to the scene.After you’ve got your white stars in place, feel free to add a few that are blue, red and yellow. They should be mostly white, though.
 Be sure your foreground is set to black and your background is set to white. Go to Filter > Render > Clouds. This is your new cloud layer. Go to the layer styles dialogue box and select Gradient Overlay. Choose a colorful gradient that appeals to you and include colors like blue, pink, yellow and green.


After you’ve completed this, set the blending mode to Overlay.This will darken the image, so that the colors look are slightly muted.
Your image should now have textured, colored clouds with a gradient.
 Start a new layer and make it entirely black. Select Filter > Noise > Add Noise. Once you’re in the Add Noise Dialogue Box, choose a noise level that’s between 12% and 17%. Set the distribution to Gaussian. Select Monochromatic. Then set the Blending Mode to Color Dodge.You can adjust the appearance f the space dust by pulling up the Level Adjustment Dialogue Box.
From there you can play with the settings, increasing or decreasing the amount of "dust" until it looks the way you want it to.
 Make a new layer and use the Clone Tool to get rid of the four black lines on the image. Press Control-Shift-Alt-E. This will merge the background and the clone layers into a new layer. Use the Elliptical Marquee Tool to grab a circle on the merged planet layer. Go to Filter > Distort > Spherize.


Drag the planet that you just created into your main document.
Use Ctrl-T to scale it down to your preferred size., Make a Hue/Saturation adjustment layer. Bring the Saturation value down to -87 and then use a Curves adjustment layer to decrease the lightness. Then create a Color Balance adjustment layer and choose your planet color by changing the Midtones settings.Add additional colors or shadows by creating new layers and brushing them on.

