 There are four typical DJ setups:


Computer only



 


Check out software like: Traktor, VirtualDJ, Ableton, etc. It can be very difficult to DJ with only a computer as you have to remember a number of keyboard shortcuts for things that would normally be intuitive on the other setups but it is a good place to start









Midi Controllers






Controllers may be Midi or USB used for controlling software on a computer which combines more traditional hands on DJing with computer DJing. The controllers usually have control for two virtual decks and a mixer in the middle.
Examples: Vestax VCI-300, Numark NS7, Pioneer DDJ-S1









CD Players

To DJ with CDs you will either need two table-top DJ style CD players or a rack mounted dual CD player. DJ CD players are not the same as consumer CD players; they have features like pitch control and jog wheels which are a necessity. You will also need a mixer in your CD setup.
CD Player Examples: Pioneer CDJ-400, Denon DN-S3500
Mixer Examples: Pioneer DJM-800, Vestax PMC-05Pro



Vinyl Turntables

Similar to CD players but for records (vinyl). You would need two DJ style turntables and a mixer for a vinyl setup.
Turntable Examples: Technics SL-1200, Vestax PDX-3000




A note on turntables and CD players: newer technology allows turntables and CD players to control software on a laptop like a controller. One of the more common interfaces for this purpose is called Serato which is a "DVS" or Digital Vinyl System.;
, Before you buy even a single piece of equipment, determine your overall budget. DJ equipment is expensive and only the higher end gear will retain any sort of resale value.


You need to decide if you want to save up for top of the line gear or if you want to start with more affordable entry level equipment. Be aware however that if you opt for the less expensive gear if you ever decide to upgrade it may not have much value if you try to resell it.
 If you are new to DJing it is recommended that you visit a couple stores and actually get hands on with the demo equipment. Stores like Guitar Center and Agiprodj have units on the floor that you can play with and knowledgeable staff that can answer questions. Even if you decide to purchase online you should visit a store and look at what you'll be getting first.
 Most cities have more than one retailer and there is always the option to purchase online. If you are new to DJing you will likely want to select a retailer with knowledgeable staff that can help you along the way.






You will probably want to buy all of the gear at once as most DJ gear needs a full setup to be useful. (For example, two CD players without a mixer would be impossible to mix on.)






Setup financing only if necessary. A lot of audio retailers have financing options for expensive purchases like DJ equipment but with interest you will pay more than retail so use financing only if you have no other option.
 You do not want to pay retail for used gear.






Assess the condition of the gear. Whenever possible you should test the gear, if that is not an option at least inspect for any major defects.







