 Virtual assistants are independent contractors who perform administrative services for small-business owners, medical and legal offices, and executives. Among other things, virtual assistants plan events, make travel arrangements, correspond with clients, and manage data, and they do all of this from home. If you decide to become a virtual assistant, consider joining the International Virtual Assistants Association to gain access to networking opportunities and potential employers.


Higher-paying virtual assistant jobs usually require administrative experience.
If you have no administrative experience, you may have to start with a lower-paying position. Don’t let this discourage you. You have to start somewhere.
The IVAA offers certification programs that can make you a more marketable candidate.
In addition to the IVAA website, you can look for jobs at www.virtualassistantjobs.com.
 A content-based website provides information on a specific subject such as baking pies, designing kitchens, or repairing bicycles. You don’t need a product or service to get started - just a good idea. If you know a lot about a particular subject, consider sharing your knowledge with the rest of the world. And while you’re at it, why not make a few bucks?


To make money, your website will need to attract a lot of traffic. If you have no technical expertise, hire a professional who specializes in web design and search engine optimization (SEO). SEO improves your site’s interaction with users and search engines.You’ll have to decide on a domain name and hosting service…and pay for each. Fortunately, this will cost you less than $10 per month.Once your website is set up, start adding content.
You can then advertise related products and services from other companies and receive a commission for sales or leads. Programs such as Google AdSense make this process quite simple.
 If you only want to make a little bit of money from, you can get paid to take part in mock juries and focus groups. Attorneys use these “juries” to survey public opinion and help prepare for actual trials. To participate, you’ll have to join a site and meet some basic juror qualifications. You can then review and respond to case materials at your convenience.


Always read disclaimers.
 If you already have a job, and you work at a computer, ask your employer about working from home. Depending on your profession, you may have to continue working during normal business hours. Your employer may also ask you to take part in conference calls from time to time, but at least you’ll be at home.


You should have a good reason for wanting to work at home before asking your employer about working remotely.
If working remotely full-time is not an option, ask about working a few days per week at home and the other days in the office.
Keep in mind that if you choose to work from home on a full-time basis, your status may change from full-time employee to independent contractor, and you could lose your benefits.
If you do become an independent contractor, and your employer cannot supply you with work materials, your computer, internet service, and office supplies are tax deductible., If you have language expertise or an advanced degree (Master’s or PhD) with teaching experience, you can teach online courses for colleges and universities as a part-time adjunct. HigherEdJobs.com maintains an extensive list of online teaching opportunities. Most positions will require you to fill out an online application and submit a CV.


If teaching courses is too much of a commitment, you could also tutor online. Companies such as www.tutor.com are always looking for help.
To teach or tutor online, you may need additional audio-visual equipment for your computer.
 Quality writing is always in demand. If you are a good writer and have experience blogging, copywriting, or editing, you could become a freelance writer. Assemble a portfolio of your writing (or update the one you have) and start looking for work. A great place to start is within your existing networks. You could also look for opportunities to write newsletters, blogs, or advertisements for local clients.


One caution: with little writing experience, it can be difficult to find your first paying client. You may have to start by writing “pro bono” to gain experience and build your portfolio.
Spend some time exploring www.allindiewriters.com if you’re unacquainted with the world of freelance writing. There you’ll tips and resources for building a successful freelance career and an extensive job board.
You can also look for jobs at www.journalismjobs.com.

