 A valid passport is required for entry into France. Visitors are required to carry their passports at all times. For stays exceeding 90 days, a student or work visa must be obtained. The process for obtaining a French visa usually begins after arriving in France, and, in most cases, will be directed by the host employer or university.;
, Although speaking French is not necessary when traveling in France, taking the time to learn some basic phrases and vocabulary can be helpful. Translation dictionaries designed especially for tourists can be purchased online or from your local bookstore. When a communication breakdown occurs, the ability to look up key words is essential. If the person you are attempting to communicate with cannot understand your pronunciation, point to the word in your translation dictionary. Look for a dictionary that includes a section on commonly used words and phrases. Learning how to ask certain questions, such as "how much does this cost?" or "where is the bathroom?" can be very useful, especially when traveling in more remote locations where the majority of residents only speak French.
 Be sure to obtain a reservation confirmation via email, fax or written letter. Visitors in France will find a variety of inns, motels, hotels and bed and breakfasts. Accommodations in France are government rated on a scale from 0 to 6, and the price range for a given lodging is typically reflected in its rating. While making reservations in advance is generally advisable, booking a room without a reservation is also possible. Tourism service providers, such as the Automatic Central Reservations Board, the Tourist Offices and the Syndicats d'Initiative, can assist you with your accommodations with or without a reservation.
 France is a large country with a regionally diverse range of seasonal climate change. Destinations along the North Atlantic Coast stay relatively mild year-round, so visitors to locations like Paris, Nantes or Rennes can be prepared for any weather they might encounter simply by packing a raincoat. The central and northeastern regions are known for having particularly harsh winter weather and hot summers. Tourists traveling to locations like Lyon, Grenoble or Alsace during the winter months should prepare for heavy snow and subzero temperatures by packing a heavy winter coat and insulated boots. Travelers along France's southern border with Spain, Italy and along the French Riviera should not be concerned with packing more than swim wear and sandals as temperatures in the this area remain very mild throughout the year.
 Although purchasing a small amount of traveler's checks or exchanging a small amount of cash from dollars to Euros prior to departure is considered good practice in case of an emergency, you will typically receive a better exchange rate by withdrawing funds directly from your account using an ATM machine after you arrive. ATMs are plentiful in all but the most remote locations and, no matter who you bank with, your ATM card should be accepted. Check with your bank beforehand to avoid potential issues, as some banks do charge international transaction fees. Others banking institutions may place an automatic block preventing access to accounts from foreign locations.
 Although travelers in France's major cities, such as Paris, Marseille and Lyon, may not encounter closures, visitors to smaller cities, towns and suburbs won't find much open on Sundays or national holidays. Stock up on supplies on Saturdays, or on the days before a holiday. During these times it can be difficult, if not impossible, to find an open gas station, market, restaurant or any other type of service.


Remember that traveling in France during the month of August presents similar service issues, as this has traditionally been a time when many French citizens go on holiday. Most major hotels, resorts and restaurants remain fully staffed in August. However, expect to find some municipal, healthcare and other services shorthanded during the traditional holiday month.






Be flexible when traveling in and around France in the event of a transportation strike. Strikes by federal employees can and do occur with some regularity. This means that, at any given time, the potential exists for interruptions in metro bus, plane, train or taxi service, which could impact your travel plans. If traveling by air or by train, have a bus schedule handy with the travel information for your destination marked. A back-up plan may prove to be helpful in the event of a transportation strike.
 Although purchasing medical insurance for travelers is recommended, it is not required for treatment in the event of an emergency.


Consider the pharmacy first for minor illnesses and injuries. Pharmacists in France receive more extensive training than pharmacists in other western countries, and are generally considered the first line of defense for non-urgent medical problems.






Treat potential viral infections seriously. Viral infections contracted in foreign countries can be harmful because your body has not been given proper time to develop the necessary immunity. For this reason, it is advisable to take flu symptoms more seriously than you might in your country of origin.
 Certain areas within France's larger metropolitan areas, such as Paris, Marseilles, Lyon and Nice, are frequented by criminals known for targeting tourists. Purchasing a money belt for concealing valuables like passports, credit cards and cash is recommended. In the event of an emergency, keep the following numbers close at hand: 15 (medical), 17 (police) and 18 (fire).
 A "prix-fix" or fixed price menu typically offers 2 to 3 options for a 3 to 4 course meal. Although typically a more expensive option, diners also can order a la carte. Lunch is typically served between noon and 3 p.m. Restaurants often close after 3 p.m., reopening around 7 p.m. for dinner.


Observe local gratuity practices. A gratuity of 15% is generally included in the bill when dining out. However an additional tip of 1 to 3% is expected in France, based on the quality of service.
 Because France uses the 220 volt system, as opposed to 110, visitors originating from countries in North or South America will need to purchase a Type-E plug adapter in order to use any electrical devices brought with them. Although most new appliances and electrical devices can be used with either 220 or 110, check the device specifications to find out if a 110 to 220 converter is required to use the device.

