 Come up with a name for your original character that says something about who your pony is. Draw inspiration from the names of characters on My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic (TV show), or come up with your own ideas for a name.


If you're not sure how to think of a name, try coming up with a name similar to Fluttershy, one of the main characters on the show. Her name combines the physical characteristic of her being a pegasus (“flutter) with her personality characteristic of being timid (“shy”).
You can also come up with a name that has to do with what your pony does or likes. For example, Applejack is a pony from the series who is named as such because she works on her family’s apple farm.
Find name generators online if you need help creating a name for your original character.;
, Think about where your pony comes from, what inspires them, what’s happened to them, etc. Write these details down so you have a complete picture of your original character beyond just an image.


Jot down a few key facts about your pony, like its gender, favorite color, favorite food, etc. You can also write several sentences of description or even a whole story that goes into your pony’s backstory.
Think about your favorite characters in TV shows, movies, books, and video games. What are their backstories? What makes you like them? Draw inspiration from these characters when coming up with your backstory.It’s a good idea to come up with a backstory before you decide on aspects of your pony’s physical characteristics, because your character’s background may help to inform what he or she looks like.
 Choose what kind of pony you’d like to create based on the different varieties that have appeared on the TV show and in the toy lines. Pick a type of pony based on the physical characteristics and abilities associated with each type, or just because you like the look.


On the TV show My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic, the common types of ponies are earth ponies, unicorns, and pegasi (as well as alicorns, which are a combination of unicorn and pegasus).
In the collection of toys made by Hasbro, there have been many different types of ponies, including flutter ponies, seaponies, breezies, and crystal ponies.Note that while most people choose a pony as their original character, you can also use another animal that is not a pony for your OC. In the TV show, creatures like zebras, griffons, and changelings also appear as characters from time to time., Decide on how you want your pony to look, including what colors to use for its body, mane and tail, and eyes. You can also make choices about the size and shape of your pony and its features.


Think about the shape of your pony’s head and ears, the style of its mane and tail, how long its legs are, and other features that will help make your original character truly unique.
Draw a quick sketch of your pony to help figure out what you want it to look like. Use colored pencils or markers to help you choose the colors you like best.
 Determine a Cutie Mark for your pony, which is the characteristic mark on the flank of all ponies who have discovered their special talent. You can make your Cutie Mark into anything you like based on your own talents or interests, or one you come up with for your character.


A Cutie Mark can represent anything you like to do or are good at. Maybe you’d use a cupcake as a Cutie Mark if you love to bake, or leaves and flowers if you’re a great gardener. A Cutie Mark can also be a more abstract design if you want to represent a more abstract quality, like being a good friend or having magical powers.
Try taking a quiz to determine your Cutie Mark.Or design your own and save it to your computer or print it for later use.