 Gain knowledge of the names of the main positions in Jiu Jitsu. Obtain familiarity with all of those main positions. For example, you need to be able to identify the guard position.Learn to control the ego and accept that sometimes losing will be something you experience, especially from older and stronger opponents.
Focus your energy on the experience and not the concept of winning or losing.
Choose and try to master one technique.
 Build your game on a solid defense. Be able to escape from most of the major positions with ease during fights with an opponent.You will also need to know how to pass the guard, a difficult aspect of jiu jitsu. Because you will spend a lot of time in the guards of your opponents, you need to be equipped to deal with that position.
Have two effective escapes from Side Mount, Back Mount, and Mount positions.
Participate in at least one competition.
 Learn to use the momentum of the weight of your opponent as well as your own weight so that you achieve moment objectives the belt is known for. Focus on your weaknesses or the holes in your game.Keep in mind that earning the purple belt means you need to be dangerous from any position while maintaining a great offense.
You need to have an effective guard, familiarity with the different guards, and specialize in one or two guard techniques.
Have three submissions from Back Mount, Side Mount, and Mount. Have three combination attacks from the guard position.
 At this position, few situations or positions will be unfamiliar to you. You will be sinister from top positions. Know how to use your bodyweight in side mount and mount positions to the point that your opponent feels every ounce of you.Try consolidating your knowledge by teaching a few classes at the academy you’re learning at. Being able to teach jiu jitsu to others is a great indicator of your capabilities as a brown belt.
Your balance should make you very difficult to be swept by opponents. At this stage, it should be perfected.
You will be able to pass the guard even at the narrowest window of opportunity and counters most common attacks.
 At this stage, you know more about your mind, body, and limitations than the average person. You’re dangerous and highly adept at martial arts but you limit your skill set to the defense and help of people less able.You move with a exceptional grace and motion and are able to infinitely refine movements.
Jiu jitsu practiced at this level will not only be effective but it will also look good.
It should be understood that the journey isn’t over and there is still time to learn and evolve to the next level: a red belt.

