 The very first thing you should do is get into the mindset of, "I can be a great football player!" This will help you stay on track later on, when the physical work becomes too much or you're not catching on to the techniques as fast and you feel like giving up. Well don't give up.;
, If you are out of shape, you won't do well. Being physically active means being physically fit; here are some factors to consider:


Your diet.







Your amount of exercise.







Being sick.
 Obviously, you need to know how to throw and catch a football. You don't need to be exceptionally well at these, depending on what position you'd like to play, but it allows you to play more positions.
 To achieve the best results, you should consider what you have the most potential to do well in, and then practice to become the best in what you do. Some things you may want to consider are:

Your ability to catch.






Your ability to throw.






Your speed is key.






Your body structure (I.E. Guys with a lot of muscles often play different positions than those who have less. Consider how your body is built.)







, Even off the field, you should be practicing often. Not only does it help you become more fit, but it also allows you to excel at what you do.
 There a plenty of other people who want the same position as you, and if you want to start, you have to be the best. Daily practice of the skills you need is critical. Having an exercise routine is also important.
 If you can't take a hit (or multiple hits) without getting hurt or sad, then football is not for you. You have to be strong.
 This doesn't effect your physical talent, but it can effect the game. A team is nothing without teamwork, and teamwork is hard to achieve when you can't get along with your team mates.
 Prepare well to play, and never think negatively about yourself or your team. Don't just think you're good enough to beat the opposition, know you're good enough to destroy the opposition.
 There is no half speed, no rest period, no "taking plays off". You have to be a "nuclear explosion" once the ball is snapped and until the whistle blows, if you're not prepared to give that type of maximal effort, you will never be great.
 Follow their advice once you start playing and it will make a big difference in how confidently you play.
 This is an ideal way to develop your skills, as your perspective of the game and tactics are very different when you are an observer rather than a player.

