 Especially if you are new to exercising and food management, expect to ease slowly into these lifestyle changes. You might experiment with what foods seem to get a good response from your body and which exercises have the most impact. It is also a good idea to be conservative when estimating calorie intake, as you can always boost it up later., To keep going when you hit plateaus or difficult points, it is important to know what is motivating you. Think about why you need to gain the weight and whether it is critical that you succeed. Remind yourself that your change must be healthy and involve you gaining muscle, not just fat.If you get discouraged, remind yourself of your goals by stating, “I need to do this. I can do this.” Repeat until you feel ready to go again.
 Try to think about your daily habits to predict any personal challenges before they might occur. If you are fond of eating a very light breakfast, then that is one area that you might need to target for extra calories. If you have certain friends who do not support your plan, then you may need to get some distance from them.Think about ways that you can also incorporate new habits into your lifestyle that fit your weight gain goals. For example, find a workout buddy who has similar objectives.
 Give yourself a tasty treat before or after a workout. Take a day off every once in a while and do not exercise or follow your diet plan. Use your exercise sessions as a time to listen to some great music. Intermix what you enjoy with your goals, when possible.Don’t let your cheat days get out of control. This can lead to too much fat gain., Tell people who you trust about your weight gain plans. Ask for their advice and support in the upcoming days. They might be able to suggest recipes or even act as a workout partner., You can find a local coach through your gym or doctor. A personal trainer can adjust your workout program to fit your goals. A dietitian will make sure that you are eating enough fuel to stay healthy and on track.