 Teenagers probably won’t be able to tell you directly that they are depressed. Help keep an eye on them by listening to how they describe their days, school, friends, or other aspects of their lives.Feelings of sadness, such as crying spells for no apparent reason
Feeling hopeless or empty
Being in an irritable or annoyed mood
Frustration or feelings of anger, even over small matters
Loss of interest or pleasure in normal activities
Loss of interest in, or conflict with, family and friends
Low self-esteem
Feelings of worthlessness or guilt
Fixation on past failures or exaggerated self-blame or self-criticism
Extreme sensitivity to rejection or failure, and having a need for excessive reassurance
Trouble thinking, concentrating, making decisions, and remembering things;
, A depressed teenager will show changes in their actions and the way they interact with the world. Just remember that these are signs of depression if they represent changes in behavior.Tiredness and loss of energy
Insomnia or sleeping too much
Changes in appetite, which can mean decreased appetite and weight loss, or increased cravings for food and weight gain
Use of alcohol or drugs
Agitation or restlessness such as pacing, hand-wringing or an inability to sit still
Slowed thinking, speaking, or body movements
Frequently complaining of unexplained body aches and headaches. You may notice this in the form of frequent visits to the school nurse
Social isolation
Poor school performance or frequent absences from school
Neglecting his or her appearance
Angry outbursts, disruptive or risky behavior, or other acting-out behaviors

, Depression can arise from a number of conditions in a teenager’s life. When considering if your teenager may be depressed, look for events in the recent past that could be leading to depression. The presence of these things, along with changes in mood or behavior, could be a sign of depression.Look for stressful events in the teenager’s life, such as a death in the family, parental divorce, breaking up with a boyfriend or girlfriend, or doing particularly poorly in school.
Consider your family history as well. If your teenager has a blood relative like a parent or grandparent who suffered from depression, bipolar disorder, or alcoholism, he or she is at a greater risk for depression. Having a family member commit suicide, or a generally dysfunctional family can also contribute to depression in teenagers.
 Teenagers are dealing with a lot of changes to their bodies and social lives, which can be stressful and difficult to process at times. If you notice signs of depression that have been going on for more than 2 weeks, there may be a more serious issue. On the other hand, occasional appearance of these signs could be typical teenage behavior., People who are suicidal not only have these thoughts, but tend to dwell on them. It will seem like they cannot think about anything else. They will probably talk about being a burden to others, or feeling trapped.More specifically, suicidal thoughts can also be threats to kill oneself, or talking about wanting to kill themselves. A suicidal person might say things like “I’m going to kill myself,” “There’s no reason to live,” or “I wish I were dead.”
Suicidal people may also show rage or uncontrollable anger, particularly directed at others, including talking about getting revenge., A person who is suicidal may begin engaging in risky activities, believing they have nothing to live for. These can include using and abusing drugs and alcohol, reckless driving, or knowingly having unsafe sex. Even if the person doesn’t end up attempting suicide, these behaviors make people a danger to themselves and others.Suicidal individuals may also begin withdrawing from others, taking more time for themselves and removing themselves from other people’s lives., If the person has been moody and depressed for sometime, and has suddenly become calm, that could be a sign of trouble. She may have made the decision to end her life, and is no longer agonizing over the decision. You may also notice deliberate activities like giving away personal possessions, or saying goodbye to people., These can be stockpiling pills, or buying a weapon such as a knife or gun. If you notice this, or the person starts talking about getting their hands on these items, you should contact help immediately., If you notice that your teenager is showing signs of depression, sit down and talk to him. Talk about his feelings, and try to determine if he seems capable of managing these feelings, or if it seems to be overwhelming.People don’t always notice they are depressed. In many cases, people who are depressed become self-critical, so they will think of themselves as failures, losers, or bad people. If you don’t ask, the other person may not be able to notice depression alone., When you talk to your teenager, make sure that you are letting him do the talking. The point of this conversation is to let your teenager explain what he is feeling. Avoid the urge to pass judgement or lecture your teenager on what he should be feeling or what he is doing wrong.Your teenager should be doing most of the talking, explaining his feelings. You can ask questions, or offer support. Say things like “I’m here for you,” “What are you feeling?” or “What can I do to help?” This will remind him that he has someone to talk to, and can encourage more communication.Acknowledge his feelings. Don’t use this as an opportunity to prove your teenager wrong, or to say “Things aren’t like that,” or “It’s all in your head,” even if you believe his concerns are irrational. You want him to feel understood and supported, so for now it is important to let him know that you are listening to him., If you think your teenager is suffering from depression, you should go see a medical professional. The doctor will run a series of tests, including a physical exam, blood test, and psychological evaluation in order to determine if your teen should be diagnosed with depression. Depending on what the doctor finds, your teenager may be diagnosed with depression and have treatment prescribed.Make sure you talk to the doctor about what your role should be in helping to treat and care for a teenager suffering from depression.
 One of the common signs of depression is withdrawing from friends and social activities. While your teenager is undergoing treatment from a doctor, make sure she spends time with other people. It can also be helpful to give your teenager something to do. Suggest she do something with friends, or invite her along for errands or other outside activities., Depression can get worse when accompanied by bad physical habits. Inactivity, not enough sleep, or bad nutrition, which are all problems for teenagers in normal circumstances. In addition to being a sounding board, make sure your teenager is getting the right kind of physical activity to stay healthy.Regular physical activity can help reduce depression, and is generally healthy for you. Encourage your teenager to get an hour of aerobic activity every day, such as running, swimming, or even just walking. These can even be things you do together.
Keep an eye on screen time. Electronic devices like computers and television can limit people’s exposure to others, and provide avenues for depression triggers like cyberbullying or negative or violent content. Make sure your teenager is getting time away from screens to interact with real people, including friends and family.
Make sure your teenager is getting a good night’s sleep. Strictly enforce a curfew, and make sure your teenager is going to bed when they should. Spending a lot of time on electronic devices like televisions or phones can really hurt a sleep cycle.

