 Anyone with a toddler knows that the mid to late afternoon can be a bit challenging. If you expect to work out at that point you may delay or avoid it entirely. Instead, try to get at least one short work out session completed in the morning. This will give you a much needed boost of energy., You are probably already following a routine closely, as toddlers tend to do best with a scheduled daily plan. So, simply modify your plan to include a bit of time here and there for your work out sessions. Decide that you will spend 10 minutes right before breakfast, 10 minutes after their nap, and 10 minutes post-bath for work outs.As you plan out your day, make the best use of your toddler’s nap times. Experiment with working out for a part of that time., Instead of working out for an hour or 30 minutes, break down your exercises into short intervals spread throughout the day. For these 10 minute periods push yourself hard and make sure that you break a sweat. If you happen to add in a fourth session, all the better.For example, spend the short interval alternating between lunges and squats. You can do this type of exercise right in front of your toddler as they play with toys.
 Don’t waste a great deal of time worrying about what you should wear. Instead, pick up a few work out outfits that you are comfortable in and rotate them throughout the week. This way you can simply throw something on and get right to work., Find a friend with a toddler or younger child and get them to cover over to your place or meet you elsewhere for a work out. Do this at least a few times a week. If you don’t know anyone, you might try connecting with a parents group in your area via social media.You could also rotate childcare duties with a friend. They hit the gym while you watch their child and vice versa.
 Let your friends and family know about your plans to work out with your toddler. Encourage them to ask you how it is going. They might even offer to help out and babysit. For a bit of extra support, you can join an online community devoted to parents trying to achieve work out goals.