 You'll want to find a house or apartment that is the right size for one person and is in a convenient location for you.


If you have friends or family in the area, choose a location that will make it easy for them to visit you.
If you're moving to a new city and don't know anyone, choose an area close to the places you plan on frequenting the most. This may be your job, your school, downtown restaurants, or local parks, depending on your preferences.
Make sure you look into the safety of your new neighborhood. You can investigate by asking locals, looking at local crime maps, and touring the area yourself.;
, Try not to get scared living on your own. There will probably be lots of little things that you will have to learn how to deal with that will be brand-new to you, but try not to get overwhelmed.


When you're on your own, you won't have anyone else to take care of everyday things for you, so you'll need to learn to face your fears. If you're afraid of bugs, try standing up to the next spider you see instead of running away. If you're convinced you'll burn the house down if you try to cook your own meal, start small and learn how to make a simple dish.
Make sure you have proper security at your house or apartment, including outdoor lights, good locks on your doors, and maybe even an alarm system.
 Living alone can be great, and there are lots of things you can do to live alone happily. Take some simple steps like personalizing your space, inviting friends over frequently, and creating a schedule for cleaning and maintaining your home to make living alone more fun and less stressful.


One of the great things about living alone is that you get to make your own rules. If you want to have a giant beanbag chair or a hammock in your living room instead of a couch, there's no one to tell you you can't.
 Living alone doesn't mean you need to be alone all the time. Staying social can make living alone much more enjoyable.Stay in touch with old friends. Even if you're far away from them, talking to someone you've known for a long time can make you feel so much better when you're feeling lonely.
Introduce yourself to your neighbors. Being friendly with your neighbors will come in super handy if you ever need some help with something.
Socialize with coworkers or classmates if you can.
Join clubs or connect with people on social websites like meetup.com.
Try volunteering for a cause you're passionate about to stay busy and meet like-minded people., When you live alone, you have to learn how to manage your finances and plan for the future.


Make sure that you get a house or apartment that you can really afford. Spending all of your income on an apartment will leave you with no money to have fun, which can make living alone much harder, so don't go over-budget.
Budget for the essentials like food, gas, healthcare, insurance, and utilities. When it comes to non-essentials, carefully consider how much you can afford to spend each month.
Try to put some money away in an emergency fund and in a retirement savings account.
 In addition to inviting friends over to your home and getting out regularly, you will also need to learn how to be comfortable spending time alone at your new place. If you're accustomed to living with friends, a partner, or your parents, this might be a bit of an adjustment, but if you commit yourself to being independent, you'll learn how to combat your loneliness.Try to develop hobbies that you can do yourself. You can try anything from working on crossword puzzles to knitting sweaters to watching exercise videos. You're likely to feel more lonely when you're bored, so any enjoyable activity that can be done alone at your home will help keep these feelings at bay.
If you're really feeling lonely, you might want to consider getting a pet. You will not only have a companion, but you'll also be busy taking care of your new animal, so you won't get as bored. If you rent your home, make sure to check with your landlord before getting a pet.
Pay attention to the kinds of situations that typically make you feel lonely and try to make a change. For example, if you tend to feel lonely when you come home from work and watch television until bedtime, fill those hours with a more stimulating activity. If you get lonely because you used to cook elaborate meals for your family and now that you live alone you're eating TV dinners, learn how to cook for one.
 Many people are intimidated by the thought of going out to the movie theater or to a restaurant alone because they think that other people will judge them. The truth is that no one is likely to even notice that you are alone, and you'll still have a great time, so don't worry about going places alone!If you're having trouble getting over your fear, try starting small and working your way up to bigger feats. For example, if you really want to be able to go out to a nice restaurant alone, start by going out for coffee alone, then going to a casual restaurant alone, and finally going to a nicer restaurant.
There are so many things you can do by yourself and still have a great time. Think about seeing a movie or a play, going to a sports game, getting a drink at a local bar, going ice skating, visiting the zoo, going to a gallery, or playing some games at an arcade. There is no reason why you can't enjoy any of these activities solo., Sometimes you might just want some quality time by yourself when you're out, but other times you might really be looking for an opportunity to socialize.


If you want to be alone at a place like a restaurant or coffee shop, you might feel more comfortable having something to do. Consider reading a newspaper or doing a crossword puzzle while you wait for your food.
If you want to meet people, put all distractions, especially your phone, away. Being on your phone will make you appear less approachable to others. Make small talk with people and don't be shy about asking a group of people if you can join them., No matter where you are and what you are doing, be safe and use extra caution when you're alone.This means always being aware of your surroundings and avoiding places that seem unsafe.


Depending on where you are going, you may want to bring a small can of mace with you.
If you're walking to your car by yourself, it is wise to hold your keys in your hands so you will not be distracted by looking for them. You can also use your key as a weapon if necessary.
Be careful about drinking too much and always make sure you have a safe way to get home.
 Once you've mastered the art of going out for an evening by yourself, you might consider going on a trip alone. This will allow you to plan a trip that is perfect for you without having to worry about anyone else's preferences.When you travel alone, you are in control of every aspect of your trip, from where you stay to how long you spend roaming the city each day. Take advantage of the opportunity to plan your dream trip.
Use your social skills to meet people. If you know how to meet people at home, you can meet people while on a trip as well. Use the same cautions as you would at home when meeting new people, and have a great time!

, Getting stressed out will reduce your chances of surviving because you won't be thinking clearly. Take a deep breath and try to think about the situation logically. Try making a list of things you need to do in order of importance. Thinking about survival as a series of manageable tasks can help you stay focused and avoid panicking.Try not to dwell on all of the bad things that could happen. Instead, focus on the proactive steps you will take to prevent bad things from happening.
Resist the urge to feel sorry for yourself or doubt your abilities. Keep reminding yourself that you're up to the challenge and will survive.
Keep yourself motivated by making plans for what you will do when you make it back home.Resilience is just as important as calmness, so never give up!

, If you take some time to properly prepare yourself before any potentially dangerous outing, you will greatly increase your chances of surviving.


Make sure you understand the environment you're in and the particular threats it poses. Surviving in the desert will require a different technique than surviving in the mountains or in the woods.
Think about wildlife that might pose a threat. If bears are a concern, be sure to store your food away from your sleeping area. If snakes are a concern, be extra careful about watching where you step.
Bring the proper supplies, including food and water, appropriate clothing, water purification tablets, a knife and/or hatchet, a fire starter, a first-aid kit, a map of the area, and a compass.
If you plan on being out in the wilderness, consider taking a class to strengthen your survival skills.
Before going out on any kind of adventure, always let at least one person know where you will be going and how long you plan on being out. Make sure this person knows to call for help if he or she can't get in in touch with you., Your main concerns should be getting adequate food and water, protecting yourself from the elements, and preventing illness and injury.



Make a shelter appropriate for your location. Try to keep the climate in mind when choosing the materials to use. If the area is very hot, you will want to make sure your shelter protects you from the sun, but allows a breeze to come in. If the area is very cold, you will want to prevent as much wind penetration as possible.Building a fire will provide warmth, allow you to cook your food, keep predators away, and help you signal for help.If you don't already have one, try making a weapon like a spear to protect you against predators and hunt for food.Find clean water. Staying hydrated is essential, but it's also important to think about the safety of the water you are drinking. Boil or otherwise purify your water to avoid illness.
Forage or hunt for food. Depending on your location you may be able to forage for fruits and nuts, hunt small animals, or fish. Be very cautious about eating any plants or insects that you do not recognize, as they may be poisonous. Always cook your food if possible.
Treat any injuries right away. If you are bleeding, apply pressure to stop it. If you break a bone, you may have to create a splint using sticks and a piece of fabric. Always use antiseptic ointment for open wounds if you have it., Use whatever means you can think of to let other people know where you are and that you need help.If you have a cell phone but do not have good enough reception to make a phone call, try sending a text instead.
Use an emergency radio or flares if you have them.
Use clothing or other items to spell out a message that can be read from above, such as SOS.
Reflect the sun using a mirror or other shiny object to increase your visibility.
Build a signal fire. Try to burn materials that create a lot of smoke, like evergreen boughs, in the daytime to keep your signal visible. The universal signal for help is three columns of smoke.
If you're lost, stay put so someone can find you. If you attempt to find your way out on your own, you may just get lost further in the wilderness.