 As you plan the route to your new home, make reservations to stay at hotels that accommodate pets. You will not want to leave your bird unattended in the vehicle overnight. If you are staying with friends or family, make sure that they are aware of your bird’s needs. Avoid staying in loud, smoky or busy places that might impair your bird’s health.Be sure to bring cloth or newspaper to place under your bird’s cage to protect your room’s carpet.
 Before you leave, put your bird in its carrier or cage and drive it around in your car. This will help it get comfortable with riding in a car and limit its anxiety during your road trip. Try to make it as similar to the actual moving experience as you can. You may even want to include some boxes in your car to help your bird adjust to being hemmed in., On moving day, be sure to place the bird cage or carrier in the backseat of your car. If you are moving the bird in its cage, be sure to remove all perches and toys to avoid injuring your bird during the move. If your bird is particularly anxious, you may want to pad the inside of its cage to prevent it from hurting itself.If you are using a moving truck, do not pack the bird with your other items. The contents of the truck may shift and crush your bird. Instead, have someone drive your car and place the bird in the backseat. If that is not an option, hire a pet transport company to move your animal.
Never place it in the front seat where it can be smashed by the airbags during an accident.
 Because birds are particularly sensitive to changes in their environment, you will want to keep your car at a comfortable temperature. Do not let it get too hot or too cold. You will also want to keep your bird out of direct sunlight.Consider using a glare guard to keep your bird cool and out of the sun.
 If your bird is particularly anxious, you may want to consider covering its cage with a blanket. However, this may be dangerous for your bird if it stumbles and hurts itself in the dark. If you do cover your bird’s cage, make sure that the space is free of any toys or perches that the bird could fall on., The most important thing to consider while moving your bird is how to maintain its routine. The more you are able to simulate your bird’s normal activities, the less anxious it will be. One of the easiest ways to do this is by maintaining its diet. Feed your bird its normal foods and follow its typical feeding schedule. Maintaining a consistent diet will limit your bird’s anxiety and keep it from getting sick during the move.Bring a water purifier or bottled water for your bird. Do not give it tap water.
Consider giving the bird fresh fruit regularly. This will limit the bird’s need for drinking water.
 During the move, it is important that you talk to the bird. This will help it relax. If your bird is okay with not being covered, you may also want to position it so that it can see you. Your mood will also dictate the bird’s attitude. If you get angry or frustrated, the bird will get anxious. Try to stay calm for you and the bird’s sake.