 A business plan can provide you with a clear outline of what you want to do and how you are going to do it. It can also help you gather your ideas together, fine-tune your business idea, and help you secure funding if needed.


Specifically for an answering service business, you need to determine the type of business structure you will be creating, whether it's a proprietorship, partnership, LLC, or corporation. You should mention your services, packages, and pricing structure to determine how much capital you will bring in and how many clients you will need to book to get yourself in a profit margin.;
, Follow the rules, and file any necessary paperwork to create your business. For instance, do you live in an area where it is legal to work from home? Are there any special guidelines you must follow to work from home in your area? Are there any other zoning concerns?

, Use the money from this account to purchase your business equipment and pay your utilities. Do not make any personal purchases out of this account. Deposit all business income to this account, and withdraw paychecks from there to place in your personal account.
 Start small, because you do not want too many lines and not enough clients to fill them. Look for a phone that features the ability to transfer back and forth from 1 line to another so you can answer and take messages for different clients from a single location. Your phone system should also accommodate several different mailboxes to catch messages for calls that come in when you cannot answer them.
 When you've run out of room for phones or your phone company says you cannot have any more lines, your business has expanded enough to need an office space and additional employees. One line per business is easier to manage than multiple lines for the same client. Starting with 1 line and 1 client will make it easier for you to gauge your workload to determine what you can handle.
 Medical businesses are an ideal place to start because their patient schedule often makes it hard for someone to be available to answer the phone. Use your business plan to pitch your pricing, service offerings, and hours of availability.
 The file should detail each company's requirements for taking and delivering messages and the hours they want you answering the phones. Place copies of all correspondence, including the messages you take for them, inside this file.
 Be concise in every message, and make sure to include any important details the caller wishes to convey to your client. Send the messages to the client via email or fax. Allow the client to choose the agreed-upon method for receiving messages.

