 Every 20 minutes, look away from your screen at any object 20 feet away for 20 seconds.Set an alarm to remind you to stretch or rest your eyes.
 Some exercises are designed specifically for eyes in order to strengthen various eye muscles. These exercises may soothe tired eyes. They may also stop your eyes from getting tired too quickly. Picture an imaginary clock in front of you. Find the center of the clock. Without moving your head, move eyes up toward the 12:00 hour. Then move your eyes back to the center point. Next, move eyes to the 1:00 hour and back toward the center.


Continue this exercise for 10 times.
This will help tired eyes focus better. It will also strengthen ciliary eye muscles, which help you focus your eyes., Picture letters of the alphabet on a distant wall. Without moving your head, draw these letters with your eyes.Imagine a horizontal figure eight or infinity sign in front of you. Trace the eight with only your eyes and don't move your head., Train yourself to blink more often to prevent dryness. Blink once every four seconds to spread tear film and to prevent tired eyes.
 Sitting in front of a computer or monitor for long periods of time can cause neck and back muscles to stay tense. Without any treatment, these muscles can cause secondary soreness or stiffness of the neck, headaches, in addition to tired eyes. Stretching or meditating, specifically with eyes closed, reduce dry eyes by lubricating eyes with natural tear film. Also, the techniques relax muscles around the eyes.


Stretching increases blood flow and oxygen to tense eye muscles, allowing them to relax.
It also de-stresses your body when paired with meditative breathing techniques.Stretching decreases irritability and improves mood, and soothes tired eyes.
 Exercise moderately to increase heart rate. This will, in turn, increase oxygen circulation, which can increase blood flow to your eyes.


The increased blood flow is important for functioning eye muscles and tissues around the eye.

