 You can’t just up and quit on your client. Instead, you need to carefully plan to end the relationship. For example, you must consider the following:Whether you are in the middle of a trial or negotiation. It can be difficult to withdraw in these situations, since you owe clients a duty to protect their interests. If you want to withdraw from a lawsuit, you may need the judge’s permission.
How long it will take the client to find other help. You should continue to represent the client until he or she finds another attorney.
Whether the representation has already ended. For example, someone might have hired you to handle their divorce. The divorce has ended and somewhere along the way they filed for bankruptcy. If they contact you again for another matter—for example, to draft a prenuptial agreement for their new marriage—then you have no obligation to take them on as a client.
 If your relationship has already ended, then you don’t need good cause to refuse to do new work for a former client. However, if your relationship is ongoing, then you should identify your reason for wanting to end the relationship.


Look at your engagement letter. It should spell out the reasons for terminating the relationship.The client’s failure to pay bills should be listed as a reason.
Most state ethics rules also allow attorneys to withdraw when the client breaks an obligation to pay the attorney, so long as the refusal creates an unreasonably difficult burden., Give your client written notice that you are ending the relationship. In the letter, you should make sure that you include the following information:The reason why you are ending the relationship.
Key upcoming dates, such as filing dates or hearing dates.
Warnings whether the client is in danger of violating any rules or laws.
The termination date. Tell the client the date you will stop representing them. Typically, you can give them 30 days to find a new lawyer.
The effect ending the relationship will have on the client’s case.
 You should continue to represent the client until they find a new attorney.If you don’t, you are prejudicing your client and likely committing both an ethical breach and attorney malpractice.


For example, if you have a hearing scheduled, then prepare and attend the hearing just as you normally would.
 When you started representing your client, he or she might have given you some money upfront as a retainer. You can deduct from the retainer for services provided. However, you must remember to refund any unspent retainer.Keep detailed records. It might be helpful to give your client a copy of your itemized bills for the entire matter.
There might be a dispute about whether you earned a portion of the retainer. In this situation, you generally must keep the portion of the retainer in dispute in your client trust account.You can’t spend it until the dispute is resolved.
 Ethically, you must allow the client to have copies of any document in the file to which they are entitled.You should tell the client how to request their file and when they can pick it up. You can charge the client for copying if the fee agreement states that you charge for copying. Generally, clients are entitled to the following:pleadings
correspondence
physical evidence
exhibits
expert witness reports
deposition transcripts
anything else reasonably necessary for the client to have for their case

, Depending on your court, you may have to fill out a “substitution of counsel” form or file a motion to withdraw. You should check your court’s rules for withdrawing and follow them carefully.


Remember not to divulge client confidences in your motion. Keep the tone professional.
Also check whether the client will agree to end the relationship. This might make a difference depending on the court., Even after the relationship ends, you must continue to maintain your client’s confidences. There are narrow exceptions, such as if you are sued for malpractice or if you bring a lawsuit to recover unpaid fees (that weren’t discharged in bankruptcy). However, you generally must maintain confidentiality.