 At least two Sims will be needed for this and will certainly suffice, but if you want more, you can have more.
 The lot must consist of at least one closed in room with a door so Sims can be locked in. The room must be at least a 4x4 to ensure there will be enough room., The first cheat you will enter is "testingcheatsenabled true", without the quotations. Keep in mind that while caps don't matter, spacing does. The second cheat you'll need to enter is "buydebug on".

Note: This cheat will only work with a stuff pack or expansion installed into your game.
 Under tomb objects is a stone sarcophagus, (a coffin holding mummies). Under miscellaneous are two fancier sarcophagus'. Place the sarcophagus of your choosing into the designated room, being sure not to block the door. Then, under tomb objects is a special torch. Under the lights you can find a torch but this torch is different because it's also a lever.

Note: the lever needs to be outside of the room for the murder to work.
 This is where it gets tricky. Hold down the keys ctrl + shift and click on the sarcophagus while holding down those buttons. Not too hard right? A list will come up asking you different things. Click Set Mummy Chance and then select Always.

Note: The Set Mummy Chance option may be under the option More at the top of the list. Now, when the sarcophagus is opened a mummy will come out. Next, shift + ctrl + click the torch lever and select Enable Lever. Now your Sim has the ability to pull the lever.
 It wouldn't be murder if your Sim accidentally opened the tomb. But there's a way to fix that problem. Ctrl + shift + click the torch lever again. Now select Link Triggers  and Add Link Trigger, then select Pull Lever. Now ctrl + shift + click the sarcophagus and select Link to Activated Behavior. Select Open. To check it was done properly, simply click one of the objects. A pink or green line should appear, connecting the two. This means there was success., Give the victim the queue to walk into the room. Then click on the door and select Lock and Everybody. You need your game fully updated to do this, if your game isn't fully updated or you can't get it to work simply go into buy mode and remove the door. Your victim has now been locked into the room., Have your murderer Sim now simply pull the lever, releasing the tomb mummy on your Sim's victim. The mummy will walk out and most likely curse the Sim with the mummy's curse, which will kill the Sim if not cured. If your Sim victim wins the fight or survives, simply repeat the process until they are cursed., Yes, sadly you do have to wait for this one, but they will die. What makes this murder is the fact your Sim's actively participating in the murder by pulling the lever that unleashes the mummy. This is a great way to have murder on your Sim, or simply get rid of the in-laws.