 Learn some relaxation techniques to help you stay calm and centered. Figure out which techniques work best for you, and use them as your go-to tools when you need them. You may want to create visual prompts to remind you to use these techniques throughout the day, like putting a post-it on your mirror or computer monitor, or setting an alert on your phone.


Try taking deep breaths to relax. You could try the 4-7-8 exercise: breathe in through your nose, breathing deep into your belly, to the count of four. Hold your breath until the count of seven. Then, slowly exhale through your mouth to the count of eight.You may find that you are able to stay present and calm through meditation or prayer.
 Exercise produces endorphins, which help you feel less stressed and anxious. Even a small amount of exercise has been shown to stimulate anti-anxiety effects, but regular exercise is good for both mind and body. It can reduce tension, elevate your mood, improve sleep, and increase self-esteem.Keep in mind that for treating anxiety and depression, frequency is more important than the length of your workout. Include exercise into your routine every day, even if it is just a short walk around your neighborhood.


If you are feeling anxious, you could try getting outside (being out in nature can reduce anxiety) and taking a walk.
Yoga is also a good exercise for helping you feel calmer and more centered.
If you have a regular exercise routine, keep it up. You are already reaping some anti-anxiety benefits.
If you do not currently exercise, try incorporating small changes into your daily routine to see if activity helps you feel better. You could take the stairs instead of the elevator, or park far from the store entrance in the parking lot., Avoid processed foods and sugars. Eat food that you know is good for you -- eating junk food can perpetuate anxiety because you know you shouldn’t be eating it in the first place!You may find it beneficial to talk to a nutritionist about what to eat and how it may impact your anxiety. Try eating four to five small meals per day, since keeping your blood sugar level is important for managing anxiety.
Make sure you are drinking enough water. Dehydration can affect your mood and sometimes make you feel more anxious., While both alcohol and caffeine offer some short-term benefits, both can increase anxiety and affect your mood. Be mindful of the amounts of alcohol and caffeine you are able to safely consume without triggering your anxiety. In some cases, you may find it is best to avoid one or both altogether.While alcohol can make you feel less inhibited and anxious initially, it can also make you feel irritable, anxious, or depressed a few hours after drinking it, or even into the next day.Your morning cup of coffee may be a necessary pick-me-up, but too much coffee can leave your heart racing and make you feel jittery, mimicking the feelings of anxiety or a panic attack. If you’re prone to anxiety, you may experience the effects of caffeine as feelings of worry and impending trouble, triggering an anxiety attack.
Many times, people with anxiety do not recognize their symptoms being triggered by caffeine, and associate it with environmental stimuli or their thoughts instead.Also, people often do not have a good understanding of what food and beverages contain caffeine, and how much. Watch out for caffeine in things like chocolate, cola, and tea.
 Sleep deprivation can perpetuate anxiety. When you are tired, the areas of the brain associated with emotional processing begin to mimic worrying behaviors, creating feelings of anxiety.The recommended amount of sleep for adults is seven to nine hours a night. If you are not hitting that mark, make sleep a priority. Try moving up your bedtime earlier in the evening in order to get more sleep.If you find it difficult to get to sleep due to thought rumination or a racing mind, you could try using a guided meditation app to help you relax before bedtime. If you are still not able to fall asleep, get out of bed and read (from a book, not a tablet whose screen light may trigger more wakefulness) for 20 minutes before going back to bed and trying again., Find a family member or friend to talk to. You might want to talk to them about your feelings, or you may want them to be a distraction so you can get away from your worries for a while.


Talking to someone about your feelings can help you relieve stress. Make sure it is someone you trust, who is a good listener and can validate and understand you -- sometimes not feeling listened to can create even more stress!Cry with someone. Having someone witness your tears can help you feel better. Crying is a stress reliever. You may feel drained after a good cry, but you may also feel calmer.Laugh with someone. Laughter releases endorphins, those feel-good hormones that also diminish feelings of stress and anxiety., Physical touch has been shown to quickly decrease feelings of anxiety. It releases the hormone oxytocin, the “love hormone,” which helps us feel more connected to others, and can decrease cardiovascular stress.Ask a friend, family member, or partner for a hug.
Get a massage. Receiving regular massages can help lower blood pressure, stress, and anxiety., Volunteering can help you feel less anxious because it makes you feel like you are contributing to something important. Volunteering is also great for putting your problems into perspective and helping you identify things that aren't worth worrying about. You may feel as though you are doing something concrete to make the world a better place. It can also give you good feelings of giving back to a cause you believe in.Meeting other people through your volunteerism can also help you increase your support network.
 Self-care means different ways of taking care of yourself in order to improve your physical, mental, emotional, or spiritual health and well-being, as well as different ways to relax. It is important to know what you like to do that takes care of you, because failure to take care of yourself can leave you feeling drained, resentful, depressed, and anxious.Think about activities that are meaningful, restorative, and calming to you. These may be things like listening to music, writing in a journal, taking a bath, or spending time in nature.
Self-care looks different for everyone. You may find solitude and quiet rejuvenating, while someone else may feel better after going out dancing with friends.
Make self-care a weekly priority in your schedule. Set aside a few hours each week that are just for you to do whatever you want. This may help to prevent anxiety from building up over time.

