 If you are a current student, contact your school counselor or the university's counseling center about options available. Generally, students don't have to pay extra for therapy sessions if there is a clinic or mental health program on campus.If you're in high school, there may be counseling available through your school or off-campus centers that your school contracts with to provide mental health services. There may also be support groups or other resource information available through your school counselor.
Many primary and secondary schools also have social workers to connect students and families to help. Try your school social worker and ask about resources – see what’s available at school or in the community to get access to low-cost mental health clinics, either free or on a sliding fee scale.
Most colleges and universities recognize that students can go through difficult times. Counseling services are confidential. Contact your student services office or the on-site counseling center for more information about programs and services. If you explain your financial situation, they should be able to direct you to additional mental health options in your area.
Whether you are a part-time or full-time undergrad or grad student, universities support the mental health needs of their students, and possibly their significant others.;
, If you are working part-time or full-time, contact your human resources department where you work. Larger companies will generally offer an Employee Assistance Program that encompasses access to mental health services.When you contact your human resources department, just ask if there is an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and the phone number available. Your company will not likely provide counseling directly, but the EAP for your company will contract with local counselors in your area.
Call the number available for your company's EAP program, and complete an over-the-phone consultation. The information shared is confidential and will not be shared with your employer. The consultation will likely lead to a referral to a local therapist or other resources as needed.
Some EAP counselors can also offer temporary general support until you find suitable mental health services. This may depend on your situation and location.
Ask the EAP program about how many therapy sessions are free. Generally, a limited number of visits are free, possibly three to six. But there is no limit on how often you can call the EAP program for referrals and information.
 Students in training to become psychologists, counselors, or psychiatrists may offer low or no-cost counseling, depending on the university. See if your local university has any centers for mental health professionals in training.Find out if therapy sessions with graduate students are available, and if they are open to the public.
Ask if there are any research studies where therapy is offered for free. Most psychology research is focused on behavioral testing and assessment, but researchers may be able to provide resources and information about therapy services that fit your needs.

