 It’s the same as the former version to add a video to get started. After you opened the VideoGIF for Mac, you will see two options in a neat pop-up window: Webcam and Add Video. If you like, you are free to drag and drop the destination video to the main screen of the app. Click Webcam icon, you enter the Webcam mode. Click the blue circular button at the bottom on the window to take a short video instantly. After the video is ready, click Use to move forward.;
, If you want to add an existing video from the local folder, click Add Video icon.
 With the help of the play/pause button, you can take an overview of the added video.  You are able to step back or step forward using the respective arrow buttons. You have two options to select the cute and fun segment from the added video to make GIF.  


One is to use the two trim controls on the progress bar bellow the video to specify the clip range. Grab one trim control to decide its start frame while grab another to set its end frame of the GIF.  
Another way, manually move one trim control to a specific spot then click the first square bracket to set the time as the start of GIF. Then move the other trim control behind the former one and click the last square bracket to set the end time of the GIF. Use the icon between the two square brackets to preview the selected GIF clip.
 It’s not necessary to customize your GIF. Only in this way, however, can you make your GIFs more appealing and attractive.Use the Crop button to make the GIF displaying better. You can crop the GIF using preset ratios or choose Custom to type specific pixels. Besides, you can even simply grab one of the green crop handles to crop the GIF manually. Then click Done to save the settings and exit crop mode.   There are two options to change the size of your GIF - one is to enter specific pixels and the other is to move the Scale slider bar to alter its size.
 Besides, many delicate and fun stickers are preset in VideoGIF 2.0. Once you add you texts and stickers, you can click Manage Overlays to display the overlays managing panel. Here, you can adjust every layer’s opacity by grabbing the slider beside the Opacity. You can set the layer’s start frame & end frame. Moreover, use the up or down arrow icon to move any layer up or down freely.
 Click Effect tab to add professional filters like Vintage, B&W, Sepia, Marcato, etc. if you don’t want to have any filter effect, click Original to remove the effect from your GIF.   Besides, you have the option to change the GIF’s Saturation, Hue, Exposure, Contrast and Brightness. Click Reset to remove all the effects and color settings.
 If you don’t satisfied with your GIF, you can easily change its properties while previewing it.
 For the Auto Mode, you can freely change the FPS (Frame per Second) of your GIF.  


You are able to set the GIF Sequence as Normal or Reverse.
For the Quality options, you are free to choose the “Auto optimized” or “Not optimized”. “Auto optimized” will yield a better looking for the GIF, but takes a longer time to dither. Conversely, “Not optimized” will make a normal looking, but takes less time.  
Once you decide the Frame Count, Duration and Size of a GIF, the parameters will be immediately displayed on the lower part of the window.
, You can also impress your friends by sharing the GIF via Tumblr, E-Mail and iMessage directly.  

