 The best place to start is the ingredient list. There are hundreds of different types of ingredients used in dietary supplements. Safe ingredients that are commonly found in weight loss supplements include white kidney bean pod, caffeine (in doses under 400 ml), calcium, chitosan, and chromium. Green coffee extract, green tea extract, and raspberry ketone may be safe in small doses.Supplement labels are required to list all active and inactive ingredients, but studies have found that less than 50% of supplement labels listed all the inactive ingredients. They can even have known allergens such as wheat, rice, and soy and not be listed on the label.
Even safe supplements can still cause side effects such as headache, gas, or nausea.
Some brands will list “energy boosters,” “fat-burning products,” or weight-loss supplements” as ingredients, but these are often used to hide harmful ingredients on the label. Only use products that clearly state which ingredients are in their supplement.
When choosing a weight loss supplement, you may encounter labels that call their ingredients “natural,” “standardized,” “certified,” or “verified.” These terms are not regulated by the FDA or any other organization., Some ingredients commonly found in supplements are known to be dangerous. Many of these purport to help you lose weight, but they can also cause heart problems, nervousness, or pain. Avoid using these ingredients.


Ephedra, also known as ma huang, has an increased chance of side effects, especially if combined with caffeine. Ephedra can cause stroke, increased blood pressure, and gastrointestinal problems. It is not considered safe to consume, and it is banned in supplements in the US and Canada.Bitter orange is often used as a replacement for ephedra, but it is not necessarily a safer option. It can cause a racing heart rate, anxiety, chest pain, and higher blood pressure.Most evidence based studies found no significant weight loss with bitter orange.While there has not been extensive research on hoodia, some suggest that it might not be safe. It can cause a faster heart rate, dizziness, nausea, or a headache.Some supplements that claim to have hoodia may not actually contain it.It is a rare plant, and takes many years to mature. Therefore it is difficult of obtain true hoodia, and most supplements contain counterfeit or non-active form of hoodia.
Yohimbe is a stimulant that may cause heart and respiratory problems.
 Some independent organizations offer certification to brands that fulfill their quality guidelines. These organizations, while not affiliated with the FDA, can help you discover if a supplement is authentic. These seals include:


Consumerlab.com approved quality product seal
The NSF International dietary supplement certification
U.S. Pharmacopeia dietary supplement verification program, The U.S. National Institute of Health and the National Library of Medicine operate a database of brands and manufacturers of dietary supplements. These can help you compare ingredients, identify brands that contain particular ingredients, and find which brands contain harmful ingredients.


This database also contains the contact information of each manufacturer. If you have questions or concerns about the supplement, it is recommended that you contact the manufacturer.