 You don’t have to use every social media platform available. But for the ones you do use, make sure each one is up to date.


Update your photos somewhat frequently. You don’t have to, and shouldn’t change your profile photos every week. But make sure your photos are current. If you have a new photo of you doing something cool related to your business or personal brand, consider using it as your new profile picture.
Keep your bios updated with relevant information and links. If you have a link to an old blog you no longer use, get rid of that link.
 Connect your social accounts to one another to further boost your profile and make it easier for others to see everything you’ve done.


Put links to your other social profiles in bio sections. Have a Twitter account that you use to converse with customers and provide new information? put the link to it in your Facebook bio.
Create calls to action. If you have a Twitter or Instagram following you can create calls to actions for users to read new blog posts or get tickets to an event you may be hosting. Then provide a link to your event page on Facebook.
Use the same hashtags across multiple platforms. Hashtags are a way for grouping messages and topics. Hashtags can help you to stand out and connecting with people you may not be following or who are not following you.
 Each social media platform has its own requirements for photo dimensions. Make sure that you adhere to each one. Make sure that your profile photos and cover photos are the correct dimensions. If someone comes to your page and sees a bad photo or one that’s blurry, that gives a bad impression.
Use nice photos that depict you in a good light, or your brand in a good light. And try to be consistent. It’s not a bad idea to have the same profile photo across multiple platforms.
Sites like Canva.com help you to create and format photos and graphics for different sites and provide templates with the correct dimensions.
 Bad photos and content can be more harmful than no content at all. Don’t give anyone a reason to not like you because of inappropriate content.


Take some time to go through your existing photos and untag or remove these photos.
Go through old posts, tweets, and any other content. Remove anything that’s inappropriate.
You also don’t want to have anything that’s not relevant anymore or your best work. If you blog a lot or write articles, it’s great to showcase what you’ve written. However, you may find that you've improved over time. Go back through old content and remove work that isn’t your highest quality.
 Keep your social profiles active by posting regularly and staying up to date with current trends.


One major way to boost your profiles and use social media to engage with more people is to post on a regular and consistent basis. Update your statuses with what you’re doing. reach out to people and engage with others in your field.
Use mentions, hashtags, and trends to connect with more people. Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram allow you to look at trending topics that utilize hashtags. These hashtags will allow your content to reach more people who are both connected with you and not connected to you. Regular posting will also help improve your profile because it will make it easier for people to find you when searching.
 You can use Twitter’s analytics, Facebook's page manager, and third party software like Bitly to measure your engagement with others.


Check the status of your posts to see how well a post is performing. Your goal is to engage and converse with as many people as possible. If your posts aren’t reaching as many people as you’d like, you may want to change the time of day you are posting. Think about what kind of work you do and what you are posting. Ask yourself when you are most likely to read something similar and engage with others.
Sites like Bitly.com allow you to create short links to web pages so that you can track how many times a link has been clicked.

