 Although products may claim to "remove dead skin" or provide other benefits, scrubbing or exfoliating your face can actually make blackheads worse by irritating and inflaming your skin. Don't use abrasive scrubbers or cloths, don't scrub your face harshly, and don't use exfoliating cleansers., You may be tempted to squeeze your blackheads to make them go away. Don't do it. Popping, picking, or squeezing blackheads, with your fingers or with an at-home tool, can drive debris further into your skin. It can also spread infection around and even cause scarring.If your blackheads really bother you, consider seeing a dermatologist. A dermatologist can safely extract your blackheads using a professional tool., Though they may seem to help, they may actually make things worse if you have sensitive skin. The adhesion may irritate your skin. Furthermore, the strip may only get at the surface layer of the blackhead, and not remove the full clog underneath. It's fine to use them occasionally, but if you notice that they irritate your skin, it won't hurt to stop using them., You can get a build up of oil on your pillows. In turn, those oils can get on your face and clog your pores. Try to wash your pillowcases at least once a week., Tight hats can hold oils on to skin. Your pores become clogged due to oils and dead skin, so if your hats are too tight, they can lead to blackheads., Though experts don't agree 100 percent on what foods trigger acne, most agree that foods that are high in sugar and carbohydrates contribute to the problem, as well as dairy products. That includes foods such as white bread and potato chips. Try to lower your intake of these foods to reduce your acne problem.Although you should still make sure you get plenty of calcium, if you have a persistent problem with acne, moderating your milk consumption may help reduce your issues., Touching your face introduces oils and bacteria to your face.You can also leave dirt on your face. All of these can lead to more acne and blackheads.


Clean your cell phone frequently. The screen holds on to oils and dirt from your face, which can get transferred back into your pores and become blackheads.
 You don't have to just hope that treatments work on your blackheads. If you've been treating your blackheads for two weeks and haven't seen any improvement, see your doctor or ask about seeing a dermatologist.


You should also see a dermatologist if you have moderate or severe acne. Moderate acne is between 20-100 comedones (whiteheads or blackheads), or 15-50 pimples. Severe acne is more than 5 cysts (an inflamed, swollen type of acne), more than 100 comedones, or more than 50 pimples.