 Add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) to the length and width of the top panel. For the side panel: add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) to the width, and 1½ inches (3.81 centimeters) to the height.If your box is a square, then you only need to measure one of the side panels. If your box is a rectangle, then you need to measure one of the shorter panels, and one of the longer panels.
 Choose a nice, medium-weight fabric, such as home decor fabric or quilting cotton. Pin your fabric and interfacing together as you cut them. This way, you will save time, and ensure that everything is even. Here are the pieces you need to cut:4 pieces of fabric and interfacing for the side panels.
2 pieces of fabric and 1 piece of interfacing for the top panel.
 Each of the side panels will get a piece of interfacing. Only one of the top pieces will get interfacing; the other one will be bare., Take the top panel that has the interfacing on it, and turn it so that the interfacing is facing you. Draw a rectangle in the center of it. Use a ruler to measure from the edges of the fabric to ensure that the rectangle is centered., Flip the top panel over so that the fabric side is facing you. Place the other (bare) top fabric piece on it, right-side-down., Turn the top panel over so that the interfacing is showing and so that you can see the lines you drew. Sew right on top of the lines., Once you are done, cut little slits going towards the corners. This will prevent bulk and bunching., Take the bare piece of fabric, and pull it through the rectangle. Now, you should have a top panel that is fabric on both sides with interfacing sandwiched inside. Smooth the fabric out, then iron it flat., Sew around the hole first, then remove the pins, and smooth the fabric towards the outside edges. Pin the fabric in place again, and sew around the edges of the panel, using a ¼-inch (0.64 centimeter) seam allowance.

Remove the pins as you sew.
Iron the entire panel once again when you are done. This will help "relax" the stitching., Use a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Start sewing ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) down from the top, and sew all the way down to the bottom edge. This will allow you to attach the top panel.

Press the seams open when you are done.
 Make sure that the bare, non-interface side of the top panel is facing you. Use ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowances. When you get to the corners, do not sew all the way to the edge of the fabric; instead, stop ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) away from the edge. This will help create nice, crisp seams.Sew each of the four sides separately; backstitch at the front and start of your sewing to prevent the thread from unraveling.
 Each corner will have three seams. Trim these seams down at an angle where they intersect to create a fine point. This will help further reduce bulking., Turn the bottom edge up by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) and press it flat with an iron. Turn it up by another ½ inch (1.27 centimeters), and press it flat again. If you need to, pin the hem in place., Sew as close as you can to the inside folded edge. Be sure to use a thread color that matches your fabric, and to remove any sewing pins as you go., Your tissue box cover is now ready to use. If you'd like the edges to be nice and crisp, press the cover flat at each side seam, and iron it flat.