 Following a proper oral care routine helps prevent toothaches by removing bacteria and plaque that cause damage and decay to your teeth. Both manual and electric powered toothbrushes can effectively clean teeth. People who have difficulty using a manual toothbrush may find electrical toothbrushes easier to use. Your dentist can help you decide which type is best suited to your needs.A soft bristled toothbrush is best for people with sensitive teeth and gums.
Make sure to replace your toothbrush every three to four months.
Do not share your toothbrush with anyone as this can spread germs and disease-causing bacteria into your mouth.
Wash your toothbrush before and after every use to keep bacteria from accumulating on the bristles.
 Brushing your teeth is the most important part of your dental care routine. For a healthy mouth and smile, experts recommend that you brush your teeth twice a day for two with a soft-bristled toothbrush. The proper brushing technique is to:Place your toothbrush at a 45 degree angle to the gums.
Gently move the brush back and forth in short, tooth-wide strokes. Brush the outer surfaces, inner surfaces and chewing surfaces of the teeth.
To clean the inside surfaces of the front teeth, tilt the brush vertically and make several up-and-down strokes.
Brush your tongue to remove bacteria and keep your breath fresh.
 If you suspect that your toothache may be due to tooth sensitivity, try using a toothpaste specifically designed for sensitive teeth, such as the brand Sensodyne.Use this toothpaste in place of your other and see if you notice a difference after a week or so of use. Alternatively, you could rub a small amount of the toothpaste directly on the aching or sensitive area with your finger two to three times daily.
 Flossing is one the most important steps in your dental care routine besides brushing. Originally, floss was made from silk fibers which are quite expensive. Nowadays, commercial floss is made from synthetic nylon or plastic filaments and is often treated with flavoring agents, such as mint or lemon, artificial sweeteners and sugar alcohols, such as xylitol and mannitol, to make flossing more pleasant. They may also be waxed with beeswax or plant-based wax for ease of use, however there is no difference in the effectiveness of waxed or unwaxed floss.


Organic flosses made from silk are still available online and in certain drugstores for people who want to avoid artificial sweeteners, plastic filaments or fluoride, but these may cost more than regular floss. Both organic and vegan flosses are packaged in plastic containers by requirement of the FDA (Food and Drug Administration).
Never use string or any other fabric to floss your teeth, as you can severely damage your teeth and gum tissue. Only dental flosses that are approved by the ADA (American Dental Association) have been tested for safety and effectiveness.
 Flossing at least once a day helps remove plaque and food debris from between your teeth which can cause tooth pain. Children should start flossing as soon as they have two or more teeth. However, since most children younger than 10 or 11 years are not able to floss properly, they should be supervised by an adult. Keep in mind that flossing may cause some discomfort at first but should not be painful either. If you floss too hard, you can damage the tissue between your teeth. With daily flossing and brushing, the discomfort should ease within a week or two. If your pain persists, talk to your dentist. The proper steps to flossing your teeth are:Using about 18 inches of floss, wrap the majority of it around one your middle fingers.
Wrap the little bit of floss left around the same finger on your other hand. This is basically setting up that finger to wind up the used floss as it becomes dirty. Wind the remaining floss around the same finger of the opposite hand. This finger will take up the floss as it becomes dirty.
While holding the string of floss between your thumbs and forefingers, use a gentle motion to push the floss between your teeth. Rather than push it straight up into the gum, try moving it back and forth as you inch your way up between the teeth (like a see-saw motion).
Once the floss is at the gum line, curve it against a tooth so it reaches all sides of the tooth's gum line. Then bring the floss into the space between the gum and the tooth and start moving the floss away from the gum in and up-and-down-motion (again think of a see-saw but this way going vertically, rather than horizontally).
Repeat with the rest of your teeth. Throw the used floss away as it no longer has any use.
 For your daily oral care routine, swish 1 fluid ounce of mouthwash in your mouth after brushing and having meals for two to three minutes, then spit out. Ask your dentist or hygienist to recommend the mouthwash that is best suited to your individual needs.A cup of lukewarm, distilled water (meaning water that has been boiled) is an effective homemade mouthwash for people with sensitive teeth and gums to help kill bacteria and wash away food debris.
To avoid alcohol, which can increase tooth and gum sensitivity, read ingredient labels carefully as many over-the-counter mouth rinses contain high amounts of alcohol and use it as the main ingredient.
When buying from a store, check the ingredient list to avoid sodium lauryl sulfate, an artificial detergent that can cause sensitivity, tooth pain and mouth ulcers. Instead, choose a mouthwash with a natural emulsifier like vegetable oils, sodium bicarbonate (baking soda), or sodium chloride (salt). Plant extracts such as peppermint, sage, cinnamon and lemon can also help freshen your breath.
 There is no single recommendation about how often you should visit your dentist. Some people only need to visit once or twice a year for a standard checkup and cleaning while others may be encouraged to visit more frequently.Though many people don't like to go to the dentist and in fact 100 million Americans don't even visit a dentist every year, routine dental examinations can help prevent most dental problems and diseases.

