 Be inspired by them, but don't copy the story lines completely. Also, do some research on the fantasy genre and read books about it.;
, It is best to record them in a notebook or a Word processor on a computer. This should include the storyline of the story, the title, etc.
 "Stolen" as in someone already beat you to your writing idea. If needed, go back to step one. If not, then your idea is original. If your idea is not original, it is possible to add an original "spin" to it (for example, change it from the way it is usually done), but the key is that this will not be exactly the same as the idea has always been.
 Is there going to be a series? What time era is it? Magic? Fiction or non-fiction? You've got this far! Don't stop now!

, Of course, don't think you are just going to type it once and be done with it! It's far more complicated than that. But now you need to find a computer to type on. You can write it instead of typing, but it's not as quick, though some people prefer it for practical (can write anywhere if one has no laptop) as well as personal ("flows" better) reasons.
 Start typing things like how the character started out. Once you do that, try to type the little summary that's on the back of the book. It will be edited later, but it helps you to think and get rid of those pesky writers blocks!

, Made a mistake? Don't worry; you will have to type it all over again and edit it later anyway. Separate your story into chapters. A chapter consists of a specific event in the reading. Make sure it does!

, If not, that's okay! Everyone writes differently. Once you've finished typing, well, now it's time to edit. Make sure your grammar and meanings are correct. Re-write the ENTIRE book, make everything better. Yes, there are parts that you are not going to edit but you will be editing a lot!

, You will need to find a publisher to find out if your book is going to be put on the bookshelves of a bookstore. He or she will probably read the whole book, and if you did well on it, he'll buy it and put on the market.
 Congratulations! You did it! Everyone will be happy for you and you will live life knowing you wrote a book!

