 Shop around until you find the costume you're looking for -- there are literally hundreds to choose from. If you can't find what you're looking for in your area, try online. Some places will get you your costume in as little as a few days. Remember to ask your parents first!


If you're handy with a needle and thread (or mom is), having a costume that no one else will have is always better. Make your own. And if you're not, all you have to do is think outside the box. Want to be Katniss Everdeen? Grab a green button-down, some cargo khakis, and a bow and arrow. Bruno Mars? A fedora and a mic. The more accessories, the better.;
, One of the quintessential American traditions of Halloween is pumpkin carving. Grab mom or dad and go the pumpkin farm or a regular shop to pick out your next pumpkin victim. Do you want to do a spooky face? A friendly face? Maybe not a face at all?


If you want to do something different, think of your carving as a shadow. The light behind it will illuminate it. The part you carve out will surround the silhouette. Maybe the shadow of a ghost? Skeleton? Tombstone?
Have an adult help you with the carving and gutting out of the pumpkin. And you can keep the pumpkin seeds for roasting!

, Halloween does not just have to be trick or treating. A night or two before, get your friends and family together, go bobbing for apples, stick in a scary movie, and load up on the popcorn and salty party foods -- you'll be eating chocolate, chocolate, chocolate for the next two weeks!


See what's available in your area. Maybe there's a haunted house or a pumpkin farm hayride near you. If the weather permits, it's a good tool to get you in the spooky mood. If that's not an option, celebrate at home all week long -- make homemade decorations to get in the spirit.
 Put on your ghoul make-up and join the ghosts and witches saying Trick or Treat! (Smell my feet, give me something good to eat!) But remember only to visit those with porch lights on or those with Halloween decorations. It's usually pretty easy to tell. If they have lights on and decorations up, these are clearly people happy to celebrate (and give you something!) and this is where the Halloween spirit explodes with vitality.


Take a very big bag along or an even larger empty plastic pumpkin bucket to carry all the goodies that you get from every house. If these are unavailable, a pillowcase will do the job.
Ask mom or dad about trick or treating for UNICEF. In addition to going house to house asking for candy, the people you visit can donate their spare change to you to give to UNICEF to help children all over the world. All you have to do is order your box ahead of time!Don't go alone! Make sure you're in a group of friends or have a parent with you. Halloween's scary enough as it is!

, Also check the candy -- make sure it's all fresh and safe to eat. Watch out for hard candies; these can break your teeth if you bite too hard. And make sure that you take out any candy with ingredients you're allergic to. If you're not sure, don't eat it. Better safe than sorry.


Some people will give you small toys instead. Don't eat those!

