


The weapons that are commonly considered power weapons are: Energy Sword, Gravity Hammer, Rocket Launcher, Shotgun, Sniper Rifle, Spartan Laser, and Beam Rifle.
A power weapon is a weapon that will (when the right technique is used) kill an opponent with one round (i.e. a single head-shot with the sniper rifle, a close range shotgun blast to the torso).
Also, depending on the map you are playing, there are tactical weapons which although not considered power weapons, can severely alter the course of the game-play. These weapons are usually asymmetrical and hotly contested. These are context sensitive and up for debate. But some definitely are:

Missile Pod/Turret (Turret is debatable. Before grabbing, ask your self- Does your team have a sniper up to counter snipe? Is the enemy in a Banshee ? Is some one on their team skilled with a Battle Rifle?) on Valhalla.
Mauler/Needler/Rocket on the Narrows
Battle Rifle/Sword/Sniper on Construct
Battle Rifle/Needler/Shotgun/Rocket on Isolation
Battle Rifle/Rocket/Shotgun on the Pit
Mauler/Beam Rifle/Spartan Laser/Cloaking on Snowbound
Battle Rifle/Needler/Covenant Carbine/ Gravity Hammer/Cloaking on Guardian
Battle Rifle/Brute Shot/Sniper/Spartan Laser/Shotgun on Last Resort

These weapons, although suited well to each of the maps listed above, are not more effective than Power Weapons.



;
, It is a good idea to use this approach not only because controlling the Power Weapons will give you a slight advantage in a 1 on 1 or multiple assailant scenario, but it is also important to get them off the map early in order to prevent the opposing team from controlling the Power Weapons and using them against you and your team mates. If you are unable to pick up power weapons in a game, then resort to possibly using one of the tactical options listed above. If you do not prefer one of those weapon combos, at least make sure at all times that you have a decent longer range weapon (Battle Rifle, Covenant Carbine) and a good close range weapon (Assault Rifle, Mauler, Brute Shot).


Some weapons that are considered universal Power Weapons are-

The Sniper Rifle
The Shotgun
The Rocket Launcher
The Spartan Laser
The Beam Rifle
The Energy Sword
The Gravity Hammer

Control these weapons to win.
 If playing ranked, hammer out a rock-solid plan of attack. Even if your plan refuses to work, having a clear cut objective will turn you into a more driven, focused fighter, and keep you from wandering around aimlessly. If in social, still formulate a plan. You will be surprised at how often the enemy will not notice or not act on this.
 Relay enemy positions, what weapons they have, and try to use basic tactics, I.E., flanking, and ambushing. A victory yell now and again can raise morale, but don't do it often, or you soon will be muted.
 Even if you steal his kill, or 'Vulture' him, he will appreciate the help and it will benefit the team. If you are a sniper, use your ammo to drop the shields of enemy's, and let your friendlies get the kill, thus conserving ammunition.
 A full team of warthogs is hard to stop, but one gunner less one is easy prey. Here are some general strategies.


Light Vehicles-

The Ghost - When piloting the Ghost remember that if you stop moving or are maintaining a very slow speed, an enemy can commandeer (carjack) your vehicle. It is important while in the Ghost (and most other vehicles) to ALWAYS KEEP MOVING. ALWAYS KEEP MOVING. ALWAYS KEEP MOVING. Staying in motion simply makes it harder for enemies to shoot your vehicle. They may land a couple of shots on you, but usually you can make a clean getaway even if your shields suffer a little. Also, the Ghost is a wonderful vehicle to use to splatter members of the opposing team. When approaching an enemy to splatter him, make sure that before you arrive at the target that you are using the turbo booster on the Ghost (Left Trigger). If you are engaged in this boost and come in contact with an enemy, it is almost a certain kill. Also, the dual plasma cannons (Right Trigger) are an effective weapon and should be used liberally being that there is unlimited ammo for them (careful though because they do give your position away easily).
The Mongoose - This is a light transport vehicle with no on board weapons. Even though it counts as an achievement in the game to splatter someone with this vehicle, DO NOT regularly attempt to use the Mongoose as an assault vehicle. The Mongoose is very fast and has the capacity to transport 2 (Passenger, Driver) soldiers. Because of its speed, the Mongoose should mainly be used in a "smash & grab" tactic. For example, in Valhalla, the mongoose is a great tool to speed to the middle of the board to control the Spartan Laser and drop off a sniper at the pelican. Another good Mongoose tactic would be to load it up with 2 soldiers and use it in a flank, or pincer movement in unison with soldiers on foot to catch the opposing team off guard. Note that this requires a well trained and organized unite, or else you are likely to be slaughtered.
The Chopper - Same ramming attitude with the Ghost. Use the cannons to pick off aware enemies. One exception. When a vehicle makes a headlong pass at you perform the 'Harley of Death' (You will be surprised how often it happens), pull the left trigger to boost and ram them. One good ram can take out a fully loaded Warthog.


Warthog Tactics

The Warthog (MG) - As a driver, your primary goal is to keep you gunner alive. Don't take risks to get a splatter award, and don't rush into an ambush thinking you can kill them. Keep the truck alive as long as possible, but don't avoid combat when it comes. Keep the passenger seat between you and the enemy to reduce the amount of damage you take. Remember, if you die, your gunner will die also. As gunner, your duty is to shoot every available target, regardless of range. Prioritize your enemies. The guy close to you with a rocket or a 'splazer' is a bigger threat than the mile and a half away sniper, and don't whine about not getting kills to your driver, as his job is to stay alive. The passenger is arguably the most/least important team member. His job should consist of three things-


Securing power weapons.

Acting as a martyr should the 'hog get swarmed'.
And acting as dismount. i.e. securing flags/bombs, or jumping out to help friendlies in a fire fight.
A fully functioning 'hog team' demands skill, training, and a level head, but a fully loaded and coordinated Warthog is in my opinion the most devastating vehicle in the game.
The Warthog (Gauss)- The drivers priority is the same here, but added is the need to stay far from the front line, and keep the gunners aim level. As a gunner, you are the ultimate sniper. Infinite Ammo, Range, Accuracy, 1 hit kill damage, it is just epic how much damage a crack shot can induce with this. Target light vehicles (Banshee, mongoose, Ghost, Chopper) first, then infantry. Do not engage tanks if at all possible, unless you ambush them. A passenger has the same responsibilities as before.


Aircraft-

The Banshee - This is a flying vehicle with incredible maneuverability. The weapons on this vehicle include the double plasma cannons (same as the ghost) and also a more powerful plasma blast that is fired using the "B" button. Simply pull back on the Left Stick to ascend, and push forward to descend. There are also two "evasive maneuvers" possible. One is the "barrel roll" executed by hard tapping the Left Stick to the left or right and pressing the "A" button at the same time. Also is the "somersault" performed by hard tapping the Left Stick forward or backward and pressing the "A" button at the same time. These will help you evade Missile Locks, etc.


Tanks-

Wraith- This is the more maneuverable of the two tanks, and comes with a small speed boost that allows it you to escape from tight spots. It's plasma mortar is more than a little hard to aim, and to learn to use, but can be devastating to infantry and can arc fire so that you can remain in cover while still providing support using good judgment or more preferably, a spotter. It also carries a turret mounted plasma gun for anti-infantry work.
Scorpion- Usually the more preferred of the two, it comes with a straight shooting cannon, and an anti-infantry turret mounted machine gun. Also is faster in a straight line, but decidedly harder to turn.
 One, and the best if you are new, is to guard/camp your teams bombsite/flag-point. You will not get a lot of kills, but the ones you do will be very valuable and appreciated by your team. If you keep them from winning, then you can't lose. The second, is known as the spawn-rush. You, and some friends who have practiced this, jump in a fast vehicle and rush for the other teams base to capture there flag or plant the bomb. If done right, you can be in and out of harms way before they know what happened.
 Hold them at all costs, and do not leave. At the start of the next round,rush for the two farthest away territories. This will mean that the hard part is already over, as the rest of the territories should be fairly easy to capture.
 The more weapons you can bring to bear all at once on your foe, the better chance you have at winning. Team Slater matches are just a series of altercations, and the side that wins the war is the side that wins the most altercations.

