 If you think this may seem selfish, it isn't. A selfish person has little or no regard for others, and choosing yourself does not mean you have no consideration for the wellbeing of others. You need to take care of yourself before you can really take care of anyone else.

Taking care of yourself is not a selfish act — it's being good to yourself.

A big part of learning to be good to yourself is learning to be self-compassionate. Beating yourself up over perceived shortcomings or mistakes isn't productive — it only leads to insecurity and self-loathing, and you may take these negative feelings out on other people.By showing compassion to yourself — being as kind and understating to yourself as you would your best friend and acknowledging our common humanity, or that everyone makes mistakes, just as everyone has triumphs — you can help yourself and be more compassionate toward others, too.Try scheduling time to take care of yourself every day. To meditate, go for a run, paint — whatever makes you feel good.
 If you are are single, you, as an individual, have to choose a life that you love and are happy with, regardless of other people. You can’t plan your life on the assumption that it may one day include a significant other. If you're waiting to take that trip to Africa until you meet "the one," you may be missing out on an experience of a lifetime while you wait around for this person to show up. When you learn what makes you happy, and you go out and do it, your life will feel more fulfilling, regardless of whether or not you have a partner. Then, if someone great comes along, it’s a benefit.Create personal goals that have nothing to do with a relationship or significant other. Ask yourself what you want for your life. For example, maybe your goal is to buy a new car in two years or move to another province in five years. Make plans regardless of what the future may hold. If your plans need to change at some point, that’s fine, but don’t avoid living your life “just in case” you find yourself in a relationship later.
 We all have things we don’t like about ourselves, but we also all have things we really like about ourselves. Learn to appreciate both sets of things — the good and the bad. This is where practicing self-compassion can make a huge difference. Remember that we are all complex, fragile, and imperfect beings.Having a short temper or being bad at math doesn't make you any less worthy of love and compassion.


At the same time, remember that change is possible. If there's something you don't like about yourself — maybe that short temper makes it really difficult for you to communicate, or you often say things you don't mean — there's nothing that says you can't change. Just remember that you are a person in progress and be prepare to put in some hard work.
 We’re human, which means we make mistakes. But our mistakes should be used as an opportunity to learn and grow, not ruminate and rehash. Constantly thinking about your past mistakes and dwelling on the guilt you feel about them is not going to help you today or in the future. Instead, realize you’ve made a mistake, understand how to avoid making the mistake again, and move on.

Unfortunately, dwelling on the past can cause your present and your future to come to a stand still. Constantly thinking about what should have happened, what could have happened, or what would have happened had you done something different isn’t going to help you move forward.While it is valuable to assess your mistakes in order to ensure they do not happen again, this doesn’t have to be done endlessly. Give yourself a time limit, then stop thinking about your mistake. For example, if you made a bad decision about something, take a day to think about how you could have made a better decision and then move on.
Try not to evaluate yourself when you make a mistake — or even when you are successful. You are worthy of compassion and understanding whether or not you sank that final shot at the buzzer, you passed the test, got the promotion, etc. Achieving these things doesn't somehow make you more worthy of self-love, just as not achieving them doesn't mean you are any less worthy.
 Not every problem you encounter is going to be solvable by you and you alone. It’s okay to ask for help when you need it. Depending on the issue, that help can come from a minister, therapist, coach, teacher, doctor, or other trusted individual.


Think about the specific item you need help with and think about what kind of help would be useful. Do you simply need to bounce an idea off someone, or do you need to work on changing your behavior? Once you know what kind of help you’ll find useful, seek out that help. If you need help with a resume, ask your friend who works in HR to look it over with you. If you want to get better at math, find a tutor.
If you think you might need help with your mental health, there are many places where you can find help. Try either the Canadian Mental Health Association website or the Mental Health America website. Review what options are available in your area.Counselors and psychologists are educated, trained, and licensed to help with mental health and treat dysfunctional behavior.
If you need to seek medical or mental health help, start with your family doctor.
If you aren’t finding the help you need with a specific individual, go to someone else. Don’t feel you have to keep talking to someone who isn’t helping you.
 To act with integrity means you behave in a way that is in line with your personal values. If you're not sure what your values are, take some time to define them. When you have to make a decision about something, ask yourself if it is consistent with your values. You may face criticism, doubt, or disapproval for others for your decision, but if it what you believe is right, you are acting with integrity.

When you are living with integrity, your outer life (your decisions, actions, etc.) will represent your inner life (your beliefs, values, and principles).Having integrity does not mean you are rigid and inflexible, either. You may learn new information or have a new experience that changes some of your beliefs and values. That's okay — that's growth. Your values and beliefs may change over time; what's important is that you continue to act in a way that is consistent with these beliefs.