 Generally speaking, one bottle of DyeMore can dye up to two pounds of fabric.Dyeing very light clothing or very dark clothing will require at least one additional bottle, so be prepared if this is the case for you.
Polyester may require a second bottle of DyeMore, because of its synthetic makeup.
The darker color you want at the end, the more dye you will need.;
, This helps to remove finishes that might inhibit the absorption of the dye. Use warm, soapy water to wash.Use a sink or small tub for smaller items, such as scarves and short-sleeved shirts.
Use a larger bucket or tub for bulkier items, such as long-sleeved shirts, jackets, and pants.
 You can create different patterns, such as rosettes, sunbursts, swirls, and so forth. Here are some ideas to get you started:

For a simple, crumpled look, crumple your garment into a ball and secure it with a few, large rubber bands.
For a banded effect, twist your garment into a rope, then tie some rubber bands around the rope. Keep the rubber bands several inches apart.
To create a sunburst or swirl: pinch the center of your garment (such as shirt or handkerchief) and twist it. Keep twisting and turning the fabric until you get a shape like a cinnamon roll. Secure the garment by wrapping a few rubber bands around it.
 Because of the challenge in dyeing polyester, using a stovetop method is recommended because the dye process needs hotter temperatures in order to work.Once the large pot is filled with 3 gallons (11.36 liters) of water, cover the pot and turn the burner to high. Heat the water to almost boiling.
Using a cooking thermometer will be helpful, as the dye process requires a steady temperature of about 180°F (82.3°C). The thermometer will ensure that you keep the water at that temperature.
 Shake the bottle of DyeMore before adding it to the pot to make sure that the dye is incorporated. In addition to the bottle of DyeMore, add 1 teaspoon of dish washing liquid and use a large spoon to stir the mixture well.If your fabric is white, and you want to dye it a lighter, pastel color, start with half a bottle of DyeMore. It is easier to add more dye later.
If you plan on dyeing your fabric more than one color, pour in your lightest color first. You will need to do a separate dye bath for the other color(s).
 This helps you to see if the dye is the shade you would like.If it is too light, then add some more dye to the mixture. You may need to add up to one more bottle. Test the color with a new scrap of white cotton fabric.
If the color is too dark, then add more water. Then, test the color again with a new scrap of white cotton fabric.
If you decide to add more dye, remember to shake the second bottle before pouring it in.
 In order for the color to take fully in the clothing, polyester requires at least this amount of time in the dye bath. Use tongs to lift and move the clothing around in the pot. Wear rubber gloves to do this so that you do not dye your skin.


If you plan on dyeing all of your fabric, dip it all the way into the dye bath. It should be completely submerged.
If you plan on dyeing only part of the fabric, then dip it in only part way. Consider draping the rest of the fabric over the edge of the container.
Keep the garment in the dye bath even if it has reached your desired color in less than 30 minutes. The color can rinse from the fabric if it is not given enough time to set in the fabric, which will make it lighter than you desired.
 Squeeze out excess dye over the pot full of the dye bath. Be sure to keep the rubber gloves on during this time, as the dye will still stain your skin. Remember that as the clothing dries, the shade of the color will lighten.If you wrapped rubber bands around your garment to tie dye it, carefully cut those rubber bands off with a pair of scissors., While you rinse, gradually make the water cooler. Continue to rinse the article of clothing until the water runs clear.If you want to add more colors to your garment, then you can dip it into another dye bath after you rinse it. Be sure to rinse your garment after each dye bath.
 This will remove any last remnants of excess dye.
 Spread an old towel out on the floor, and align the bottom of your garment with the bottom of the towel. Roll the garment and towel together into a tube. Press down on the towel tube gently and squeeze. Try to get out as much moisture as you can.

If you have a very large, bulky item, you may need to do this step a few more times with a fresh towel. Bulky items soak up more water than lightweight items.
 Place the hanger in a place where there is a lot of airflow, such as on a balcony. If this is not possible for you, hang it in the bathroom and turn the fan on. Be sure to place some newspaper or old towels beneath the garment to catch any drips. There is a small change that the garment still have some dye in it.

Use a regular hanger to hang shirts and jackets.
Use a pants hanger, or a hanger with clips, to hang pants, shirts, scarves, and handkerchiefs. Avoid draping the fabric over anything while it dries.

