 You’ll need ice, vodka, triple sec, and limes to make the drink. Ice is an ideal addition to the cocktail version of the kamikaze. You could use a shaker or use a cup and spoon. Some people enjoy using lime concentrate for convenience sake, while many argue that you need to use fresh limes.


A good tool for an aspiring bartender or home entertainer is a double jigger. These come in two sizes: 1 ounce and ½ ounce or 1 ½ ounce and ¾ ounce.For a medium to large party, buy a liter of vodka and triple sec. For this size, you'll need about a dozen fresh limes or a liter of lime juice.;
, You can also mix your ingredients in a large cup. Larger cubes of ice add a nicer presentation to the drink. You can purchase ice trays that specifically make large ice cubes made for cocktails.Shake your drink in a cup by placing a small plate over the opening. Apply pressure to the plate and shake the drink for five seconds. Strain the mixture by allowing a small opening for the liquids with the plate.
 Use the double jigger to measure out the liquors. The cocktail version of the kamikaze is usually stronger than the shot version. Add one ounce of vodka and one ounce of triple sec to the container. If you want a milder cocktail, you could use ½ ounce or even ¾ ounce of each liquor. Add equal parts of each ingredient, or a proportion of 1:1:1.


The quality of the liquors depends purely on your tastes and price range. A simple rule is the more you spend on the liquor, the better your drink will be.
You can also use a shot glass as a measuring device.
Three tablespoons will give you a 1 1/2 ounce shot.It isn't advised to eyeball the drink unless you're experienced mixing liquors properly.
 Traditional kamikazes are served with same portions of lime juice as with the liquors. If you added 1 ½ ounce of vodka and triple sec, add 1 ½ ounce of lime juice. The key is for all the ingredients to be around the same parts.Use a lemon or orange strainer to create fresh juice out of limes. You could also use store bought lime juice.
 Traditionally, kamikazes are shaken in a cocktail shaker vigorously for about five seconds. You could instead stir the ingredients for about 10 seconds. Yes, James Bond would say, “shaken, not stirred,” but you can use whatever you have.
 Strain the drink into a glass with ice. Some prefer kamikazes served straight, or without ice. Ask your guests before serving the drink, but the default is over ice, or on the rocks.

