 If you don’t shower regularly why would a teen listen to you nag them about showering? When children become teens, they are much more likely to start questioning certain things than they were before. Though this may sometimes be frustrating for you, it shouldn’t be viewed as a bad thing. It simply means they are becoming more independent.If you want a teen to shower regularly, then you need to be in the habit of showering at least as often as you would like them to shower too.
 Teens may feel more inclined to shower if they are excited about the products they use in the shower. It may seem like it shouldn’t matter, but this gives them some control over the situation.For example, maybe the teen doesn’t enjoy the smell of the products you pick. Allowing them to choose the products is a simple way to let them feel more in control of the situation.
When you make a run to the drugstore, ask the teen to go with you. When you get there, ask them to pick out the products they want to use in the shower. To help control the price, tell them they can only pick products that cost under a given limit that you set.
If a teen isn’t sure what they should get, you can give them a generic list. For example, you can write on the list, “shampoo, hair conditioner, body wash, deodorant.” Of course, you can add anything else you think is necessary to the list, but those are some essential items.
When they bring you their selections, try not to make comments about their choices. For example, you might think something smells bad or looks stupid, but they chose it, so obviously they don’t. Making comments will only make them feel embarrassed.
 If you’ve talked to the teen about the importance of maintaining good hygiene, but they still refuse to shower, then you’ll have to find other ways to convince them to get in. Many teens today will be convinced if they aren’t able to access the internet. Change the wi-fi password whenever you want a teen to shower, explain to them that they can have the new wi-fi password once they’ve bathed and that this will keep happening until they are showering on a regular basis.


You can also apply this to other privileges. If you don’t have wi-fi or if your teen isn’t interested in using the internet, then think of something that they do value. Maybe they enjoy spending their time drawing. In this case, you could take away their art supplies until they’ve showered.
When you explain this to your teen, don’t simply say, “You can have the password when you’ve showered” without explaining why it matters. Instead, try saying, “I’ve changed the wi-fi password, so you won’t be able to use the internet until you’ve taken a shower. I want you to learn that you can enjoy privileges once you’ve taken care of your responsibilities. Taking care of your hygiene is one of those responsibilities.