 Work on changing your thought patterns. You can’t control everything about your life, but you can control how you react. Remind yourself, out loud if you have to, that your behavior and your attitude are both under your control. Mentally, focus on enhancing what’s good in your life as opposed to fixing what’s wrong.Tangibly, pursue experiences that make you happy.


Don’t dwell on the negative, especially in regards to how you see yourself. Many people believe that working on your weaknesses is more important than improving upon your strengths. This is simply not true.Accept that happiness is something you can provide yourself.;
, Though it may seem forced, focus on what you’re grateful for. You’ll enjoy more positive emotions, diminished depression, better self-image, more vibrant social relationships, and better health.Jump start an attitude based on gratitude by pausing before expressing appreciation, even for every day kindnesses. This emphasizes moments of human connection.
Write about what you’re thankful for. Whether in a journal or in a letter, writing down the positive aspects of your day makes you happier immediately. It can also improve your ability to feel gratitude generally.
 Your actions also greatly dictate your happiness. If you’re conscious of that fact that your mood is slipping, try one or two of the following:


Smile. You’ve heard this one before. The theory that physically expressing an emotion actually gives rise to that emotion in the body and mind has been around for over 200 years, and is supported by billions of smiles a day.Jump up and down. (Or even better, dance.) You’ll feel silly, but if it keeps your positivity meter in the green, it will be more than worth a moment of awkwardness. You might even laugh at yourself, and wind up smiling without even trying.
Trick yourself with voice manipulation. Listen to a recording of your own voice, modified to sound more cheery, and you’ll literally feel happier.Download free voice manipulation software online., We all have thoughts that bother or startle us. Abandon thoughts that distress or depress you immediately, unless you’re actively trying to hash out how you feel about something with a friend or mental health professional.
 Stop saying or thinking in “shoulds” or “musts”. These phrases, spoken or even thought to yourself, will increase anxiety and actually decrease your motivation to do whatever it was you were thinking about doing.Instead, tell yourself that you’d “like to” or “hope to” do something. This will actually put you in a mindset that motivates you to follow through positively.

