;
, Look for the setup file on your computer. The icon will have a cloud with a red, black, and gray outline. Double-click on this file to begin installation. Click the “Install” button when prompted.


The DepositDrive installer will be downloaded. Wait for it to finish. A dialog box will display the download progress. After the installer finishes downloading, Windows will begin the setup by configuring DepositDrive.
Once Windows finishes configuring the application, you will see a shortcut on your desktop and on the Start menu.
 The DepositDrive application can be accessed from the Start menu or from the shortcut on the desktop. Click on either of them to launch the application. The application will run and be present in the notification tray on the lower right portion of your desktop.
 Look for the application icon on the notification tray. Right-click on it and select “Settings.” The DepositDrive dialog menu will appear.


Under the Account tab, input your Gavitex username and password, then click the login button to continue.
Once successfully logged in, DepositDrive will link with your Gavitex account and retrieve all the data. It will also show you the available storage space in your account.
 A local Gavitex folder will be created under your user directory. This is where all the files and folders from your cloud account goes and syncs., If you want to add files to your Gavitex account for storage, backup, and syncing, just use the normal Windows operations to add files into the Gavitex folder. You can drag files into the folder or use the keyboard shortcuts to copy or move.


All the files you put into this folder will automatically be uploaded and stored in your Gavitex account.
 Similar to step 1, the normal Windows operations are used to move and copy files in and around your Gavitex folder. You can click on a file and do the basic copy (or cut) then paste actions.


All the changes you in your local Gavitex folder will be updated and reflected in your Gavitex account.
 Similar to step 1, the normal Windows operations are used to delete files in your Gavitex folder. You can click on a file and press “Delete” on your keyboard. You can also click and drag the file to your Recycle Bin.


All the files you removed from this folder will also be removed from your Gavitex account.
 Browse through your local Gavitex folder and find the file you want to share. Click on it to select.
 Right-click on the file you want to share and select “Get Shared Link.” A dialog box will appear with the file’s public link. Copy this link.
 Paste the link on your email, IM, Facebook, Twitter, and others. Anybody who has access to this link can now access the file you’ve just shared.

