 The typical 90-day transition plan may not be long enough to fully prepare a young adult to live on their own. While laws are established to help youths transition from foster care, they may actually require more time to find housing and line up a job.A good transition plan should include securing housing and employment, practicing money management skills, and making plans to attend college or vocational school if the child wishes to.Life skills like budgeting, staying healthy, and keeping a job take more than 90 days to learn. Work with foster children to develop these skills before they are faced with the prospect of moving out.;
, Society often takes a negative attitude towards foster children’s futures. As a result, these children may grow up hearing more about their limitations than their potential.Affirming a foster child’s skills and ability to succeed can give them the confidence to believe in themselves and thrive as an adult. Give words of encouragement, such as “I have 100% confidence that you will handle your transition well.” Other things to say may include "Congrats on getting your first job! I knew you could do it," or "I expect great things from you in the future."

, Encouraging academic achievement, future planning, and good social skills boosts a foster child’s self-image and reinforces their desire to continue these behaviors. Cheering on a foster child’s successes can give them the morale boost they need to keep working hard and making progress.


Many of these young adults don’t have a lot of supportive adults in their lives, so by caring about a foster child’s achievements and encouraging them to make the most of their potential, you can make a big difference in how they feel about themselves.
Express how impressed you are by saying “Wow! You got into college? You have always been so bright!”

, Some children in the foster system feel like they have no way to make their voices heard. As an adult, you can make a difference by standing up for these children and acting in their best interests.


Help foster children find and understand the local resources and opportunities that are available to them. Many of the young people aging out of foster care have never been taught how to find or use these resources. Take them under your wing and teach them the ropes before they exit foster care.
Plus, if you have 10-15 hours to volunteer a month, you can advocate for other foster children in your area by becoming a Court-Appointed Special Advocate. These citizen-volunteers help protect the rights of children who are abused and neglected by getting them placed in foster home environments. CASA volunteers are often the only constant adult in the lives of many foster children., Because he or she may have been abused or neglected at an early age, your foster child may not have felt he or she could depend on adults.Show that you are willing to listen without judgment and offer emotional support or guidance as needed.


Do this by simply saying "You can count on me," and then let your actions align with your words. Encourage your foster child to call you regularly. Schedule a weekly check-in even when your foster child moves out, so that they can catch you up on their lives or ask your advice about how to handle certain issues.
Observe their behaviors and words carefully to spot signs of overwhelm or stress, so that you can intervene before they turn to unhealthy coping (e.g. drugs, alcohol, risky sex, etc.).
Invite your foster child over for a meal on occasion so that he or she feels a sense of social connectedness.
 Encourage foster children to get involved in a variety of activities and clubs. Help foster children maintain a healthy sense of self-esteem by giving them opportunities to develop their skills and interests. This can engender better problem-solving and decision-making skills.How can this help your foster child? Research shows that skills developed in childhood and adolescence can lead to employment later in life.
If you help your child establish his or her personal values early on, they are more likely to make positive, healthy choices later. Sit down with your foster child and suggest that they complete the Personal Values Inventory (PVA) to learn more about what values are most important to them.Then, think of ways they get involved with interests that support those values.
For instance, if helping others is important to your foster child, he or she may choose to start volunteering in the local community. You can help him or her find a community organization that can help fulfill that value.
 Teach foster children how to stick to a budget, save money, and handle routine expenses like housing and health insurance. Many young adults run into financial problems after aging out of the foster care system because they have never managed their own money before.A single mistake with money can land an inexperienced young person in financial hot water. Teaching foster children about financial literacy is the best way to prevent this from happening.Teach him or her how to pay bills and save. Give them opportunities to demonstrate their skill development by letting them pay the bills themselves after you have showed them how, or giving them a small allowance to start saving.
 Children who grow up in the foster care system often never have the chance to make decisions for themselves. Giving these young people the opportunity to handle real-world situations helps to prepare them for the choices they will have to make once they are living independently.Going out with friends, dating, and working part-time jobs are several examples of ways foster children can build real-world experience.
You can also find teachable moments from your own life to help your child with problem-solving. For instance, let's say you feel like you are falling ill and don't want to get others sick at work. You might demonstrate to your foster child how to alert your employer as soon as possible by allowing him or her to listen in on your phone call. Then, he or she will understand what protocol to follow in the event this happens during their work experience.
 Most young adults have their family’s support when they move out, buy their first car, go to college, or reach other milestones. Foster children may find these changes much harder to navigate unless they have similar guidance from trustworthy adults.Help your foster child get signed up with a job search firm in your area. Show them how to build a resume and practice answering job interview questions together.
A social worker will usually help a foster child to find housing and employment, but there are other resources you can tell them about as well, such as the John H. Chafee Foster Care Independence Program.This program can help the foster child obtain valuable resources, such as education, employment, housing, and emotional support.
 The best goals are SMART: specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time-bound.Goal-setting is essential for achievement and staying on track in life.By setting goals, foster children can prepare for their future and build the skills necessary to find a job or go to college. Sit down with your foster child and come up with a few SMART goals to work towards.


For example, your child may have the goal to "Get into college." Action steps that you come up with might be "Get letters of recommendation," "Turn in high school transcript," and "Submit college applications by deadline."

, Children who grow up in the foster care system are at high risk of becoming homeless, dropping out of high school, becoming pregnant at a young age, and being arrested.They are also more likely to have mental health problems such as depression or PTSD. Many develop substance abuse problems as a way of coping with the difficulties of their lives.Despite the statistics, many foster children become well-adjusted adults living productive lives. Encouraging these at-risk children to adopt good habits and to actively prepare for the future is an important factor in setting them up for success., Instilling good health habits, such as eating nutritious foods and getting enough physical activity, in children can help them maintain a well-balanced, healthy lifestyle into adulthood.


Model healthy behaviors at home. Because foster children are at an increased risk of engaging in risky sexual behaviors, catching STIs, and becoming parents at an early age, you can decrease this from happening by discussing safe sex measures and educating them about contraceptives. Also, emphasize the importance of regular STD screening to prevent or detect disease.In addition to safe sex education, help your child develop good mental and physical health strategies, such as eating less fast food and cooking at home, getting 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night, and working out for at least 30 minutes on most days of the week. Encourage healthy stress-management as well by coming up with a list of tips they can try when they are feeling overwhelmed or stressed like reading a book or walking outside. Discourage alcohol and drugs as a form of coping.
 Having a stable support network of adults who can provide care and guidance is one of the biggest predictors of whether a foster child will successfully make the transition to independent living.Ideally, foster children should have some connection to their family members. Try to put them in touch with grandparents, aunts, uncles, or other older relatives, if possible.
Foster parents, case workers, pastors, teachers, and coaches can all be good role models for foster children.
 Your child needs to know what resources are out there and how to access them. Also, it's important to encourage them to reach out for help when they need it.


There are many local and national agencies and support groups for young adults who are aging out of the foster care system. Two such groups are the Foster Care Alumni of Americaand the National Independent Living Association .

