 A diet rich in fruits and vegetables can improve your cardiovascular system reducing your chance of developing high blood pressure or experiencing heart disease or stroke. They can also improve the functioning of your digestive system by providing your body with fiber to prevent constipation.In order to maintain a well balanced diet, you should consume two cups of fruit and two and a half cups of vegetables each day.Try and eat a variety of different vegetables including green leafy vegetables such as cabbage, spinach, and kale; bright orange, yellow, and red vegetables like carrots, peppers, and tomatoes; as well as root vegetables, like potatoes, yams, onions, and garlic.;
, Whole grains contain a variety of important nutrients such as fiber, iron, magnesium, zinc, B vitamins, etc. that help with the functioning of multiple body systems. These contribute to increased blood circulation, proper digestion, increased immune system functioning, and allow the nervous system to send signals throughout the body.Some good sources of whole grains include oats, wheat, brown rice, rye, quinoa, and couscous.
 Protein helps to fuel your body and can benefit a number of important body systems. For instance, protein helps your immune system function properly, maintains your cardiovascular and respiratory systems, and rebuilds muscles following a workout. You should consume 0.8g of protein per 2.2 pounds (1 kg) of body weight each day.Some good sources of protein include fish, poultry, dairy products, beans, nuts, and seeds.
 Fat is an essential part of your diet and helps to fuel your body. However, there are a number of different types of fats and some are better than others. Trans fats, found in fried foods, heavily processed foods, and commercial baked goods can cause cholesterol levels to rise, which increases your chance of developing heart disease.Instead, you should try and consume saturated fats found in meat and dairy products, as well as omega 3 fatty acids, which are found in salmon and fish oils.
 Water is an extremely important part of your diet and without it you would not survive more than a few days. Drinking water helps your muscles and digestive system function properly. In order to stay healthy, you should drink at least eight glasses of water each day., A glass of wine a day is not going to have a negative impact on your body systems; however, excessive drinking can damage your heart and may lead to heart disease and stroke. It can also slows down brain functioning, cause liver damage, and lower the functioning of your immune system over time.