 Now that you've marked and measured your plates, lay the bottom plate out along the chalk line that marks where the wall will be. To make a stable wall, you will need to attach this plate to the concrete floor.


Use a powder-actuated tool, also known as a Hilti or Ramset gun, to join the wood and the concrete. Load the tool with a small bullet and nail and then hit the end so that it engages the bullet and shoots the nail through the wood into the concrete.
Once the two outer nails have been put in, follow your guidelines and put a nail in every 16” along the plate, near the center of the board.
 If the ceiling joists run perpendicular to the bottom plate, this is a fairly simple task; if they run parallel, you will need to do a bit more work first.


For parallel joists, attach short lengths of 2” by 4” blocking board perpendicularly between the two closest joists every 16”, and attach the top plate to these.
For perpendicular joists, attach the top plate to the ceiling using the joists. Use a plumb bob (a carefully balanced weight that hangs from a line) to align the plates and double check by measuring to ensure that the top plate is directly above the bottom plate. Then, nail the top plate to the joists or blocking boards at every interval.
As an alternative option, you can build the wall first and then stand it up. This may be an easier option, especially for amateurs.
 Studs are simply extra planks of 2” by 4” wood, or sometimes 2” by 6” for exterior walls, that provide support and definition for drywall and other finish surfaces.


Measure and cut. Each stud board should be cut so that it fits snugly between the top and bottom plates without tilting.
Insert the stud. Slide it end-on between the two plates, right over one of the nails in the bottom plate. Use a plumb bob and a corner to make sure the board is straight and squarely placed.
Affix and repeat. Use a nail gun to insert 3” nails on both sides of both ends firmly at a 45 degree angle through the stud and into the top and bottom plates. Repeat this process until you have installed studs all the way down the frame.
 Blocking boards add a bit of additional structure, and also serve as areas where cabinets, towel bars, or grab bars are hung. They can also serve as fire breaks in case of a house fire. They are made from the same 2” by 4” boards you've used for everything else so far.


Cut your blocking boards so that they will fit snugly between each stud, placing them about 4 feet (1.2 m) up, end-on between each stud. Firmly attach the blocking boards at both ends with 3” nails on both sides, hammered in at an angle of 60 degrees. You can vary the height slightly from block to block to make pushing tacks and nails into the finished wall a bit easier, if you want.

