 Even within the same section, some seats are better than others. For instance, you may want to sit far from the lavatory because of the smell and the noise.;
, Just sitting there will drive you crazy. Pack a carry on bag with some in-seat entertainment items. These items do not have to occupy you the entire flight. Most long haul flights are overnight, so chances are you will sleep. Anyway, pack a carry-on. This carry on bag can be: a small roll-on bag, a duffel bag, a backpack, or a messenger bag. Make sure whatever you bring is small enough to fit in the overhead bins or under your seat. Fill the bag with small items that will keep you occupied. Some of these items may be:


Electronics: iPod, tablet, phone, computer, DS, portable DVD player, etc. If you use an electronic device that is capable of communication, you must put it on airplane mode (unless you are connecting to in-flight WiFi). If you want to use an iPod or DVD player, make sure you load good music and movies to pass the time. Always have headphones with you.
Books: Don't get library books because you may lose them. Buy a book, bring books from home, or download eBooks. Books are a great way to pass time on planes, as long as you don't get motion sickness.
Puzzle Books: Sudoku, crossword puzzles, word searches, logic puzzles, or other puzzles. The jumbo-books with multiple types of puzzles are preferred, because you have a variety.
Paper and pens/pencil: you can draw or write. Consider writing in a journal while you are on an airplane. If you like to draw, you may want to bring other tools such as erasers or rulers.
Schoolwork or something else productive. You probably won't want to be working, but the flight is a good time because it won't be taking away from other fun time.
Magazines: make sure they are new and up-to-date. This is similar to books. If you have a pen, you can draw on the faces of people you don't like and do the puzzles or quizzes in the magazine.
 Although airplane food is provided on long haul flights, you will definitely want more than that, and if you are a picky eater, this is a must. Do not rely on buying snacks on the plane, because these are expensive and limited. Pack dry, non-messy, foods such as chips and popcorn. Keep in mind that liquids are not allowed through airport security, so you will have to buy water after you get past the security checkpoint. Some good airplane snacks are:


Popcorn
Chips
Granola Bars
Raisins

, Although this may be difficult, there are many things you can do to make it easier. You can:


Bring noise-cancelling headphones. These are expensive, but if you can, it is worth it.






Recline your seat as far as you can. Be mindful, if the person behind you has long legs, make sure they are comfortable before you recline.






Bring a neck pillow. They are extremely comfortable and make a big difference.






Get a window seat so you don't have to constantly get up to let people out. However, only do this if you won't be getting up often yourself. This will be annoying to the people near you.






Use an eye mask- they don't always turn off the lights in the cabin






Bring a blanket if it fits in your carry-on. Make sure it is light but warm. Although some airlines provide blankets, they are often unclean and not very warm.
 Many planes are equipped with video screens On some planes, these screens have games, movies, music, or even live T.V. Before your flight, try to find out what on-board entertainment your flight is equipped with.



Loose, cotton, light clothing is the best option.
Wear fuzzy socks. These will keep your feet warm, because chances are you will take your shoes off.
 Only do this if you really need to. Otherwise, you will be a nuisance. Use these opportunities to go to the bathroom. Important: only use the bathroom on the plane if you absolutely must! They are unsanitary and disgusting. Use the bathroom in the airport just before you get on the flight, even if you don't think you need to. If you must use the bathroom in the air, be sure to put paper on the board, lock the door, and only go when there is no turbulence and the pilot allowed you to move.
 Some airlines have a video that provides some stretches to help you stay comfortable. Some stretches you can do are:


Ankle rolls






Point and flex you toes






Tense and loosen your muscles systematically






Neck rolls






Arch your back







, You don't have to buy anything, but browse through the magazine. Who would you buy what for? What do you want? This will kill some time.
 This may sound stupid, but within your mind, there are hours of entertainment. Wonder, imagine, ponder, think! This can fill the space of hours.
 Use these before going to sleep and when you feel unclean. These items include:


Deodorant. This is just a pleasantry for your plane-mates
Mouthwash. You won't want a "yucky" taste in your mouth
Toothbrush and toothpaste: brush your teeth in the airplane bathroom. Don't use the water to wet the brush, though.
Hairbrush and hair ties (if you have long hair). This way you can tie it back if you get hot.
Hand sanitizer: planes are unsanitary.
Moisturizer: The air on the plane is really dry, and you don't want to have dry skin because it is itchy and sometimes painful.
Eye drops: this is especially important if you have contacts. If not, still bring them. Your eyes may become dry and painful, and you will want these.
 I know, this may sound revolutionary, but try making conversation with your parents. If this is too difficult, try your siblings. As a final resort, attempt to talk to the people around you. Only do this if they seem to be as bored as you, and seem friendly. Make sure not to give away personal information, as you do not know them. You can use conversation starter cards for ideas of what to talk about.
 Read up on things you are interested in.
 This will prevent some serious medical complications.
 You are stuck on the plane and there is nothing you can do about it.
