 The first step towards recovery for an eating disorder is often talking about it. Doing so can be frightening, but you will feel immensely relieved when you finally share with someone else. Choose someone who has always been supportive of you without casting judgment, maybe a best friend, a coach, a religious leader, a parent, or a school counselor.Set aside a time when you can talk to this person in private without interruptions. Try to be patient. Your loved one may be shocked, confused, or hurt that you have been suffering on your own all this time.
Explain some of the symptoms you have noticed and when they started. You might also discuss the physical or emotional repercussions of your eating disorder, such as loss of a menstrual period or suicidal thoughts.
Give this person some idea as to how she can help you. Would you like her to hold you accountable for eating right? Would you like this person to accompany you to the doctor? Let your loved one how you can feel best supported.;
, After sharing news of your condition with a loved one, you will feel more confident and supported about seeking professional help. Your best hope for a full recovery lies in choosing a health care team that has experience treating eating disorders.


You can find eating disorder specialists by asking for a referral from your family doctor, by calling local hospitals or medical centers, reaching out to your school counselor, or calling the National Eating Disorders Association’s hotline at 1-800-931-2237., Work with your doctor or counselor to figure out the type of treatment that will suit your situation. There is a variety of effective treatment options for eating disorders.Individual psychotherapy allows you to work one-on-one with a therapist to uncover some of the causes to your condition and to develop healthier ways of responding to triggers. One effective therapeutic approach is cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which focuses on changing unhelpful thought patterns that influence your relationship with food and your body.
Family therapy is helpful at guiding parents with useful tools on caring for a teenager with an eating disorder and bringing healthier lifestyle habits into the household for long term recovery.
Medical monitoring is required so that your doctor can examine you physically to assure that you are regaining essential bodily functions as you progress through treatment. Your doctor might record your weight and perform regular tests.
Nutritional counseling involves meeting with a registered dietitian on an ongoing basis to ensure that you are consuming adequate calories and macro-nutrients to maintain or return to a healthy weight. This professional will also work with you to change your relationship with food into a positive, healthy one.
Medications are often prescribed when a co-occurring illness exists in addition to the eating disorder, such as depression. Common medications prescribed to help with eating disorder recovery include antidepressants, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety meds, and mood stabilizers.
 Your best hope for a long-lasting and successful recovery from eating disorders is with a combination of some type of therapy and medical care and nutritional counseling.Regardless, your treatment plan should be tailored to your unique needs, with any co-occurring illnesses factored in.
 In the midst of your recovery, it can feel good to know that you are not alone. Finding a local support group through your treatment center or therapist’s office can help you talk with others who are going through similar experiences and give you a source of support.

