 Consider parents, older relatives, family friends, teachers, counselors, existing friends, clergy members, et cetera. This person can offer you advice and support while you search for friends and deal with the trials of everyday life.


If you have more than one mentor, that's great! You can hear advice and perspectives from more than one person.;
, If you go to school or have a job out of the house, this is a great opportunity to meet people. Classmates and coworkers can be great people to talk to and to try and befriend., What makes you light up and feel energized? Find a group related to that. This way, you can find people you have something in common with, and you'll have a good conversation starter. Even if you don't end up making friends right away, you'll be able to do something you enjoy.
 It can be a huge relief to be around people whose brains work the same way yours does. In a disability group, disabled becomes "normal," so no one will think twice if you don't make eye contact, stim, or speak with a disability accent.
 Sports give you something clear to focus on, offer an opportunity to focus on teamwork, and are good for your health too. If you aren't particularly athletic, look for a more casual league., Consider which causes are most important to you—reproductive rights, racial justice, the environment, disability rights, et cetera. Look for volunteering opportunities related to these causes. Volunteering often brings out the best in people, and you can work on being your best self while meeting others who are trying to do the same.
 If you're sensitive to noise, you can try quiet public places, such as libraries or bookstores. Becoming a regular at the local library can open you up to having quiet conversations, and can help you become known to the employees., Sometimes, none of the above options are possible for whatever reason. Don't worry - there are still online communities everywhere, whether it's for autism, a certain interest you have, or even just a social media site such as Tumblr that has a diverse user-base. Making friends online is often easier than in person - however, be aware that if your communication consists of just instant messages or texts, it's quite possible to misinterpret something that someone has said.