 Combine the two ingredients in a blender at high speed until the flax seeds are almost impossible to distinguish.This should take roughly 1 minute or so.
The resulting mixture should be very frothy.
Choose a milk with the most neutral taste and smoothest texture possible. Unsweetened almond milk and unflavored soy milk are recommended. Avoid hemp or oat milk.
You could use a food processor instead of a blender for this recipe, if desired. Whisking the ingredients by hand could also work, but it will be much more difficult to fully incorporate the flax seeds into the almond milk if you mix it by hand.
The flax seeds replace the eggs in this recipe and are responsible for binding and thickening the spicy vegan mayo. They must be well blended before this thickening ability is activated, though.
 Transfer the sugar, dry mustard, onion powder, salt, paprika, and hot sauce to the contents of the blender and blend for another 30 seconds or so on high speed.


Make sure that the hot sauce you use is vegan-friendly. If desired, you could skip the hot sauce altogether and use 3 small chilli padi, chopped into fine pieces.
 Add the lemon juice and vinegar to the mayo mixture in the blender. Blend for another few seconds on high speed until combined.


As with traditional egg-based mayonnaise, the lemon juice and vinegar in this recipe add acidity and flavor to the mayo.
 Add the grapeseed oil in 1 Tbsp (15 ml) batches. Blend for a full 30 seconds after adding each batch of oil.


Alternatively, you can slowly add the oil to the mayo mixture through the hole in the top of the lid in a slow, steady, and continuous stream.
The essential thing is that the oil must be added slowly and evenly. Otherwise, the texture will not be consistent.
Pause the blender every now and then when it starts to get hot. Otherwise, it will cause the mayo to heat up along with it.
The mayo should begin to thicken after you have added half the oil. After you have added 3/4 of the oil, it should be spreadable. The final addition will create a thick consistency.
 Scoop the spicy vegan mayo into a glass container and cover with a tight lid or plastic wrap. Refrigerate it for a few hours to let it thicken and store in the refrigerator when not in use.


This mayo has a very strong, potent flavor initially. Chilling it in the refrigerator will help the taste mellow down and blend more evenly.
Use this version within a week.
