 The people who provide programmatic services within your organization should be consulted before you begin writing the overview.


Ask program staff to describe what they do. This will help you explain program services in your overview.
Listen for how the work of your program staff directly affects the lives of the people and communities you serve. This will be the most important part of your non-profit's program services overview. You will want to demonstrate impact.;
, Several different drafts and formats may be necessary to accommodate the medium.


List your program areas in bold, and provide bullets that highlight key pieces of program information when you are putting the overview on marketing materials such as brochures or postcards.
Provide paragraphs that explain each program area and the services your organization provides when you have the space. This would work well on an overview that you put on your website, or into a grant proposal.
 Include data on the number of people each program serves, and information about what specific services those people receive.


Use examples. If your nonprofit runs an after school program, include statistics on how many children attend it. Then, include the story of one child in particular who learned to read or improved her math scores after attending your program.
 Talk about the qualifications of your program leaders and staff, and the methods they use to deliver your programs to the people you serve.



Show funders and others who review your programs that you make sure your programs have the desired effects on your community. Include any evaluation tools you use, such as surveys, outside assessments, and statistical data.



Demonstrate how each program helps the organization reach its goals and honor its values. Be sure to mention your mission when you write your program overview.
 The Board is responsible for strategic planning and oversight, and should contribute to your overview of program services.


Invite 1 or 2 board members to help you draft the overview, and get approval from the full Board before it is finalized.
 It is a good idea to show how your programs are funded when you are seeking additional funding or preparing an overview for government agencies, such as the Internal Revenue Service.


Edit out any financial information when you are providing an overview for informational purposes only.

