 Some scratch wounds and most bite wounds from cats can become infected. Cleaning the wound well and applying an antibiotic ointment such as Neosporin or Bacitracin can greatly reduce risk of infection. An infected wound may require oral antibiotics as well. Signs of an infected wound include:Increased pain, swelling, redness, or warmth around the wound
Presence of red streaks extending from the wound
Drainage of pus from the wound
Presence of a high fever

, Cat scratch disease, the commonest disease spread by cats, is caused by the bacteria Bartonella henselae. Cats act as a reservoir for the disease, and it's especially prevalent among young cats and cats with fleas. About 40% of cats carry the bacteria at some point in their lives, but will show no sign of carrying the disease.Some cats who have cat scratch disease can develop heart disease, ulceration in their mouths, or eye infections. The first sign of cat scratch disease in humans is usually a small swelling at the region of the cat scratch or bite, followed by enlarged lymph glands in the armpits, groin, or neck. Next is a fever, fatigue, red eye, joint pain, and sore throat. Untreated cat scratch disease in humans can cause severe eye, brain, liver, or spleen damage. Immuno-compromised people are at higher risk of experiencing complications or even death from cat scratch fever.
The diagnosis of cat scratch disease is usually by B henselae serology but can be diagnosed by culture, histopathology, or polymerase chain reaction. It is treated with antibiotics such as azithromycin, rifampin, gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin or bactrim., Ringworm is a fungal infection characterized by round, puffy, and scaly patches of skin.Ringworm is often accompanied by a severe itch.
Ringworm can be treated with antifungal ointments such as miconazole or clotrimazole.
 Toxoplasmosis is a parasite that cats carry and pass through their feces. It is possible to catch the toxoplasmosis parasite, Toxoplasma gondii, through a cat scratch, particularly if traces of feces were present on the cat’s claws.Infected humans can experience fever, body aches, and enlarged lymph nodes. Severe cases can cause damage to the brain, eyes, or lungs, and an infection can be particularly dangerous for pregnant women. Therefore, pregnant women should avoid tending to the litter box or cat feces during pregnancy.
Treatment for toxoplasmosis involves taking an antiparasitic drug such as pyrimethamine., Cats can carry life-threatening diseases. Contact your physician immediately if you have received any cat scratch and develop any of the following symptoms:


Fever
Swelling of the head or neck
Red, itchy, or scaly patches of skin
Severe headaches, lightheadedness, or dizziness

