 The most common symptoms of head lice are itching on the scalp, neck, and ears.Your child may also complain that she feels like something is crawling on her head.Yellow, brown, white, or tan nits or adult or baby lice may be seen on the scalp as well. You will see clear shells if the lice eggs have already hatched.Not all children with lice will have an itchy scalp.Nits and lice are difficult to see. Make sure you have adequate light when you are looking for them. They are easier to see around the ears and nape.Nits are usually found in the hair close to the scalp. They may look a little like dandruff, but they don't easily come off by brushing or shaking them off., Take your child to the doctor to confirm that he has a lice infestation before you begin treatment. Sometimes parents treat children with lice when they do not have an active infestation.Also, an itchy scalp could be a symptom of another disease such as dandruff or eczema.Your child may not experience itching until two to six weeks after the infestation., Your doctor will probably recommend an OTC treatment. Make sure you ask the doctor for specific instructions regarding the timing and frequency of using these medications. Common medications include Permethrin (Nix) and Pyrethrin (Rid, A-200, Lice Killing).Follow the directions on the package.


Hair should be shampooed and not conditioned before using one of these treatments. You can also try rinsing the hair with white vinegar before using the medicine.Common side effects of these medicines are redness and itching.
Pyrethrin should not be used if your child is allergic to ragweed or chrysanthemum.Continue to check everyone in your family for lice for one week after treatment is finished.Pediatricians usually recommend that you repeat the treatment once after 1 week.
 If the OTC medications do not work, your doctor can prescribe a medicine such as Benzyl alcohol (Ulesfia) and Malathion (Ovide). Benzyl Alcohol can cause redness and itching and is only recommended for children six months of age and older. Malathion should only be used by children six years of age and older., Wet the child's hair, apply conditioner and then comb the hair with a fine-toothed nit comb to remove the lice. Hair should be combed from the scalp to the ends at least twice. Repeat this process every three or four days until the lice have been gone for two weeks.There is no scientific evidence that wet combing is effective for removing lice., Mayonnaise, olive oil, butter, and petroleum jelly can also be applied to the hair and scalp. Note that there is no scientific evidence that supports these home remedies,and that they can be quite messy.


Apply these products to the hair and then cover with a shower cap. They should be left in overnight and then washed out., Any items the infected person used in the last two days should be cleaned. This includes bedding, clothing, and hair care items. If the items cannot be put in the washing machine, they should be dry cleaned or sealed in a plastic bag for two weeks.Hair care items should be cleaned using hot, soapy water.
Bedding, stuffed animals, and clothing should be washed in hot water and dried using high heat.Vacuum the floor and furniture as well.

