 Point the laser at the ground or the wall near your cat. Move the laser to catch your cat's eye, then keep it still for a moment to build suspense. Move the laser around, slowly, and your cat may begin to stalk it like prey. Do not move the laser around too rapidly, or your cat may lose spirit. Just when your cat pounces onto the laser, move it quickly away.


You can find laser pointers online, at pet-supply stores and at most technology stores.
Be careful not to point the laser into your cat's eyes. Once you have your cat under the spell of the laser, try not to lead it anywhere dangerous. Cats may run headlong into a chair or wall because they are so focused on the dot.
 Use materials that will make enough noise to catch your cat's attention, but not so much noise to scare your cat away. Ball up the paper, wave it slowly until your cat is tracking it with his eyes, and then throw it a short distance for your cat to chase. This may also work with food or toys.
 Gently "wrestle" with your cat as though your hand were another cat. Let the cat rub its head against your hand, and let it bat your hand with its hand. Be wary: a cat won't usually use its claws while play-fighting, but it might nibble or bite your hand.


Avoid using both hands when playing, as the cat will feel outnumbered and flee. This is, incidentally, a good way of ridding yourself of a playful cat when you're no longer in the mood.
 This might sound boring to you, but many cats love to swat and play with them. Roll the ball gently toward or past your cat to get some attention. If the cat's eyes track the motion of the ball, it means that he sees the ball as potential "prey." Some older cats may not bother to move if you throw the ball.
 You can give your cat a sprig of fresh or dried catnip, or you can buy a catnip toy for your cat to play with. Many cats love the smell of catnip, and some cats become visibly intoxicated by it. They may stare into space, stumble around, and roll on the floor in pleasure.


Be warned that every cat reacts differently to catnip. Your cat may love it, your cat may indifferent, and your cat may even abuse the stuff. Give your cat small amounts of catnip, and watch it for cues.
You may also consider buying catnip spray from a pet store and spraying it onto the toys that your cat already has. Spray the catnip spray onto the toys and wait for it to dry. Once it has fully dried, slowly bring out the toys.
 You can fill a surprise egg or plastic Easter egg with rice and use it to play with your cat. You can even make a little hole on one end of the egg, and pull a thread through it, and make a knot in the thread. The sound of the rice shaking may draw your cat's attention, and the string will help you make the egg seem as though it is moving of its own volition.
 You can brush their chins, their tails and backs, as well as their bellies. Brush under the tail and on either side, but don't brush your cat's butt. Test it out on your cat, but be aware that not all cats like being brushed. Cats may be wary about you touching their bellies. Don't brush too hard, or else the bristles might hurt your cat.

