 Perhaps they are already seasoned travelers, or maybe your budget constraints make traveling with them a financial hardship. In addition to planning activities during their stay, you may need to make some adjustments to your home before they arrive.


Make your home safe. If your grandchildren don’t live nearby and don’t often visit, chances are your home is not child-proof, especially if the grandchildren are very young. Go through each room in your home and assess it for hazards:
Remove or rearrange any furniture that has sharp edges.
Gather together and put away all small objects that may be choking hazards, or may cause accidental injury.
Cover electrical outlets and tape down extension cords.
Put away anything you don’t want to get damaged, or that can’t be replaced, such as fine china, delicate fabrics or family heirlooms.
Protect any furniture that can’t bear up under sticky fingers or spilled liquids.
 Ask the parents and the grandchildren about their favorite toys, puzzles, and games. Go shopping before your grandchildren arrive and select age-appropriate items. If possible, scour tag sales and flea markets to find bargains.
 Make up a bag or box full of inexpensive toys, books, and treats. You don’t need to go to any great expense, but having some special gifts and treats for each grandchild when they arrive will make them feel special.
 Purchase or borrow cots, rollaway beds or air mattresses. Don’t forget that you will need extra pillows, sheets, and blankets. Pick up some new pajamas, robes, and slippers for a special treat.
, Some websites also provide discount admission coupons that you can download and print.
 Ask the parents beforehand what their limits for the grandchildren are for snacks, TV viewing, computer use, and video game use. Tell mom and dad you might bend the rules a little, but that you will be respectful of their wishes.
 As much as your grandchildren love you and want to spend time with you, they need to interact with other children, too.
 As soon as your grandchildren arrive, sit down and talk to them about house rules. Explain why certain objects or rooms are off limits. Tell and show them where they may go, with or without your permission. This is especially important if your grandchildren are teens.
 Children need some structure and guidelines, even when they are on vacation. However, they should be allowed to have a little more freedom and flexibility than they normally have at home. Let them stay up later than their regular bedtime at home. Give them special snacks and desserts, such as homemade ice cream sundaes. Let them leave their beds unmade once in a while.

