 If you have the time and permission, you might be able to work on the side or “under the table.”While these jobs typically don’t have the long-term commitment that comes from traditional employment (or the regular paycheck), that can still be a good way to earn some extra money. If you are too young or don’t have the time to take on a regular job, work on the side can still be lucrative.
 People need help doing all sorts of things, so you don’t necessarily need to have a lot of experience or talent to make money from odd jobs. Common tasks people are willing to hire teens for include:Babysitting(it will help to pass a CPR class or other certification, or to know parents with kids)
Dog walking
Pet sitting
Plant sitting (watering and caring for plants while their owners are away)
Yardwork (mowing, raking, trimming hedges, clearing yards, shoveling snow, cleaning gutters, etc.)
Picking up groceries or run other errands for the elderly
Doing chores for others (cleaning house, doing dishes, clearing out an attic, etc.)
Washing cars
Helping people pack and/or move

, If you have a special ability or talent, you might be able to make money by using it. Performances, artwork, clothing and many other expressive outlets can be ways of bringing in some cash. For instance, you could make money by:

Busking (singing, playing an instrument, juggling, etc. on a street; make sure it is one where lots of people walk by, and where you have permission to perform)
Singing at weddings
Performing at parties (making balloon animals, doing magic tricks, etc.)
Making T-Shirts
Selling baked goods, candy, lemonade, etc.
Woodworking (furniture, birdhouses, etc.)
Selling crafts you make (art, knitted or sewn items, etc.) on sites such as Etsy, at craft fairs and farmers’ markets, etc.
 If you have knowledge of a subject or ability that is in demand, you might be able to make money by using it to help others, or by teaching others.If you are knowledgeable about technology, you could try helping others with computer problems for money.
If you do well in school, you could earn money by tutoring students in subjects (math, science, foreign languages, history, writing, etc.)
If you are knowledgeable in an area such as music or swimming, you could give lessons to others for money.
If you can prove your knowledge or ability, you will have an easier time making money from it. For instance, if you want to tutor students, you should mention your high grades in the subject(s) you offer. Likewise, if want to teach music lessons, you should mention how many years you have studied, and/or your accomplishments in the area.
 You can set a price for your items that is based either on market demand, or what you think they are worth. If offering services, you will have to decide if you will choose a flat fee or request payment by the hour.


For instance, you might charge a flat fee of $100 to mow a neighbor’s yard, or $25 per hour to do it; you can earn more charging by the hour in this case if it takes more than four hours to mow the lawn.
 You will also need to find people with tasks that need doing, or let them know about services you offer. For instance, you could have parents or adult friends spread the word, post an advertisement on a bulletin board or online, or go door-to-door in your neighborhood). You can also post a list of things you are offering to help with, such as babysitting, yardwork, or tutoring.

