 Making signs means getting wood. Use an axe or sword to chop down a nearby tree. In order to make one sign, you will need:


6 wooden planks
1 stick;
, If you already have your raw materials, skip straight to the next step. If you don't know how to make wood into wooden planks, and finally, into sticks, read on.


Craft wooden planks out of wood. One block of wood, crafted, will turn into 4 wooden planks. In order to make one sign, you'll therefore need at least 2 blocks of wood to craft.
Craft sticks out of two wooden planks. Place two wooden planks in a vertical line on your crafting table to yield 4 sticks.
, The wooden planks should occupy both the middle and upper third of the workbench grid.
 Take the sign and make as many signs as you'd like, given your raw materials.
 If you place it on the ground, floor, a stick will appear anchoring the sign to the ground. Place the sign on a wall and no stick will appear. The sign will also be placed in the direction you're facing; for example, if you're facing in a diagonal direction while placing the sign, it will face that way.


You can place a sign on any of the following items: any block, including fences, glass, other signs, minecart tracks, and even chests (while sneaking).
If you place a sign underwater, a water bubble will escape after placement. You can use this air bubble to breathe underwater.
 Once you place your sign, a text box will appear. This text box has four lines, each of which can hold 15 characters for a grand total of 60 characters.


Once you complete the text of the sign, the only way to edit the text is to destroy the sign and place it again.
 Liquids such as water and lava cannot pass through a space occupied by a sign, making signs particularly useful as a water stopper (if, for example, you encounter an air pocket underwater and want to block off the flow of water).


Signs can also be used for the arms of a sofa. Craft two steps and place two signs on either side of the steps for a couch or chair.

