 Microsoft offers Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and other Office apps for free online. These versions aren't quite as powerful as the desktop versions, but you can still do just about anything you'd need to without installing or paying for anything. Visit office.com to view the available web apps., You can see the available programs by scrolling down a little on the Office website. Click the on you want to launch., You'll need to either sign in with your personal Microsoft account, or with your work or school account. Once you're signed in, you can start using the selected program. If you don't have a Microsoft account, you can create one for free. This will give you 5 GB of free OneDrive storage, where your documents will be saved for access on any computer or device., The layout of the web app will be nearly identical to the desktop version. Use the tabs at the top to switch between different editing options. You may notice some features are missing or limited. You'll need the desktop program to access all of the advanced features. See this Microsoft support page for a complete rundown on the differences between the web and desktop versions of Word., The web apps do not auto-save, so make sure to save manually from time to time. You can save your document by clicking the "File" tab and selecting "Save As."

When you save your document, it will be saved to your OneDrive storage.
You can also choose to download the document to your computer from the Save As menu. There are several format options, including PDF and open formats.
 If you've received an Office document from someone, you can view it in the web app by uploading it to your OneDrive storage.

Visit onedrive.live.com in your browser. You can also use the OneDrive app if you're on a mobile device.
Drag your file into the browser window to upload it to your OneDrive storage. Small documents should only take a moment to upload, large PowerPoint presentations may take longer.
Click the uploaded document in OneDrive to launch the Office web app. This will let you view and edit the document (if the document is not protected).

