 Play tea party games like, Tea Leaf Pictionary. In this game, the players use their tea leaves to create picture of objects that are written down on small pieces of paper and drawn by each team. Another activity is to have your guests create their own tea bags. Place out tea leaves, tea bags, strings, and a stapler. Have the guest fill the bags with the leaves of their choice to create their own teaYou should place the leaves in shallow bowls and put of spoons for the tea leaves.
 Go to the florist the day of the party and buy flowers. A few bouquets should be enough, but you can buy more if it fits in your budget. Place the bouquets in vases around the area you are having the party in. Daisies and lilies are always nice choices for flowers. If you’re having the party outside, hang up some string lights. Paper lights in the shape of flowers or other fun shapes look especially nice. You can also light candles to add warm lighting and create a nice scent., Theme aren’t just for children. You can choose a theme for adult parties as well. Themes liven up the occasion and give adults a reason to dress up and bring out their inner child. Some themes to choose from are British, Chinese, Victorian, and Alice in Wonderland. You can also choose to make an event out of the party and have a mystery theme. Make sure to plan the food, music, tea, decorations, and dress around the theme.


For a mystery tea party, the host has a booklet that includes the instructions, script, name tags, and place cards. Each guest has a character and role to play according to the script. A mystery is acted out and solved by the guests.For an Alice in Wonderland theme, send out invitations telling guests to “not be late for a very important date with the white rabbit.” Decorate the area several mismatched tea pots and cups, clocks, paper lanterns, and quotes from the book. Play chess and lawn croquet. Ask guests to show up dressed as characters, like the Mad Hatter and Alice., Ask guests to wear costumes according to the theme you’ve chosen. Even if you don’t have a specific theme, you can ask guests to wear costumes anyway. They could dress up in flamboyant hats, like the British are known for wearing to formal events. An option for dressing up without a theme is asking guests to dress up in their formal attire. Make sure to specify costumes on the invitation.
 Plan music for the party. If you’ve chosen a theme, choose music according to that theme. For general music, choose low, soft music that can be played in the background. Classical music and smooth jazz are some options. If you want to take it a step further, you can hire music group to play. A small group playing classical or jazz music is ideal. If you have friends that play instruments, ask them if they would like to play.You can also find tea party playlists online.
Set out a CD player, record player, or connect your iPod or smartphone to speakers to play the music.

