 The possibilities are endless. You can make it human, super-human, or it doesn't even have to be a human.


Determine if it is a male or female.






Try to stay away from bright colors. A cape is a good touch, but it's not necessary.






Make it either a creature or have them morph into a shape-shifter for extra effects. Shape-shifters are characters that go from a basic form, such as humans, to different creatures (like Maleficent in Sleeping Beauty).
 He/She could have elements of water, fire, earth, nature. But don't let the basic elements hold you captive. Be creative and make up your own power. If not, try considering things like electricity, superhuman strength, telekinesis, flight, ice, darkness (a good one), or anything you want. Combining more than one power is also possible, but don't make it too strong. Remember, the good guy should always win...for some reason.
 The whole "Taking Over The World" thing is outdated. Be more original. For example, Magneto (X-Men) was seen as evil because he was tired of humans treating him and all mutants like trash. Mr Freeze (Batman) had the whole story with his wife - if you watched the movie, you'd know. Nevertheless, let the villain have a good, genuine reason for being so mean (e.g. jealousy, alienation, revenge, protection).
 A laugh is a confirmation of their power, so it has to suit them. Pick it out carefully. You could choose the deep Dracula kind of chuckle for the guys, the high toned witch cackle could suit some females, but not all. Others would rather prefer the lower mysterious laugh, that is sometimes even confused with a giggle. There are countless choices.
 In complex plots, henchmen have their very own personalities and would not be considered as part of the super villain. But if the story is short and simple, a henchman can be limited. Give them a basic good quality - e.g. brains, strength, speed, obedience, bravery - and a basic bad quality - e.g. stupidity, clumsiness, cowardice. They don't have to look like the villain, but it would be good if they shared some characteristics or ideas. They could have, for example, the same goal and reason to be doing such dastardly crime.
 It could be a physical thing, like Achilles' heel, or a mental or inner flaw like greed or jealousy. He could have also been betrayed. But don't let it be an accident, his or her defeat. The point is to teach people that crime does not pay, so let his loss be by flaw. Throughout the story, show signs of his flaw, as Caesar showed signs of his arrogance throughout the Shakespearean play, and it was this flaw which caused him to die. He wasn't a Supervillain, but yours should, as Caesar, perish in the end.
 A betrayed friend or a spurned lover, if the rivalry is personal it makes for more intense battles.

