 Stand up straight so your shoulders aren't hunched forward. Try to keep your head facing straight. Relax your hands and avoid locking your knees. If you have to sit down while you sing, keep your back straight against the chair and keep your shoulders pulled back. Your abdomen should be flat and firm, not slumped forward.Proper posture will help your breathing, which can improve vocal tone and projection.;
, If you keep your neck and jaw clenched, your musical tone will be unbalanced and it can strain or damage your voice over time. As you begin to sing louder in a song, especially on higher notes, it’s natural for your jaw to hold some tension. This is because your chin will naturally start to drift upward. Make an effort to point it down at the ground. This will help loosen jaw tension. Try to keep your jaw hanging loosely.Avoid opening your jaw as wide as it will go or it can actually close off your throat, which won't help you sing louder.
 When you sing, the power should come from deep in your breath, rather than your throat. The diaphragm, a muscle attached to your lungs, helps your lungs expand so you can take deep breaths and control your voice. Check to see if you're taking full breaths by looking at yourself in the mirror. You shouldn't see your shoulders move as you breathe. Instead, you should simply feel like you're pushing down as you breathe.If you’re having trouble regulating your breath, lay down on the ground and place a book on your stomach. Practice moving this book up and down by taking full deep breaths. This is how you should breathe when you sing.
 Placement is a singing technique in which you make resonating sounds or vibrations to get a full loud sound. To do forward placement (or "the mask"), you should feel the volume of your voice in front of your face, behind your mouth, on your cheeks, and possibly along your forehead. Pull your voice up through the soft palate and out through the front of your face.You may feel a slight vibration in your nose, but don't worry. When done correctly, using forward placement will give you a deep sound that isn't nasally.
 Being able to breathe deeply will strengthen the muscles you need for singing, making it easier to sing louder. Practice breathing exercises every day. While breathing exercises are important, it's also critical to have good posture and do forward placement. For a good simple breathing exercise:Lay on your back with your hands on your waist. Take a full breath and focus on expanding your stomach from bottom to top. This should make your hands raise up and out if you do it correctly. Once your breath is comfortably full, breathe out slowly to a count of 5. Repeat this exercise 10 times.
 You should always warm up the muscles you'll need to sing, especially if you're trying to sing louder. Vocal exercises can prevent damage to your muscles while building your vocal strength. Practice lip trills by blowing air through your closed but relaxed lips. You should sing an "uh" vowel sound. You'll feel your your lips trill, if done correctly.For a simpler exercise, make the 'ng" sound (like at the end of the word "lung"). Keep making the sound to practice moving your tongue against your soft palate.

