 Crossfade is a classic DJing technique that allows you to play the upcoming track without any gap in audio. The songs will fade into each other and create a danceable atmosphere. Go to Edit --> Preferences.


Scroll down to the Playback section.
Make sure that both Gapless Playback and Crossfade tracks is selected. Adjust the time so that it sounds right to you.On Apple devices, this is accessed through “Settings,” or the gear icon in the lower right corner. From this menu you can access the Playback settings.
 You can modify the sound of your playlist to fit the atmosphere and setting of the room you are DJing for. Go to settings>playback and you’ll see the equalizer options. Experiment with the equalizer settings before the party gets started. You can either adjust the equalizer manually, or choose one of their settings:


Bass Booster
Dance
Hip Hop
Electronic
R&B, If your playlist is about to go in a direction you’re not feeling, make adjustments. The job of a DJ is to enact the feelings and desires of the crowd. Watch how the crowd reacts to your selections and determine if one style of music works better than another.
 If you decide to take requests, you can either add them to the playlist, or to the queue so that it plays as the next song. To add it to the queue, right click on the song and choose "Queue" from the drop-down menu that appears.To view the queue, click on it in the left hand menu. "Play Queue" should appear in the top section directly under the inbox.
 Spotify has collaborated with established DJs and producers to give you a wide range of moods and party types. Spotify party has different settings to gauge the feeling of party through the “Mood Tuner.” You can start your night with “start it up,” gradually move into “hold it down,” and then drop the “set it off” mood when everyone’s on the dance floor.You can even use Spotify party for the morning after and any other mood or situation you want to use.
Spotify party fades in between songs like a normal DJ would do.

