 Turning on the power gives you access now to the traps, pack-a-punch, and to the perks.

Pack-A-Punch: The Pack-A-Punch is a machine that makes any gun in the game more powerful and it gives the gun more ammo. This is to be used wisely, as it is very expensive to pack-a-punch a gun (5000 points) and you cannot re-use your pack-a-punched gun once ammo runs out (unless you get a max ammo). The only way you can get more ammo for a weapon without a max ammo is if you Pack-a-punch a wall weapon and can purchase more ammo off of the wall (4500 points). Besides the first 3 maps (Nacht der Untoten, Verruckt, and Shi No Numa) there is a Pack-a-punch located somewhere in every zombies map. Accessing the pack-a-punch is a different process for each map; one commonality is that each one requires the power to use. One final thing about the Pack-A-Punch: only upgrade your gun if your gun is powerful. Don't waste your money to upgrade a pistol as opposed to a ray gun. Just use common sense here.
Traps: Traps are a nice and inexpensive way of taking down hoards of zombies. They are included in Verruckt, Shi No Numa, Der Riese, Kino Der Toten, and Ascension. A few pointers about traps: 1. make sure you are on the right side of the trap. Always use the trap on the opposite side of the room, if you use the wrong trap, you cannot get to the other side of the trap without dying. You either go down that way or get mauled by the group of zombies behind you. Watch what you're doing. Also, traps are there to assist you win, not actually win. You can only use traps once and then they go away. You need to make sure that you have a weapon you can use to defend yourself from the zombies, otherwise the trap will only slow down your eventual defeat. And finally, you have to watch your cash when you use these traps. The traps are not that expensive (1000 points) but that starts to add up after a while, so money is something you need to watch when you have to rely on these traps.
Miscellaneous: For certain maps, the power may allow you to perform a certain function within the map. For example, in Ascension, you need the power to access the lunar landers throughout the map. Most importantly, you need to have the power on to access your perks!!!!

