 The best and most important thing you can do to prepare for the show is by watching it. Watch it every day, and record it if you can't watch it live. Know how the game is played. Know the format and what the lifelines are and how they work. Watching the show every day will also give you a feel for what kinds of questions are asked on the show. While the show covers a broad range of subjects, it's a good idea to keep up on current events and popular culture, since the show often asks questions on those subjects. You may also want to study movie trivia, since the show holds weeks dedicated to movies at least once a year.
 You must be at 18 years of age, a resident of the United States, not be related to anyone who works for a company affiliated with the show, not running for political office, and have not been a contestant on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire in the past., On the page, click on the link of which audition you want to do. There are three available - a Las Vegas audition, a specialty week audition, and a video audition., For a Las Vegas audition, you'll have to print out the form and fill it in, while for specialty week auditions, you'll have to fill out the form online. For video auditions, you'll have to make a video and submit it to YouTube, which you'll have to include in the online form.,, If you live far away, book a plane ride to Las Vegas in advance, and choose an affordable hotel that's near the studio. Your trip may require an overnight stay, so pack clothing and other materials that you'll want a few days before the trip., Take a shower and brush your teeth; good hygiene is essential here. Wear khakis or dress pants, a solid color button-down shirt, and dress shoes. You want to dress to impress. Arrive at the studio a few hours before the audition starts and wait for the doors to open., In addition to standard information such as your name and address, you'll also be asked questions such as what your hobbies are and what you'll do with $1,000,000., The contestant exam has 30 multiple-choice questions to answer in 10 minutes. You bubble in your answers on Scantron sheets. Be sure that when you fill out the Scantron sheet that you put in the contestant number you'll be given before the exam starts. Answer all of the questions (or at least, as many as you can in the 10 minutes) and wait until time is called. Depending on when the audition is, you may also be able to take the exam for a movie week., During this time, it's a good idea to talk to the people around you so you aren't just sitting there waiting., If you don't hear your number, that means you didn't pass and that you'll have to do another audition if you want to be on the show. If you passed, on the other hand, you can stay and move on to the next part of the audition., They'll take a head shot of you, look over your application form, and talk to you briefly (around 3-5 minutes). You'll be asked questions about yourself, along with the answers you gave to the questions on the application form. For the interview, you want to be interesting and funny, along with being comfortable. If you do well enough, you'll be taken to another room where you'll have an on-camera interview with another show producer., The possibility of being chosen for the show is an exciting prospect, but you don't want it to take over your life. Just move on with your life and do what you normally do., If you don't make it in, you'll be told so and thanked for auditioning for the show. If you do make it, on the other hand, you'll be told so and that you'll receive a phone call from the show., Keep this information in mind and don't forget it. You can call them back at any time if you have any questions., If you live far away, book a plane ride to Las Vegas in advance, and choose an affordable hotel that's near the studio. Your trip may require an overnight stay, so pack clothing and other materials that you'll want a few days before the trip., Make sure that you take a shower and brush your teeth, and that you put on your best dress clothes., It can be anywhere from the start of the taping session to the last episode of the day. You'll be waiting in a room with the other contestants for that taping session. You may end up waiting for hours, so be patient. During this time, you'll want to talk with the other contestants and make friends with them., Good luck and no matter what happens, be sure to have fun! It's just a game, after all. You may be on for more than one episode, and if that happens, go back to your hotel and follow the above three steps again before the taping of the rest of your episode.