 When your period interferes with your daily life, take action. One common method is to use birth control pills. The different dosages of hormones that they contain can help balance out problems with your hormones. Using progesterone is an alternative that will give similar results for those who do not like birth control pills.Remember to take your birth control pills every day at the same time. If you accidentally skip a dose, do what the directions say.
Administer progesterone as directed by your doctor. You will usually take it for only ten to fourteen days per month. Ask to try a different length of time if it doesn’t seem to work. Be patient when starting these treatments. It will take several months to figure out if they will have positive effects. If you experience severe effects listed as possibilities in the informational brochure, contact your doctor immediately.
 If you desire to start a family but have not been able to conceive, it might because you are not ovulating properly. The illness prevents ovarian follicles from maturing and producing eggs.Clomiphene or similar medications can spur ovulation. You can try metformin alongside the Clomiphene if Clomiphene does not produce results. There are alternatives to Clomiphene if it doesn’t work. Your doctor might prescribe follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) medications. They usually come as injections. As always, you should follow your doctor’s recommendations during this time to avoid complications.
 As a woman, having excess hair is not pleasant to deal with. If constantly shaving or using fading creams becomes a hassle, administering these treatments can help. You can make a face mask with turmeric or eggs to apply to your face. Turmeric is antibacterial and it can stop hair growth. You just need to blend it with equal parts flour and some water. Mixing an egg white with a half tablespoon of corn starch and tablespoon of sugar has a similar effect. Using the drugs Aldactone or Vaniqa will lessen the amount of androgen that your body produces, which will result in less hair growth. You have to use contraception while using medication because spironolactone, an active ingredient, can result in birth defects in children.
 This ancient Chinese practice has documented beneficial uses. It focuses on tapping into the energy found in your body's pathways. For women with polycystic ovary syndrome, acupuncture takes place near knee, lower back and lower belly to stimulate the ovaries. Certain forms of acupuncture can work as well as or better than traditional medicine.
Acupuncture can actually help balance your hormones.Testosterone levels will decrease, the menstrual cycle might regulate, and ovulation may improve. Thousands of women have used it and have experienced positive results. 