 An open fracture is one where the bone breaks clear through the skin. Also known as compound fractures, this type of fracture carries the threat of contamination and infection.Look closely at the area around the impact or suspected breakage. If you see bone protruding from the skin, or if there is any visible bone, you have an open fracture.;
, Closed fractures, as the name implies, occur when the bone breaks but does not break through the skin.Closed fractures may be stable, transverse, oblique, or comminuted.


A stable fracture is one in which the broken bone is aligned properly and just barely out of place. These are also referred to as non-displaced fractures.An oblique fracture is one in which the breakage occurs on an angle relative to the alignment of the bone.
A comminuted fracture (also known as a segmented fracture) is one in which the bone breaks into three or more piece.A transverse fracture is one in which the breakage occurs in a more or less straight line perpendicular to the alignment of the bone.
 There are two kinds of fractures which meet this criteria and they can be difficult to differentiate.Impaction fractures (also known as buckled or impacted fractures) typically occur at the end of long bones when a bone fragment is forced into another piece of bone. Compression fractures are similar, but are usually found in vertebrae when spongy bone collapses upon itself.


Compression fractures heal naturally over time, though they should be monitored. Impaction fractures will require surgery.
 Incomplete fractures do not result in two separate pieces of bone, but may still show typical symptoms of fracture. There are several variants of incomplete fractures:Greenstick fractures are incomplete transverse fractures, reported mostly in children since immature bones don’t totally break under pressure into two parts.Hairline fractures (also known as fissure fractures or stress fractures) may be difficult to identify with X-rays as they appear as very fine lines. They might be visible only several weeks after being incurred.
Depression fractures are those which have been pressed in from without. Where multiple fissure lines intersect, the whole section of bone might be depressed.
Incomplete fractures share almost the same symptoms as complete fractures. If the limb is swollen, bruised, or twisted, it may be fractured. The limb might be deformed or out-of-shape, dangling at a bent or awkward angle. If the pain is so excruciating that the limb cannot be used comfortably or support weight, it is likely fractured.
 There are many other classifications of fractures based on the specific location or manner of the injury.Knowing the fracture types can help you better understand, avoid, and treat fractures.


Spiral fractures result when excessive torsion or twisting force is applied to a limb, fracturing the bone.
Longitudinal fractures occur when the bone breaks along a vertical axis in a parallel path through the bone.
Avulsion fractures are those which occur when a bone fragment from the main bone at a site of a ligament attachment to a joint breaks. This may happen in motor accidents while trying to help the casualties by pulling them from their arms or legs, affecting their shoulders or knees., If you heard a snap from your limb during a fall or sudden impact, it's likely your bone is fractured. Depending on the force, severity, and angle, the bone may crack (fracture) in two clean pieces or many. This sound you hear is actually the sound of the bone or group of bones that received the sudden impact and damage.


The grating or snapping sound caused by the bone when fractured is known in technical literature as "crepitation."

, Numbness or coldness may set in if the area below the fracture is not receiving enough blood. As muscles cope to hold the bone in place, you may experience muscle spasms as well.
 This then leads to an accumulation of fluids, bringing about swelling that causes pain when touched.


This blood in the tissues is visible as bruising. Bruises will start purple/blue, then turn green and yellow as the blood is reabsorbed. You may find bruises some distance from the actual site of the the fracture as the blood from the broken vessels move through your body.
External bleeding will only occur if the fracture is open, and the broken bone is exposed or protruding from the skin.
 For instance, perhaps the wrist is bent at an odd angle. Perhaps the arm or leg has an unnatural-looking bend where there is no joint. In the case of a closed fracture, the bone's structure has changed inside the limb. In the case of an open fracture, the bone is projecting outward at the site of injury.
 In cases of massive blood loss (including internal bleeding), blood pressure may drop precipitously, leading to shock. Individuals suffering from shock might grow pale and become warm or flushed, but later, excessive dilation of blood vessels might cause people to have cold, clammy skin. They may grow silent, confused, sick, and/or feel light-headed. Their breathing might be rapid initially, but slow down to dangerous levels if blood loss is severe.


It is normal for an individual to undergo shock as the injury takes its toll. Some people, however, feel few symptoms of shock and do not perceive they have suffered a bone fracture. If you experience a violent impact and evince even one symptom of shock, seek medical help immediately.
 If the broken bone is located next to a joint, you'll likely have trouble moving the limb as normal. This is a sign the bone is fractured. Movement of the limb may be impossible without experiencing pain, or you may not be able to put weight on the affected body part.
 During an examination, your doctor will ask questions as to how the injury happened. This information will aid him identify potential sites of damage.


If you’ve experienced previous fractures or bone breakage, inform your doctor.
Your doctor should check for other signs of fracture such as pulse, skin discoloration, temperature, hemorrhage, swelling, or wounds. All of this will help him quickly assess your condition and best course of treatment.
 This is the first course of action in the event a bone fracture is suspected or detected.X-rays can detect fractures and assist doctors in analyzing the extent of your injury.


Before starting, you will be asked to remove any jewelry or metal parts on your person, according to the area that will be examined. You may have to stand, sit or lie down, and will be asked during the process to remain still or even hold your breath.
 If an X-ray cannot detect a fracture, a bone scan might be used as an alternative. Bone scans are imaging tests not unlike a CT scan or MRI. A few hours before you have the bone scan done, you’ll be injected with a small amount of radioactive material. Doctors can trace the course of the radioactive material through your body in order to identify where bone material is being repaired., CT scans are perfect for examining internal injuries or other physical trauma. Doctors perform these when they know they’re dealing with complex, multi-fragment bone breakage. By combining multiple X-ray images into a single image with computer processing, doctors can obtain more three-dimensional view of the fracture with a CT scan., An MRI is a test which employs radio pulses, a magnetic field, and computers to obtain detailed images of the body. In the case of a fracture, the MRI can offer more information about the extent of damage. It is useful for differentiating between bone damage and damage to the cartilage and ligaments.