 The basic of any stalking, movement, no matter how small, will draw attention to you.;
, If your suit is made for deciduous use, but you are in a grassland area, you will have trouble hiding, even as a bush.
 If you are camping ( as in staying in one well hidden spot.) or stalking in woods ball, try go for a military snipers ghillie suit. These have no covering on the front, allowing to go closer to the ground and crawl quieter. If you are hunting, or otherwise close to animals, use a full body suit. These have full covering, so you can walk in a crouch and remain inconspicuous. If you are in a desert or snow filled area, you might want to consider a snipers smock.
 If you get a branch or twig stuck in the mesh of your suit (usually only applies to more modern ones) it is easy not to notice, and very difficult to remove without snapping. It is easy to hear a sound such as that, especially in the environment where other people are looking out for it.
 People may not see what they don't want to, but a pair of boots and a gun lying in the middle of a path is enough to make anyone suspicious.
 place extra padding around your head and shoulders to break up your profile. A head and shoulders are what most often identify people.
 Keep relaxed and regulate your breathing. Doing so will lessen sound from heavy breathing, and will help you keep still. It will also stop your limbs from cramping and shaking.
 If you think someone has seen you, wait until they are about to pull the trigger or shout out. Often they have not. The same goes with animals. Don't just get up and go if you think you have been spotted. If you are playing paintball or airsoft, you have the advantage. You don't have to blow it in a panic. It will also help to stay relaxed (see: relax)

, Keep these in mind when hiding. If you have straight or shiny equipment, camouflage the equipment and add knobs and bumps to any straight part. Do not hide against the skyline.
 People do not look up. If you have the time, and are certain you won't make an overt amount of noise and won't be compromised while climbing or in the tree, and your sight won't be obscured, go for it.
 It can get very hot in a ghillie suit.
 Sneaking around in close proximity will not work if you have a thousand things jingling in your pockets.
 If you need to move or make a noise, listen out for loud ambient noises. Are there birds singing? Wind blowing? Plane flying overhead? If so, try work out a pattern in the noise and move according to that. This will make a huge difference in your chances of being heard.
 This will make less noise, and lessen your chances of stumbling on a nest of animals and startling them, alerting everyone and everything to your presence, or even coming across another stalker. This also lessens your chances of being seen, as the human eye is drawn to movement.
 This will make you even harder to see. Do not, however, hide in very deep shadowed areas unless they are more the rule than the exception. These will automatically draw attention.
 While this might help with animals that have poor depth perception, humans will spot you quickly, as it is unusual for large bushes to grow close to trees in most environments.
 Many people have been discovered by not hiding their face. Camouflaging it is not always good enough, as someone looking right at you will recognize it for what it is. Wear a balaclava and add some padding/vegetation to it. This may sound like superstition, but do not look directly at a person or easily scared animals face. This is the easiest way to get compromised as if you are looking at their face/eyes and they catch your eye while looking around, there isn't much you can do. Rather keep your eyes focused on their torso. Not only will this give you a more accurate general picture, but you can still clearly see their face. Even this is more than enough in most cases to make sure they don't catch your eye.
 Crawl slowly and in time with the wind so that your movement is less obvious and background noise drowns out yours.(see go slow and use ambient noise)

, Do not be afraid to break off twigs from bushes before setting off and stick them into the mesh. Without this your suit will not stand up to any scrutiny. Make sure the colors are that of the biome you will be stalking in.
 Especially if this is one of the first times using it. Drag it through some puddles or through dust to began the fraying of the fibres and to get sand/leaves/anything stuck in there. This will help make it look more natural.

