 Girls are more likely to talk to a guy if they are not complete strangers. Catch her eye in class and smile, nod at her in the school hallways, or make an effort to sit near her at lunch. Of course, don’t follow her around (that might creep her out) but simply making sure she knows your face will make her more receptive to talking to you at some point.


Little things like asking her the date or hanging out at the same after-school spot will make her begin to start noticing you.;
, While this might seem obvious, lots of guys struggle with the idea of approaching the girl they like. However, you’re just going to have to go for it. Walk up to her before class and strike up a conversation, talk to her in the lunch line, or say hey to her at a party. Make a passing joke about your teacher’s silly tie in math class or ask her what she did this weekend while waiting in line for lunch.


Be observant. What does she like to do? Are there any clues that can give you an idea of what she likes? Maybe she is constantly doodling in class, or carrying a soccer ball around. This little things you observe about her can help you to come up with ideas for what to talk to her about.
 To do this, you’ll have to be bold. Once you’ve talked to her a bit, you should start asking her questions about herself. What does she like to do? What movies is she into? What’s her favorite sport, art or food? The possibilities are endless, but the answers will help you to form a friendship. However, keep in mind that you shouldn’t just pummel her with questions (that may be sort of weird) but ask a question and let the conversation develop naturally.
 Once you guys have talked and she knows who you are, consider asking her to hang out. Start by asking her to do something in a group and tell her to bring her friends along (this will make her more inclined to say yes). Ask her to come to the movies with your friends, play a pickup soccer game, go on a hike, go to a concert, etc. When you guys hang out, be attentive to her but not clingy--just act like you would with anyone else in your friend group.
 Everyone likes to complimented now and then--make her day and give her a compliment that you really mean. Its important to say something that you really believe--fake compliments can sound stiff and are easily spotted. If you like her dress, tell her her dress is really cute. If she just played a song for you on the guitar and it was great--tell her that!

, No matter what, you should always treat girls with respect--regardless of whether or not they are the one you are interested in. It helps to be extra nice to her friends. If they see you as the caring, sweet, funny guy you are, chances are they will tell the girl you like. However, don’t hang out with her friends (or just one of her friends) all the time--it might give her the idea that you are romantically interested in one of her friends.
 Even if your heart lurches weirdly into your mouth, or you start sweating, act as relaxed as you can when hanging out with her, particularly if you don’t want to make a romantic move just yet (or clue her in to the fact that you want something more than friendship). Girls like a confident guy, not someone who becomes a hot mess whenever they approach him. Part of acting relaxed is reminding yourself that you’re a really cool and nice dude--any girl would be lucky to have such a great guy interested in her.



Smile like you mean it. A sincere smile is a very attractive thing. If she makes a joke, allow yourself to laugh. When you look at her, or wave bye when walking to class, smile genuinely.

Make eye contact. Look your girl in the eye when you guys are talking. Eye contact is a sign of confidence. If you look anywhere but at her face, she might think you are uninterested in her or that you have better things to do besides hang out with her.
 Once you have established a friendship and you know that you want to make it something more, start making some romantic gestures that will clue her into the fact that you like her. Remember important dates like her birthday (and do something nice for her on that day), walk her to her next class (and then sprint to yours), or ask her to a dance.


When you feel confident enough to do so, ask the girl you like out.


