 If you'll have to drive for long stretches without these facilities, bring lots of snacks, water, and even some toilet paper, and make sure you have enough fuel to get between stations.


Check you have maps in case your GPS fails. Do a little extra research to make sure there are no GPS flaws on your route (people have been directed into deserts), and plan out where you think you'll stop for bathroom breaks, food, and gas.
 Have a large water bottle in your drink holder with a 'bobble top' or flip top. Bring some extra water along, too, in case you run out or a passenger wants some. Stay hydrated, even if it means having to stop for bathroom breaks!

, Have music available but not so relaxing that it makes you drowsy. Consider books on tape as a way to stay awake and engaged while you drive.


If making your own compilation CD or playlist make every 5th song irritate you a little to keep you awake!

, If you're travelling far from your regular mechanic, you might want to have them check out the car before you go. Make sure your tires are properly inflated, your fluids (oil, water, coolant) levels are right, and keep the windscreen clean. A dusty or dirty screen diffuses light and creates glare.


Get professional advice if considering petrol additives. All these things affect peace of mind.
 These improve grip and make a steering wheel easier to hold on a hot day.
 Australia has a continuing national campaign called "Drive, Revive, Survive". The slogan gets to the heart of the matter: as a driver, you need regular breaks to stay safe, and to keep others around you safe. Don't "power through" any bouts of tiredness. Take a break, stretch, get a snack and drink some water, and only return to the road when you're ready to focus again.
 If you often drive the same route, break the trip in different places and make a whistle stop tour of something different.
 Have rain gear handy if needed. Pack a drop sheet or camping rug beside your emergency jack in case you need to get partway under the car. Make sure you have the basic mechanical equipment and know-how needed to change a tire or jump start your car if the battery goes flat at a rest stop. Sign up with your local auto club in case you experience car troubles out of your depth.

