 It is also important to have a good understanding of how many calories your particular cat needs to consume each day. This amount will vary between cats and is usually based on their age, weight, activity level, and whether or not they have been spayed or neutered.Ask your vet to assess your cat and determine the proper number of calories it should consume each day.
In most instances your vet will provide you with an ideal caloric range for your cat.
 It is also possible to discover your cat’s caloric needs using an online calculator. Complete an online search for a “cat calorie calculator.” You will then need to input your cat’s weight and indicate if your cat has been spayed or neutered. You will also be asked if your cat is a kitten.This calculator will provide a general indication of your cat’s caloric needs, but is not as accurate as a vet assessment.
 It is also possible to calculate the number of calories your cat needs by using a mathematical formula: Cal=(weight kg^0.75)*70*Factor. You need to calculate your cat’s weight in kilograms to the power of 0.75. Then multiply that number by 70. This will give your cat's Resting Energy Requirements (RER). You then need to adjust that calculation slightly depending on your cat’s age and activity level. For a normal adult cat you would multiply this number by 1.2.For example, an adult cat that has been neutered and that weighs 10lbs (4.54kg) will use the following formula to calculate their desired calories: (4.54^1.75)*70*1.2=525 calories/day.
If this were a kitten, you would adjust the factor number from 1.2 to 2.
Alternatively, if the cat was overweight the factor would be adjusted from 1.2 to 0.8.
 An adult cat needs approximately 25 to 35 calories per pound per day. The number varies slightly based on activity level. For example, an active eight pound adult cat would need to consume about 30 calories per pound per day for a total of 240 calories.Kittens need to eat slightly more because they are still growing. As a result, you should feed them frequent meals (approximately four per day) and they should eat as much as they can until they reach six months of age. At this point you can begin feeding them like an adult cat.
Monitor your kittens weight and development to ensure they are not over or under eating.

