 A "freelance" journalist is one who doesn't work for a specific news outlet, but writes independently and seeks to sell articles to publications one at a time. Many sportswriters get their early writing experience in this way.This allows you to work from the comfort of your home and write stories about topics that most interest you. It is hard to make a living doing freelance work, but it's a good way to start getting your name out.
In addition to newspapers and magazines, some websites, such as todaysknuckleball.com will pay for high-quality baseball articles written by freelance writers., No baseball writer (or any other sports journalist) goes straight from college to writing for Sports Illustrated. Start by looking for jobs at small publications, such as small town newspapers and radio stations.By the same token, when you land a job at a small publication, you won't probably start out covering major league baseball games. If you can get a sports writing job at all, expect to start out covering little league or high school games.
 It is hard to get into baseball writing as a career, because many people want to be sports journalists. Be prepared to struggle for the first months or even years of your career while you establish yourself. You'll be both busy and broke.


Your starting salary might be as little as 20 to 30 thousand dollars a year.You may need to cover several events in a day while constantly looking for new job opportunities when you first start out.This difficult period won't last forever, but unless you have powerful connections in the media world, you will probably have to hustle for a while until you get established.
 Apply for every sports writing position you can, whether it is baseball specific or not. Once you get an entry level position, keep looking, so that you can move up to a baseball writing position that will pay the bills.


Be prepared to take a non-sports journalism job at first to get some experience. If this happens, look for opportunities to write about something sports-related any time you can., The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) is the premiere professional organization for baseball writers in the US. Once you find a position covering baseball, you should consider joining.Membership in the BBWAA will look good on your resume as you apply for more prestigious jobs in the future, and will also be useful for building your professional network. Plus, you get to vote in the organization's annual most valuable player poll!

