 It is imperative that before applying makeup to another person, you always practice good hygiene and wash your hands to prevent the spread of disease.


Wet your hands under the tap of the sink with clean, running water.
Apply soap.
Lather the soap by rubbing your hands together with it in between your hands, scrubbing between fingers, under your nails, and on the backs of your hands. Do this for approximately 20 seconds.
Turn the tap back on and rinse your hands thoroughly under the clean, running water.
Dry your hands using a clean tower, paper towel, or you can air dry them.
If you do not have clean water and soap available to you, you can use hand sanitizer as an alternative. However, hand sanitizer will not eliminate all types of germs and is not quite as effective as washing with clean water and soap.;
, There are many types and colors of eye pencils available. You will want to choose one based on the kind of look you are going for.


Jumbo eye pencils are much larger in diameter than standard eye pencils. These can be used to apply a thick layer of eyeliner to the eyelid or even as an eyeshadow.Standard eye pencils are about the same diameter as a regular pencil used for writing. Sometimes the diameter is even smaller than that. Smaller eye pencils can be used to create a thin, defined line on the client’s eyelid.
Eye pencils come in virtually every color and they can also come in shimmery and metallic colors. Browse the selection in stores near you or online to see what is available. In most cases, your imagination is the limit!, Depending on the look that you would like to create, you will want to sharpen the eye pencil. This can be done with a regular pencil sharpener or with one specifically marketed for makeup. You will need to find a sharpener that is a suitable size for the eye pencil you would like to use.


A sharper pencil will create a thinner, more precise look.
A dull pencil will create a thicker, less precise look. If this is what you desire, you may decide not to sharpen the pencil.
You can use a small eye brush or Q-tip to smudge the eyeliner if you would like to create a look that is not very defined.
 You can do this by spraying an alcohol spray onto the tip of the pencil. An alcohol spray will dry quickly, allowing you to use it within a few minutes or less.


Always use isopropyl alcohol to sanitize your makeup (not ethyl alcohol).Isopropyl alcohol can be obtained from your local drugstore, beauty supply store, or from Amazon.com.
 Ask the client to close their eyes. Place your thumb on the client’s cheekbone and your pointer finger above the eyebrow. Gently stretch the skin so that it is not wrinkled or creased on the eyelid. Apply the pencil in short, light strokes, moving from the inner corner of the eye to the outer corner.
 If you would like, repeat the application of the eyeliner until you achieve the desired look.


For a thicker, more dramatic look, repeat the application of the eye pencil until you are satisfied with the results.
For a lighter, more natural look, stick with a light application and do not add many more layers.

