 If you want to look like Bethany Mota, your best bet is to watch a lot of her videos at macbarbie07. She has a devoted fan base of people who call themselves the “Motavators.”


The entire focus of many of Bethany’s videos is to share style, hair, and makeup tips with her audience. So get the tips from the source!She even explains how she decorates her bedroom. It’s all there on her site. She often makes what are called haul videos, which means she goes shopping and then describes her purchases on camera.;
, Bethany has been called a “virtuoso of positivity.” People love her style, but they are also drawn to her personality. You will never see Bethany going negative.This is a key part of her look.


Smile a lot. Bethany has a beautiful, big natural smile. She is a person who is almost always pictured smiling. She is bubbly and talkative.
Bethany has confidence, but she doesn’t come across as arrogant. She admits, for example, that, like many people, she sometimes gets skin blemishes. She is a strong communicator who tries to help her audience members improve their looks.
 Bethany has described her own look as bohemian with a laid-back and free-spirited vibe. She has said it’s important to express your personality through your style instead of just following trends.She says she can be edgy sometimes, but usually she goes for comfort and girly. She likes to shop at H&M, Urban Outfitters, and Aeropostale, of course, where she has a clothing line. Wear colorful nail polish. She often wears colorful nail polish in colors like light blue.
Bethany likes to wear shirts and sweaters with hearts. She also likes whimsical designs like mustaches or eyes. She likes cropped sweaters, which she often wears with shorts. She also wears cropped tank tops, short skirts, and ankle boots a lot.
 Bethany often wears T-shirts with statements. “Donut make me mad,” said one. The statements are usually positive or humorous.


Sometimes she pairs T-shirts with letter jackets. She’s also wore shirts that say “Bonjour” and “Peace Love” and “Chic.”
She likes to wear black or gray T-shirts. She will often pair T-shirts with short skirts or with a pair of jeans. She has also worn knee length socks and fuzzy socks.
 Bethany often likes to surprise when she dresses up. You might see her with a red bow. Or a pair of goofy sunglasses. Her look has been called “laid back, but girly.” She likes to mix and match different looks.


You might see her in overalls. She likes statement sweaters, such as a sweater with a big design on it. Bethany has said that sunflowers are her favorite flower.
Wear boots and short skirts. Bethany likes to wear lace up dress or even hiking boots, sometimes with short skirts. Bethany sometimes pairs winter sweaters with short skirts and ankle boots., Bethany is a You Tube star. She is a good communicator, who takes fans into her world. She is big into DIY projects. She is always on Twitter, Instagram, and, of course, You Tube.


She is into DIY decorating, and has had more than 12 million views for videos about how to spice up your room or decorate it. She likes to communicate directly with her audience.
She also offers teenagers tips about healthy back to school lunches, easy breakfast ideas for school, and back to school hairstyles.
 Bethany has done nutrition videos, but she’s young so she gets away with eating whatever she wants.


She has said mac and cheese is her favorite food and that she also loves French fries. She likes green tea.
Bethany does work out, though. She says she tries to run, bike, or jump around to music videos, for about 30-45 minutes a day.
 Bethany Mota’s hair is a dark chocolate brown, almost black. You won’t look like her if your hair is not dark..


Bethany wears her hair very long, well past her shoulders. Her hair is thick and shiny. She sometimes wears it straight, but her most common look is to wear it long with loose waves.Bethany doesn’t have bangs. Her hair is all one length, and she usually wears her part on the left, sweeping her hair to the right. To create waves, she likes to wear braids to bed. She also applies texture spray to give her hair a beachy look. You could also use a curling iron, wand or flat iron to get the look., Bethany likes to put her hair up in different styles, some of which convey her youth. Put a bow in your hair if you want to capture her girly, youthful vibe.


You will see her with her hair in two pigtails, and she often wears her hair in braids. You will see her in a long, loose single braid that she wears on one side. You might see her with a headband.
She sometimes wears long braids in just a piece of her hair at the front. She’s even put her long hair up in a pony tail that she fastened with a bright red bow at the top. Twist a few braids into your long black hair, and you will look more like her.
 Bethany’s hair looks healthy and thick. She avoids using heat-based styling tools, preferring to create natural waves by sleeping overnight in braids.


She says that she only washes her hair every other day because, when she washed it daily, she noticed it was drying out her hair and making it more brittle.
She avoids shampoo and conditioner that contains sulfates. She says that she often applies leave-in conditioner to her hair, and she uses texturing spray to create waves. Keep your hair natural. She doesn’t have obvious highlights, and she doesn’t have too stiff hair.
 One of Bethany’s favorite accessories is to wear a hat. You will see her rocking different looks. She likes beanies, especially ones that are a little goofy. Her look is playful.


She’s been photographed in black stocking caps with a simple sleeveless T-shirt. And she’s been photographed in a straw hat with a sundress.
She’s also worn red hats. She also likes to wear winter scarves with sweaters or T-shirts, and you will often see her in winter looks. Beanies are her most common hat look.
 Bethany often wears statement lips. She likes vibrant pink and red colors. She plays up her lips with a burst of dark pink or berry.


Occasionally, you will see Bethany with lighter lips. In those cases, she usually chooses pink. But a darker red or berry is often her signature look.
Choose matte lipstick, as well as lip gloss. Bethany goes bold on her lips. She likes to wear lip stain. Bethany is also a big fan of not wearing makeup every day, though, and sometimes she plays her lips down.
 Bethany has striking dark black eyes. She usually wears a lot of makeup to highlight them.


Use a light matte brown color on the lid and a darker brown color in the crease. You will usually see her wearing natural hues. She uses a gel liner in black that she applies with a small angled brush. She applies it to her upper lash line, slightly extending past the end of the eye. She doesn’t always apply liner to her waterline or lower lash line, although sometimes she does.
She curls her lashes. She wears black mascara. She applies it to her upper and lower lashes. She takes dark brown brow powder and uses it with a brush to line her eyebrows. Add liquid liner. Brittany’s eyebrows are dark and thick. She says she fills them in with pencil and sets them with clear gel.
 Bethany wears light foundation and primer.She uses a brush to stipple the foundation all over her face, and then she blends it in.


She sometimes uses Mac concealer. She takes a little concealer, and she applies it under her eyes to cover up under-eye circles. Blend it in so it doesn’t look like rings of concealer. Apply it anywhere you have blemishes.
Set the foundation and concealer with powder. She switches up the blush she wears, but she likes pink blush. She puts a small amount on her finger and applies it on her cheeks, blending it up to her hairline. She doesn’t use a lot of blush.
 Bethany takes care of her skin. She cleanses it in the morning using foaming facial wash, and then she applies moisturizer. She wears a little facial powder, but she tries not to go heavy on the makeup.


She likes La Mer moisturizer. She wears eye cream at night, and uses a mask on her face once a week to improve her skin.
She always removes her makeup with makeup wipes. She doesn’t go out without sunscreen, usually tinted moisturizer.