 Classes on World War I are generally offered at most colleges and universities because it is an event that profoundly shaped history. Taking one of these classes—as a student or simple observer– can help you learn a lot about World War I.


Consult with the university once you’ve found a class that interests you. Ask if you need to enroll for the class or if you can audit it, which means that you sit in on the class but don’t take exams or do other coursework. Make sure to inquire about how much it will cost to take or audit the class.Recognize that many universities have programs for seniors who want to audit courses. Some universities may refer to them as “senior associates” and not charge a fee to sit in or audit courses.
 Classes that are taught online are becoming increasingly popular. You can take them as either a regular university course with a grade or watch a so-called massive open online course, or MOOC.Although these won’t be as in-depth as a regular university course, they still can help you learn a lot about World War I.


Search online by using the term “World War I course.” You should find a broad range of courses about the war from prominent universities and institutions.You can also use different websites that provide information on all of the online courses about World War I.Decide if you prefer to take a traditional online course for credit or simply want to watch a series of online lectures about World War I.
 Institutions, including universities and museums, or other organizations often host lectures on specific subjects such as World War I. These are generally open to the public and can help you learn more about the war. Ask for information at your local historical society or college history department. If you live in a larger city, museums and research institutions also invited guest speakers on subjects such as World War I that you can attend.


Sign up for newsletters, emails, and invitations to local lectures. These are often on the organization’s website or you can sign up by calling. This can help you more quickly find lectures on World War I and its related subjects.

