 When talking to an autistic student, speak clearly with active speech. For example, instead of saying "It's a nice day. Let's continue this lesson outside," you might say "Put your pencils down and close your workbooks. Line up at the door. We're going to work outside today."Keep in mind that you don't want to "dumb down" your language or talk to an autistic teenager or adult like you would talk to a toddler.
Use age-appropriate language for the student. In other words, if you're teaching high schoolers, use the same language with autistic students that you would use with any other students.
Keep in mind that you may have to repeat yourself or clarify your statements sometimes. However, this is preferable to causing an autistic student to feel you think they are stupid or that you are treating them like a baby.
Use a calm, reassuring tone and be patient with the student rather than being harsh. If you are patient and maintain your composure, the autistic student will likely respect you more.;
, Many autistic people interpret language literally, which can make metaphors and idioms confusing. Be aware of phrases you may use frequently in the classroom, and try to speak as literally as possible.For example, you may be fond of telling your students it's time to "put their thinking caps on." However, an autistic student may be puzzled by this expression and wonder why they weren't given a physical "thinking" cap to put on their head for this exercise.
Instead, you can simply say "It's time to think about this subject so we can figure out this problem."
You can start introducing idioms gradually once you know the individual's skill level and how they understand language.
 If an autistic student doesn't understand your lesson the first time, try to figure out what part of your presentation was confusing. The student is capable of grasping the lesson, but may think or process information differently from their peers.Many autistic people are visual thinkers who think in pictures rather than words and concepts. If you're teaching a visual thinker, use pictures rather than words to communicate the information.
Some autistic people are pattern thinkers, and need to understand how everything fits together before they can understand your lesson.
This can be difficult if the things they want to relate together have little to nothing in common, or if they're focused on an irrelevant detail.
If you're having difficulty relating a concept so that an autistic student can understand it, consider getting other students involved. They may be able to reach the student using a method you hadn't thought of.
 Many autistic students have difficulty with abstract thought, particularly visual thinkers. Using a concrete, visual example can bring these abstractions to life for those students.For example, if you're teaching fractions, use a piece of fruit or other food as a visual aid. Cut the food in half to demonstrate halves, then in thirds or quarters and so on.
Pancakes and waffles can serve as good visual aids. Waffles are especially good because the grid can represent fractions of the whole.
In addition to being inexpensive, a benefit to using food as a visual aid is that the class gets a snack after your presentation.
 Most autistic students don't do well with open-ended questions, because there are too many options available and they can become overwhelmed. When presenting a multiple choice question to autistic students, limit the options to two or three choices.This applies not just with questions related to school work, but also with meals, snacks, or free time.
If your students have a half hour for recess in which they can do any number of activities, ask your autistic student directly what they would like to do.
For example, you might say "For the next half hour, would you like to draw a picture or throw this ball on the playground?"

, If you make a general statement to the entire class, autistic students may not understand that they are expected to listen or participate. By addressing them by name, you let them know that what you are saying applies to them.You can work the student's name into your regular speech as you introduce a new lesson or topic.
Just take care to make it seem conversational, and not as though you are calling them out for doing something wrong.
For example, you might say "Students, Alex, Sarah, pay attention to the problem I'm writing on the board. I want you to figure out the answer."

, Many autistic people have particularly sensitive hearing. This means loud sounds, such as the bell that marks the end of class, may be disturbing or even painful for them.If you have no control over the source of the sound, give autistic students a warning well in advance of when the sound will occur.
Allow them to cover their ears or use headphones to muffle the sound.
Common classroom noises may prove distracting to autistic students because they are unable to filter them out. Noise-canceling headphones may help.
Autistic students also may have difficulty focusing in some situations, such as if you have students working in small groups.
 Classrooms, particularly in public schools, often are illuminated with harsh, fluorescent lighting that can overstimulate the senses of autistic students. If possible, turn these lights off and illuminate your classroom with lamps or natural light.If turning off the overhead lights is difficult or impossible, you may be able to move the autistic student's desk closer to the window, so they can rely on natural light to help them focus.
Try replacing older fluorescent bulbs with newer ones, which don't flicker as much and may not disturb autistic students to the same extent.
Take care with shiny or reflective surfaces as well, which can bounce back light and distract or cause pain for autistic students who have light sensitivities.
 Some autistic students' brains are wired in such a way that they literally cannot process auditory and visual input at the same time. This isn't a matter of paying attention, and can't be consciously controlled.Understand the neurological challenges of the autistic students in your classroom. You may have to adjust your lesson plans accordingly, or allow autistic students more time to process the lesson.
For example, if you're showing a video, an autistic student with this sort of processing difficulty may have to watch the video, then listen to the audio separately with the video turned off.
The student may benefit from descriptive audio tracks that describe what's happening in the video for people with sight impairments.
Similarly, you may want to turn on closed-captioning if you're playing a video in which dialogue is important.
 All autistic students can potentially get overstimulated or overwhelmed in a busy classroom. This can happen for some more quickly than for others. However, if you have autistic students in your classroom, create a place they can go to take a break and get out of an overstimulating environment.You can use a room divider to section off a corner from the rest of the classroom. Include bean bags and weighted blankets, as well as a number of stim toys.
Your autistic students can help design this space in a way that will suit them, and may want to bring objects from home.
If autistic students are overwhelmed or overstimulated and need to take a break, allow them to do so.
However, make sure when they're ready they return to the same task rather than moving on to something different. This way you can make sure they're not taking a break simply to avoid doing something they don't want to do.
 Particularly if you teach younger children, be alert for other students who may tease or bully your autistic students. Because autistic children are different and may have "weird" behaviors or mannerisms, they often are a target for bullies.Additionally, autistic children can be susceptible to others' lies because they may think and interpret things very literally. This personality trait makes them vulnerable to other students who may take advantage of them.
As the teacher and authority figure, it is your responsibility to protect your autistic students from these types of abusive behavior.
If you suspect your autistic students are being bullied or harassed, identify the culprits and act swiftly to put an end to the behavior.
Educate all of your students on appreciating diversity and respecting each other's differences.
 If the student stims, such as by flapping their hands, assume that the stimming is important to their coping and learning skills. Rather than trying to force them to be "normal," value your student's differences and make it clear that you accept them for who they are.Each autistic person is different, and will stim for different reasons. As you get to know your autistic students, you will come to recognize when they are stimming because they are thinking or concentrating.
You also should recognize when your autistic students are stimming because they are frustrated or upset. When you see this, try to find out and eliminate the source of their frustration.
Some autistic people, particularly young children, may engage in stimming behavior that is harmful to themselves or others, such as banging their head on the desk or the wall.
If your autistic student is engaging in destructive stemming, do what you can to divert the behavior towards something else that won't hurt them or other people.
 Visual calendars can be beneficial for all students, but are a particular benefit for autistic students because they can see the structure of the day and exactly what they are expected to do.For younger students, use shorter blocks of 15 to 20 minutes. Older students can handle a single task for a longer duration, such as 30 to 45 minutes.
Don't place similar tasks on the schedule one after another – try to split these up so that the students are doing different things throughout the day.
The calendar should be posted in a place where all of your students can easily see it and access it. Encourage your autistic students to check it regularly.
Once you've implemented this schedule, try to stay within its bounds as much as possible. If a lesson runs over time or you have to deviate from the schedule, give your autistic students advance warning.
 An autistic student often will not be able to follow directions that have more than two or three steps. If you write out the steps, the student will have something to which they can refer as they complete the task.Written instructions ensure that the student will remember all the steps of an assignment and complete it correctly.
Written instructions also allow your autistic students to complete more complex assignments on their own without having to repeatedly ask for help.
This can give them a tremendous sense of accomplishment and build their confidence in their abilities.
 Autistic people often have poor executive functioning skills, which means they have difficulty spontaneously understanding a sequence of steps that is required to complete a task.If an autistic student can't recall the steps to do something, they can feel frustrated or become confused.
For example, you may assume that if you tell your students to turn in their homework each morning, they will understand that they are to take the work home with them, complete it, and turn it in the next day.
However, an autistic student may have problems with this basic statement. They may not be able to identify the assignment you gave as "homework," understand how they are supposed to complete it, or know exactly what they're supposed to give to you, how they're supposed to turn it in, and when.
Break it down by specifically identifying the assignment as homework, telling the student to take it home, complete the assignment that evening (including instructions on how to complete the assignment), put it in their backpack, bring it to school, take it out of their backpack, then place their paper on your desk when they come into the classroom.
With some autistic students this may be overkill, particularly if they are older. Talk to your students and rely on them to tell you what they need or if your instructions are confusing.
 Make an effort to learn your autistic students' special interests and incorporate them into classroom lessons and assignments. Your students will be excited about the opportunity to share their special interests with others.For example, special interests can provide subject matter for word problems that can help your autistic students understand more complex or attract math concepts.
If you're teaching English or history, figure out how you can work your autistic students' special interests into their studies.
For example, if you have an autistic student who is interested in Paris, you could have them read novels set in Paris, or write a research paper on aspects of Parisian life that are relevant to the subjects you're studying in the classroom.
 Autistic students may need additional time to prepare before to transition from one task to another. Giving advance warning allows them to wrap up their work and get ready for the next thing.A simple reminder of the time and what is next on the schedule should suffice. Make sure your autistic students hear and are aware to prepare for the transition.
You may have better results going to your autistic students specifically about 5 or 10 minutes before you move to a new task or subject to let them know that it's time to start transitioning to something else.
Make sure your autistic students understand where you are in the daily schedule so they can follow the day properly.
 Rewarding and reinforcing positive behavior encourages autistic students to behave appropriately in the classroom, and teaches them which types of behavior are accepted.A simple "good job" when the student has finished a step towards completing a task can make a big difference in terms of increasing that student's confidence in their abilities.
Make sure autistic students know when they have completed assignments correctly, and provide continual reinforcement when your autistic students are behaving appropriately in the classroom.
Allowing autistic students time to participate in their social interests or do something else they enjoy can serve as a good reward for completing a task, especially if they're working on a subject that gives them difficulty.

