 Many colleges offer jobs to students, including jobs at the student bookstore and cafeteria, tutoring jobs, and office work. Visit your school's website, and go to the careers section. There should be a section for student employment. Here are some other types of jobs you might find at your college:


Working as a food server in the dining hall.
Helping out with building and campus maintenance.
Working as a receptionist in a residence hall or office, or a tour guide in the admissions office.
Helping with research or working as a lab assistant.
 You can keep packaged snacks, such as chips, granola bars, bottled water, and soda inside your locker. The next time someone mentions that they forgot to pack a snack and how hungry they are, offer to sell them a snack out of your locker. Word will get around, and you may soon find classmates waiting outside your locker for snacks. Try to keep your prices lower than the cafeteria, but don't keep them too low or you won't be making any money.


Consider buying the food when it is on sale, or in bulk; the prices will be cheaper and you will make some profit.
Try to sell stuff that your classmates won't be able to buy in the cafeteria.
Keep in mind, however, that this might get you in trouble with the school.
 This will allow you to set your own hours, location, and wage. Print off a few fliers and post them around your school. If your school has a message board, be sure to post a flier there as well.


You can also print and sell class notes and study material, but make sure that the notes are very good and clear.
 By getting good grades, you may be able to get some money from your school. Some scholarships and grants can only be applied towards tuition, but some will arrive to you in the form of a check; you can do whatever you want with that money.
 Not all internships are paid, but they will give you valuable experience that you can use when applying for jobs after graduating from college. Most internships will also count towards school credit and can be used in the place of some classes.

