 If the water you are falling into is too shallow for you to stand in up to your shoulders, breaking your fall with a dive is a bad idea, and you should do everything you can to land feet-first., Locked elbows and knees are more prone to injury in a fall, even into water. While it is natural to tense up after tripping or falling, try to relax your muscles and fall smoothly and naturally. , Depending on how far you are falling, you may have time to tuck your knees, and bring your feet and legs beneath you so that they strike the water first. Assume the "pencil" position if possible , entering the water toes-first, arms at your sides. Entering the water with your feet is always preferable to falling onto your hands or arms, as your legs absorb shock much more efficiently.Try to avoid "belly flopping" as much as possible, even if you can't bring your legs under your body. Tucking your chin, and bringing your knees up into a "cannonball" position is preferable to landing flat on your stomach, but remember to keep your joints relaxed.
 This will make it less likely for you to strike the surface of the water face-first, and will help straighten your spine for a dive. If you aren't able to complete a proper dive in time, tucking your chin will begin naturally curling your body so that your back and shoulders strike the water first, rather than your face. Closing your eyes as you attempt to dive is a good idea, as it will help you focus on positioning your body correctly.
 If you are an experienced diver, you might be able to assume the correct diving position and enter the water fingers-first. If you do not execute the dive correctly, however, you risk serious injury to your spine. If you are not falling from a great height (as described in the next section), a belly flop is an unpleasant but usually harmless way to enter the water.Try to cover your face with your hands and keep your chin tucked.

Again, whenever possible, turn your body mid-air to enter the water feet-first.
If you aren't falling very far and you are a competent diver, it may be appropriate to attempt an impromptu dive by extending your arms and hands, finger first, towards the surface of the water. Remember not to lock your joints. If your fingers hit the water first, they will break the surface tension of the water, allowing the rest of your body to enter the water more easily.
 Controlling your breath in this way will help ensure that you don't accidentally breathe in water. Holding your breath is a natural response to the shock of falling, but you should avoid this. If you impact the water with held breath, the pressure in your lungs combined with the impact of the fall can cause injury.
 It is natural to panic in deep water. Use even, steady strokes to rise to the surface where you can take a breath of air, then swim to land or ask for help from others nearby.

