 This master list can give you the best benefits and see if there's one or more that you favor over another. Check their FAQs, terms of service, etc. for all of the information.

What is their reputation? Browse through message boards and blogs for reviews of the website. These reviews are very helpful since they have experienced the site and services themselves.
What kinds of shipping options do they offer? All options are provided by the United States Post Office. The standard and most common is first class, that typically takes 5-8 business days. Some to most services offer express delivery and other fast methods.
What region of the country are they from? Mailing times do differ a lot, as you can get an envelope faster from a place in the same region or close to you than on the other side of the country. You might want to jot down the zip code that they are mailing from. This way, you can then use the USPS website to calculate an estimate on shipping time.
How much is shipping? Different services offer certain shipping amounts depending on your subtotal. For example, if your total is between $2.00 to $3.99, you would pay $0.40 for shipping and any orders above $4.00 would give you free shipping.
What kinds of offers do they have? While many services offer individual pre-cut coupons, there are those whom sell complete inserts. Some websites extend into other consumer products besides food, personal care, etc and sell coupons for restaurants, department stores, and other places.;
, When an insert comes out that week, you need to acknowledge that the coupons included are usually the "hottest", most popular, and most priced. These can be anywhere between $0.10 and $0.18 on average depending on the service. When a coupon has been out for some time, they can then be priced between $0.05 and $0.08. Coupons on clearance are to be considered ones that have about a week or two before expiration, or to the owner's discretion.

Websites that provide multiples in bundles will offer 20 of the same coupon for about $1.00 to $1.50 on average, depending on how popular the coupons are.
 A "shopping cart" is essentially your order on any website when you purchase items. Because of coupon demands and other factors, a service will "hold" your order between 30 and 60 minutes. If you don't checkout within the specific time, your cart may be emptied out and placed back on the site for other customers., PayPal is the most widely and common payment service option to use with clipping services. Payment is instant and your personal banking information is not shared with anyone. Some services do offer snail mail, if needed., One mistake in spelling might deter proper delivery and it may be mailed to someone else. Print out any confirmation notices and jot down the estimated delivery time calculation from the zip code of where they're from., We're all human beings and we're all bound to make mistakes. If there is an error with your order, be sure to contact the service immediately and fully explain the issue.