 There are a number of medical conditions that call for an ID bracelet, including diabetes, severe allergies, epilepsy, hemophilia, dementia, and rare blood types. Finding the right bracelet will depend a lot on your specific condition.The “why” of your ID is important. The needs of someone with an allergic condition will be different from what someone with a rare disease or kidney failure needs.
Simple IDs usually have the universal symbol for medical emergencies: the “Star of Life” and the “Rod of Asclepius.” This is snake wrapped around a rod in what looks like a large asterisk. It is usually blue or red in color.You may also choose to include your name and other information on the ID, like your condition or health details and contact information.;
, Ask yourself what kind and level of care you expect, as well. What sort of action do you need during an emergency? This will affect the sort of information – and maybe extras – that go onto your ID.


Someone with dementia, for example, may need a medical ID in case they get lost. They might benefit from an ID with built-in GPS technology.
Someone with epilepsy may need an ID for care during a seizure, conversely, while someone with a rare blood type will need one in case they require an emergency blood transfusion. These are very different needs.
You may also want to think about privacy. IDs can have contact information. Some now come equipped with embedded access to your health records.Think about what you would do if you lost the ID. Is the data sensitive?

, Based on your condition and needs, you can choose to buy a simple ID bracelet or one with add-on features. These range from 25-hour family and doctor notification systems to health information delivery services.
 This includes an ID and wallet card, notification and wandering alert systems, and medical document storage.The same foundation also offers packages for adults and an Alzheimers “Safe Return” service.
Extras may be beneficial for seniors who are in danger of falling, as well. Many companies can include a panic button on the bracelet or necklace, which allows the wearer to call for help by pressing a button.
If paramedics should know a lot about your condition, you might also go for a medical ID with embedded access to your records. Alternately, a medical alert USB stick will hold all your medical information. These can be placed on a key chain or worn around the wrist or neck.