 It may take up to 4 weeks for you to see a difference, so be prepared to wait for results. You may find it useful to take a “before” pic: tracking your progress might help keep you motivated.









Aim for at least a few minutes of lip exercises 1 to 2 times per day. You can pick and choose from the exercises in this article, or do an online search for more exercises.
There are many instructional videos on lip-plumping exercises, if you’d like someone to follow along with.
While many people swear they’ve seen a difference, there is insufficient scientific research to suggest that lip exercises actually work.
 Doing lip exercises with dry, chapped lips, will likely cause them to tear and/or bleed.


If your lips are quite chapped, drink lots of water and apply a good lip moisturizer, then wait a few days until they’re in better shape before starting lip exercises.
 Holding your hand close to your face, press your lips against it as if you’re about to blow someone a kiss. Hold your lips against your hand for several seconds. Repeat 5 to 10 times.
 Do this for 15 seconds, then relax. Next, pucker your lips, pushing them out as far as you can into an exaggerated kissy face. Do this 10 times.









After smiling and puckering your lips, hold the puckered position for at least 30 seconds, then relax and pull your lips inside your mouth, letting your teeth gently clamp down on them. Hold this position for 10 seconds.
Repeat the whole process 5 times.
 Hold this position for at least 10 seconds. Repeat 10 times.
 Create a resistance to this movement by imagining that there’s something trying to prevent you from pressing your lips together. Work on holding your lips together against this resistance for 5 seconds. Repeat 10 times.
 Gently move your lips from left to right as you inflate each cheek with air. It should look kind of like you’re using mouthwash. Repeat this process 10 times.









Try to move your lips in the shape of a figure 8, in both directions.
 Hold this position for 5 seconds. Repeat 10 times.
 Inhale deeply, then puff up your cheeks and form your lips into an “O” shape as you prepare to exhale. Exhale gradually, taking 2 to 3 blows to get all of your air out.
 Do this in an exaggerated motion, stretching your lips out as far as you can. Relax your lips and repeat 5 times.
 If your mouth, face, or lips become sore from these exercises, take a break. As with any muscles, the muscles in your face can become fatigued; if you push your muscles too hard when they’re already tired, you might even injure yourself.

