 Once you have the basics down, it's time to make your world a little tougher. You can add in the free-throw line, make players go down the line and come back, or make the last shot an extra-difficult 3-pointer.


Make sure everyone understands all of the shots before beginning -- it makes a big difference when deciding whether to move on or stay put for the second shot.
 Mix-in different kinds of shots, such as layups. Throw in blind shots, backwards throws, backboard shots only (or no backboard shots at all), or any other challenge you can think of to make the game more interesting.
 If you're a great shooter, you should be able to constantly hit every shot under pressure. If you're really looking to improve your game or make things tenser, only allow one shot per spot. You can also eliminate the ability to skip a shot, forcing players to take both shots every time and move back if they fail.
 This is best for smaller groups of 2-4 players, and you may need a referee to ensure it all works out. Start with every player on roughly the same square, say go, and start shooting. The rest of the rules apply as well, except you cannot skip turns. If you miss twice, you start over. Players will have to be strategic about when to shoot, and smart players can even try and hit other players balls to knock them back to start -- though you'll be sacrificing one of your own shots as well.









To make it easier to enforce the rules, players should shout "chance shot" every time they take a second shot, allowing you to know if they must restart if they miss., You could only allow three total skips in the entire game, making them much more strategic and putting a greater focus on good shooting. It can, however, also make the game much longer.
 This little variation mixes up the normal game and allows for odd and spectacular shots. You can make players alternate arms every shot (making them more or less likely to risk the second shot), or force them to shoot opposite handed whenever they want to take a second shot. You can mix this up with backwards shots or blind, eyes-closed shots as well to make things interesting.







