 If you're taking the practical route, assess what you're good at. If you have particular skills already, it may be wise to build upon them in college. Think about what your strengths and weaknesses were in high school. This can help you identify areas where you're likely to excel.For example, maybe you got high scores and standardizes tests for areas like math and science. A degree in a STEM field may benefit you. You already know you're adept at the kind of thinking required for such a degree.
Maybe you never took to math and science, but did very well on fields like writing and reading comprehension. You may do better in a field based in the humanities.
 Where do you see yourself after college? If you could have any job in the world, what would it be? Answering these questions can help you identify a major that will help you on your career path.Some career paths give you very specific guidance in terms of the degree you should pursue. If you want to, say, be a teacher, you will need a teaching degree. If you plan to become a doctor or a lawyer, you'll need a pre-law or pre-med degree.
Other paths are less obvious. If you want to, say, work for a grassroots political organization, there are a variety of degrees that may help. Something like political science, history, journalism, or communications may pay off. You could also go for a degree related to the organization's interests. For example, if you want to work for somewhere like Greenpeace, opt for a degree related to the environment.
Meeting with a career counselor can help you plan a degree path related to your chosen career.
 If you want to make a decent living after graduation, look into the ultimate pay off. This may be particularly important if you're taking on a lot of debt to get your degree. Think about which degrees tend to pay the highest.Things like business, architecture, engineering, computer, math, and science degrees tend to pay the highest.
Degrees in areas like health, social sciences, and public law tend to offer midrange pay.
Degrees in the humanities and areas like communications and journalism tend to pay lower.
 If you're already on a specific career path, your major may already be somewhat decided for you. If you plan on going straight to medical school, for example, there may be a very specific pre-med track you need to follow. Try talking to a career advisor at your school to make sure you've selected the right major for your chosen career.When you're asking, make sure to address your specific concerns. For example, say something like, "I plan to go to medical school after graduation. Is there a specific major I should declare to make sure I get into a good college?"

, Some majors require specific courses to have been completing prior to signing up for the major. Some major you can simply declares, while others have an admissions process. Prior to selecting a major, review the prerequisites. Make sure you're able to fulfill any prerequisites before getting your heart set on a major.Talking to a relevant college advisor can help you make sure you get the prerequisites down. You may have to spend your freshmen year taking certain classes in preparation for declaring a certain major. Ask questions like, "If I want to study music, is there an auditions process?"

