 One of the best ways to start beginners is with one-handed throws. This helps them master their dominant hand motion for a full spiral. Have them grip the ball with their dominate hand, cupping along the side and underneath the ball, towards the back. From there:


Grip the ball near your hip, holding on to the back half.
Cock the elbow back, pointing the nose of the ball at your target.
Snap your arm forward to throw the ball.
Twist your wrist over and to the left, snapping your fingers to spin the ball out., It may seem counter-intuitive, but a light grip on the ball actually leads to greater power and accuracy. Once you're comfortable with the motion, work on holding the ball only with your fingertips, allowing you to pull on them to get perfect spin., The best way to improve your throw is to practice. While you should always throw back and forth during practice, there are some focused drills that can make your a better thrower over time:



Quick Hands: From a straight horizontal line with 3-5 players, 3-5 meters apart. Keeping your feet in place, work on throwing the ball down and back across the line as quickly as possible. As you get better, increase the distance.

Mini-Lines: Get three players and jog down the field with a ball in a line. As soon as you pass it, drop back so that you are behind the player with the ball and they can legally pass it. As soon as you get the ball, sprint ahead 2-3 steps to put your other players in legal throwing position. Keep throwing and moving amongst the three of you the length of the field.
 A spin gives the ball stability, helping to retain speed and accuracy as it moves through the air. This makes it the most reliable throw in your arsenal, but that doesn't mean you should use it every time. Sometimes you shouldn't pass at all, or you should use a simple, unspun "pop" pass instead, such as:


When you're being tackled. If your arms aren't free, you won't be able to spin it accurately enough for a throw.
When you're out of space or time. A good throw takes a little time, and your arms cover a wide distance. If a defender can clip one of your arms while throwing your accuracy is going to be way off, and you could cost your team a turnover.
When making very short passes. The best thing to do here is simply pop the ball up, without spin. This allows the teammate to run through the ball, ideally catching it when it is still barely moving in midair.