 If you’re going to be pet-sitting a friend’s or neighbor’s dog, first you’ll need to make sure that the dogs get along, especially if your small dog is dwarfed by the animal you’re pet sitting. Hold your dog on a leash, and have the other dog’s owner hold theirs as well. Let the two dogs approach and sniff each other. Walk the two dogs side-by-side, about five feet apart, before letting them meet face to face.Check with the dog’s owner ahead of time, to make sure that their dog is friendly towards other dogs. Specify that your dog is small, and make sure that the other dog does not have behavioral issues towards small dogs.
Sometimes large dogs will behave amiably towards other dogs their own size, but will treat small dogs with hostility.;
, Even in small dogs, specific behaviors can indicate hostility or fear. If either dog has a tense, strained body, bares its teeth, or growls and snarls, pull the dogs apart from one another. On the other hand, if the dogs start pawing at or playing with one another, they will get along well.If you’re introducing a small puppy to a larger adult dog, follow this same procedure. Be careful that the larger dog doesn’t bully or pursue the puppy, even if it’s only an attempt to play. Supervise the dogs when they’re interacting together, and intervene if the larger dog doesn’t respond to your puppy’s signals to stop.
 Dogs are social animals, and walks provide an important form of exercise and socialization. Unless either dog has an overriding health concern, walk the dogs together daily.This will allow the dogs to fall into a “pack” mentality, which will prevent later acts of aggression.


If the dog you’re pet-sitting is larger than your own, it may assume the role of the alpha. This is fine—it’s natural for dogs to assume these social roles, and it’s a sign that the dogs are getting along well.
Before walking the new dog with your small dog, ascertain from the dog’s owner how frequently, and for how long, it’s usually walked. You may need to find a compromise between the dog’s typical walk schedule, and your own small dog’s schedule.
 The dog that you’re pet sitting will be more calm and in a better mood, and consequently less likely to bother or antagonize your own small dog, if it’s kept comfortable. You can keep the dog in a good mood by spending time with it; pet the dog and play catch (or another game) daily.


Make sure to put out multiple food and water bowls, as well as beds and toys, for both your small dog and the dog you’re pet-sitting. This way, both dogs can make themselves comfortable without feeling like they must compete with the other dog for resources or a place to sleep.Also check with the dog’s owner—they may be able to drop off the dog’s favorite toy, bed, or blanket, or give you a recommendation as to what food or type of treats the dog most enjoys eating.

