 Whether you are applying to become an EMT or paramedic, become certified before applying, if required. First, research the department’s guidelines to be sure you receive certification from the specified source.Expect some to demand certification from state and/or local governments, while others accept it from private entities, such as universities and privately-run programs.If they accept certification from private entities, be discerning about which you seek out. Although certification from Source A and Source B are both legally valid, the department may value Source A if their reputation is more reputable., Visit the department's recruitment page online or contact them directly to find how when and how applications are accepted. Expect some departments to only accept applications when a position becomes available, while others accept them at all times. Follow each department's guidelines and include any required documentation that they might request.If paramedics are hired from within the current ranks of EMTs, inform your supervisor of your interest in promotion as soon as possible, whether or not there are any open positions. Once one opens, you will be contacted and considered., Research the department's hiring process beforehand. Find out if the first interview is conducted immediately upon submitting your application or afterward. Bring all necessary documents (such as your driver’s license, degrees, and certifications) for inspection.Anticipate questions regarding:Personal questions, such as your interest in the field and your goals for the future.
Job-related questions, like the proper procedure in treating specific medical emergencies.
Character-based questions, such as dealing with coworkers' dangerous and/or illegal behavior.
 Allow the department to fingerprint you so they can have a law enforcement agency run your prints and ID. Also expect them to research your online presence, credit history, and driving record.If you have any felonies or misdemeanors on your record, research the department’s policy regarding these before you apply.


Although some departments may immediately reject applicants with a criminal history, others may still allow you to apply after being interviewed and cleared by a designated office. However, they will not consider any application that does not include documentation of this clearance.Background checks may also include drug tests and psychological exams., Expect the nature of this test to differ from one department to the next. Some may only require you to pass the Candidate Physical Agility Test (CPAT) or similar physical challenge. Others may include such tests as part of their academy, which you may have to attend along with firefighter-applicants.Either way, anticipate having to prove your physical fitness and endurance by successfully completing simulated examples of real-world challenges, such as:


Hauling heavy firefighting and/or medical equipment.
Climbing up and down fire ladders that are extended two stories high or more.
Personally lifting and carrying “victims” who are unable to walk.
Partnering with another applicant to carry patients on stretchers up and down multiple flights of stairs.
 Again, expect the exact nature of these to vary depending on where you are applying. As a paramedic with the fire department, you may be expected to attend their academy and complete the same coursework as firefighter-applicants.If not, you may have to complete a basic aptitude test, which may focus primarily on firefighting or test your medical knowledge as well.You may also need to pass a civil service exam.The discrepancy between departments regarding testing is an important reason to research and visit each department before applying. Learn exactly what you need to prepare for in order to ensure success.
 Once hired, expect your employment to be considered probationary.If you were hired on condition of earning certification after the fact, do so. Even if you did obtain all necessary certification before applying, anticipate having to complete further coursework, training, and exams once hired.Although the length of probation may vary from department to department, expect it to last approximately one year after your date of hire.


Additionally, the evolving nature of medicine means that you will be expected to undergo new training throughout your career. Also, you will need to seek recertification continually.

