 During the weekend, decide what you'll have for lunch. Make a list of everything you need to make the lunch, and prepare it before a new week starts.


By packing your lunch the night before, you won't have to worry about it in the morning. This will also keep you from getting something that might be unhealthy.;
, Protein is more filling than other sources of nourishment, and it also makes you stay full for a longer period of time. Proteins low in fat are good options, including beans, grilled chicken, hummus, peanut butter and almond butter.
 Fruits and vegetables contain minerals and vitamins, which are good for you, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends 2 1/2 cups of vegetables and 2 cups of fruit each day. For example, eat a fruit salad with berries or a sandwich with lettuce and tomatoes. Those are healthy options.
 Soup is a healthy comfort food, and it also helps you calm down and stay calm. Try chicken or lentil soup; they are both delicious and healthy.
 This is an excellent option for busy people. It's easy to sip a smoothie while taking bites of your lunch. Ingredients of your smoothie can be various, but yogurt, avocados, kale, coconut oil and fresh berries are among the many options.
 Sandwiches are good for you, and adding healthy foods to your sandwiches is even better. Start by choosing whole grain bread; whole grains are healthy choices for your body. Include vegetables such as lettuce, tomatoes, and slices of cucumber. You can also add fruits such as almonds and bananas. Healthy meats are also great options, and those include roasted turkey and beef low in fat.
 Salads contain healthy nutrients, and they can be filled with the vegetables you like. You can also add protein-filled foods to your salad, such as salmon, chicken, and hard-boiled eggs, to make it more nutritious and flavorful. You can also add a touch of salad dressing, or even a little amount of olive oil, in a separate container.
 There's no need to throw them away; just put them in a light container and take them for lunch at work. It's fine to reheat foods, but some foods can stay cold, such as chicken, burgers and beans.

