 It is essential that you rest as much as possible in the 24 hours immediately following a miscarriage, as this gives your body time to adjust to its new condition and recover from the loss.


Sleep as much as possible — if you are having difficulty in getting to sleep, try drinking a glass of warm milk. The warm fluid will relax your body and help to induce sleep.
Between resting periods, try stretching your arms and legs for ten minutes each. You can also take daily 20 minutes walks — the exercise is good for you and will help you to sleep better.;
, Abdominal cramping is very common following a miscarriage and is usually accompanied by bleeding. The pain varies from person to person, and can depend on whether the fetus was expelled naturally, or removed surgically.


Taking drugs like ibuprofen help to relieve the pain, while drugs like cyclopam and buscopan are antispasmodics which lessen pain by reducing the strength of the contractions in the muscles of the uterus.
The pain of the cramping should reduce naturally over time. If the pain increases over time, it is advisable to seek medical attention, as there may be more tissue left in the uterus that will need to be removed.
 For the first five days following a miscarriage, it is recommended that you check your temperature everyday. Any temperature over 37.60 degrees C (99.7 degrees F) should be reported to your doctor, as a high temperature may be a sign of infection in your uterus or elsewhere.
 Heavy to moderate vaginal bleeding is expected following a miscarriage, as the uterus expels tissue leftover from the pregnancy. Sanitary towels should be used to absorb the heavier bleeding, but you can switch to tampons once it eases off a little. Both sanitary towels and tampons should be changed every 8 hours, at the very minimum.


You should also make an effort to shower at least once a day (and preferably twice). This helps to maintain good hygiene and reduces your chances of developing an infection.
Avoid douching and don't use any strong disinfectant soaps or chemicals around the vagina. This can irritate the area and cause an infection.
 Hot and cold compresses can be used to relieve the pain of headaches, along with abdominal cramps and back pain. Alternating between hot and cold compresses is a good idea, as heat helps to relax the muscles, while cold helps to numb any pain.


You can buy special hot and cold packs for this very purpose, or you can make your own by soaking a washcloth in hot or cold water and wringing it out before using. You could also use a bag of frozen peas for a cold compress and a hot water bottle for a hot compress.
Press the hot compress against the painful area for 20 to 25 minutes at a time, then switch to the cold one, or vice versa.
 Following a healthy diet is essential after a miscarriage, as healthy foods will help the body to heal itself and allow it function normally. It will also give you more energy, which will help you to feel better overall. Eating poorly will only make you feel worse.


Follow a balanced diet that contains healthy portions of protein, carbohydrates, fiber and fat. Try to drink at least 8 glasses of water per day.
Increase your calcium intake to about 200mg per day. Any calcium is absorbed by the baby during pregnancy, so you may be deficient following a miscarriage. Drink milk, eat dairy products and eat fish such as sardines and salmon.
Increase your folic acid intake. Folic acid is necessary in blood formation and you tend to lose a lot of blood following a miscarriage. Get more folic acid in your diet by taking a supplement and eating leafy green vegetables and fruits.
 It is advisable to avoid having sexual intercourse for the first 1 to 2 months following a miscarriage — this gives the vagina time to heal.


Once you begin having sex again, it is recommended that you use contraceptives because there is an increased likelihood of becoming pregnant again before your normal period is due (usually one month to six weeks after the miscarriage).
This is particularly important if you and your partner do not want to conceive again so soon.

