 Many dog trainers believe that excessively anxious, excitable, or frightened dogs are the direct result of insufficient training. You must reinforce positive behavior when training your dog. Teach it to not get anxious at the vet, excitable at the dog park, or frightened by thunderstorms. Do this by offering an alternative task to focus on and then rewarding it when it completes the task successfully.For example, during a trip to the veterinarian’s office, if you dog gets overly anxious in the waiting room, tell it to “sit” or “lay down”. Really any basic command will do. Then reward your dog after they’ve successfully followed your command. This will reinforce the training and take your dog’s mind off of the stressful situation. In the future, your dog may even associate the waiting room of the vet with sitting and receiving a treat, not with being probed by a stranger., Your dog thinks of you as a member of its pack. If he sees you anxious or fearful, he will adopt a similar emotional state. If you find yourself in an unsettling situation, don’t let it show. Take deep breaths and count them, exhaling slowly and deliberately.


For example, if you take your pet to the vet for an operation and you’re stressed about it, don’t let your dog see it. You want to always create a positive experience for your dog in these situations. Alternatively, if you shriek every time you hear a thunder clap, your dog will think there is something to fear. This will cause anxiety too., Pheromones are chemical messengers given off by a dog’s mother during nursing to reassure her pups that they are safe and secure. Synthetic versions of this chemical, known as Dog Appeasing Pheromones (DAPs) are available for purchase as many pet superstores. Simply plug them into the wall or attach them to your dog’s collar and watch them calm your canine companion., Zylkene contains a protein extracted from milk that acts as a calming agent — like diazepam. This capsule is given twice daily and has been shown to calm dogs during thunderstorms, trips to the vet, or stays at the kennel., They will be able to advise you on what measures will work best - either behavioral or medical. If necessary, you can get a prescription for stronger medications. Only give these to your dogs if your vet prescribes them and do so according to the vet's instructions. Five types of medicines are usually used to treat behavior problems in dogs. These are benzodiazepines (BZs), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).