 It’s not recommended to attack Slade first; he is a skilled fighter and will counter most of your attacks and leave you open for his counterattacks.


Wait for Slade to attack you with his staff, and counter (△ button) him when he does.
Be sure not to spam the counter button. Unlike previous battles and common thug battles, if you press the counter button at the wrong time against Slade, your counter will fail, leaving you vulnerable to his attacks.;
, He will also occasionally attack you, and it will lead into a sequence where you need to press the counter button that will actually appear on-screen. This is the perfect time to attack him.
 If Slade gets too close to them, Batman will throw him towards a different direction, and you'll lose your opportunity to deal some damage.
 After you deal some damage to Slade, he'll throw a smoke pellet and disappear. He'll then attack Batman from the air, and you'll be required to mash the triangle (△) button to counter him.


After successfully countering his attacks, Slade will be left open for a beat down.
 Mash the attack (▘) button; this will continuously deal damage to Slade until Batman knocks Slade’s mask off.
 Do not recklessly attack Slade after mashing his mask off. He will be more dangerous than before, and he also won't let you attack him anymore. Any attempt to land a combo without countering will end up in a counter sequence beneficial to Slade only.
 Eventually, you will be able to land a few hits on him.


Don't be too greedy with damaging Slade though. This battle is pretty long, and he isn't an easy opponent to beat, so it's better to conserve your HP.
 Once you've dealt enough damage, Slade will start using a gadget similar to the Batclaw. Once he fires it, it will attach to Batman's chest, and the other end will grab a canister of gas.


Use the counter button at the right time to send the canister flying at Slade. Quickly run up to Slade and attack him.
If you fail to send the canister to Slade, he will start shooting at you with his gun, so try to send the canisters back as much as you can.
 When Slade’s HP reaches a certain low point, he'll once again throw a smoke pellet and attack you.
 This time, Batman will take Slade's staff and break it in half. In retaliation, Slade will now use his sword.
 Attack Slade first when you get the chance, but be on your guard for possible counters.


Slade will deal a lot of damage to you with that blade, so be careful.
 Other than Slade changing combos and a much more dangerous weapon, the overall feel of the battle won’t change so much, so just continue to counter him while occasionally attacking him yourself.
 Once you drop Slade’s health low enough, he'll drop another smoke pellet and attack you with his blade. Counter like you did with the staff.
 You'll damage Slade enough to end the battle.


A cutscene will then play ending in Slade's defeat.

