 Before you restrain your cat, you will need to get his medicine ready to go. If you have not done so already, read the medicine label carefully before you prepare your cat’s medicine. Call your cat’s veterinarian if you have any questions about how to administer the medicine.Your vet may give you a pill pusher if you will be administering pills without food. A pill pusher is like a syringe for pills, so that you do not have to stick your fingers into your cat’s mouth. If your cat will be taking liquid medicine, your will need to use a medicine dropper.
Double check the dosage for your cat’s medicine and make sure that you have prepared the correct amount.
If your cat has to take a pill without food, prepare a medicine dropper with about 5ml of water as well. You can give this water to your cat after administering the pill to ensure that your cat swallows the pill and it doesn’t get stuck in his esophagus.Place your cat’s medicine someplace close to where you will be holding your cat, so that you can grab it as soon as the cat's mouth is open. For example, you could place the medicine on a paper towel on a nearby surface or ask someone to hold it for you.
 Wrap your cat up like a burrito by placing him onto the middle of the towel and quickly pulling the sides up around him. If you have to administer a pill to your cat without food, you will have to restrain him and put the pill into his mouth. If your cat is not used to taking pills, then there is a good chance that he will struggle to get free. By wrapping him in a towel with only his head exposed, you can prevent him from finding traction on your body and getting away from you. The towel will also help to prevent him from scratching you.You can also try holding your cat in your lap while you administer the medicine, if that feels easier for you. You should still wrap your cat in a towel because there is still a good chance that he will try to get away.You may also want to enlist the help of a friend or family member if this is a new experience for your cat. That way, one of you can hold your cat and the other can administer the medicine with both hands.
 Any surface that is at least waist high will make it easier for you to administer your cat’s medication. Hold your cat (still wrapped in the towel) while allowing his body to rest on the surface.If you are administering the medicine by yourself, you will want to have one hip against the side of the surface and your arm around your cat.
 Use your thumb and ring finger to press the corners of your cat’s mouth. Your cat’s mouth should begin to open as you apply pressure. If your cat’s mouth is not opening wide enough to give the medicine, use your other hand to gently push down on your cat’s lower jaw.Do your best to keep your fingers out of your cat’s mouth as you hold it open. Keep them on the edges of his mouth so that they are out of the reach of his teeth.
 If you are using a pill pusher, put the pill towards the back of your cat’s tongue. If you are using a medicine dropper, insert the dropper between the cat's cheek and teeth. Do not squirt liquid medication into the cat's throat or tongue. Liquids are likely to go down a cat's windpipe, making the cat choke.Follow up with the 5 milliliters (0.17  fl oz) medicine dropper of water if you are give your cat a pill without food. Make sure to administer the water between your cat’s cheek and teeth.
 After you have administered the medicine, close your cat’s throat and gently stroke his throat under his chin. This will help to encourage him to swallow the pill., Even though you cannot give your cat a treat to reward him for taking his medicine, you should still do something to let him know you are happy with him. Pet him, play with him, and praise him immediately after you finish giving your cat his medicine.
 Give your cat a drink or syringe a small volume of water into the side of his mouth (remember not to squirt straight into the cat's throat or onto tongue, as the water will likely end up down his windpipe). This washes the pill down so that it doesn't get stuck halfway down the esophagus. Some meds can burn if they get stuck, with potentially serious consequences.