 Maxi skirts are very long and need fabric that is a bit heavier to weigh them down. Find a fabric that is a bit thicker so that it is not see-through and will have enough weight to keep the skirt from blowing around. Use a wide band of elastic to create the waistband at the top; the elastic will be exposed, so choose a color that matches the fabric of your skirt.


Try to choose fabric that is large enough to be cut in a single piece. This maxi skirt tutorial uses a single length of fabric, rather than two (or more) smaller pieces sewn together.
 The two necessary measurements to make a basic maxi skirt are your hips and length. Use a soft measuring tape around the widest part of your hips where your skirt will sit. Then, measure from that point down to your ankles (or where you want the skirt to end). This measurement will probably range somewhere from 40–70 inches (101.6–177.8 cm) depending on your height.


Measure your elastic for the waistband by taking one inch off your hip measurement. This will make your elastic just tight enough that it won’t slide off or create an awkwardly loose band.
Add one inch of extra fabric to both the length and the width for seam allowances.
 You should measure a large rectangular stretch of fabric with the width being the measurement around your waist and the length being your desired length of the skirt. Cut out this shape and fold it in half with the two cut ends touching.
 Fold over ½ inch of fabric on either edge of the length and iron it down to create a flat seam. Then use a zigzag stitch along this length to secure the two sides of the fabric, creating a tube.
 Turn the tube of fabric inside out so that you can work along the top stretch of the material. If you have a serger, serge the edge of the fabric to keep it from fraying. Otherwise, use a zigzag stitch to stabilize the ends.
 Take your cut piece of elastic and fold it in half, with the two cut ends laying on top of each other. Use a straight stitch ¼ of an inch from the edge of the cut. Then, turn the elastic loop inside out and fan the two bits leftover from the sewn ends away from each other and use a zigzag stitch to attach them back onto the band. This will cause the seam to lay flat and be more comfortable and attractive when the skirt is worn.
 Place the top of the skirt inside the elastic band and pin it in place. There might be a bit more fabric than elastic band width, so pin it evenly around so that any gathers that may form are equidistant from each other.
 Use a straight stitch around the width of the skirt ¼ of an inch up from the bottom of the elastic. Remove the pins as you go, making sure to keep a straight line so that your waistband is even.
 Fold the bottom ½ inch of the skirt up and iron it to create the hem. Use a zigzag stitch or serger to keep the bottom edge of the fabric from fraying. Then, use a straight stitch to attach it to the body of the skirt.

