 Those willing to absorb a bit more risk may decide to invest in gold futures. However, it is important to note that such a strategy isn’t so much “investing” as it is speculating, which equates to gambling in some respects.



Term of Investment varies. In general, investing in gold futures is like making a short-term prediction of what the price of gold will soon be. However, many savvy investors invest and re-invest in gold futures over a period of years.

Nature of investment: High risk. There is high volatility associated with gold futures, and many inexperienced investors have lost money on them.

Profile of Investor: Futures are primarily for seasoned investors. Very few novices make money this way.
 Futures allow you to control a larger amount of gold than you have in cash.
 If the price of gold drops, you could end up owing more than you invested once commissions are added.
 Gold futures are legally binding agreements for delivery of gold in the future at an agreed upon price. For example, you can buy 100 oz. of gold for a two-year contract worth $46,600 for as little as three percent of the value, or $1,350.


The commodity trading firm charges a commission for every trade.
Each trading unit on the COMEX (Commodity Exchange) is equivalent to 100 troy ounces.
Electronic trading on the Chicago Board of Trade (e-CBOT) is another way to trade gold.
 Then you can collect your earnings or pay your losses. An investor can exchange a futures position for physical gold, referred to as EFP ("exchange for physical"). However, most investors offset their positions before their contracts mature instead of accepting or delivering physical gold.


When you buy a futures contract for a fraction of the actual cost of the assets involved, you are basically betting on a small change in the price of the assets. You can make a lot of money buying gold futures if the value of gold goes up relative to your currency, but if it goes down, you can lose everything you invested and possibly more (if your futures contracts do not simply get sold to someone else when you do not have enough money down). This is a way to hedge a risk or speculate but not in itself a way to build savings.

