 Log the date at the top of the page so that you'll know when you wrote the entry. Consider giving your entry a title, like "Captain's Log," or addressing it with something like, "Dear Diary." Include where you are and how you are feeling: e.g. "8/12/2016: on the bus, feeling nervous." If you're going somewhere, include where you're going. You will probably read back over this diary at some point in the future – so give your future self a few points of reference to jog your memory.;
, Don't think too much about what to say. Start by writing about your morning, or about whatever first comes to mind. Write about the most exciting thing that happened today. Write about your friends, or your classes, or your crush.Write about the person you've been thinking about lately. Write about what this person said to you, and about what someone else told you about him/her. Write about what you think about this person.
Write about what is making you happy. Write about what is making you sad.
Write a story. The diary doesn't even have to be about you! Make up a character and write the first page of his or her diary.
 Pretend that you are writing this to a close friend, or to someone that you trust a lot. Your diary is your space to write about everything that you are thinking, good and bad. Don't worry too much about what you write. The important thing is that you start writing., In the first entry, when you mention people, write what relationship you have with them. Are they your best friend, worst enemy, or crush? This way, when you read back over your diary in years to come, you'll know what all of these people meant to you at this point in your life., Just write down whatever comes to mind, no matter how silly it sounds. Filling your diary isn't about making everything sound perfect. It's about getting out all of the words that are inside of you!If you can't think of anything to write, then write about how weird it is to be writing about yourself. Write about why you can't think of anything. Write about why you want to keep a diary.Try setting a time limit for yourself. Set an alarm for ten minutes, and then start writing. This might get you going!

, When you are done writing, include a few lines to end the entry. If you are writing "to" your diary, then you might end the entry as you would a letter: by signing your name or initials. You don't need to write anything special at the end of the entry, but it might help you feel that you have finished.


Say some variation of, "I'll be back with more to say tomorrow. For now, I'm signing off!"

, If you are starting the diary in November of 2016, then write "November 2016." Then, when you finish the diary, you can write the day or month when you filled it up. It might look like "November 2016 - February 2017." Then, when you revisit this diary later on, you'll immediately know which period of your life it is from.
 If you are worried that someone might read your diary, you can make the first page into a message for anyone who opens up the front cover. Make it clear that the person shouldn't read any further – or else!


Write: "This diary is the property of Aidan Applebee. Keep reading at your own risk!"
Write: "Personal diary! Keep out!!"
Write: "Personal property! Please don't read!"

, Draw a picture or doodle away. Add stickers that show your personality. Tape or glue in a picture of something that is meaningful to you. Make the first page beautiful so that it inspires you to write each time you open the diary!

, Tape or glue in a photograph of yourself. Add stickers or draw a picture. Include identifying information as a reference for your older self when you go back to read this diary. Consider writing a short "bio" for yourself that describes who you are at this point in life.
 Write your full name. Write your birthday and your age so that you'll remember how old you were when you started the diary. Include your hair and eye color, along with other identifying features.


Include where you are going to school and/or where you work. Write where you live: the city, the state, and maybe even the address.
 Write the names of your best friends, your crushes, and your worst enemies. Be careful: if someone else ever reads this diary, he or she will immediately know how you feel about these people!

, Include your favorite and least favorite food; your favorite and least favorite drink; your favorite and least favorite musician; and your favorite and least favorite candy. Write about your favorite animal!


This is just for fun. When you look back, you'll be able to see how your likes and dislikes have changed!

