 Just as the EEOC, many states with their own age discrimination laws require you to exhaust all administrative options by filing a charge with the state agency first., Many states have complaints or forms you can use, available for download at the state court's website.The first form you'll need will be called a petition or a complaint. When you file this form, you'll also need a summons as well as a certificate of service and potentially a cover sheet. Contact the clerk's office of the court where you're going to file to make sure you have all the documents you need., Read over the form and gather any information you need so you can fill it out.


If you were unable to find a form that suits your case, you may be able to find a complaint filed in another, similar case in the same court that you can use as a guide.
 Even if you can't afford to have an attorney represent you, you might want an attorney to look over your paperwork before you file it to make sure you have everything in order.Some courts have self-help centers where attorneys are available to review documents you've prepared yourself., You might consider signing your complaint in front of a notary to authenticate or verify your signature. This practice is required in some states if you're not represented by an attorney.
 Once you've compiled all your paperwork, take originals and copies to the clerk's office.You'll have to pay a filing fee to have your case opened. Those fees may be as much as several hundred dollars for your initial pleading, depending on the state.If you can't afford the fees, you can ask the court to waive them. You may have to provide information about your income and assets to prove you cannot pay the fees., After you've filed your complaint you must arrange service on your employer so he has notice of the lawsuit.


You can arrange for the sheriff's department or a private process server to deliver the papers to your employer, or you may be able to send them using certified mail., When he receives notice of the lawsuit, your employer only has a limited amount of time to respond.


The time he has depends on the state, but it's usually around 30 days.If your employer doesn't respond to your complaint then you may be eligible to win your case by default.
 If your employer files an answer, you must participate in discovery and other pre-trial activities before the actual trial.


During discovery, both you and your employer will potentially interview witnesses, ask each other written questions, and request documents. This process is designed to help you gather evidence for trial as well as gain an understanding of your employer's arguments.Because discovery can be very complex, you might consider hiring an attorney (if you don't already have one) to help guide you through the process and make sure you have all the information you need for trial., As you get deeper into discovery, your employer may become more interested in settlement, making mediation an attractive option.


With mediation a neutral third party will help you and your employer attempt to compromise and come to an understanding on all of the issues, including a settlement payment, so you don't have to go to trial.