 When it comes to antiques, the functionality of the item is less important than considerations of beauty and historical or familial significance. In this sense, you should search for an item that is unique in appearance and history. For instance, you might consider purchasing a beautiful vase or pot as a wedding gift. Alternately, you might consider purchasing a pen that was owned by a famous individual that the couple admires., One of the more unique gifts is an antique wine decanter. If the couple identify themselves as wine lovers, they may own a modern decanter but they are unlikely to own an antique or vintage decanter. It is a very unique antique that can be found online or at your local antique shop., In general, it is best to avoid large antiques such as dining room tables or dressers, since you probably don’t know whether they have the space for such items and shipping will be difficult. You should also avoid essential items that the couple may already own.For instance, you should avoid purchasing a dining room table for the couple unless it is explicitly listed on the registry.
You may also want to avoid kitchen chairs.
 Although there are some gorgeous antique jewellery items, it will be difficult to determine whether the couple will like them. Stay away from antique watches, earings, necklaces, broaches and other jewellery., You could ask friends about their style or observe their style at house visits. If they have an eclectic style, you may have some leeway in choosing a fun vintage item. And if they have a penchant for mid-century modern furniture or art deco, you will have a better idea about what to look for., You should look at their registry and see if there are any items that could be purchased as antiques, such as essential furniture items or vases. However, unless it is explicitly listed on their registry, you should avoid “essential” house items. The couple will likely have the essential items unless they are explicitly listed on the registry., Prior to shopping for the lucky couple, you should look at the price guide for the type of antique gift you want to purchase. Price guides will give you a sense of the worth of various kinds of antiques, such as furniture, pottery or silverware. Of course, they will not take the actual condition of a particular item into account, but they will give you a sense of the price range of what you are looking for.For instance, Kovels offers a price guide to over one million antique items commonly sold in Canada, United States and Europe., You may want to hire an antique consultant if you are purchasing an antique wedding present that costs upwards of a hundred thousand dollars. However, if you are purchasing something in a lower price bracket (e.g., a thousand dollars), it is best to get to know an antique dealer. Ask friends or family members if they know a good antique dealer, or look online and set up a meeting.If you hire an antique consultant, you want to make sure they are a professional and registered with one of the following antique appraisal and consulting organizations: American Society of Appraisals, Appraisals Association of America, International Society of Appraisers., A fun way to shop for antiques is to go to your local antique shop, look around and chat with the owner. Tell the owner that you are shopping for a wedding present. If you go at a time when it is less busy, they may be able to share more of their knowledge., You can find antique barns and flea markets by looking in the classified section of local newspapers. You could also look at the advertisements in your antique buyers guide or use an online directory such as FleaQuest.If you live in the United States, some of the best flea markets include Brooklyn Flea in Brooklyn, Rose Bowl Flea Market in Pasadena, Renniger’s in Mount Dora, Florida, and Austin Country Flea in Austin, Texas., Estate sales and auctions are particularly great if you are hoping to find an antique wedding present in the category of furniture, silverware, glassware, dishware, niceties, tablecloths or jewellery. If you are looking for a nicety (e.g., vase), artwork, silverware or small piece of furniture, you may find a great deal. In general, keep in mind that it is best to avoid cookware, appliances and upholstered furnishings at these sales since these items experience more wear and tear and lose their value.If you live in the United States, you can use a directory of estate sales. For instance, the EstateSales.net website allows you to search for estate sales by postal code or location. They will also send you a newsletter with listings, if you sign up for it on their website., There are a number of websites that specialize in antiques, so you could shop online. Of course, the challenge may be shipping the item to the couple, especially if you are looking at furniture. So, it is best to use the “search by location” option on the antique or auction website you are using. You also want to find reputable dealers and look closely at the pictures and descriptions, as well as refund policy.Some of the better sites for antique shopping include Chairish, EBTH, Krrb and eBay., The process of verification begins with a close examination of the object itself. For instance, if it is a piece of furniture, you want to look at the material. If it is wood, you want to know what kind of wood it is, which will give you an idea of origins. Unlike modern furniture which is constructed with materials from around the world, antiques tend to be from a particular region. Next, you want to look more closely for signs of aging, repair and distinctive features that could indicate whether the antique is the real deal or a replica.This process takes a keen eye and you may need the help of an antique dealer or consultant, especially if you are not knowledgeable in the particular style.
 If the item you are considering purchasing is valuable because of a connection to a famous collection, house or person (e.g., celebrity), you will need to determine the provenance. The provenance of an item is the story that connects the item to the person or collection that makes it valuable. In most cases, you will not need to worry about this step. However, for many vintage and antique collections that are valued because of fame or celebrity, it is an important process.For instance, if you want to purchase a guitar that was played by Kurt Cobain of the band Nirvana, you will need to know the story that connects the guitar to the musician Kurt Cobain.
If the value of the item is not dependant on a connection to a famous person or collection, you don’t need to worry about this process.
 You should always ask for documentation before making an antique purchase. Documentation includes all of the specific documents that help to tell the story of the item. By examining documents such as estate inventories, photographs, museum catalogs, and auction results, you can begin to connect the antique item to a particular history and connection to a place, time and individual.If the value of the item is based on provenance and there is no documentation, you may not want to purchase it.
 A large part of the price of an item may be determined by its origin. You want to find out where the piece was made. Ask the seller where the item was made, who made it and how it got from wherever it was constructed to their shop. Take notes and find out as many details as possible about the origins and journey of the item you are interested in purchasing. Along the way, ask for documentation that proves the story they are telling you.For instance, late nineteenth century antique furniture from America tends to be worth more than English furniture of the same style and period. The reason is that there were fewer exceptional craftsmen in America at the time, so there were fewer pieces made and they are worth more.