 One of the best things about school is seeing your friends who you can speak openly with, who won’t judge you, and who can help you cope with stressful situations or sad feelings. Good friends do all that. They also make school more fun., If you don’t have many friends at school or , you are not alone – even if it may seem that way. There are plenty of other students like you who would love to make a new friend as well. The best place to make these new friends is at school. And while it can be nerve-wracking to meet new people, there are things you can do to make it a much more smooth and enjoyable process. Here are some tips to help.


Be approachable. Many times we unknowingly wear our worries on our faces, and often that’s shown as a scowl. This can make others feel hesitant about talking to you. So make the extra effort to look up instead of at the floor and to smile at others.
If you don’t know what to talk about with a potential new friend, ask them questions about themselves. People typically love to talk about themselves. Icebreaker questions can be as simple as, “I like your bracelet. Where did you get it?”
Talk to the new kid at school and invite him or her to eat lunch with you. They’ll probably be very thankful.
Consider joining an extracurricular activity. Research shows that simply exposing yourself to new people you’re more likely to connect with them. Joining a club or activity that you enjoy will also help you meet like-minded people!
Being confident helps a lot in making new friends as well. One of the best ways to be more self-confident is to feel good about your appearance. So take a little extra time getting ready in the mornings. You’ll likely find it much easier to smile at others and ask those icebreaker questions when you know you’re looking your best., At many schools, you have the opportunity to meet and get to know people from a variety of backgrounds, cultures, religions, etc. You will also meet people with all kinds of quirky interests.Good conversations with new and old friends expand your view on life and make going to school much more fun.


They also give you a chance to learn things you may not learn elsewhere – about up-and-coming bands, fun events outside of school, and the opposite sex.
They can also really help when you’re feeling down. One quality conversation can change your outlook pretty fast and make you not feel so alone.
 Going to school or going back to school means you get to see that special someone in your life more often. This is especially exciting after a long break like summer vacation. If you’re single, school is also a perfect place to safely figure out what most interests you in a romantic partner. It’s also the best place to actually meet someone with those qualities. Where else are there so many members of the opposite sex your age?, Teasing isn’t a reflection of you and your true self. Nor did you create it. Nonetheless, it’s common in school. And if it’s happening to you, you need to figure out a way to handle it. Much of this will be dependent upon your personality and your readiness to stand up to it. Yet there are ways for all personality types – even if you’re very shy – to fend off teasing. Learning specific ways you can do this will help, even if it takes practice and maybe more time than you’d like. And remember: If the teasing doesn’t stop, if it’s dangerous, if the teaser threatens to hurt you or if the teaser even touches you, you need to talk with an adult (like a teacher) and ask for help. Now, some strategies:


If you tend to feel hurt easily, totally ignore the teaser, simply shrug and walk away, avoid the teaser as much as possible, give yourself a mental pep talk (“This really bothers me, but I can deal with it.”), visualize a bubble around you and how what’s being said can’t penetrate it or you, and remember you get to choose how you react.
If you’re ready to confront the teaser, simply say “So?” as you shrug and smile to the teasing remark, leave assertively (“I have better things to do than listen to this!”) and walk away, or make one assertive statement (“Leave me alone.”) and walk away.
If you’re starting to feel more in control of the teasing, say something that distracts from the teasing (“I hear it’s gonna me a good game tonight.”), make the teaser sound like a broken record and shrug or give a little smile with your statement (“Enough already.”), or state what’s happening as you raise your eyebrows or purse your lips (“You’re kicking my desk.”)
If you’re pretty confident and quick on your feet, disarm the teaser with humor (a funny one-liner) as you laugh and turn the situation into a funny one and use “I feel” statements (“When you said X, I felt Y. Please stop.")

