 Place an oven rack about three inches, or 7.5 centimeters, below the heat source in your broiler. Once you have correctly position the oven rack, turn the broiler on. You will be using the broiler to cook your lamb meatballs.


If your broiler has a temperature setting, set it to medium or high.
 Once you form the meatballs, you will be baking them on a rimmed baking sheet. To prepare your rimmed baking sheet, place a few drops of vegetable or olive oil on the surface. Use your hands to spread the oil over the surface of the baking sheet. Set aside.
 You will need a large bowl to mix your lamb meatballs. A large stainless steel, enamel, or plastic bowl will work best. After placing the ground lamb in the bowl, you will add the following seasonings:1 teaspoon kosher salt
2 garlic cloves, crushed
2 teaspoons cumin seeds
½ teaspoon hot sauce
Black pepper, to taste
½ teaspoon chile powder
1 scallion, minced
1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley

, You will need to mix the spices, scallions, garlic, and ground lamb thoroughly. Do not use a spoon to mix the ingredients. Instead, lightly mix the ingredients with your hands without crushing the meat., Use your hands to shape the lamb mixture into meatballs that are about 1½ inches (about 3.8 centimeters) in diameter. Be gentle when you are forming the meatballs. If you pack them too tightly, they can turn out chewy and tough.Try lightly oiling your hands with a drop of olive oil to prevent the meat from sticking to them.
 After you finish forming each meatball, carefully place it on an oiled rimmed baking sheet. You should make sure the meatballs are at least 1 inch (about 2.5 centimeters) apart. This will ensure the meatballs do not stick together while they bake.
 Take the baking sheet and transfer the meatballs to the broiler. The oven rack should be about three inches below the heat source. Broil the meatballs for 8 to 10 minutes. They should be browned on the top. The inside of each meatball will be slightly pink., Once you have broiled the meatballs, transfer them to a serving platter or to the individual plates from which you will eat them. Try serving them in a pita, with yogurt sauce, or on top of your favorite pasta or salad.