 If you are in a busy place, like work, school, or out in public, try to distance yourself. Going to a quieter, more secluded place can help you keep calm and refocus. You may also feel more relaxed in an area without a lot of excessive noise and commotion.;
, It may sound counterintuitive, but it can actually sometimes help to remind yourself you're experiencing a panic attack. During a panic attack, you may feel like you're going crazy, having a heart attack, or experiencing something else catastrophic. Reminding yourself it's a panic attack, and you are not in physical danger, can help.A panic attack is a mental health issue. While they can be scary, panic attacks are rarely physically dangerous and they will not cause you to pass out or have a heart attack.
Remind yourself your thoughts and feelings are a symptom of a panic attack, like a cough is a symptom of a cold. This may help you tune out irrational thoughts associated with panic attacks.
 This is a cognitive behavioral therapy technique that uses concepts from Zen Buddhism and considers acceptance a skill that you can work on and improve. When you fight or struggle against a panic attack, it only makes the attack worse. Radical acceptance asks you to accept your anxiety and work with it instead of using your energy to fight against it. This doesn't mean you give up or don't work to find solutions for your panic attacks. What it means is you accept the situation for what it is.Instead of thinking "Oh no, I can feel a panic attack coming on. I'm going to freak out; this is awful," try to think, "Okay, I'm having anxiety. I'm having a panic attack." You're not making a judgement about it ("Oh no, this is awful"), you're accepting the situation.
 Many people feel disassociated from reality when experiencing panic attacks. You may feel disoriented and confused. Grounding yourself in the present moment can help.Grab onto something physical. Try running your fingers through your hair. You can also grab onto an object, like your cell phone or keys, or touch a doorknob or wall. Hold a pillow, stuffed animal, or ball.
Place a cool cloth over your face.
Ask yourself some questions: Name five things you can see, four things you can feel, three things you can hear, three things you can smell, two things you can smell, one thing you like about yourself., The cool sensation of ice cubes can help distract you from the panic attack. If your brain has a physical sensation to focus on, you may come down a bit from the panic attack.Put an ice cube in a paper towel. Hold it on your hand or wrist as long as you can.
If you don't have access to ice cubes, try something else cold. You can, for example, press a water bottle to your wrist or run your hands under cold water in a nearby sink.
 Deep breathing can be very soothing if you're experiencing a panic attack. Breathing can help you feel more in control. For best results, breathe when you feel a panic attack building. Breathing may not be as effective if you're in the middle of a panic attack.Put one hand on your upper chest. Put the other hand between your ribcage and stomach. This is your diaphragm.
Breathe so the hand on your diaphragm rises while the hand on your chest stays still. Take a deep breath, hold it for five seconds, and then exhale for five seconds.
 Your muscles may get tense during or just before a panic attack. Try to relax your muscles as this may help you calm down and feel in control.Close your eyes and focus on one muscle group at a time. For example, tense and release your toes, then your feet, then your legs, and so on.
By the time you work your way up to your face muscles, you should be feeling calmer.
 A regular workout routine can help curb stress and lessen the frequency of panic attacks. If you want to overcome panic attacks, work out regularly.Talk to your doctor before you begin any new workout regimen. You want to make sure the frequency and intensity of your workouts are safe given your current health and medical history.
Choose an activity you enjoy. If you love riding your bike to work, you may benefit from regular bike rides. If you like playing tennis with a friend, try joining a local tennis league that practices regularly.
 Sleep can help you regulate stress. If you prioritize getting a full night's sleep each night, this may reduce the frequency of panic attacks.Stick to a sleep schedule, even on weekends. Your body has a natural circadian rhythm that will adjust to a regular sleep/wake cycle. Strive to go to bed at the same time each night, and wake up the same time each morning.
Make sure your bedroom is sleep friendly. Keep electronics out of the bedroom. Have the temperature between 60 and 67°F (15.6 to 19.4°C).
Have some kind of relaxing ritual you engage in each night before bed. You can, for example, read a book, do a crossword puzzle, or take a warm bath. Avoid using your computer or TV when unwinding, however, as electronic screens can prevent sleepiness.
 Too much caffeine, alcohol, or nicotine in the diet can cause a spike in anxiety. If you want to curb panic attacks, work on cutting back on these substances.Smoking comes with a variety of health risks in addition to causing anxiety. If you smoke, talk to your doctor about quitting.

Drink alcohol in moderation. Up to one drink a day for women and two drinks a day for men is considered safe.Limit your caffeine intake throughout the day. Roughly 400 milligrams of caffeine a day is safe, which is the amount of caffeine in about 4 cups of brewed coffee., Poor dietary choices may increase stress and anxiety, leading to more panic attacks. Make healthy eating a commitment. This may reduce the frequency of panic attacks.Make sure to eat a wide variety of colorful fruits and vegetables.
Go for lean meats, like skinless poultry and fish, and low-fat dairy products.
Opt for whole wheats and whole grains over white bread and processed foods.
 If you haven't done so already, go to your general practitioner and ask for help. If panic attacks are really starting to affect your everyday life, outside help may be necessary.Prior to your appointment, jot down anything you'll need to tell your doctor. Write down your symptoms, your medical history, and any medications. You should also think about possible causes, like past trauma, that may fuel your panic attacks.
Your doctor will probably perform a complete physical exam and do some blood work to rule out underlying medical causes. Depending on your doctor's area of expertise, they may be able to perform a psychiatric evaluation.
You may want to ask your doctor for a recommendation to a therapist. Panic attacks can be effectively treated through therapy.
 Therapy can help treat panic attacks in many cases. Working one-on-one with a therapist can help you develop the coping techniques necessary to ward off unwanted panic. There are several different types of therapies used to treat panic attacks.Psychotherapy usually focuses on your emotional response to the issues. A therapist will talk you through effective strategies for coping with panic attacks.
If you have panic disorder, cognitive behavioral therapy can help. This is a type of therapy in which you learn to recognize and change damaging thought patterns.
 In some cases, panic attacks can be treated with medications. If you are diagnosed with an underlying mental health issue, like panic disorder, your doctor or psychiatrist may recommend medication.Anti-anxiety medications and antidepressants are often used to treat panic attacks. Certain heart medications may be used to treat irregular heartbeat associated with panic attacks.
Benzodiazepines are mild sedatives you can use when a panic attack is happening or beginning to happen. While they can be effective, they can also be habit forming. If you have had issues with drug addiction in the past, benzodiazepines may not be the best choice for you.If you are prescribed medication, make sure to ask your doctor any questions you have about taking your meds. Your doctor should also explain to you any side effects you may experience.
 Whatever treatment plan you choose, make sure to stick to it. To prevent panic attacks from occurring, long-term treatment is often necessary. Take any medications you are prescribed and follow your therapist's advice for coping.