 Mangos are native to the hot, humid tropics of Asia and Oceana. Outside of that area, mango trees grow well in USDA hardiness zones 9B or above (minimum annual temperatures 25ºF/-4ºC or above). In cooler areas, mangos can still be grown in containers and brought indoors during freezing weather.The Cogshall mango variety is a popular choice for growing indoors, and can be kept permanently at 8 ft (2.4 m) tall with regular pruning.Even smaller dwarf varieties exist for people with limited space.;
, The best way to make sure you get a seed that will grow well in your area is to find a parent tree nearby. A nearby tree that produces good fruit will give you a seed that's the right variety for your climate. If you live in a warm climate with mild winters, you can probably find a healthy mango tree in your area.


If you can't find a mango tree, you can order seeds or buy them in a shop. Make sure to choose a variety that is known to grow well where you live.
You can also try to plant a seed from a store-bought mango. However, it will be a lot more difficult to make sure the seed stands a chance to survive in your climate, especially if the mango traveled to your grocery store from another state or country. Still, it's worth a try!

, Cut away the mango's flesh to find the seed husk inside. Carefully cut away the husk to reveal the seeds. A healthy mango seed will look tan and fresh. Sometimes seeds shrivel up and turn grey if they're exposed to cold temperatures, and if this happens, the seeds aren't usable. Slice both cheeks off as close as possible to the seed: Place a cheek in the palm of your hand, carefully scoring the flesh side of the cheek, both ways, approximately 2cm/1 inch each way. Then turn the the cheek up, exposing cubes of delicious mango flesh. Eat as is from the skin, or scrape off with a spoon, directly into a bowl.
You might want to wear gloves when handling the seed. Mango seeds produce sap that can cause skin irritation.
 You can use either the drying method, or the soaking method, as noted below. The soaking method reduces germination time by one to two weeks, but increases the risk of mold.
 Place it in a sunny and airy dry place for around 3 weeks. After this time, with one hand, try to crack open the seed, trying not to let it slip in half; you just need to slightly separate the two halves, and leave for another week.
 Dig a small hole approximately 20cm/8 inches deep. With the belly button of the seed face down, push the seed in.
 After around 4 to 6 weeks, you will have a mango tree / seedling about 100mm to 200mm high. Depending on the variety of mango you earlier devoured, it may be a deep purple, almost black, or a bright vibrant green.
 Many people grow mango trees indoors for one to two years before planting them outside.
 To "scarify" is to slightly abrade the outside of the seed, making it easier for the seed to germinate. Carefully make a small cut in the mango seed or rub the outside of the seed with sandpaper or steel wool just enough to break through the outer skin of the seed.
 Place the seed in a small jar of water, and place the jar in a warm place such as a cupboard or on a shelf. Soak the seed for 24 hours.
 Place the wrapped seed inside a plastic bag with one corner cut off. Keep the towels moist and wait for the seed to sprout - it usually takes 1 to 2 weeks. Make sure to keep the seed in a warm, moist place to help it germinate., Start your seedling's growth in a pot. Choose one big enough to hold the seed and fill it with a mixture of potting soil and compost. You could plant the seed directly in the ground, but planting it in a pot first allows you to control temperature exposure during the vulnerable early stage of growth. , Place the pot outside in partial sun; this allows the seedling to get used to the sun, or harden, before being transplanted to its final place in the full sun.
 Choose an area with full sun to plant your mango seed. Be sure this is a place you want a large tree to grow — they get up to 65 feet (20 m) tall!


When planting in its final position, find an area in your backyard that has good drainage. Also think about the future; it must be an area that will not interfere with any buildings, underground plumbing, or overhead power.
Transfer the seedling when it has established a good, healthy root system. The thickness at the base of the trunk should be the size of an Australian 20 cent piece (about 5cm/2.5"). Most trees take about two years to reach this size.
 Leaving a mango tree in the pot is ideal if you live in a place with cool winters, so you can take the pot inside when the temperature drops. As the tree grows, you will either need to prune it to keep it small, or transfer it to a larger pot., Dig a hole big enough for the seedling's tiny root ball. The hole should be three times the size of the root ball. Add one third quality potting mix, one third garden sand (not loam), and the rest back filling with soil from the hole. Place the seedling in the hole, pat the soil around its base, and water it thoroughly.


Be very careful not to break the seedling as you transplant it.
Keep the base of the trunk clear to avoid ring barking the young Tree of the Gods.
 Most mango trees take five to eight years after planting to bear fruit.They are slow to reach maturity but worth the wait.


Do not over fertilize. If you do, the tree will focus more on leaf growth than on fruiting.

