 The V-up abdominal exercise will be used for this article.
Use cycling. Cycling is a methodical building of strength over time. Investigate this technique.
Have excellent technique.
In your long term plan, schedule your other exercise and lifts in the short term and long term based on your ultimate goal. For example, with a split routine do your v-ups on a different day that you do cardio because cardio work stresses the abdominals.;
, At the beginning of a cycle add a repetition or two at each workout. Toward the end of a cycle add just a repetition, a half repetition or repeat the previous workout's repetition.
As your crunch cycle progresses, reduce the intensity or workload of your other lifts and exercises if your final goal is important.
From the middle to final stages of your cycle: keep your abdominal area warm at all times and maintain your stretching program.
When sleeping, in a v-ups cycling regime, sleep more on your side and face down because sleeping on your back results in a constant slight tension on your abdominals. For sleeping on your side, have a pillow for your head, between your knees and to hug. Wear an additional tank top type of clothing to warm your trunk area.

Consider scheduling your v-up as a final exercise in your workout and in your workout do exercises that do not stress your abdominals.
Breathe evenly, concentrate, and go over technique (this is important when doing multi-joint exercises).
Stay calm and breathe evenly and deeply.
Do a cobra stretch after doing your v-ups. In you are cycling a different body part, stretch that body part after exercising it to reduce the tension.
Continue to keep your muscles warm after the workout and for a couple days after.
Increase the time between workouts to as infrequently as once every three weeks.

Be prepared to take a warm/hot shower immediately after doing your v-ups.
Do the cobra stretch immediately after.
If you must collapse to the floor: keep the floor free of objects, remove any objects on your person on the anterior (front) side of your body and finally collapse face down.

