 It is easy to get too involved in online dating relationships; for some it can lead to an addiction. Some find themselves enjoying the flirtatious advances of the opposite sex, both in chat rooms and with on-line dating services. People get sucked into on-line relationships and become addicted to the world of on-line dating and chat rooms. For some it becomes an obsession. The classic story is a person who finds himself or herself divorced after 20+ years, followed by a string of unhappy relationships, and eventually finds solace in a chat room.;
, You can create a persona quite different from yourself. You can act out a part, instead of being a real person. There are characters online ready to prey on the unwary and naive.
 There is addiction, obsessiveness, vindictiveness, desperation, impulsiveness, and even downright guilt. Love is a powerful emotion. Do not follow your heart over your head. Don't journey outside your comfort zone and be overtaken by a seductive search for true companionship.
 Tell yourself, "I'll keep the relationship at the e-mail level before deciding to talk on the phone!" Yes, take baby steps to discover if you have a great deal in common. You can enjoy chat rooms, but be aware where it can lead you if you are not savvy.
 Why did you get into online dating--a success story from a friend, or just no luck anywhere else? Lots of books have been written on this subject. You must read a few if you are thinking of entering this medium.
 There are online safety tips that must be followed for children, not just yourself.
 It's easy to build relationships via the internet. The attraction to online dating is how easy it is to fill out a profile and suddenly have a list of "Top 10" matches. If you're too needy, you think how close you are to long walks on the beach and even experiencing a falling star together! Realize that for every one of the stories that you hear about meeting and dating the perfect man, there are stories of relationships that end traumatically when a date's wife answers the phone. Don't let an online dating experience go from the chat room to the psychiatrist's couch; temper your expectations and be prepared.
 Communication has gotten much faster with mobile phones, SMS, internet relay Chat, instant messaging, ICQ. You can be surfing the Web and up pops a message from a potential lover. The nice thing about Internet dating is that you can do it at your own pace without taking time away from work. But don't let that rush you into anything. There are unfortunately a lot of opportunities for the unsavory members of our society.
 Online dating has led to kidnapping and murder more than a couple of times, so make a plan with your friends.


Take a picture of the date's license plate and their face to send to a friend.
Ask your friend to call your twice within the date, preferably a couple hours a part.
For both calls and for texts, create code words that sound like every day sentences for in case you feel unsafe, in case you are alone with the date and they won't let you leave, or if you're in the process of being kidnapped.

