 Foundation should be applied prior to contouring. Follow your normal foundation routine. Add a layer of foundation to cover any discoloration or imperfections on your skin before adding your contour lines.Your regular foundation should more or less match your skin tone.;
, A thin contour line across your hairline will make your forehead look slightly smaller. Use a thin makeup brush to apply a contour line there to start.Contour lines can be created using bronzer or a foundation slightly darker than your regular skin tone.


For best results, invest in a makeup brush specifically designed to do contour lines.
 Start at the ears and end in the middle of your cheeks. On each cheek, make a line that runs just below your natural cheekbone. This will slim down your face by making your cheekbones more noticeable., Add a small vertical line to your chin roughly in the center. Then, blend the line backward into your neck. This will narrow your chin slightly., To brighten your face, use concealer or highlight to draw two upside down triangles under your eyes. This will brighten up your eyes and eliminate any dark circles.You can use your fingers or a makeup brush to draw your triangles.
If you have a pencil concealer or highlighter, use this to draw your triangles.
 To further draw out your cheekbones, add a line of highlighter or concealer near the contour lines you drew. Add a small line of concealer beside the contour line on the top of each cheekbone. It is not necessary to run the line along the full scope of your cheekbone like you did with the contour line., Draw one line going down the bridge of your nose. This should slim down your nose slightly, making it look smaller., Get a beauty blender or similar tool, like a makeup sponge, slightly damp. Tap the blender across your face in small, circular motions. Use the rounded edge of the sponge for areas like your cheeks and forehead. For areas like your nose, squeeze the brush between your hands to flatten it as you tap the makeup to blend.Do not rush the process. It can take awhile to blend contour lines so they look natural. Going too fast may obscure your lines, undoing your work.
 A translucent powder or foundation can help your contour lines stay intact for the rest of the day. After everything is blended, dip a fluffy brush in a small amount of powder. Gently dust a light layer of the powder across your face to set your look., Apply a small amount of blush to each cheek using a makeup brush. Only apply brush to the roundest portions of your cheeks as this is most flattering if you have an oblong face.Avoid shimmery blushes, as this can distract from your highlighting.

