 It is important that you find out how far is the new location from your current location.;
, Is it really worth the effort to move to a far away location.


If it's not worth it you will need to negotiate with your employer. You might have to do some good convincing if you don't want to budge.
Try convincing the employer you can work from the internet. Explain to your boss how good you are at working from the computer at home or your office.
 If this job requires hands on to get the job done, then you have no other choice.
 If the job is from the internet, you can convince them to stay. If the job is done from a computer then you can convince your boss to stay where you are.
 Try expounding on your good work ethics, you never miss a day. Explain to your boss how you have never missed a day. Show your employer you are responsible and loyal.


Explain to your employer what an outstanding worker you are.
Don't push the employer or threaten them you are going to quit. You should not say anything rude or mean to your boss.
Don't make trouble for yourself if you don't want to relocate. If you really don't want to move then don't make a big fuss about it.
 Your employer should be willing to pay for your moving expenses. However, there is a catch to this. You will have to report this reimbursement as taxable income. This will certainly increase your income tax bill, and may push you into a higher tax bracket. The moving expense reimbursement should be enough to cover your moving expenses AFTER taxes.
 Try to have your employer pay for your plane tickets. A good idea would be to convince your boss to pay your way. Since you are such a good employee they should pay your way.
 Ask for a raise if you agree to relocate somewhere else. If you agree to relocate. Then prove to your boss what a superb employee you have been. A raise should be appropriate since they require you to relocate.
 Ask your employer will you receive any additional benefits. Ask your boss if you will get any benefits aside from your current benefits. Who knows maybe you might get lucky and get new benefits.

