 Even though Norwegian Forest cats have long fur, they do well with weekly brushing.Use a wire bristle brush or comb to brush your Norwegian forest cat’s back, sides, tummy, chest, and tail once per week.


If you start brushing your Norwegian Forest cat when she is a kitten, then this process will be much easier for both of you.
 Your Norwegian forest cat needs his claws, but sometimes your cat’s claws may become too sharp and you may have to give him a trim. If your cat uses his scratchers often, then you may not need to trim his claws at all. If your cat does not use his scratchers too often, then it is a good idea to trim your Norwegian forest cat’s claws once every three weeks.Trim the white tips of your cat’s claws only. Avoid the pink area of your Norwegian forest cat’s claws. Cutting this part of the claw can hurt your cat. You should be able to see the pink area of your cat’s claws when you look at them in the light.
Use a special guillotine style nail trimmer and only trim a little bit of your cat’s claws at a time. The goal of a trim is to cut off the sharp tips, not remove your cat’s entire claw., Regular dental care is a good way to keep your Norwegian forest cat’s teeth healthy, which is important for his overall health. Regular brushing will also help to keep your cat’s breath fresh. To brush your Norwegian forest cat’s teeth, use a toothbrush and toothpaste that is meant for cats. Human toothpaste can make your cat sick.Introduce your Norwegian forest cat to the toothbrush gradually. For example, you may begin by letting him to lick wet cat food off of the toothbrush for the first few days and then try to put the toothbrush into his mouth after he seems comfortable with it.
When you brush your Norwegian forest cat’s teeth, use gentle strokes along the surface of his teeth and gums. Do not apply too much pressure or you may injure him.
 Norwegian forest cats have thick, double coats that are waterproof, so giving him a bath might be a challenge and you may want to consult a professional groomer if you think a bath is necessary.Keep in mind that you should not need to bathe your Norwegian forest cat unless he gets dirty or sticky.If you notice that your Norwegian forest cat suddenly stops grooming himself, then take him to see the veterinarian before you do anything. This may be a sign of illness.

