 If you plan to give your kitten treats, making your own is the best option. These treats can include cooked pieces of tuna, chicken, fish, liver, or eggs. Kittens need about 30 percent of their diet to come from protein, so lean meats are a great option for snacks. For an even healthier option, buy organic meats and eggs to cook for your kitten.Cut treats into bite-sized pieces. This will help you control the portion size of the treat and make it easy for your kitten to eat and digest.It might take some trial and error to discover which treats are your kitten’s favorites. Try feeding your kitten a variety of treats until you discover which ones it likes best.;
, Many “human” foods can be harmful to cats. When you’re making treats for your kitten, keep it simple. Stick to mostly lean, unseasoned meats and avoid the following foods as they can be toxic to cats: raisins, grapes, onions, onion powder, alcohol, salt, tea, caffeine, chocolate, garlic, bread dough, avocados, certain nuts (like macadamia nuts), fruit seeds, mushrooms, and tomatoes. You should also avoid feeding your cat cooked bones as these can splinter and cause internal damage to your kitten.In addition, many cats are lactose intolerant, so giving your kitten milk could cause it to have diarrhea.Always check with your vet about what you should and shouldn’t feed your kitten.
 Figuring out what is in premade cat treats is not always easy; labels are often vague, neglect to list all of the ingredients, and often don’t include a calorie count. When you’re picking out a premade treat for your kitten, look for treats that are approved by the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO). At the very least, this will ensure your kitten’s treats meet pet food manufacturing standards.

To find out more about the ingredients in a specific type of treat and the amount of calories it contains, contact the pet food manufacturer. There should be a number provided on the packaging.
You vet should be able to provide you with some quality options for kitten treats as well.It is recommended you avoid giving your kitten catnip until it is between three and six months old., Although the labels on cat and kitten treats are usually vague, if it does list the ingredients, choose a treat that has a high protein content and also provides a good amount of amino acids and minerals. Kittens require a higher amount of these nutrients than adult cats.Ingredients on pet food labels are listed in order of predominance, so when you’re looking for a treat that is high in protein, choose one with “meat” or “meat meal” listed as the first ingredient.
It is best to stay away from treats that have artificial colors, flavors, stabilizers, and preservatives, but it can be tough to find one that excludes these altogether. If you can’t find a treat that contains no artificial ingredients, look for ones that are identified as “Generally Recognized As Safe (GRAS).”