 Pay attention to the things that you enjoy doing the most, and ask yourself what it is about those things that you enjoy. You should also pay attention to when you compare yourself to another person. You may find yourself comparing yourself to other people if you desire something that they have or have experienced. This doesn’t mean that you wish they didn’t have it, it just means that you want something similar.Try to focus on your goals instead. For example, if you find yourself comparing yourself to someone else, then you might turn the comparison into a goal, such as “I admire my sister for completing that 5K. I would like to run a 5K too, so I will make it my goal to choose a 5K and train three times per week.”
You can also try asking yourself some questions if you find yourself comparing to others, such as “What do I want from this situation?” “How is comparing myself to this other person benefiting me?” and “If I can't achieve what he or she has, will I become angry, hurt, or depressed?”;
, Goals are going to be how you get from where you are now to where you want to be. The clearer your goals are, the more successful you will be at attaining them. Use the SMART acronym to set good goals:Specific. This means that your goal is something that you have described in detail and that is not vague.
Measurable. This means that you can measure your goal and will have a definite way to know when you have completed it, such as lose 20 pounds, get a new job, or organize my closet. These are all things that you can tell if you did them or not.
Attainable. Your goal should be something that you can actually obtain. For example, you should not set a goal to get married by the end of the year. This is something that you do not have complete control over, so it may not be attainable.
Realistic. This means that your gal should be something that you can realistically accomplish. For example, setting a goal to travel into outer space would be unrealistic if you are not trained as an astronaut. However, setting a goal to travel to a foreign country is a more realistic option.
Time bound. Your goal should be something that has a definite timeline. For example, lose 20 pounds in 20 weeks or apply to five jobs by the end of the month would be examples of goals that are time bound.
 When doing this, dream big. Plan every single detail of your life. Start with imagining the situations in life that you currently find unappealing, and imagine something that’s better. Continue doing this until you cannot imagine anything better than the life you have created in your imagination. This will clarify your desires and help you set goals to reach the life that you truly want.Imagine your ideal family. Do you have kids? Are you married? Where does your family live?
Detail every corner of your dream house. Choose the colors, floors, decorations, etc.
Ask yourself what you would do if you could have any job in the world. Consider what title and benefits you would want, too.
Try representing your dream life using a dream board. You can use a piece of poster board to make a dream board or do it digitally with Pinterest. Place pictures, words, and symbols on the board to represent your goals. This will help you to focus your attention on your goals and surround yourself with reminders of it.
 There is a predictability and comfort to doing the same things that you have always done. When you don’t take chances or do anything new you are remaining in your comfort zone. You may even feel content in your comfort zone. However, you will never know about the exciting things that lie beyond that zone. Consider trying new experiences.Try new foods.
Learn new activities.
Travel to new places and learn new people.
 Change can be incredibly difficult for some people, but change is a good thing. It is normal to have fears, but moving past some of your fears may allow you to experience new things and contribute to your growth. Keeping a positive mindset about new ventures may help you move past your fears and into new experiences. Each new experience can help you learn something about yourself that will shed light on what you desire in life.For example, a fear of flying may prevent you from boarding an airplane. Conquering this fear can open up new opportunities to travel to new and exciting places.
 Many cultures see failure as a negative thing. Although it is not fun to experience failure, being afraid of failing should never prevent you from living your dream life. There is a good possibility that you won’t fail. And if you do fail, learn from your failure.For example, living in fear of failure could prevent you from taking a new job opportunity.
 Taking time to just be still and allow yourself to relax may help you to feel inspired and capable of taking on challenges. Try taking at least 15 minutes to yourself each day to just be still, such as by meditating, practicing yoga, or deep breathing.


For example, you could get up 15 minutes before the rest of your household and sit quietly in your living room doing deep breathing. Or, you could find 15 minutes of time to yourself in the afternoon or evening for a meditation practice.

