 Creating more than one Runescape account is fine, however, two or more accounts from the same person is prohibited. The characters can not interact with each other in any way, for example, drop trading, item transferring, or assisting with skills. You also may not share or trade accounts with someone else. People that do accept these offers can also be reported.;
, Don't type anything that may be racist or offensive towards anyone else. If you have the need for it, say it out loud in person instead of taking the time to type it. Any player around to see the conversation can report you for the negative behavior. You will also get reported by others if you ask for a boyfriend or girlfriend.
 Trading in other online games or for real-life money is not allowed. If you sell stuff for real-life you can get permanent ban.
 This is an online role playing game, not a dating service. Do not ask for any personal information or details. As a player, you may give out and share general information, such as your age, country, and first name, but telephone number, home address, and anything else that exploits your whereabouts is not allowed.
 It gives you an unfair advantage over others in the game and you may not circumvent or go around Jagex's mechanisms that log out users automatically after a certain time of inactivity.
 Item and password scamming are the top mistakes that people fall to in Runescape. Password scams include using symbols and saying that your password is blocked from others, but in reality, it will show up as text if someone else did it and also making millions of GP by sending your username and password to an unknown email address. HOWEVER due to an update of mid 2007, passwords CANNOT be said out loud. If you attempt to, the game will alert you of your actions and will refuse to 'say' it. If your password is a commonly used word, then that word will be somewhat blocked in-game. Change your password if this were to occur.
 The codes of conduct are posted at the top of the forums. Free players can read the forums, while members are allowed to read and post. Negative action can result in a ban from the forums and a possible suspension on your account.
 Impersonation of moderators or administrators is not allowed. Jagex staff members have a gold crown next to their names when talking. Moderators will have a silver crown. People are not staff if they do not have one.
 Misusing customer support includes reporting innocent people, supplying or fishing out false information, and twisting the rules towards your favor. Whenever you report someone, a screenshot of the last 60 seconds (one minute) will be provided along with your report.

