 A baseball cap is also a must. Always wear your Royals outfit to home and road games. You don't have to buy expensive clothing. Even something such as a Royals t-shirt will do.;
, Attend games frequently and become familiar with player stats and positions. Game tickets are usually cheap because, as you may already know, the Royals aren't the best team in baseball. Not even close. If you can't attend a game personally, they are televised on Fox Sports Kansas City and are always covered by WHB on radio.
 Built in 1973, The K is famous for its unique fountains and architecture.
Slugger. He is a lion and is the Royals mascot. He is seen launching hot dogs in the 7th inning, and wanders the stadium.
The Monarchs. They were Kansas City's Negro League team.
Buck O'Neil. Kansas City's late baseball legend.
Trey Hillman. The Royals manager. Buddy Bell's replacement. He managed in Japan and led the then-terrible Nippon Ham Fighters to back-to-back Championship appearances and one Japan series title.
Dayton Moore. The Royals GM.
David Glass. Walmart Executive who owns the team.
Ewing Kauffman. The Royals' late owner for which the stadium is named.
Water Spectacular. The fountains out behind right field. They are the largest privately owned fountains in the world.
Hate the St. Louis Cardinals. They are the Royals' rivals. If you were a fan of both, you'd be a bandwagon or fairweather fan. # Earlier history. The Royals were founded in 1969. After a slow start for their first few seasons, the Royals were one of the best teams in the AL West throughout the late 1970s and 1980s. They made constant playoff appearances until 1985 when they finally won a World Series.
 They have not been in the playoffs since 1985. They remained an above average team from 1986 to about 1994. After that things began to go downhill. The payroll went down and so did the quality of the players they signed. In 1997 the Royals had the chance to move to the National League Central but turned it down. The Royals thought they would do better in the AL. This came back to haunt them. The AL Central is arguably the toughest division in baseball. The NL Central is now the worst. In 2002 they lost over 100 games. In 2003 the losing stopped briefly and the Royals posted their last winning season with what was arguably the most talented Royals team since the early 1990s. In 2004 they were a popular choice to go to the playoffs, but ended with another 100 loss season. In 2005 they lost a club-worst 116 games. 2006 was slightly better with exactly 100 losses.
 The Royals hoped to make a comeback in the 2007 season with players such as Gil Meche and Alex Gordon. Much progress was made in 2007 with 69-93 record. Manager Buddy Bell resigned after the season and was replaced with Trey Hillman of Japan. The 2008 season started well for KC, they sat atop the AL Central standings for a couple weeks and had a decent April. The rest of the year was up and down, as the inconsistent team of young players struggled on offense, but put up average defensive/pitching stats. After a spectacular September that "saved the year", the Royals ended up at 75-87, and finishing in 4th place out of the 5 division teams, avoiding the cellar for the first time since 2003. 2009 was a hopeful year for the Royals, they signed talented CF Coco Crisp and power hitter Mike Jacobs. 2009 started with a promising 18-11 start, but then KC quickly fell out of contention, winning less than 30% of their games for the next 2 months. Key players such as Crisp, Gordon, and Jose Guillen were injured much of the year, and others such as Jacobs and most of the bullpen, failed to meet expectations. The Royals overall preformed horribly in '09, but two bright spots were first baseman Billy Butler and pitcher Zack Greinke. Greinke was arguably the best pitcher in baseball, finishing with a 16-11 record and the league's lowest ERA, and he finished second in strikeouts. He is a favorite to win the Cy Young (to be announced in November 2009). Butler emerged as perhaps the only reliable offensive player, hitting .301 with a club high 93 RBIs and 21 home runs.
 The Royals will let you down often, so be prepared. It isn't easy being a Royals fan. The Royals get much criticism from the media. But when they win, and you're there to witness it, it's an awesome feeling.

