 Make sure the dragon eats the zombie before you kill another zombie.

There is one in the lower courtyard near the rocket part for the rocket shield, just outside the gate trap/Double Tap.
There is one in the building above the Undercroft (0G Room), opposite where the electric trap is.
There is one inside the Undercroft (0G Room), on the opposite side of the wall where PAP is.;
, Once you've fed all three dragons, go in the Undercroft (0G Room), go up the stairs, and you will find your very own bow., Then, go and pick up the arrow that pops out of the wall.,

The first one is directly beside the clock tower outside the map.
The next one is east to the KRM wall buy.
The final one is at the rocket pad, with a bunch of sticks on top of a stone slab.
 Once it turns on, you'll see these wind symbols on the walls. You need to wall run to all of them, and you cannot touch the ground. If you touch the ground, you will need to wall run all the symbols again. You'll know you're finished if you hear a sound cue after hitting the final wind panel., The locations of these earns are:

In the clock tower, underneath the staircase.
In the lower courtyard, near the jump pad and build table.
The final one is in the rocket pad near the teleporter.
 To charge your arrow, you need to hold it back like doing a power shot, and go up to the earn. If you miss the shot, you need to charge the arrow again. This can be frustrating, but it's achievable!, Go where you picked up the arrow, and hold square if on PS4, or X if on XBOX. It will take your arrow and slowly come back down again with a solid straight arrow. Pick it up, and you're on to the final step., Hold Square (PS4) or X (XBOX), and you'll get a max ammo. As similar to all the other bows, you must feed the arrow souls, until it has a blue fire effect. Hold the reload button on the arrow while holding your bow out, and it should take your bow.

Then, it will go up in the air, come back down, and now you can pick it up! Congrats, you've finished the upgrade quest!

