 Prior to baking, preheat the oven. This way, when you're ready to toss your cookies in the oven, it will already be heated.Make sure you know how to recognize when your oven is done heating. Some ovens will make a noise.
If your oven does not indicate when it's done preheating, use an oven thermometer to check.;
, Add the peanut butter, sugar, and egg to a large mixing bowl. Using an electronic mixer, beat the ingredients until your dough has a smooth, creamy texture.If you don't have an electric mixer, you can use a wooden spoon to stir the ingredients until smooth and creamy. Keep in mind, however, this may take slightly longer.
 Place the balls about an inch apart so the cookies do not run into each other. If desired, press the back of a fork into the dough, making the traditional criss-cross peanut butter cookie design.Make sure to grease the cookie sheet prior to baking.
Wash your hands before and after handling cookie dough.
 The cookies should take about 10 minutes bake in the preheated oven. However, check them on occasion just in case, especially if you don't have an oven thermometer. If your oven's heat is off slightly, the cookies may take slightly longer to bake., Use a spatula to remove the cookies from the cookie sheet. Set them on a wire cooling rack. Allow the cookies to cool for about two minutes before eating them., Make sure you know when your oven is done preheating. Some ovens make a noise, while others do not indicate when they're ready for use. In this case, use an oven thermometer., This will prevent the cookies from sticking to the cookie sheet. Alternatively, you can also line the cookie tray with parchment paper.
 Place the butter and sugar in a large mixing bowl. Using a wooden spoon, mash the butter and sugar together. Keep working the butter and sugar until the mixture is smooth and creamy., You can use an electronic mixer or a wooden spoon. Beat the egg until the mixture is once again smooth and creamy. This will take longer if you're not using a mixer., The dry ingredients include the flour, baking soda, and salt. Add them in gradually, stirring as you go. Stir until the mixture is even throughout and has a smooth texture. Be patient. Dry ingredients can take a longer time to mix into a recipe.
 Roll the dough into small balls and then place the balls on the cookie sheet. The distance is important as the cookies will spread during cooking. Keep them half an inch apart.If you want, you can use a fork to flatten the cookies. Traditionally, peanut butter cookies are flattened with a fork.
 To begin, bake the cookies for about 12 minutes. Check them regularly, especially if you don't have an oven thermometer. If the cookies are not done after 12 minutes, bake them for another minute at a time until they're cooked., Remove the cookies from the cookie sheet and set them on a wire cooling rack. Allow them to cool for a few minutes before eating them.
 For the best results, all ingredients should be at room temperature. This includes things like butter and eggs. Set your ingredients out an hour before baking. Room temperature ingredients are much easier to mix., Do not rush through steps when baking. You want to make sure you spend enough time on each step to thoroughly blend the ingredients. Rushing through a step will result in an uneven dough, which can give your cookies an odd taste and texture., The settings on an oven can only give a rough estimate of its heat. You should use an oven thermometer to make sure your oven is set to the right temperature. This way, you will avoid burning or undercooking your cookies.