 Stand on the center of the band with your feet slightly wider than shoulder width. Hold a handle or end in each hand, with your hands in front of and above your shoulders, as if you were about to give someone a boost. To do a squat, lower your butt as if you're about to sit down. Keep your back straight and focus on keeping your knees right over your toes. Repeat for 8-12 reps.If the band is too long, cross the band over your chest and hold onto opposite ends of the band, making an "X" across your pecs.
 Sit on a chair or bench, preferably with your back on a slight incline like you were in a pool chair. Hold the band in both hands, wrapped around your wrist. Bend your knee back towards your chest and put your foot on the middle of the band. You should feel resistance trying to keep your knee towards your chest. Extend the knee until it straightens out in front of you. Slowly return to starting position and repeat for 8 to 12 reps before switching legs


If it is too easy, wrap more of the resistance band around your hands to increase the difficulty.
 Lie belly down and loop a band around your right ankle, anchoring the other end to a door or support (you can wrap it around the opposite side of a doorknob and close the door. You should be facing away from the band, far enough away from the other end that you feel tension. Tighten your core. Then, bend your leg at the knee. You want to bring your heel toward your butt, going as far as you can comfortably go. Slowly return your leg to starting position and repeat for 10-15 reps, then switch sides.
 Tie a band around your legs, cinching it above both your knees. Lying on your back, bend your knees to 90 degrees. Your feet should be on the floor. Rise up from the floor with your hips until your shoulders, hips and knees align. You should focus on contracting your butt muscles through the entire movement. Do 15 to 20 reps.


Hold the stretch slightly at the top before slowly returning to the floor., Anchor one end of the band at ankle height on your left side by wrapping it around a post or wedging it underneath a heavy object. Wrap the other end around your right ankle. Stand in a wide athletic stance perpendicular to the band and step away the anchor to create tension. Slide your right ankle across your body, past your left leg, while squeezing your thighs together. Return to starting position slowly, then repeat for 12 to 15 reps. When you're done, switch sides.


Focus on keeping your leg straight as you work.
Try this in reverse too, "pushing" your right ankle out away from your body with your leg straight.
 Tie the band around both ankles so that you have to resist pulling them together. Get in a strong, athletic stance with your back straight and your knees bent. Walk sideways for 10 steps in each direction, focusing on pushing your outside leg way out and slowly following with the other foot.You may need to tie the band around the middle to create enough tension.

