 The easiest way to join the effort to save tigers is to donate your money to the various organizations dedicated to saving wildlife. There are many organizations out there, so it is really important to do your homework before you choose one to donate to. Some organizations that have their own tiger programs include:


(United with the Save the Tigers Fund)
Wildlife Fund
Tiger Conservation Fund
Fund for Animal Welfare
Cat Rescue
Tiger Sanctuary
Sadly, there are plenty of scams out there that take advantage of the plight of the tigers. You can choose a one time donation or a monthly donation.;
, The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) offers an adopt a tiger program. You can symbolically adopt a tiger and help fund the work the WWF is doing with your adoption donation. There are different adoption packages available, ranging from $55 to $250.Your money will go towards creating reserves for tigers, protection from poachers, and other WWF conservation work.
In addition to knowing that you are helping this special creature, you also receive a photo and information card of the tiger you are helping to save, along with a plush version of your tiger.
 Some zoos participate in Species Survival Plans, which are sanctioned breeding plans to help save tigers. Only visit zoos that are accredited by the AZA. There are currently 223 zoos and aquariums around the world that meet the AZA’s strict requirements.


For a list of accredited zoos and aquariums that you can visit or donate to, visit the Association of Zoos and Aquariums website.These zoos keep their animals, including their tigers, in excellent living conditions, and are doing what they can to support the healthy breeding of animals on the endangered list.
You can also visit wildlife sanctuaries that do not let visitors handle their animals and do not participate in breeding. There are also wildlife rehabilitators, universities working on establishing wild animals, and some traveling circuses that meet all of the requirements of the Animal Welfare Act.
If you are not sure of the status of a zoo or wildlife area you are hoping to visit, run an internet search on the institution., There are many sanctuaries and reserves that accept volunteers and interns around the world. These volunteers help maintain the grounds, observe the animals, and perform other various chores and tasks. In some places, volunteers can lead tours of the grounds and talk about the tigers with visitors.You can run an internet search to explore options near you.
Some of the most prominent sanctuaries that accept volunteers include the National Tiger Sanctuary and Big Cat Rescue. You can also try a GoEco program.
 Tiger reserves are large plots of the tigers’ native land that has been specifically designated for the tigers. Of course, visiting a tiger reserve means flying to places like India or Nepal. If you have the ability to do so, then while you are there you should join a tour operated by the park service of the country.They rely on the income from tourism to help pay for part of their expenses. Tourism also brings money to the area where the reserve is located, which in turn inspires support for the reserve from the local community.
Do some research on the tour company before you fly off to visit the tiger reserve or national park.

