 Make sure the power is switched off. Unplug the vacuum from the electrical outlet.Performing cleaning and maintenance of the vacuum while it’s connected to a power source can result in electrical shock.;
, Use a dry cloth to wipe the outside of the vacuum when it’s dirty, including under the bin., Depending on the model, the dust container may have a “Full” line indicating that the tank needs to be emptied. Remove the dirt tank from the vacuum. Hold the tank over a trash receptacle to empty it. Some bagless vacuum containers can be rinsed and dried with a paper towel.Ensure that the dirt tank is locked back in before using the vacuum.Some models have a dirt container release latch to remove the dirt container, whereas others have a release latch for emptying the dirt tank.
If you’re unsure how to remove the dirt tank and/or filter, consult your model’s user guide at https://www.bissell.com/support/user-guides.
 Remove the brush roll. Cut through wrapped hair and debris. Pull the debris out of the brush roll.Make sure the brush ends especially are free of strings and other debris. Remove any debris from the air passageway before replacing the brush.Some models have a brush roll release button. Others require a coin or a Phillips head or flathead screwdriver.Brush roll removal varies by model. If you are unsure how to remove the brush roll, consult your model’s user guide at https://www.bissell.com/support/user-guides.
Regularly cleaning the brush roll will prevent it from getting stuck, which can cause the vacuum’s belt to break.
 Run the filters under warm water. Use a drop of mild detergent, then squeeze the filters to let the soap penetrate.Rinse the filters thoroughly with warm water. Allow them to air dry entirely before putting them back into your vacuum.Bagless models usually have three washable filters: a round filter above the dust bin, a square filter in a tray below the dust bin, and a rectangular filter on the back or side of the vacuum.Some stick models, such as the Air Ram 1984, have filters that should be washed with warm water only – no soap or detergent.Do not wash white, pleated or post-motor filters.These filters can be tapped gently to remove dirt, and should be replaced every three to six months., Some models, such as the Cleanview OnePass 9595 and Revolution 12901, have an inner cyclone that can be removed and cleaned. Unlock the cyclone by turning it clockwise. Pull it down and out of the tank. Use a damp cloth to clean it, and allow it to dry before putting it back.To replace the cyclone once it’s dry, open the lid to the pre-motor filter. Place the cyclone in the grooves by the tank’s top. Lock the cyclone in place by turning it counterclockwise.

