 This quirky, local business is known for outrageous but delicious doughnuts. There are two locations: One on 22 SW 3rd Avenue (downtown) and another on 1501 N.E. Davis St. They only accept cash, but there is a convenient ATM inside. Note that not all doughnuts are available at all times, and it can get very busy sometimes. Here are some doughnuts you may want to look for:


For a unique combination, try a bacon maple bar.
For the adults...
The "bleeding heart" doughnut.;
, This store takes up an entire city block, and as akin to a labyrinth of books.
 It's just east of Portland.


Waterfalls
Sherrard Point
Crown Point Vista House
Bonneville Hatchery

, Ideas include the Bridgeport Brewing Company, McMenamins, and Deschutes Brewery & Public House to name a few. You can also do an online search for popular microbreweries in the area.

For wine lovers, make your way through the various wine tasting places, such as the Willamette Valley Wineries, Seven Bridges Winery, or ENSO Winery.



Timberline Lodge at Mt. Hood (seen from aerial view in the The Shining)
Mt. Bachelor
Mt. Hood Skibowl
Willamette Pass

, When you visit a city for the first time or haven't been somewhere in a long time, you'll want to get the most local experience while you're there. You can search for local places on Urbanspoon or Yelp for the best results, as you can also see other people's experiences.


Seek out food trucks in the city. Whether it's a waffle truck or a company serving up Korean food.
Vegetarians, vegans, and gluten-free visitors can easily enjoy the city as much as meat eaters, as many places offer non-meat/special dishes.
 A small hill drive on the hillside of the city, photographers and flower admirers can enjoy this free attraction all year-long.



Portland Trail Blazers (NBA basketball)
Portland Timbers (MLS soccer)
Oregon Ducks or Oregon State Beavers (college football, University of Oregon and Oregon State University, respectively)

, This market is the largest open-air crafts market in continuous operation in the U.S. There's a variety of food vendors and handmade sellers, varying from woodwork, clothing, jewelry, and home accessories. During the summer, the water fountains are turned on, for the excitement of children and others to cool down during a hot day.

