 This should include what kind of guitar it is, the brand, model, and year it was made. You can also include what kind of material the guitar is made out of, the kind of strings you have on it, and anything else you can think of that might be important to a buyer.


If you are unsure of any specifics about the guitar you may need to do some research. Look online for information about your guitar or take it to a guitar store and see if they know any details about it.
If you are unsure at all about the details on your guitar, be sure to mention this when describing it in your ad. It's best to be straight forward instead of having an awkward interaction when the potential buyer inspects your guitar.
 Take into consideration how much you originally paid for the guitar, any scratches or damages, and how much similar guitars are selling for.


While you might have just bought the guitar and hardly used it, it will still be worth less than a brand new one. Generally people won't pay full price for a used guitar when they can buy one new for the same price. It can be helpful to research what others are charging for similar used guitars, so that you can match the going rates.
If you sell your guitar in a classified ad you may not be able to get the highest going rate you find online. While online auctions have potential buyers all over the country, and possibly the world, classified ads only sell to local buyers. With fewer possible buyers, you may have to sell at a lower price. The upside, however, is that you do not need to deal with shipping the guitar or with the possibility of a low final bidding price.
 You'll want several photos of the guitar from different angles using a good camera. Your interested buyers will come look at the guitar in person, so you just need to give them a good idea of what the instrument looks like, not a thorough account of every inch of it.


Transfer your photos to your computer so they are ready to be uploaded when needed.
If there are any scratches on the guitar make sure you include photos of these so that potential buyers know that the instrument is not in totally pristine condition before coming to look at it.
 There are a variety of different classified ad sites, however the most popular in the US is craigslist.com.


It's a good idea to post your guitar on a variety of classified ad websites. If you don't get any interest on one site, you might have more luck on another.
Some classified ad websites are free, while others may charge you a fee. Be clear on what, if any, cost you will have to pay before deciding on a site to use.
 Now that you've got all the information about your guitar, great photos of it, decided on a price, and you've decided what website you're going to use, you can start uploading your ad. Include all of the information and images you gathered for your sale.


The website you have chosen should have an easy system for uploading your ad. The large sites, in particular, have perfected their systems so that almost anyone can easily follow their directions. If you have tried and failed to figure it out, feel free to email their customer service agents to clarify what you don't understand.
Remember to provide contact information in your ad. You want your potential buyers to be able to ask you questions about the item and to see if it is still available. Some classified ad websites include a reply system that keeps the sellers and buyers anonymous from each other initially. If this system is available, be sure to use it for your own safety.
 With the ad up, all you have to do is sit back and wait.


If potential buyers do contact you, be prepared to answer questions about the guitar. Respond as quickly and thoroughly as possible to build their confidence in you as a seller and encourage a sale.
If you don't get any responses after a few days, repost your ad. As it falls further down the list of ads, it is less likely to be seen by potential buyers. Repost the ad so that a whole new set of potential buyer will see it.
 When you get contacted about the guitar be sure to respond quickly. Make plans for the potential buyer to see the guitar in person. Be open about times that you are available.


If you are uncomfortable with having a stranger come to your home to look at you guitar, feel free to set a public place to meet.It is better to be cautious than risk problems or an uncomfortable situation.
Decide whether you are willing to deal before you meet with a potential buyer. If you want a set price, stick to your guns. If you want to be rid of the guitar, be open to bargaining with the potential buyer.
 It is not a good idea to take a personal check for your guitar, as you do not know if the person actually has the money to pay for the guitar in their account. Deal only in cash when selling a product through online classified ads in order to avoid problems, conflict, and ultimately the risk of disappointment.
 It is a courteous thing to do so that other potential buyers do not waste their time responding to an ad for something that has already sold.


Be sure to follow the directions given by the classified ad website in order to take you ad down. They will have specific ways of accomplishing this.

