 Making a faux fur blanket is a simple process, but it does require some special tools and materials. To make a faux fur blanket, you will need:2 to 3 yards of faux fur
2 to 3 yards of fleece
Lots of pins
Scissors
Exacto knife for cutting faux fur fabric (optional)
A sewing machine;
, Lay the faux fur down on a clean, dry surface with the fur facing up. Then, lay the fleece directly over the faux fur. Make sure that the edges of both fabrics are lined up. If the fabric pieces are not the same size, then just line up as many edges as you can.Keep in mind that if you want to use faux fur for both sides of the blanket, then you can. However, it will cost more for the extra faux fur fabric.If using faux fur for both sides, then lay the two faux fur pieces so that the fur sides are facing each other.
Other backing fabric options you might use in place of fleece include flannel, satin, cotton, microfiber, and jersey. Just make sure to place the right side (print or texture side) so that it is facing towards the faux fur fabric.
 Use your scissors to trim either the fleece or faux fur if necessary. It is important for the two pieces to be roughly the same size.Don’t worry too much about a slight difference in the size of the two fabrics or jagged edges. These will be hidden on the inside of the blanket when you sew it.
If you need to cut the faux fur fabric, then it is best to do so on the back side (non-furry side) of the fabric and use an exacto knife. This will make it easier to avoid cutting through the fur and ending up with stray hairs everywhere., To ensure that the edges stay lined up, you will need to use pins.Pin all the way around the edges of the blanket except for a roughly 16” section extending from one of the corners.Be sure to use lots of pins to hold the two pieces of fabric together! Place a pin at least every 8 inches along the edges.
 Sew a straight stitch about ½ inch away from the edge of the blanket. Remove the pins as you go and return them to a pin cushion or magnetic pin holder.Hold the fabric firmly, but do not stretch it out as you sew. Just try to keep it flat and even. Sew at a slow, steady pace.
Try to avoid getting any fur in the seam. Brush it away from the edges with your fingers if necessary., You should have left a 16” area of the fabric unpinned. This area will serve as the gap through which you can pull the blanket through and invert it. Stop sewing when you reach this area.Lift the needle and presser foot so that you can pull the fabric away from the sewing machine. Then, begin inverting the blanket so that the faux fur is on the outside. Keep pulling the fabric through the gap until it is totally inverted.
You may need to push out the fabric at the corners a bit to ensure that they don’t look lumpy. Use your fingers or a small object to gently push the fabric out at the corners of the blanket., To complete the blanket, you will just need to sew up the gap. Fold the edges under so that the raw edges will be hidden, and then begin to pin them to hold them in place. Then, sew over the area about ½” from the edge.Remove the pins as you go.
Be sure to place the pins in a pin cushion or magnetic pin holder as you remove them.
 There may be a few hanging threads left over when you finish working on your blanket, so be sure to trim these away. Snip any loose threads as close to the edge of the blanket as you can get without cutting the fabric.


After you trim away the loose ends, your blanket is ready to use!

