 Sometimes people use it randomly because they think it looks cool, or some other illogical reason. This will just quickly drain energy you'll need in a battle that might be around the corner.;
, This is because if someone has a Ghost, they most likely will try to splatter you. So if this happens, activate Armor Lock and destroy your opponent.
 For example, use AL when you see a Scorpion tank looking at you. Within milliseconds they are probably going to shoot at you. Or if you see a Wraith take shot at a plasma mortar use AL when it gets close to you. Plus, you will get a medal and CR's for it.
 When you know you're going to lose the fight, use armor lock to delay it just a few seconds longer. This may be enough time for your team to arrive and help, or it might help you think of an escape route.
 When you exit AL, an EMP blast erupts, size of it depending of how long you use the ability. The longer you hold it, the bigger it gets. The EMP disable vehicles and shields, giving you a quick melee kill. When you exit when an enemy vehicle passes, the EMP might hit the vehicle, leaving it vulnerable for attack and/or hijacks.


If you're fighting someone and he or she is very close to you, go into AL and come out of AL in one second; when you come out of AL, an EMP blast will take out an enemies shields if they are too close!

, When you stall too long enemies will just move out of range so their shields won't be disabled and you will be an easy target. When you enter AL, try to exit quickly as possible. The enemy will be vulnerable to the EMP blast and your battle-winning melee.
 When you see a vehicle trying to run you over, don't jump but enter AL. When you make contact with the fast-moving vehicle, you'll destroy it and get the splatter kill instead of the enemy. This also works when an enemy with an Energy Sword lashes at you: the force of the sword pulling the holder towards the rock hard armor, will collide and splatter the user.


If someone is shooting at you and you activate the AL, then most of the times the enemy team that is near you will stop and watch you until you come out of it, which gives your team a few seconds to do the objective.
 When you're stuck by a plasma grenade, or you're being shot at with a Covenant weapon, you'll deflect the projectile. This might hurt or even kill opponents near your area.
 When you exit AL all moveable objects will be blown back by force. You might you this to your advantage by positioning a vehicle on a safe spot.
 In AL, do not lose sight of your opponent and keep the middle of your screen at him. Then, when you exit, you'll turn extremely fast at the spot you were looking at. This makes enemies prey to plasma grenades or CQC-weapons.
 When they enter AL, just walk backwards and pick them of at a distance. Another option is to throw a Plasma Grenade underneath them and if timed correctly, the user will die. You could also call your teammates over to get a much easier kill.
 If you get stuck with a plasma grenade, use your AL. Not only will this protect you from death, but will also shred the plasma grenade from you. In rare cases, when you shred the plasma grenade it will fly back at the thrower. You get a medal and CR's.

