 By now, your vanity is finished, but you could always make it look more cozy and personalized by adding some final touches to it. There are lots of ways in which to decorate a vanity. This section will give you ideas for a few of those ways.


Not all of the steps in this section are necessary. Use the ones you like for inspiration.
 They can be real or fake.You could even use flower garlands instead! Choose a pretty vase that matches your vanity and place it in the corner, close to the wall. Add the flowers and spread them out a little to make the bouquet appear fuller. If you are using a garland, hand it above the mirror.


For a rustic look, fill the bottom of a mason jar with glass gems, then add the flowers. You can tie a ribbon around the middle of the jar for a pop of color.
 Choose a candle that looks or smells nice (both is a bonus) and set it down on a pretty plate or charger. Set the candle down close to the mirror, where it will reflect when lit.Consider changing the candles out with the seasons. Use floral scented ones for the spring, fruity for the summer, and spicy for the fall or winter.
You don't have to light the candle at all. If you do, remember not to leave it unattended.
 This is not completely necessary, but it can make your vanity look more interesting.You can use photographs or paintings. Make sure that the frames you use go well with the mirror. To avoid competition and clutter, choose simpler, thinner frames.
 You can use a string of pretty lights, tulle, or even a flower garland. If you are using Christmas lights, go for the kind that have a white cable; green will look too Christmas-y. If you are using tulle, tie some pretty ribbon in the middle and at each corner before it drapes down the side of the mirror. This will give it a fancier, curtained look.
 Keep everything else safely stored away. While not quite decorating, keeping your vanity clean will make it look nicer. A messy, cluttered vanity won't look very pretty. Keep everything in its place and stored away. Your vanity should only have decorative items and organizers on display, so tuck those hairbrushes and eye shadow pans away!

