 The genre is an important part of your writing process. Here are some genres that you could write:


Action
Fantasy
Science- fiction
Romance
Adventure
Erotica
Comedy
Drama
Prequel
Sequel.;
, Even within fantasy, you can make the actions and world seem as real as the things that happen in the reader's own world every day. For fantasy and science-fiction, you will need excellent descriptive skills to bring the world and beings alive in realistic ways. If you are weak in this area, do some studying to strengthen your descriptive writing skills first.
 All famous books start off with a key idea. You can find ideas anywhere. Try listening to the radio for news stories that could give you ideas. Look up pictures on the internet that could give you inspiration. Maybe another book could inspire your idea. Even if you want to write a prequel or a sequel, you should still get your main plot. Try to notice all of the small yet important details in your daily life.
 Maybe you can keep a story writing journal or notebook go ensure that the ideas you come up with are not lost to poor memory. Or even keep a list of ideas on your computer. Although your story will be based on one main idea, to keep it realistic, you'll need to follow through with various smaller ideas, just as people experience in real life. For example, in real life a person's job may be a focal point, but so is their family life, their hobbies, their spat with the neighbor and their triumph in a local sporting group. Each of these threads forms the whole and even if the story is about Fred undermining Lotti to get a promotion at work, Fred will still have his daily life at home, his parental responsibilities, his weekly sports practices and his interfering in-laws to contend with all while trying to oust Lotti from the job he wants. No story is straight down the line, so keep all of your strands going in order to make a realistic tale.
 To develop your idea, start thinking like a writer. The development of the idea makes your story much more realistic. Ask yourself these questions:


How does it start?
Where and when does it take place?
Who are the characters?
What is the problem?
What caused the problem?
What happens in the middle?
How did or did not it get fixed?
How do the characters have connection to each other and the problem?
How does it end?

, Use all of your ideas as the story unfolds, as they offer you guidance in keeping the details realistic.


Use a pencil, pen, computer anything as long as your writing is neat.
 This is up to you but some authors find that they write with greater ease in one form of narration over another, so it might take you a little while to work this out. Which narrative you choose is an important part of adding realism to your work, as the extent to which you can explore the emotions, feelings, perspectives, etc. of the character in detail depends upon the form you've chosen. For some authors, first person narrative provides a better opportunity to sound realistic while for other authors, the third person narrative works better. It really comes down to what your own writing style is.


First person narrative: A character (or characters) narrates the story. He/she is involved in the story but reveals his/her own feelings and experiences much of the time through the use of "I" or "we" viewpoints.
Second person narrative: This is an attempt to make the reader become a character in the story, and the reader will be referred to as "you". It's not used a lot, as it is not an easy form in which to write.
Third person narrative: This is from the perspective of he/she or they and the author is simply narrating things in a usually uninvolved way. The narrator may be aware of the main character's feelings and thoughts only or the narrator may be aware of the feelings and thoughts of a wider array of characters. Or, the narrator may choose to simply observe things as they unfold without describing the feelings and thoughts of the characters. The third person form is the most commonly used and it can be subject to different approaches, depending on your writing style.
Mixing it up: It is possible to mix narrative forms if you're a good writer. However, you will need to plan this with care and introduce narrative changes at key points, and not jump around between them all over the place. For example, you might use third person throughout most of the story but for an intervening part or chapter, use the first person to give an overview or summary, then return to the third person.
 Apart from the advice already given, some of the things you can do to amp up the realism include:


Avoid cliché plot lines as much as possible. They are crutches and they're weak. Interestingly, real life rarely pans out in the way the writing clichés suggest, such as love at first sight, full knowledge at a glance, hiding an aspect of oneself only to have the one true love find it out before anyone else, and so forth. Life is more complicated than such clichés would admit to and while there is some neat niceness that these constructions permit of, they don't a whole story make. Move beyond these as much as you can.
Allow your characters to make mistakes and to be absolutely confused about how to fix them or make changes. Life isn't straightforward and the answers are often not there. Sometimes it takes a lot of hard work and experience to work out what to do next. Avoid turning your ordinary characters into super-beings that have one simple solution; instead, let them work things out for themselves in the way you or your reader would likely do––messily and often requiring compromises.
Include references to the more banal things the characters must contend with. This increases the sense that, in spite of being a spy/heroine/outlaw/villain, etc., this person still has to eat, go to the bathroom and contend with long queues. It provides a sense of what every reader knows to be true.
 The story could start with a problem, a special event or a lazy Saturday afternoon. The starting is the most important part, as it lets the reader figure out if they like the story.


Don't make the beginning too boring or else the reader wouldn't want to read the rest of the interesting parts.
If you're struggling with the start, don't dwell on it for now. Come back to it after writing the story more, as it will likely come to you eventually.
 Once you get to the middle of your story, keep making the story as interesting as you can. The middle of the story is the part when the reader knows the problem and knows the characters better. This is where you should be asking yourself "When should I make it so that the problem is fixed?" Near the ending the problem should be fixed.
 As with the beginning of the book, seek to end your story well. Provide it with a good wrapping-up sentence or paragraph that leaves the reader reacting and thinking.
 A good idea would be to have spellcheck on your computer. However, editing isn't just spelling and all aspects of grammar are important to a smooth and good reading experience. If all the answers to the following questions are in the affirmative, then you can show your story to the world:


Do all the sentences make sense?
Did I spell the words correctly?
Is the grammar okay?
Do I have the right punctuation?
Can I combine some sentences?
Are there some unnecessary parts that I could delete?

