 Bringing your lunch, and breakfast, if you eat it at work, from home can help reduce the risk that you’re going to get nauseous. It also helps make sure you are getting proper nutrients for your body.Avoid greasy fast food and heavy meals from restaurants. Instead, pack lunches that are full of complex carbohydrates and protein.
For example, for breakfast you can eat smoothies with Greek yogurt, spinach, chia seeds, and fruit. Oatmeal, eggs, sweet potatoes, nut butters, turkey sausage, and veggies also make good ingredients for breakfast.
Easy lunches include whole wheat pitas stuffed with spinach, veggies, and lean meat or a turkey burger. Salads topped with nuts and seeds and lean meats can also be portable and easy. You can also try mixing quinoa or brown rice with lean meats, veggies, avocado, and herbs and spices.;
, You may be feeling great and productive, but then suddenly you’re hit with a wave of nausea. Pregnancy nausea can ruin a good day and keep you from working. To help with this, eat bland snacks like crackers often to help ward off morning sickness.Ginger ale and ginger tea may help with nausea. Ginger is a natural stomach calming ingredient.
Avoid things that trigger your nausea. You don’t want to add a reason to be nauseated.
 To help keep from feeling too tired, add more iron to your diet each day. Iron-deficiency anemia can lead to fatigue, which can make working even more difficult. You should get around 27 mg of iron each day.To get more iron, add whole grain foods into your diet, along with lean beef and porch, dried fruit without added sugar, beans, and green leafy vegetables.Always talk to your doctor before taking supplements while pregnant.
 Protein is important for keeping your energy up. It is also important for your baby. To figure out how much protein you need, divide your pre-pregnancy weight by two. That’s how many grams you need each day.Protein-rich foods include seafood, lean meat and poultry, eggs, unsalted nuts, seeds, eggs, beans, and soy products.
 Staying hydrated is extremely important when you are pregnant. Dehydration can lead to lethargy and mental fatigue, so staying hydrated can help you not only give your baby what they need, but also keep you focused and energized at work. You should drink at least 10 eight-ounce glasses of water each day while pregnant.Keep water bottles at your desk so you can drink from it throughout the day.

