 Hold the ball in your glove near your chest.
 Turn the ball so that the laces form a "C," then place your four fingers along the top lace. Your thumb should comfortably rest along the side of the softball.


In order to properly grip the laces, use the tips of your fingers to hold the ball so that there is a little bit of space between the ball and your fingers.
 This is the foot opposite your throwing arm, and you want it placed directly towards your catcher. Most often, where you place your feet will indicate where you throw the ball, so work on making a "power line" that extends from your back foot, through your front foot, and straight to the catcher.


Your feet should be pointing anywhere between 90 and 45 degrees to the side, away from the batter.
 The ball and the glove arms will be separate, but both should be extended and pointing at the catcher.
 Keeping your arm straight, bring your throwing arm up so that the ball is towards the sky.
 Your arm should be relaxed and slightly bent at the elbow the entire time. Think of your arm as the hand of a clock and your shoulder is the center of it.


This is called the "arm whip," because your arm should be loose and relaxed, letting momentum carry your arm quickly through it's arc and towards your waist., As you arm swings backwards, start dripping your glove back to your side. When you time both arms correctly you open up your shoulders so they face towards your target, allowing better accuracy.
 Practice to find the exact location that works for you -- release too early and the ball will hit the dirt, too late and it will go too high.
 Your palm is facing upward and your fingers will rapidly snap back into your hand as you let go of the ball. Think of the motion you make when trying to hide something in your palm. Your fingers come back as if someone was trying to take a quarter out of your hand., After you release the ball, you want to end with your arm up and pointing directly at your target.
 There are a lot of things that can "go wrong" while pitching, but the most common ones involve balance and improper posture. Some things to look out for include:


Keeping the ball over your toes. You want your arm's entire arc to stay perpendicular to your body, so avoid letting your hand stray out and away from your torso. If the ball is over your toes the entire time you will keep the ball straight and throw more strikes.
Forgetting your fingers. The snap at the end of the throw is crucial to keeping the ball stable at high speeds, so if your pitches are wild or wobble in the air, focus on following through properly.
Landing your front foot. As you start throwing, don't forget that proper foot placement is key to accuracy. Make sure that every time you step forward you are landing towards the target.
 Do not try to start throwing pitches right out of the gate. Practice every part slowly and separately to get good habits. For example, make your step forward and bring your arm up, then stop and check your position -- are you in line with the catcher? Next, bring your arm around and snap your fingers -- did you get good backspin? You are not looking for good pitches yet, just good consistent motions.


You can test your backspin by placing black electrical tape perpendicular to the laces of the ball. You should see a solid black "line" of the tape as the ball spins., The best pitchers put all of these parts together quickly and smoothly, without pauses or jerky, awkward motions.


Push off of your back foot.
Plant your front foot towards the catcher.
Begin rotating your extended arm clockwise over your head.
Drop your glove arm as you arm passes your head
Release the ball by your waist.
Snap your fingers back into your palm as the ball exits your hand.
Follow through to your chest.

