 If the cough is related to an infection or other sickness, then take a day off from work or school. This can help you get better faster and give your body time to heal., Keep the air humid by using a vaporizer or by taking hot, steamy showers. This helps loosen congestion.You can also do this by boiling water on the stove.
 Hydrating your body helps thin out your mucus. During the day, drink a lot of water, which can be warm. At a minimum, try to drink nine to 12 8-ounce glasses of water a day.Hot tea is a great way to help sooth a cough. Try green tea, which gives you an antioxidant boost.
You can also drink clear chicken broth, juice, or vegetable broth. Try some chicken soup because it can help coughs., When you feel bad, you want to provide your body with a constant supply of energy through small meals. Make sure to eat easily digestible food in small portions. The best things to eat are quality proteins, like fish and poultry, along with complex carbs.Eat foods that boost your immune system. Eggs, mushrooms, and yogurt help boost the immune system.
Incorporate foods that are rich in vitamins. Vitamin C and vitamin A are important for immune health, along with foods containing antioxidants and beta-carotenes. Try red peppers, carrots, oranges, berries, leafy green vegetables, squash, and sweet potatoes.
These dietary tips are more effective if followed before you get sick, so that your immune system is healthy enough to fight off infection.
 Cough drops and hard candies help coat the throat and ease the cough. You can also try throat sprays to lessen a dry cough.


Ice chips may also work if you don’t have cough drops., Raising your upper body helps mucus to flow out of your throat more easily. You can stack pillows under your head, lean against the headboard of a bed or the back of a couch, or even raise the head of the bed by placing it on two by fours., There are some conditions that require you to see your doctor to help get rid of your cough. For example, ACE inhibitors and other medications can cause dry coughs. You can talk to your doctor about switching the medicine.


If you believe your dry cough is a symptom of an underlying condition, or you have been dealing with it for a few weeks with no relief, then go see your physician.
If your symptoms don't get better in five to seven days, or they keep recurring, go see your physician. Also see a doctor if the mucus is green or yellow, if you are wheezing or whistling, or you have difficulty breathing.