 Pawnshops offer simple, collateralized loans to borrowers. The loans are collateralized, meaning secured with a possession, when the borrower provides a valuable possession to the pawnbroker in exchange for the loan. If the loan is repaid under the contract terms, the item is returned to the borrower. If the borrower fails to repay the loan, the pawnbroker keeps the items and sells them to regain his loss from the loan. Pawnbroker loans offer a number of advantages, including:


Fast and simple access to a loan.
There is no credit risk. That is, if you fail to repay the loan, you won't have collections agents chasing you down.
The disadvantage is that you will lose the items you provided to the pawnbroker if you fail to repay the loan., Consider bringing in valuable possessions like electronics, jewelry, antiques, or musical instruments to pawn. Remember that the loan you receive will be a fraction of the market price of the item. This is because the pawn broker has to cover their own expenses and then try to sell the item for its market price if you fail to repay your loan. Never bring in anything you can't bear to lose, especially if you are unsure about your financial future., There are more than 10,000 pawn shops across the country. These shops serve a variety of customers and vary in their professionalism, assessed values, and loan terms. Search online for top-rated pawnshops in your area and then visit the shops to get quotes for your items. Choose the best combination of loan value and repayment terms., The pawnbroker will assess your items to determine a fair market price for them. Your loan will be a percentage of this price. Percentages may be as high as 50 percent, and can be even higher if you choose to sell the item to the broker outright. Don't be surprised if the loan you get is smaller than expected; brokers judge items based on market value, which may be much lower than the original retail price., Pawnbroker repayment terms vary by store and state. You can usually expect to have about a month to repay the loan, with another month "grace period" afterwards to settle your debt. Many pawnbrokers also give the option to extend your loan for a fee if you can't yet pay it back. Make sure to review the contract terms before accepting any loan agreement to make sure that the terms are in your best interest., Repay your loan balance within the specified time to receive your items back. If you cannot do so, or choose not to, simply end your contact with the pawnshop. Your items will be sold and you can keep the money that you borrowed.