 Help your parents and in-laws break the ice ahead of time by introducing them to each other over a phone or video call. If they are reluctant or tech-averse, even an email or a handwritten note can help your parents and in-laws feel more at ease when meeting each other in person.Although age-old tradition dictates that the groom’s family should reach out to the bride’s first. Many families choose to break this tradition. In most recent years, it’s perfectly fine for you and your partner to initiate a meeting between your parents if you want to. Respect any cultural factors that you or your partner deem important. Starting out on the right foot here, can make a world of difference through the years!

, If you and your partner share a house or apartment, consider inviting your parents there. Other good places for the first meeting could include a casual restaurant, an outdoor barbecue, or a coffee shop. Avoid meeting at your parents’ or in-laws’ house, which might make the other set of parents feel out of place.Plan the first meeting around either food or an activity of some kind. This will minimize awkward silences and give your parents and in-laws something to bond over.
If you’re making a meal, be sure the food will appeal to everyone. Check with your partner about whether their parents have any dietary restrictions or dislike certain foods.
 Meeting new people can be a little awkward for everyone, so you and your partner will probably have to carry much of the conversation during your parents’ first meeting. Think of some things to talk about ahead of time, so you can fill in gaps in the conversation smoothly.One of the best ways to spark conversations is to find common ground between your parents and your in-laws. For instance, you could tell your car-loving father-in-law that your dad also likes to work on classic cars.
Another great conversation starter is to talk about the family composition on each side. For example, you can ask about their other children, siblings, grandchildren, etc.
 To prevent any unintentional offense or hurt feelings, avoid hot-button topics like politics, religion, or controversial news stories. Keep the conversation light, positive, and relatable.When in doubt, you can always talk about pets, food, or the weather.
You and your partner should identify controversial topics on each side before your parents and in-laws meet, and plan to avoid these topics.
 You and your partner can avoid any awkward situations when the check arrives by paying the bill yourselves. Find the waiter and give them your credit card ahead of time.This is an especially good idea if there’s an income discrepancy between your parents and your partner’s parents.

