 When you're first starting or incorporating a strength training routine, it's important to ease into it. Doing too much exercise or using a weight that's not appropriate for you can cause an injury.Although including two to three days of strength training is recommended, start with just one day a week. This will help you ease into a new routine.
Also start with low weights. If you're using dumbbells or a weight machine, choose the lowest weight level to start.
You can also just use your body weight instead of lifting actual weights. Some bodyweight exercises are a little better to start with.;
, A short warm-up routine is not only important with aerobic exercises, they are important for strength training activities as well. Warm-ups help prevent injury by slowly increasing your heart and breathing rate and increasing the blood flow to your muscles. In addition, moving your joints through their full range of motion causes your body to secrete more synovial fluid, which lubricates and stabilizes your joints.A warm-up is just a lighter intensity or slower version of your planned activity. It should be done for about 5 minutes or so.For strength training in particular, try doing some basic range of motion movements such as long strides, shoulder rolls, wrist, elbow and ankle circles, and knee bends, and doing some walking. This can help warm up your muscles and improve your range of motion at your joints.
 One particularly good strength training exercise for adults is a chair squat. This exercise helps strengthen your legs, hip and buttocks. Doing this regularly can help you build up enough lower body strength to do other exercises.Start by standing in front of a sturdy chair — your back should be facing the chair. It shouldn't have wheels on the feet and should have a sturdy seat and back.
Stand straight with your feet just slightly wider than hip-width apart. You can keep your arms at your sides.
Placing most of your weight into the heels of your feet, start to slowly bend your knees. You should look like you're about to sit down in slow motion. If you wish, reach your arms up into the air — this may encourage you to keep proper form as you sit.
Slowly lower down until your butt almost touches the chair. Keep the head up and back as vertical as possible. Then slowly rise back up to a straight, standing position.
If you cannot lower far enough down to the seat of the chair, that's OK. Start by lowering yourself down as far as you can get. With more practice, you'll be able to do more.
You should aim to do one set of 10 chair squats. Once you're comfortable with this amount, increase to two sets of 10 chair squats.
 As you age, it's very important to work on strengthening the back and protecting the spine. Bridging can help strengthen the muscles in the lower back and help stretch your hip flexors.Start out lying on your back on a yoga mat. Place a pillow under your head for comfort if you wish. Your arms should be at your sides, knees bent with feet flat on the ground.
Gently lift your buttocks off the ground as high as you comfortably can and hold for a few seconds. Keep your abs pulled tight to protect your spine.
Slowly sink your hips back to the ground.
Repeat 10 times or as many times as you comfortably can.
 The wall push-up is a great exercise to help strengthen your upper body. One of the nice things about this exercise is, unlike the standard floor push-up, you don't have to get down on the ground to perform it.Start this exercise by standing in front of a sturdy wall. The wall should be clear of hanging objects like pictures or of windows.
While facing the wall, place your palms flat on the wall (fingers pointing upwards) at shoulder height. You should be standing close enough to the wall that your elbows have a slight bend in them.
While keeping your feet planted firmly on the ground, slowly bend your elbows allowing your body to come closer to the wall. Keep your elbows pointed down — your arms should not look like "chicken wings" out to the sides; this places strain on the shoulder joint. Do this in a slow and controlled motion.
Stop when your face is just a few inches from the wall. Pause here and then slowly push yourself back to your starting position.
Aim for one set of 10 wall push-ups to start with. Once you're doing well with this amount, try increasing to two sets of 10 push-ups.
If you experience pain in the fingers or wrists in this position, you can also try this with your hands placed on a counter top using the palm to push away from the counter. The fingers can remain curled in this position and the wrist should stay straight.
 To help strengthen the muscles in your calves, feet and ankles, try incorporating toe stands. This is a great exercise to help build lower leg strength which can help improve your strength for walking.Stand behind a sturdy chair. It shouldn't have wheels on the feet and needs to have a strong back on which you can lean.
Place your hands on the top of the back of the chair to start. Your feet should be shoulder width apart.
Slowly press yourself up until you are standing on your tiptoes. Hold this position for one to two seconds. Then slowly lower yourself down back to your starting position with feet flat on the floor.
Repeat this exercise 10–15 times per set. You can increase to two sets as you become stronger over time.
 If you use light and small hand weights, you can perform a variety of simple upper body exercises. Moves like bicep curls or deltoid raises can help strengthen your arms.Repeat exercises 10 times per set to start with.


Start with using a set of 1 or 2 pound dumbbell hand weights. This weight is very low and will be appropriate for most older adults (even without previous strength training experience).
To do deltoid raises, continue to sit in your chair with a dumbbell in each hand. Bend your arms at your elbows to form a 90 degree angle. Lift your elbows up and away from your body until your upper arm is parallel to the floor. Then, lower your arms back down to the starting position.
To do shoulder presses, sit in your chair and continue to hold a dumbbell in each hand. With palms facing forward, press the dumbbells straight up over your head until your arms are fully extend. Slowly bend your elbows to allow your arms to come back down to your sides.
To do bicep curls, sit in a sturdy chair and hold one dumbbell in each hand. Slowly bend your elbows and bring your hands up to your shoulders. Release and lower your arms back down to an extended position by your sides.
 Although strength training comes with a lot of health benefits, it's always important to talk to your doctor first. As you age, it's important to prevent injury and choose exercises that are appropriate for you.


If you're interested in incorporating more strength training, meet with your doctor. Talk about your fitness goals and how you're planning on reaching your goals.
Ask your doctor if there are any specific restrictions that you should follow. Does he recommend a weight restriction? Should you keep your heart rate lower? Are there specific exercises you shouldn't do?
Also ask if there is a certain area of your body or types of exercise your doctor would like you to focus on. For example, does he want you to improve your balance? Or would he like you to improve your core strength?

, In addition to meeting with your physician, you may also want to consider meeting with a personal trainer who has experience training older adults. These fitness professionals can help you plan and work towards meeting your fitness goals.


A personal trainer who has training working with older adults will know the exercises most important for aging bodies. Those include exercises for maintaining or improving balance, posture and function. There are also movement patterns and exercises that older adults should avoid since they place too much strain on an aging spine.
Personal trainers are a great option if you aren't very active currently or haven't been in the past. They can teach you and provide hands-on guidance on how to perform certain exercises.
Look for a local personal trainer or find someone at the gym you belong to. Make sure to ask if she has experience working with older adults.
Ask her to give your specific exercises that are within your current fitness range. Also make sure to express what you specific fitness goals are or ask her to help you set realistic, achievable goals.
 When you start your strength training program, you might want to consider keeping an exercise journal. This is a great place to track what you're doing and what results you're seeing over time.


An exercise journal can help document your progress with your strength training routine. You'll notice changes in your muscle tone, muscle mass and even your overall strength. Track these changes in your journal.This journal is a great way to stay accountable to yourself. Tracking every week can help you stick to your strength training routine long-term.
Keep note of what exercises you're able to do, how many sets you can do and what your goals are. This is a great motivational tool as well.
There are also many apps available to download onto your smartphone that can help you track exercise and diet.
 If you are interested in starting a strength training routine, it's important to set goals for yourself. Setting specific goals can help you stay on track to your achievements.


The first important part of goal setting is making goals specific. These tailored goals will help you stay on track and keep you motivated.
For example, "increasing strength" is a great goal, but very broad. Instead, your goals should be "I want to increase my lower body strength by doing leg strengthening exercises two to three days a week for 20 minutes." Or something like "I want to be able to balance on one leg without help for 30 seconds or one minute." Then ramp it up to include arm movements while standing one one leg.
Also make sure your goals are realistic. Although it's great to have some loftier goals, these might not happen for some time. Instead, set goals that you'll be able to reach within a month or two. Continue to set more goals after you've made progress on initial goals.
 With any type of new fitness program, have the right types of equipment to meet your goals. You may only need some weights and a sturdy chair to work out at home, or you may wish to go to a gym with machines.


If you currently belong to a gym, fitness center or rec center, they will most likely have a large variety of strength training equipment available to use. Talk to your doctor or personal trainer about what's appropriate.
If you do not belong to a fitness center, you may want to purchase some home equipment. You do not need much, however some resistance bands and a set of light dumbbells is great to have.
If you want to and are able, you may want to invest in a fitness or yoga mat. These make floor exercises much more comfortable to do.
 Although strength training is a great activity to include in your weekly routine, aerobic exercise is equally important as you age. Make sure to also include some heart-pumping exercises in your fitness plan.


The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that all adults, including older adults, aim for about 150 minutes of aerobic activity each week.You can split this activity up and aim for about 30 minutes five days a week or about 20 minutes daily.
Like strength training, aerobic exercises come with some great health benefits. These exercises specifically can help you lose weight or maintain a healthy weight, lower your blood pressure, improve your cholesterol levels and improve your mental health and mood.Try exercises that are appropriate for your current fitness level. You can try: walking, water aerobics, using the elliptical or riding a stationary bike.
 Both balance and flexibility training are important components to a well-balanced fitness routine. In addition, practicing exercises that improve balance and flexibility can also prevent common injuries that occur as you age.About 1/3 of those who are over 65 years old fall every year. Falls and the injuries that are associated from them can significantly impact the health of an older adult.
Incorporating specific exercises to help improve balance may help prevent you from falling and causing serious injury to yourself.
Flexibility exercises in particular help keep your muscles loose and maintain your range of motion. Stretching and similar exercises can help make everyday activities, like getting dressed, much easier., Planned and structured activity (like going for a 30 minute walk or doing 20 minutes of strength training) is an important part of your overall health and wellness; however, it's also important to try and stay active in your leisure time.


Lifestyle activities are exercises you do as part of your normal daily routine. Walking to get the mail, grocery shopping or sweeping the floor all count as lifestyle activities.As you get older, it's important to stay active and independent. Even though it may be easy to get in the habit of being more sedentary, try to stay active with household chores and lifestyle activities.
Think about your typical day. How much sitting do you do? Are there areas or times where you could take more steps or be more active?
Try doing more activities like taking the stairs if you're able, going for short walks during the day, parking farther away or standing during commercial breaks as you watch TV.
 You might be surprised, but including an adequate amount of time off from exercise is important. This is especially true when it comes to strength training exercises.You might think that muscle grows and becomes stronger when you're working out; however, the opposite is true. Muscles actually grow in both size and strength during rest.
Too much strength training can also make you feel more tired and fatigued. Although it's OK to exceed the recommended one to two days of strength training, don't over do it.
Include about one to two rest days each week. You can still do light walking or other aerobic exercise, but make sure to give your muscles a true break.

