 Open it by tapping on its icon on your home screen. Launching it from the application drawer is also an option.


Most launchers will have free versions, but their functionality may be a bit restricted to drive users to pay for the full version.;
, Tap on the magnifying glass icon at the top right portion of the Play Store screen. In the search field, type in “Launchers,” and then tap on the magnifying glass icon again to initiate the search.
 You will see the many launchers that you can use on your Android device. Choosing which ones to consider may be daunting initially, but the rating system will help you out to make it easier.


Try the ones with no less than 4.5 star ratings, and of those apps, try the ones with the blue diamond icon beside their developer’s names as these are Top Developers specially hand-picked by Google.
 Then, read through the launcher’s features by tapping on the “Read More” button.


Swipe through the application screenshots to catch a preview of what the launcher looks like.
Read through the user comments, and see what the general opinion is. You’ll generally pick up whether the application crashes constantly or works flawlessly.
 When you’re satisfied, and know exactly which launchers look promising, try one out by tapping on the Install button right below the launcher name.


You will then be shown the permissions window, which tells you what aspects of your device the application will have access to once you’ve installed it. If you are okay with the permissions, tap on the Accept button to install.
 Once the launcher is installed, you can now check it out. Hit the Home button on your device, and you will notice that the “Select a home app” menu will pop up. Choose the launcher you just installed, and tap on “Always.” You can always change the default launcher if you end up not liking it.
 You should now see the home screen using the launcher you just installed. Swipe around and tinker about to see if you like the smoothness of the transition between screens.


Some launchers automatically sort your applications into folders on your home screen for added convenience. If your chosen launcher does that, see if it does this well, and if you find it personally convenient.
 Study what sort of customization options the launcher afford you. Open the app drawer with a tap on the drawer icon, which is typically the circle with a bunch of squares inside it.


Search for your launcher in the app drawer, and tap on it to access the Settings menu for the launcher.
Fiddle around with the launcher’s customization options. Are you allowed to set the aspects of the launcher that you find convenient (such as gesture launching, Google Voice integration, etc.)? Can you customize fundamental aspects of your home screen without having to buy the full version? Are you allowed to add widgets, applications and shortcuts intuitively? These are just some of the questions you must ask yourself when evaluating a launcher.
With these apps, your mileage may definitely vary, as users can vastly differ in preferences.
 You can find yourself spending hours customizing your home screen with a launcher, and the verdict will ultimately depend on whether or not you are happy with the results when you finish mucking around the launcher settings, as well as the home screen., If you do not like the launcher, just get a new one. Repeat the evaluation process, and see which launcher sits well with you.