 If you have used shampoo, or other fat-dissolving substance, then you've also given your scalp a pretty big shock. You wash away its natural protection, and your scalp's defense is to produce lots of oil to compensate. You'll notice this change, especially the first two weeks. You will thus probably have dramatically oilier hair and scalp .


Many people think they are doing wrong, and that the hair's own oil is a disgusting and weird thing. This is where most people give up. But that oil is a good thing!
Your body gives you exactly what your hair needs, now you just need to know what to do with it! That is, distribute it in your hair.;
, The secret to healthy hair without shampoo is to brush and comb it. Very often!

"Huh? But! Wait, isn't that a myth! I've read in a lot of places that you should not do that! The hair breaks! Isn't that right? " Yes, and no! This advice is found in many books and on many websites that recommend shampoo. And they are absolutely right! If you do this when using shampoo, it breaks. Shampoo makes the hair to become porous and brittle, breaking easily. Therefore, it's usually supplemented with a conditioner, artificial chemicals, or vegetable oil, to fill in the cracks and adding a protective layer on top .
However, without shampoo, brushing helps distribute your body's own protective sebum over the hair, making it stronger and shinier.
 You can compare it to a wooden floor! If you have untreated wooden floors as you continually clean with, say dishwashing liquid, then it will crack. The dishwashing liquid is fat-dissolving and removes what natural wax and oils remaining in the wood. It becomes dry and rough. If you want to save it, you can try rubbing in, say, mineral oil or petroleum jelly (paraffin, petroleum jelly and a whole range of other mineral oil based products ) in the wood. It fills it up nicely for a while, but it also dries the wood out and makes the cracks grow larger.


Know that, similarly, mineral / vegetable oil and hair are not best friends. The same applies to the hair. If you clean your hair with shampoo every day, it's like using dishwashing liquid on a wooden floor, whether your shampoo is based on petroleum or plant products.
 What should you do then? When it comes to wooden floors, you can rub it with green soap, a product that more or less consists of wood oil. The wood can absorb the soap excellent. In time it will disappear as well, but the wood is not dried out or cracking up more. But sooner or later, you will always end up with dust on a floor. Sweep your floor, and vacuum it to remove dirt.


Know that hair oil and hair are, similarly, best friends! When it comes to your hair so you can still rub it with tallow - the fat coming out of your scalp! Imagine your hairbrush as an ordinary brush , and your comb like a vacuum cleaner. Brush and comb your hair to remove dirt, while distributing the new grease! The first six weeks, you'll probably feel that your hair is extremely oily. It is because your scalp attack produces lots of sebum, to protect your hair.
 Brush your hair instead, daily. Several times! Use a dense brush, brush or comb through it morning, noon and night. All the way from the scalp to ends ! That way you will get an even layer of sebum over the hair strand, and a shiny, strong and beautiful hair.
 It may well be that your hair is getting fat and stringy. It is the first sign that you have not brushed it sufficient enough. Do you want to clean it a bit extra?

, Know that hot water opens the hair strand and cold water closes the hair strand. When you want to wash your hair:


Open: So your natural fat from the scalp enters the hair strand more smoothly.
Comb through hair thoroughly. Distribute your sebum all the way to the ends!
Shower your hair with as cool water as you can. Tilt your head and rinse only the hair itself, so you don't have to be cold.
Comb through it again, to get get rid of any excess fat.
 When you use this method, you will see that the comb and the brush, except the hairs you shed naturally, will gather a small layer of white stuff. It is the excess oil from your hair.


Do not forget to wash your comb. Rinse it with warm water. Is it really hard to remove; use a mild soap and rinse.
Also make sure to keep your brush clean. You can comb away shed hair and excess oil from your brush with the comb. If that does not help, wash it the same way as you did with the comb. Just make sure it is properly dried, and that no soap residue remains. The soap dehydrates the brushes and makes them brittle, just like shampoo does with your hair.

