 On the Chase website, you will be able to explore all of the banking products they offer, but more importantly, you will be able to choose and apply for a credit card.;
, On the top left of the page, you will see a drop-down box called “explore products”, hold your mouse over this, and then select the left most option, “credit cards”., You will be taken to the credit cards homepage, where a few options are shown. The website allows you to view all the credit cards they have available, compare different cards based on their features, and to sort them based on specific criteria.


Chase offers many different types of credit cards. For example, cards with no annual fee, credit cards for business owners, cards with various rewards (cash back, hotel or airlines points, etc.), cards with no foreign transaction fees, which can be great if you travel internationally, in addition to several other types.
If you know what features you are looking for, you can use the, "credit card finder" to help narrow your selections. You can find this tool on the top left hand side of the page.
You can also browse all of the available cards by selecting, "browse all credit cards" on the left hand side of the page.
 After you have browsed the different cards available, you should narrow your choices down to a few good options.


If this is your first time applying for a card, you should start with a very basic one. For example, cards with no annual fees (such as the Chase Freedom card) tend to be a good option, but they typically come with very few frills.
One thing to consider is how you will use the card. If you plan to use the card for small purchases, and to pay the balance in full each month then the interest rate of the card is not so important. However, if you plan to use the card for a big purchase, which will require you to pay the balance slowly over time, make sure you look for the lowest interest rate.Also consider your credit history when choosing your card.If you don’t have a good credit history, or you have fewer than five years of history, your options will be limited to the most basic cards with small credit limits.
 Be sure to thoroughly read and understand the fine print associated with your choices. Not only is it important to understand what you are getting in to when getting a credit card, it can also be helpful for finding the perfect card for you.
 Finding the right credit card can be a daunting task. However, after reading about each card’s advantages and benefits, you will be able to come to a good conclusion about which one is most suitable.
 Once you have chosen a suitable card, go to the web page of that particular card and click the “Apply Now” button. This button is green and located to the right of the picture of the card.


You may also apply for a card by calling the customer service line. In the US, this number is: 1-877-242-7372. Outside the US, you can reach them at: 1-713-262-3300.Understand, though, that this method can take longer and may result in mistakes because you won’t get to see what the representative has inputted into the screen. It will require you to speak the information to the representative who will read it back to you for accuracy. In addition, you will likely be required to wait on hold for several minutes if they are very busy.
 The application will guide you through several pages. Make sure that you fill in each box carefully, and double check to make sure you have not made any mistakes.


Make sure all your information is correct. Transposed digits or missing information can cause Chase to deny your application.
 In the online application, you will be asked to provide information about you, where you live, how much you earn, who you are employed by, your social security number, as well as a wealth of other information.This information will be used to help the bank make a decision about how likely you are to use the credit card responsibly.
If you're not retired, have no alimony or child-support payments, or do not need a card for an additional user, leave these sections of the form blank.
 Usually, you will receive an email after submitting your application confirming that they received it. This email will usually contain information about how long a decision will need.
 With the technology of today, Chase can typically make a decision about your application in a matter of minutes. If you are approved, you will usually receive your card within a few days via mail.Once you receive your new card you will need to go online to www.chase.com/verifycard (you need to have an online account, or you can easily create one), or call the number on the card to activate it. Don’t forget to sign the card, too!

