 House wrens create a number of nests, including dummy nests, in order to claim territory and ward off competitors. They also use dummy nests to cover the eggs and hatchlings of competitors, making it impossible for them to incubate their eggs or feed their young. Dummy nests consist of loose sticks, whereas an active nest has a lining of feathers and often eggs. Removing dummy nests makes it easier for other species to nest in a box. It is illegal to remove an active house wren nest. Make sure it is a dummy nest before removing.
Removing dummy nests requires constant monitoring because house wrens will return and repeatedly try to rebuild them. Use a birdcam to watch the nestbox.
Do not drop sticks from dummy nest on the ground near the nestbox. House wrens will reuse the sticks if left nearby.;
, House wrens often return to nestboxes with old nests, perhaps because they indicate a safe location from predators and competitors. If you want to make sure house wrens do not nest in a certain location, be sure to clean out any old nests at the end of the season.House wren nests are usually empty by fall.
 If a nestbox has a dummy nest inside, place a cap over the hole to discourage house wrens from returning. This can be done with a rubber drain stopper or a piece of cork. Plugging a nestbox for a few weeks may convince local house wrens to move on to new territory and open up space for new tenets. Although this may drive the house wrens away from one particular nestbox, it may also encourage them to move on to another one with birds actively nesting in it.
 House wrens love tiny nestboxes, particularly the tiny ornamental birdhouses that can be found in many backyards. Multiple small boxes placed close together have a tendency to create large populations of house wrens and drive out other species. On the other hand, bigger boxes placed over a large area tended to facilitate the growth of other bird species. It is believed that house wrens prefer the smaller floors of little nestboxes because they offer a better space for building their compact nests.
 Slot, Gilbertson and Gilwood boxes have openings that make it easier for house wrens to fill them with sticks and create dummy nests. They also tend to have a smaller size that house wrens are drawn to. Use nestboxes with openings that make it difficult for house wrens to create dummy nests.House wrens prefer a home with a diameter of roughly 1 1/8 inches. Making a hole smaller than this may prevent their entry.
Avoid gourd nestboxes, which also seem to attract house wrens.

