 Choosing whether to breastfeed or bottle-nurse is a personal decision and no one should be able to sway you from your decision. Stay positive about your decision to bottle nurse.;
, Get skin-to-skin as much as possible, as often as possible. Your baby needs to benefit from your warm skin, your breathing and your heartbeat. Be sure to include extra snuggling and skin-to-skin contact throughout the day when you're not feeding the baby.
 You can even prop a small baby comfortably on a pillow so he/she is facing you, and then you have a free hand to touch her. Let him/her play with your hands, your fingers, your face. Gently discourage him/her from playing with the hard, plastic bottle by offering your soft, warm skin.
, Let the baby eat at his/her own pace. Sometimes you have to take the nipple out a bit and let the baby "catch up" on swallowing, much like during breastfeeding let-down. Don't force-feed the baby. He/she will start and stop on their own. Be patient. Your baby will let you know when he/she is done.
 Breastfed babies develop their jaw, tongue and facial muscles and coordination through suckling, so ensure your bottle-fed baby has a good latch. His/her lips should be averted (rolled outwards), and touching the nipple all the way around so no air gets in his/her mouth. Look at pictures of breastfeeding latches to learn more.
 You may need to go through several styles of bottles and nipples before you find the one that's right for your baby. Pay attention to your baby's comfort level during eating - is it too slow? Too fast? Is the nipple too wide or too narrow? Is the baby taking in too much air (causing painful gas and fussiness)? Are they just chewing on the nipple and not able to suck effectively? (Also, remember your baby's suckling style will change as he/she grows.)

, Rock in a rocking chair or glider. Curl up in bed. Dim the lights, shut out distractions, and focus entirely on your baby - because the bottle is between you and your baby, you'll need to go the extra mile to get close to the breastfeeding experience.
 Some babies will take a room-temperature or cold bottle, but remember, with bottle-feeding you need to compensate for having that bottle between you and your baby.
 EVER. It is unsafe. Also, because you have the bottle between you and your baby, you can compensate for any lack of physical bonding by dedicating yourself to bottle-nursing with love. Bottle-propping leads to feeding problems, possible choking, and dental problems, in addition to possibly creating detachment in both parent and baby.
,