 You might have been thinking of doing it while you were in school, but you were probably too busy. Now that school is out, try re-arranging your room! A whole new look can be really refreshing, and it gives you a chance to let your creative juices flow.;
, This can help cure boredom in no time, just remember to block your caller ID.
 Pulling an all-night'er can be tons of fun. Just don't get caught, though.
 It's quite fun to have friends in your house.
 Do some pretty nail art - let those creative juices flow.
 This helps us contribute to the website, plus it is a lot of fun. However, don't stay on the computer for too long. It could make you really tired.
 Minecraft, Sims, and World of Warcraft are all good ideas. You could also play some in browser games, such as Animal Jam or Webkinz.
 Everyone needs a snack every now and then. Eat to your hearts content (just don't overeat - you don't want to get sick.)

, If you have one, chances are, your pet is just as bored as you.
 If you don't want to read a whole book, take it a chapter at a time, or skim the room for pamphlets or signs on the desk or captioned posters on the wall. Search for bottles of hand sanitizer or even read the labels on the bottoms of your shoes.
, Not only did you beat boredom, you'll also have some nice cookies to nibble on.
, It's surprisingly amusing and you can challenge yourself!

, Maybe they are really bored and want to have fun as well.
 Get in touch with an old friend in pen-and-paper form. Write a full letter, or find a funny postcard and adorn it with cartoons and drawings of your cat. Address your boredom in the letter. The fact that you thought to reach out to a friend will impress and entertain them. Catch them up on your interests, successes, and dreams.
, Don't watch TV or use Facebook to "fill time". Concentrating on something like crafts can be fun and educational, a conversation you're really excited about having on the internet, or an article or website you're having fun exploring. Some studies show that spending time fantasizing about what you'd "rather be doing" makes boredom more intense, and that spending time online looking at your friend's vacation pictures can make those bored feelings worse.
 Learning the rules is somewhat complex, but it's a good skill to pick up. Then, you'll know how to play forever. If you don't like the game, nix it and learn another.
 What are your top ten films starring superheroes? What are your top five things to eat on rainy days? What was your worst Christmas? Writing out a list can be a fun way to pass the time.
 Organize your room or office, wash the dog, do some gardening, or work on homework. At the end of the day, you'll have the satisfaction of knowing that you did something productive.
 Try winged eyeliner, bright lips. You could even do a mini-facial afterwards.
 fishtail braid, waterfall braid, maybe even headband curls? If all else fails, straighten your hair.
 Use it for pranks or just to play with!

, Invite all your friends over and tell them to bring a few pieces of clothing they don't wear anymore. Sift through what everyone's brought over!

, Grab a friend. Both of you get a 2 liter (0.5 US gal) bottle of Diet Coke. Both of you should put mentos in each bottle. When the fountain sprouts, see whose fountain goes up higher! (Make sure you each put the same amount of mentos!) Make sure to use mint mentos. They don't have a coating like the flavored ones do, so they explode better.
 These can be stubs which are always fun to expand.
 Especially if you live in an area where summers are hot, you can have fun and cool off at the same time!

, Play Marco Polo and have chicken fights, where people sit on each other's shoulders and try to knock each other off. Or play a sport such as cricket, frisbee or football. You can have swimming races and do underwater acrobatics or dive for pennies.
 Put on a swimsuit, or just wear some casual clothes you can get wet. Play some of the usual games you'd enjoy outside (such as tag, hide-and-go-seek, jumping on the trampoline, or red rover) with the added challenge of having a sprinkler or two going in the yard.
 Fill up some water balloons, buy a cheap water gun at the dollar store, or find a hose attachment that sprays water further than before, and start a water fight! (Just make sure you don't hit anyone in the face or throw water balloons at breakable surfaces, such as glass.)

,, Using light sheets and blankets, put up a blanket fort using chairs, tables and couch cushions for walls. If you want, set up a fan at one end, grab a cold drink, and read a book or take a nap inside.
 Experiment with different flavors as you get better at making them!

,, Create different colors using food coloring.
 These balloons can travel hundreds of miles in a day, and are very easy to make.
 You can figure out how to fold hearts, boxes, birds, and other great objects.
 If you don't know how to cook or you don't know much about food, now you can learn! Ask your parents for fun recipes, or look online for things you can cook without a stove or oven.
 Try different, even wacky combinations. Make an afternoon out of it: Go to the supermarket and buy weird, interesting ingredients like ketchup and pistachios. Experiment. Make a gross smoothie and dare your friends to drink it.
 Eat burgers, hot dogs, and iced tea. Play bingo on the porch. Have everyone bring in cool prizes that you can compete for.
 It's fun to try new things!

,, So open up your cupboards.
 It'll keep you busy, introduce you to new people, and you'll earn money for new stuff! Possibly the best option is to work at a festival.
 Take your pet for a walk, teach it a new trick, give it a bath, or just spend time relaxing together.
 By starting a band, you can make new friends and you can show off your skills.
 If they're away, make new ones. Ask your friends if they know anyone who's going to stick around for the summer, get their numbers, call them up and say "I'm a friend of ______. He/she told me you were going to be around this summer. Wanna hang out?" And if you're too shy, try calling people you've lost touch with over the years — these are people you already know you can get along with. Plus, you'll have a ton to talk about, either catching up on what you've both been up to or reminiscing.
 Helping your community will give you a good feeling about yourself and will also make good use of your time. Try something in the sun like a beach clean, or working with animals. volunteering also looks good on college applications!

, This may seem totally dorky (or totally weird), but it can be really fun. Ask your Dad to play catch in the park, or take your Mom to the spa for some manicures and facials! Try not to totally neglect them over the summer, and try to be nice!

, Invite some friends over, get some water balloons, a radio, strobe, bonfire, and bring lots of food!

, Books can transport you into a different world or let you see through the eyes of others.
 Solve puzzles, organize and clean, and learn new things (summer is an excellent time to get a head start on the next term). Studies have shown that your I.Q. drops significantly during long sessions of limited use, such as summer.
 It can be about anything at all. You could start a project with a friend where you both write a story along the same theme. If you don't want to share it with people you know you can upload it onto the internet and share it with others, or you could just keep it to yourself.
 Write a letter to your favorite friend or family member telling them why they're so awesome!

, If that stuff isn't for you then you could also do AP World History classes online. It's really fun and it makes you get in touch with your history loving side.
 Try Tichu, Pit or Bohnanza.
 If you can't go to a campsite, try your own backyard (but pick up the dog poop) or go wild camping. Get a tent and tell spooky stories. Have someone you know and trust sneak up on your tent and scare the heck out of your friends!

, Grab a couple friends and turn your room into a palace, or the jungle, or a hotel, or whatever. Buy some cool food and wacky "souvenirs", and have a vacation (i.e. sleepover) at your house. Ideas: complementary breakfast, set chocolates on people's pillows, fold towels, set everything up nicely.
 Make a bouquet. Be sure no one planted them!

, Sort through your clothes, and pick out the ones that you don't want/are too small for you. Have a garage sale with some friends, and ask them to bring some clothes/other items they don't want. Sell as much as you can, and whatever doesn't sell, give it to charity. With the money you earned, go to your favorite shop and buy some better clothes.
 Mario Kart Wii is a great time-waster. So is MLB Manager Online, if you like baseball. But don't let it take up too much of your time or you may become depressed.
 What do you want your grades to be like? Do you want to be more social? What do you want to achieve in your life? What do you want to be remembered for? What classes do you want to take for this year and years to come? Make resolutions and write them down so you remember.
 There are lots of people who have diaries, so why don't you?

, You can listen to the bands you like, or find others bands to listen to, too!

,,