 Both eating too few calories and over consumption can decrease your brown fat and increase your white fat. Dieting can keep your white fat from turning to brown far while indulging too much both increases your white fat and interferes with brown fat’s ability to burn calories., Iron-deficiency may decrease the amount of brown fat in your body.Eat healthy foods rich in iron such as poultry, seafood, beans, dark leafy vegetables, peas, fortified grains, and dried fruit.Discuss with your doctor whether you need iron supplements – iron deficiency can be diagnosed with a simple blood test, and treated with over-the-counter supplements.


Having enough insulin is important in having enough iron, so be sure to regulate your insulin levels if you’re diabetic.
Having proper amounts of thyroid hormone is also important, so manage your hypothyroidism appropriately with your doctor., High fat diets may limit or decrease your brown fat.Eat a diet low in animal fats and rich in whole grains. There is no scientific evidence that proves eating certain things will increase brown fat, but some research shows that this and certain other foods have potential. Choose healthy fats by:


Cooking with coconut or olive oil instead of butter.
Eating fish and poultry instead of red meat.
Avoiding fast food, processed, and frozen foods.
Getting protein from whole grains and legumes like beans and peas.
 Apple peels contain a chemical called ursolic acid, which may increase brown fat stores. Eat unpeeled apples several times per week, especially before or after working out to minimize the apple’s fructose effect. Other foods that contain ursolic acid include:Dark fruits like cranberries, blueberries, plums, and prunes.
The herbs oregano, thyme, lavender, holy basil, peppermint, periwinkle, and hawthorne.
The herb bitter melon may also be beneficial.
 Studies have shown that ingesting garlic may increase the amounts Thermogenin (UCP1) in your body, which is an uncoupling protein found in brown tissue. Chop up some fresh garlic and throw it in with your olive oil when you cook meals., Enjoy a warm cup of green tea at least a few times a week. Green tea contains epigallocatechin gallate(EGCG), which contributes to fat burning by reducing insulin triglycerides and cholesterol.

Refrain from adding milk or cream to your tea as it will negate the white fat burning effects.
 The capsaicin found in spicy red peppers may activate brown fat.This is still being studied. Try including spicy peppers like cayenne, red chili peppers, and habanero.


Careful – habaneros are very spicy!

, The spice turmeric contains curcumin, which may help activate brown fat.Turmeric is an antioxidant that has been traditionally used for its health benefits. Scientists think it may even show promise in slowing cancer growth., Resveratrol, a plant product, can be purchased from your drug store or pharmacy. This compound may increase your brown fat stores.Discuss using any supplements with your doctor beforehand.

