 A sharp, good quality knife is the biggest kitchen time saver. Invest in a well-balanced chef’s knife and knife sharpener. Work on your knife skills to prep food more efficiently, and remember to curl your guiding hand’s fingers inward to avoid cutting yourself.For some cutting tasks, like trimming and deboning, it’s quicker and easier to use a good set of kitchen shears instead of a knife. Choose a sturdy pair that can come apart for easy cleaning.
 That egg slicer collecting dust in your cupboard is much more versatile than its name implies. You can use it to slice ingredients like mushrooms, strawberries, and kiwis.When shopping for an egg slicer, choose an all-metal model. The better the quality, the better it’ll handle items other than hard-boiled eggs.
 Peeling is one of the most time consuming and tedious prep jobs, so a sharp, durable vegetable peeler is a key time-saving kitchen tool. Using a high-quality peeler instead a dull one or paring knife will allow you to quickly and evenly prep carrots, apples, and other fruits and veggies.Using tricks of the trade can also help you reduce your peeling time. To peel a head of garlic, smash it with the heel of your hand to loosen the cloves, then shake the cloves between two bowls.If you microwave a head of garlic for 20 seconds, the cloves will slip right out of the skin.To peel potatoes easily, score them (just slicing the skin) around the middle, boil them for 15 minutes, drain the water, rinse them with cold water so they’re cool enough to touch, then gently peel off the skins., After chopping your veggies, you can curl a flexible cutting board to quickly and easily pour them into a storage container or hot pot. Since they’re dishwasher safe, they’ll also reduce your clean up time.Use multiple cutting boards to avoid cross-contamination and cut out the time it would take to wash one board between uses.
 Food processors and mini-choppers can mince, slice, and dice large quantities of food much faster than a knife or grater.In addition to reducing prep time, blenders and immersion blenders are essential for tasks like pureeing.Try making a quick soup or sauce by pureeing leftover veggies, like spinach and other leafy greens.
You can also slash your cutting time by using a mandoline to uniformly shave, slice, or julienne ingredients.