 Brushing your teeth removes plaque from your mouth, which helps fight against gum disease and tooth decay. In fact, nearly all oral health problems can be prevented with consistent and thorough dental hygiene. You should brush your teeth at least once in the morning and once in the evening, and after meals if possible.


If you are unsure about the correct brushing technique, you should ask your dentist for a quick lesson during your next check-up, they will be happy to oblige.
 Flossing removes the built-up plaque and bacteria from the crevices between teeth, and removing this build-up may prevent your gums from swelling in the first place.


Floss gently, to avoid irritating delicate gum tissue. Always use a clean section of floss when you switch teeth, to prevent spreading bacteria from one part of the mouth to another.
If you find dental floss awkward to use, look for a packet of dental picks at the drugstore — these are small wooden or plastic sticks which can be inserted between the teeth to achieve the same effects as flossing.
 Poor nutrition can lead to gum inflammation (among other issues). In particular, it is important that you get enough vitamin C, calcium and folic acid in your diet. This is due to the fact that vitamin C and folic acid actively contribute to healthy gums and prevent gingivitis, while it has been proven that people who are deficient in calcium are much more likely to develop gum diseases. Take a daily multi-vitamin, and eat plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables.The top food sources of vitamin C include papaya, bell peppers, strawberries, broccoli, pineapple, Brussels sprouts, kiwifruits, oranges, cantaloupe and kale.
The best sources of calcium include dairy products such as milk, cheese and yogurt, along with sardines, tofu, salmon, soy milk, cereals and collard greens.
Foods with high levels of Folic acid include dark, leafy greens, broccoli, asparagus, peas, beans, lentils, celery, avocado and citrus fruits.
 As acids, vinegar and lemon juice can erode the enamel, which is essential to protect teeth. Rinse your mouth with water.
 Exhaustion may lead to puffiness across your face and in your gums, so try to get seven to nine hours of sleep each night. You should also avoid stress as much as possible, as stress causes the body to release a chemical known as cortisol, which has been linked with inflammation of the gums and other parts of the body.You can reduce stress by exercising regularly. Exercise releases happy hormones which are guaranteed to put you in a good mood. In addition, exercise will tire you out, helping you to get a better sleep at night. It's win-win!
You can also reduce stress and promote relaxation by taking some personal time each day to go for a walk, read a book, or take a bath. You should also avoid over-stimulating yourself before bed, so turn off the television and computer at least an hour before bed.
 As mentioned before, tobacco can be very irritating on gums and people who smoke or use other tobacco products are at increased risk of developing gum disease. If possible, you should try to quit smoking, or at the very least cut back on your tobacco use.
 Swollen gums are often the manifestation of a more severe dental problem like periodontitis caused by plaque, germs and tooth decay, so if your gums are consistently swollen, you should make an appointment with the dentist. Your dentist will be able to tell exactly what's going on in your mouth and recommend the appropriate treatment. Even if your teeth and gums seem completely healthy, it is good practice to make an appointment with your dentist or dental hygienist at least twice a year.