 Federal grants are most often awarded to organizations within certain categories, such as: government, educational, and non-profit. Although specific eligibility for a particular grant can only be determined when you view the grant's requirements, to make it easier to see if you’re generally eligible, the government divides the categories into sub-categories. These are:


Government Organizations - State governments, county governments, city or township governments, special district governments, and Native American tribal governments.
Education Organizations - Independent school districts, public and state controlled institutions of higher education, and private institutions of higher education.
Public Housing Organizations - Public housing authorities and Indian housing authorities.
Nonprofit Organizations - Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) (other than institutions of higher education), and nonprofits that don't have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS (other than institutions of higher education).
For-Profit Organizations - Organizations other than small businesses, and small businesses meeting the size standards established by the SBA.
Individuals. (Some grants are available, particularly for certain graduate studies.)
Foreign Applicants. Foreign applicants need to complete the same registration process as domestic applicants, but there are additional steps to this registration process.;
, Of the 26 federal agencies that offer grants, you’ll need to find one that's relevant to your organization. For example, if you represent a school district, you would most likely look at Department of Education grants. A list of the federal agencies awarding grants, and a description of what each agency does, can be found here.
 If your organization falls into one of the sub-categories, then it’s time to find specific grants you may be eligible for. There are a number of sources for finding federal grants.


Grants.gov has a comprehensive search engine. It allows you to search for funding by:

Keyword
Instrument type (such as grants)
Eligibility
Category (such as education), and
Agency (you can specify an agency, such as the Department of Education, or search all agencies)


The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) also provides a helpful search engine.
The Small Business Administration (SBA) has a loans and grants search tool at SBA.gov.
Check on your state's official website. You may find federal grants that are available for certain state programs.
 Almost all government grant sources (funders), distribute RFP’s, which are designed to address a particular issue using concepts and strategies developed by the funder. This is basically an invitation to apply for a grant. If your organization’s mission fits the issue listed in the RFP, you could be an ideal match., Federal grant funders all have their own particular requirements. But there are some common characteristics, both of your organization and the proposed project, that grant funders want to see:


The project you’re seeking funding for should have a high priority within your community. If it fills a need, explain the need from a human interest point of view, such as describing the current conditions affecting the people requiring help from the project.
There must be a logical link between the project description and the results you’re claiming it will achieve. In short, the project needs to make sense.
Address the project’s impact on the community. For example, if it involves construction, indicate if the project will create jobs—and how many—both short-term and long-term. But also be candid if it’s going to have an negative effect as well, such as displacing some existing housing.
You must show that your organization has the ability to complete the project. Funders aren’t going to give you money if they don’t have confidence in your ability to see it through.

If you have experience in these types of undertakings, talk about it. And if there are areas of the project in which you’re a little weak, indicate how you’ve brought in outside experts to fill the gaps.
Funders also want an indication of your organization’s accountability. For example, the role of your board of directors or trustees in overseeing the project is significant, as is establishing anticipated project checkpoints to make sure things are progressing as planned.


Demonstrate a strong local commitment to the project. Show how the local community is committing its own resources, such as financial contributions and service volunteers. Grant providers want to be partners in funding the project, not the sole financial source., The more you learn about a funder, the more likely you are to avoid the pitfalls that dot the road to a successful grant request. Some methods of gathering information are:


Search online for any information that relates to the funder you’re interested in. Whether it be the agency’s own website, relevant articles, or even blogs, if it gives you more insight into how this particular funder operates, it’s going to help.The agency’s latest annual report could also contain useful facts. If it’s not online, request a copy from the agency.
Look for organizations similar to yours, which may have received a grant from the funder. Assuming the organization isn’t currently seeking the same grant you are, the person in that company that dealt with the funder could be a tremendous help in apprising you of how best to approach the funder (and its requirements).
Attend the funding agency’s bidder conference. Many federal agencies host bidders conferences to explain the grant application packet and answer questions. Find out if one is scheduled for the grant you’re interested in. It’s hard to imagine a much better source of information than the agency's own representatives., Once you’ve zeroed in on the grant that fits your needs, you’ll begin the pre-application process. The first step is choosing someone from your organization to serve as an AOR. This is the person who’ll deal with the government on your behalf.
 In order to make full use of the Grants.gov website, you’ll need to register. Some of the registration steps you’ll need to take as an organization are:


Obtain a DUNS (Dun & Bradstreet) number. You can start the process here. There’s no fee for getting the number.
Register with SAM.gov. This is the System for Award Management. There’s no registration fee for this site. During this process your organization will designate what is known as an E-Biz POC. This is the person in your organization who authorizes others to represent your company. (In many cases, the E-Biz POC is the company’s Chief Financial Officer.)
Create a username and password.
Authorize the AOR. Your organization’s E-Biz POC must log into the Grants.gov website to confirm your company’s choice for an AOR., If you’re personally applying for a grant, go to the Grants.gov website. To register, you’ll need the Funding Opportunity Number of the grant you’re applying for. You’ll then fill out the registration form, and choose a username and password.
 Each agency awarding a grant has its own document requirements regarding your organization. Some of the documents you'll want to have available, if needed, are:


Articles of incorporation or LLC Certificate of Formation
Company bylaws
Tax identification documentation from the IRS
Tax exemption certificates
Internal financial audits and financial statements (for last year and the current year)., You can obtain this at the Grants.gov website. This will contain the necessary forms and instructions as to what is required for processing this particular grant.
 Review the instructions and forms in the grant package. Make a checklist of all the requested information and documentation.


Agencies (funders) that award grants are sticklers for detail, so it’s important for you to have a complete itemization of everything that's required.
Federal funders assess grant proposals based on a point system. (For example, a spectrum of 1-9, where 1 is “exceptional” and 9 is “poor”.) Points may be allotted for the overall impact of the proposal, as well as individual criteria set by the agency. When you get your grant package, identify the criteria on which your submission will be judged, and address each as completely as possible., Each grant has its own forms, and some agencies request more forms than others. Once you've completed the forms, compare your finished product to the checklist you prepared, to ensure you haven’t left out anything. Omitted items could lead to your grant being rejected without your submission ever being completely reviewed.
 There are certain forms that you’ll most likely find in any grant application package. The SBA has some here (for both construction and non-construction grants). Become acquainted with them to get a head start on the application process. Some of these forms are:


Cover form. This requests information on your organization and the project for which you’re requesting the grant.
Budget information forms. There are individual sections you’ll need to address. Some of these are:

Budget summary. This is where you indicate the federal money you’re seeking, as well as any non-federal matching funds.
Line-by-line budget categories. This is a detailed breakdown of each budget category.
Non-federal resources. Here you’ll list all the sources of the project monies not coming from the grant.
Forecasted grant needs. This is where you give a best estimate of your first-year grant-funding needs.
Years 2-5 forecasted grant needs. This only applies to a multiple-year grant.


Assurances form. This is your representation to the government that you can do what it expects of you as a grant recipient., This is the document you’ll prepare and submit to the funder, which outlines the various aspects of the project, as well as its budgetary requirements.There are certain “rules of thumb” to keep in mind when determining how to construct your proposal:


Prepare an outline first, including the funder’s criteria and the points you want to make about your organization. You can then expand on this when writing the actual proposal.Use clear, straightforward language, and communicate honestly. Avoid using acronyms and “insider” slang that may be common in your industry. It may be second-nature to you, but the funder’s reviewers might have no idea what you’re talking about. Focus on building a compelling case for your request, and back it up with solid evidence. Grant reviewers can usually spot hype in an instant. Anything less than complete candor can doom your application.Make the proposal as easy for the reviewer to read as possible. Break it up into concise paragraphs. Refrain from using all capital letters, and go easy on the “bold” print. Follow the grant package instructions on formatting, such as margin size, font type, and font size.Even if you're in the midst of a funding crisis, try not to sound desperate. This tends to show weakness and instability, and is likely to turn off reviewers., The particular grant you're applying for will provide you with specific requirements for the proposal. You must follow those instructions to the letter. Some of the requested items you'll probably encounter are:


The proposal summary. This is basically an outline of the goals of the project you’re seeking funding for. This should appear at the beginning of the proposal. It could be in the form of a cover letter or a separate page, and should be no longer than a few paragraphs.
An introduction of the organization. The purpose is to provide pertinent information about the organization. Make sure this information is relevant to the funder’s goals, and establishes your organization’s credibility. Include items such as:

A brief biography of board members and key staff members
The organization's goals, philosophy, track record with other grant awards, and any success stories.


The problem statement (or needs assessment). This explains in detail the problem to be addressed by the grant.
The project objectives. Here you'll identify all goals to be reached, and the methods to be used to achieve them.
The project methods or design. This addresses specifics of how the project is expected to work and solve the problem being addressed.
A project evaluation. If the project is already underway, this evaluates how well it has met its goals and followed its original action plan. If the project hasn’t started, have someone knowledgeable in the field the project relates to provide you with an evaluation of your project plans.
Future funding. Here you basically describe a plan to keep the project going after the grant runs out.
The project budget. This lays out what the project is going to cost—in detail. Be prepared to justify each and every expense., Log in to Grants.gov to submit your application. Make sure you've provided all the requested information, and attached any needed documents. Applications must be submitted in their entirety. And remember, only AOR’s can submit applications.
 Passwords are only valid for 60 days. So mark your calendar to change your password before the sixty-first day to avoid log-in issues., It’s important to keep tabs on post-submission communication from Grants.gov and the agency from which you’re seeking the grant. You need to make sure your application submission has been received by Grants.gov, and that it’s been retrieved by the applicable agency.


Within two days of submitting your application, you should receive a submission receipt confirmation email, and either a submission validation receipt email or a rejection email message. If you don’t receive them, then email Grants.gov at support@grants.gov, or call 1-800-518-4726.
If your application is successfully validated and then retrieved from the Grant.gov system by the agency to which you applied for the grant, you’ll receive an additional email. This email may be delivered several days or weeks from the date you submitted the application., If you don’t log in to your Grants.gov account for 365 days, the account will be deactivated. You can reactivate the account by logging in and resetting your password. However, AOR’s must then be reauthorized.