 In blizzard or white-out conditions, visibility can be very limited, even during daylight. Snowdrifts can hide familiar landmarks. Becoming lost and unable to return to shelter is a real possibility.


Keep warm and dry when you do go out. Wear several layers of loose fitting, lightweight, warm clothing rather than one layer of heavy clothing. The outer garments should be tightly woven and water repellent. Most heat escapes the body through the top of the head and the feet, therefore always wear a hat and mittens, which are warmer than gloves.
Be careful to not become soaked by water or sweat – this can cause body related problems. Your skin should stay dry and moderately warm.
 Winter storms can knock out the power, and when this happens the house will quickly grow cold. Aside from having plenty of blankets around, you might want to build a fire in the fireplace to generate more heat, or use a backup generator to keep the power on.Never light a grill or coal stove inside the house. This could lead to carbon monoxide poisoning. Using a generator inside is also extremely dangerous.
Keep the family in one central location, and close the doors leading to the other rooms. This will concentrate the heat in one area, which will be easier than heating the whole house.
 Drink liquids and eat plenty of food to keep your body's energy high and prevent dehydration.
 Many heart attacks and back injuries occur when people used to a sedentary lifestyle attempt to shovel snow. It's extremely heavy work. If you don't work out regularly, see if a neighbor has a snow blower or is willing to help shovel. Take your time shoveling, take frequent rest breaks, and drink plenty of water.
 After a very heavy snowfall, you may need to clear your roof, ideally with a roof rake. Otherwise the weight of the snow may damage your house, especially flat or low-angle roofs. Be sure your air intake for the house is clear, to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning. During a power outage you may not have a functioning alarm.
 When the storm has passed, and you are safe, check on your neighbors, especially the elderly. Check your property for damage and repair anything dangerous. Stay aware of the possibility of a second wave storm.


Help clean up. If the storm has left snow, shovel your sidewalks. Dig out the nearest fire hydrant. Find and dig out your car.

