;
, Consider recording:


Your pulse rate before and after you walk/run 1 mile (1.6 kilometers)
The length of time it takes you to walk/run 1 mile
How many push-ups and sit-ups you can do
Your body mass index

, Anyone can say they’ll stick to exercising daily but a solid plan will keep you motivated and mindful of your personal targets. Consider the following:


Establish clear goals. Be specific and reasonable. Are you trying to lose weight? If so, how much? Are you training for a marathon? If so, when is it and how much time do you have to train?
Follow a routine. Maintaining aerobic activity for 30 minutes a day, 5 times a week is recommended by most healthcare guidelines.Pace Yourself. Start slow and gradually progress into more intensive workouts. Building endurance is not something which occurs overnight, but over a period of months. Therefore, small steps should be taken.
Recovery. Let your body heal. At least 48 hours is needed in between workouts for your body to heal and for maximum benefit.Do different exercises. Keep it new and exciting to stay motivated. Varied activities also strengthen differed parts of your body. With two types of physical endurance, cardio-respiratory and muscular, you can try bicycling, jogging, walking, swimming, dancing etc.
Write out your plan. Try keeping a journal or a list of your daily routine. Use a whiteboard or chalkboard so it’s larger and easier to remember. Writing it out will keep you on track and driven.
, Stretch your whole body to avoid the risk of pulled muscles. Stretching also helps to increase your success in a certain time.
 For example, for the first session walk for 5 minutes, then run for 1 minute. For the next session, walk for 10 minutes, and then run for 2 minutes. This may not be the approach everybody takes, but the main part is to be committed, positive, and hard working.


Try walking 100 meters (328.1 ft) then running 100 meters (328.1 ft). Increase the run by 50 meters (164.0 ft) and decrease the walk in the same manner.
Continue to increase tolerance in this way until you are running the entire time.
,