 Your visit to the hospital or doctor's office will begin with a careful history of your symptoms, with special attention to the timing and characteristics of your pain and associated symptoms. You will also need to give a careful inventory of your risk factors (CVRF).
 You will be hooked up to cardiac monitors by the nursing staff for continuous heart monitoring. The electrocardiogram (EKG) will look for changes consistent with your heart not getting enough blood.


Labs will be drawn, including “cardiac enzymes” that the heart puts out when there is damage; these are called Troponin, and CPK-MB.
You will likely receive a chest X-ray to look for heart enlargement or fluid in the lungs from heart failure, The cardiac enzymes are drawn three times, once every eight hours, to be most accurate

, If any of these tests come back abnormal you will be admitted. If your EKG shows elevation of certain segments, you will consult with a cardiologist about having an emergent cardiac catheterization, called angioplasty, to restore blood flow in the heart.A cardiac catheterization involves gaining access to your femoral artery and feeding a wire with dye to take pictures of your coronary arteries, looking for blockages. The number of arteries involved, which arteries are involved, and the precise location of blockages will determine management.
Typically lesions of greater than 70% blockage are opened with a balloon catheter and stented. Lesions that are between 50-70% blocked are considered intermediate and until recently were not opened up, but relegated to medical therapy alone. , Bypass surgery is preferred if you have disease of the left main artery or more than two arteries with blockages. Surgery is scheduled and you will likely await surgery in the coronary care unit (CCU).


Coronary Artery Bypass Graft surgery (CABG) involves taking the veins from your leg and harvesting them for transfer to literally “bypass” the blockages on your heart arteries.
While this surgery occurs, you are taken into a hypothermic state and your heart is stopped for a period of time, while your blood is circulated outside of your body by a cardiopulmonary bypass machine. The cardiothoracic surgeon can then sew on the heart. The beating would not permit this delicate work, as grafts must be sewn on the heart from veins and arteries.
Also, because arterial grafts are better than vein grafts, your own Left Internal mammary artery is carefully dissected out from its location on your chest wall and diverted from its normal course and carefully sewn into your Left Anterior Descending Artery just past the blockage. This gives you the very best chance of having a long-lasting patent graft that will not block up again. The LAD is a very important heart artery, feeding your all-important left ventricle, which is why this laborious process is undertaken.
The other coronary blockages are bypassed carefully with harvested vein from the saphenous vein in your leg.

