 Just say "No." If the person asks why, you might say, "It's not important—I just don't lend stuff out." If that doesn't work, resort to other methods. If the person asking for a pen is your friend, smile and joke "What do you guys think I am, some walking-talking drugstore?". This is funny but the other people get the idea.;
, Try giving your friends things before class. Either bring enough for everybody or don't let everybody know about it. Naturally, if you have some sort of desirable item, everyone is going to want it. As soon as you pull out things like food, you will probably get requests, so eat snacks quickly and quietly.
 If the teacher tells everyone to get some paper, wait until the last possible moment to get yours. The moochers will borrow paper from other unsuspecting classmates and you will be free!

, If the item is not currently visible, there are many excuses that could enable you to get away from the person that is asking and avoid the situation altogether. Tell them someone else has the item. If they persist, pretend you have to go somewhere (i.e. your locker or home) to get the item. This is perfect if the teacher doesn't let you out of class. Most likely the person will forget.
 Do not be snappy and mean when people ask to borrow something. Act like you are genuinely sorry that you do not have/cannot let them borrow the item.
 If the person is asking, "Do you have a dollar I can borrow?", just say, "No. I don't have any money." Or even better, say "I don't have a dollar you can borrow." In most cases, the person will just find someone else to ask but if the person knows you have money, say, "Oh, no, sorry. That's my lunch/friend's/gas money." Pretending your parents don't let you lend money or other expensive things is also effective. Be creative!

, This works well with paper, pencil lead, tissues, gum, etc. Make sure that the item(s) are hidden away if you want to use this method.
 If people ask to have some of your lip gloss or balm, make-up, or drink, just say you are sick--like you have a cold sore or a cough. However, this will not stop some people. If so:

, For example, if you are in the bathroom, fixing your hair and somebody asks to use your hairbrush, you could potentially get head lice by sharing your brush. You might just have to say, "Sorry. I don't share hairbrushes because I'm paranoid about lice." In the case of lip balm or similar items the person might say they will wipe it off. A good reply would be, "No. Please don't, okay? I'm really picky about letting people use my (item) because I get sick easily."

, For example you probably have a bunch of low-quality wooden pencils lying around or just have an old pen. Keep a few in your pencil pouch and lend those out. This way you won't be sad if they are lost or broken!

