 After you have found a licensed clinic or hospital, schedule a consultation to make sure that the procedure is legal and safe. The consultation is confidential and can last about 2 hours. You will have a medical assessment with a healthcare professional during the consultation, which will include an ultrasound to determine the length of your pregnancy, a blood test, and a STI screening. The healthcare professional will also discuss your abortion treatment options based on the length of pregnancy and your medical history.Let the healthcare professional know the date of your last period if possible.During your consultation, a healthcare professional will review your contraception choices to determine the best option for you.
Some clinics offer telephone consultations. An ultrasound will be booked on the day of treatment.You are allowed to bring a partner or friend with you to the appointment, but a healthcare professional will speak with you alone at some point to make sure you are safe., The abortion pill, or mifepristone, terminates pregnancy by blocking the hormone progesterone, which breaks down the uterine lining. This pill is given to you at the clinic. A second pill called misoprostol is inserted into the vagina. You can do this at home or return to the clinic to have a healthcare professional insert it for you. This makes the womb contract, which causes cramping and bleeding.


This treatment option can be used up to 24 weeks of pregnancy.
If you are less than 9 weeks pregnant, you can take both mifepristone and misoprostol at the same time. If you are over 12 weeks, you may need to stay overnight.You may experience period-like symptoms, cramps, and nausea. If you vomit within 1 hour of taking the pill, you may need to take the pill again. Contact the clinic right away.It typically takes 4 to 5 hours to pass a pregnancy after taking the second pill, but it can take several days for some women., This surgical method can be performed up to 15 weeks of pregnancy. You will be given a tablet before the procedure that will help relax and widen your cervix. You will also receive a numbing agent that is injected into your cervix. A tube is then inserted into the womb and the pregnancy is terminated by suction. The procedure lasts about 5 to 10 minutes, and most women return home after a few hours.You may receive a mild sedative during this procedure.
 Dilation and evacuation (D&E) is another surgical abortion method that is similar to aspiration. This procedure can be done after 15 weeks of pregnancy. During this procedure, your cervix will be dilated and you will be under sedation and general anesthesia. The pregnancy is removed with forceps that are inserted into the womb via the cervix. The procedure typically takes 10 to 20 minutes, and some women return home the same day., After an abortion, you may experience cramps and vaginal bleeding. Light vaginal bleeding can last up to a month. You may experience nausea and diarrhea after receiving anesthesia or sedatives. If you experience severe pain, a fever, heavy bleeding, smelly vaginal discharge, or ongoing signs of pregnancy after an abortion, contact your doctor or the clinic help line., Deciding to get an abortion and undergoing the procedure can be a very difficult, emotional, and complicated situation. It is important to have support throughout the process. You doctor or clinic can refer you to a therapist or a support group. Many abortion clinics provide in-house professional therapists who will offer unbiased emotional support and understanding before, during, and after an abortion. Many clinics also offer 24-hour support services online or over the phone.