 Check the nails, too. Nails need to be maintained within a narrow “Goldilocks zone” where they are neither too long (which can cause them to snag and break off) nor too short (which will diminish their ability to grip the ice when running). Check the webbing between the toes for any redness, irritation, or swelling.


Your dog will usually let you know if it has irritated paws by limping, licking, or gnawing its irritated foot. It might also yelp when you pick up its paw to examine it.
Always be gentle when handling sled dogs’ paws.
 One is extreme cold. The other is when running in deep snow. Finally, you might also want to outfit your dog in booties if it has injured its paw and you cannot change the dog out for another one.Sled dogs have thick coats and have evolved to thrive in cold weather environments, and can tolerate temperatures as low as -55 degrees Fahrenheit (-48 degrees Celsius). However, sled dogs have their limits. Check your dog’s paws frequently for cracked, bloody pads and put them in boots if you see any of these conditions.
Different dogs have different tolerance levels for temperature.The dog’s age and health are the most important factors that determine how cold a dog’s feet can get before the temperature begins to have a negative impact.
Different booties are recommended for different terrain. For instance, you could get a bootie that works best on ice, or one that works best on snow. Other booties are designed for off-season practice on dirt or gravel tracks.
The booties also come in different sizes. Be sure to buy one that’s right for you and your dogs.Sled dog booties are readily available online, or at certain pet stores.
 There are a variety of oils, liniments, and lotions available to heal damaged paws.Choose one that is right for your dog’s needs. Most ointments simply require massaging the product gently into the dog’s paw. Always use lotions and ointments as directed.


Liniments with emu oil are good at limiting inflammation and preventing infection. Emu oil can restore elasticity and nutrients to the skin.
Ointments with zinc oxide are excellent for healing fissures and cracks on the dog’s pads and between the toes. Be careful, however, not to let your dog lick the zinc oxide ointment.
Ointments made with lanolin and glycerin are useful for preventing ice balling on your dog’s feet and ankles. These ingredients can help keep your dog’s pads and skin healthy.

