 There are several different types of modeling jobs that are inclusive to shorter people. While the high fashion modeling world is reserved for the tall and skinny, but there’s still plenty of other options. Consider some of the following options while complying your portfolio:


Editorial print
Commercial print
Catalogue modeling
Plus size modeling
Glamour modeling
Body parts modeling
TV commercials
Real life modeling (TV/film extras), For a beginner model, you should include 5-8 photos for your portfolio. The key to having a successful portfolio is it’s ability to convey the range of modeling you can do. If you have a few photos using one photographer, reach out and work with other artists. The beauty of photographs is that they rarely convey your height, unless you stand next to something that shows a scale.


Avoid any photographs with other people if they are much taller than you.
You should show your ability to demonstrate different characters. One way is to try an array of different wardrobes and makeup styles.If one of your photos is in black and white, but you think it is a great picture that is different from the rest, include it to the portfolio.
 There are several examples you can find online of modeling portfolios. Examples will help guide you in your presentation, but will also show where you can add more personality. Consider adding a high quality photo of you engaging in a hobby of yours. For example, if you are passionate about cooking, include a tasteful photo of you in the kitchen.


You should make sure to include a wide array of photos, but don't feel like you can't include any personal photos.
Include a unique attribute about yourself that isn't inhibited by being short. For example, you can portray a range of faces. This type of attribute will show your skills and agencies might be less concerned with your height.
Sometimes personalized photographs will stand out more for agencies.
 Print the photos in high definition in your preferred size. Most metropolitan markets accept the standard size of 8x10” or 8.5x11”. Some firms require smaller prints, while others ask for large prints (9x12”). Include on the first page some of your information:


Your name, local address, and contact.
Brief information about your work and goals.
Any relevant skills like second languages, acting, singing, etc.

