 If you end up finding an issue or defect with an item, you have the right as a consumer to address it with the retailer. Perhaps you open the box and realize an item is damaged when you get home or you buy an item that turns out to be faulty or broken. You should contact the retailer immediately or as soon as possible in person or on the phone and discuss the issue. If a salesperson is not willing to help you or is not able to give you a refund, you may have to escalate the issue to the store manager.


You should remain calm when you speak to the store manager and explain the issue with the product. You may need to provide your payment information and proof of payment, such as a copy of your receipt.
Most retailers should offer you a refund if an item is damaged or faulty. If the retailer has a no refund policy, it should be stated up front so you are aware of the policy as a consumer.
If you speak to a retailer over the phone, document the details of your contact, including the date, time, who you talked to, what was said, and the outcome. This information may be useful if further action is needed.
 If you have been falsely charged for a transaction and the merchant refuses to reverse the transaction, your credit card issuer might be able to help. Contact their customer support line and request help with the transaction. Your goal will likely be to obtain a "chargeback," which reverses the sale. Most credit card issuers will fight for your rights and work to get you your money back., If a retailer or business is not responding to your needs as a consumer or appears to be providing sub par services or products, you may be able to file a complaint with the Better Business Bureau (BBB). You can file a complaint online through the BBB website or contact the BBB by phone.Keep in mind the BBB does not handle complaints related to discrimination or disputes between an employee and an employer. The BBB also cannot challenge any local, state, or federal laws as part of your complaint or issue.
 The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) can address any issues related to identity theft, a business that is operating as a scam or rip off, as well as complaints about fraud or abuse from a business. You can file a complaint with the FTC online or by phone.Keep in mind the FTC cannot resolve consumer complaints for you, but they can provide tips on how to get your money back from a shady retailer. Your complaint to the FTC can also allow them to flag the business so it is on their radar as a scam or fraudulent business.
 If no agreement can be reached from the previous steps, your only option is to take the dispute to small claims court. This type of court proceeding is often used to settle disputes between businesses and customers. Luckily, you can usually argue the case yourself, rather than hire a lawyer. Just make sure that you provide the judge with evidence in your favor, such as a record of the purchase and evidence of damaged or incomplete merchandise. The judge will issue a decisions either on the spot or within a few days.