 Most dentists can perform an in-office bleaching treatment that will whiten your teeth in only one visit. Typically, the dentist will apply a gel to your teeth and use lights or a laser to activate the gel and bleach the enamel. If you need your teeth whitened instantly, make an appointment with your dentist for a bleaching treatment.These treatments will usually cost over $400, so if money is an issue this may not be the best option.;
, If an in-office bleaching treatment isn't a good option for you, you could get a home bleaching kit from a pharmacy or supermarket. These kits usually include a gel that contains hydrogen peroxide, a tooth-whitening chemical, and a mouth guard. Kits vary, but almost always involve placing the gel in the mouth guard and keeping it in your mouth for a specific amount of time.The whitening effect from these kits won't last as long as an in-office treatment, but they are a much cheaper option for a quick whitening.
Be sure to buy a product with the American Dental Association seal of acceptance to certify that the product has been tested and is safe.
Whitening kits sometimes lead to temporarily increased tooth sensitivity so make sure you consult your dentist before doing a home whitening., Another cheap option for whitening your teeth quickly is to use whitening strips. These products press a hydrogen peroxide gel against your teeth and protect it from removal. The strips are also sticky, so when you take them off they will remove any surface stains.One disadvantage of whitening strips is that they can't remove the stains in between teeth.
Usually you need to use whitening strips every day, sometimes multiple times.
Whitening strips work slower than bleaching methods, but you should see significant results within a week of the first application.
 Whitening toothpastes will only whiten your teeth a shade or two, and it will take longer (over two months) to see results. Using toothpaste alone won't give you dramatic results fast, but you can supplement faster treatments with toothpaste for good results., Mouthwashes that contain whiteners only remove the most basic surface stains from your teeth, but that also makes them perfect for quickly removing surface stains right as they form and giving your teeth a quick whitening boost.Swish the mouthwash around in your mouth for 30 to 60 seconds before spitting it out.
You can rinse your mouth out with water afterward, if desired, but doing so is not necessary.
A whitening mouthwash along with a whitening toothpaste can preserve the results of a previous whitening treatment for longer.

