 Talk to your boss about reducing paper. Or, if you are a manager, figure out ways to reduce the amount of paper used in the office.Encourage the use of both sides of paper when printing and copying. Many office printers have a default setting to print on both sides of the paper, unless otherwise specified.
Encourage everyone in the office to adjust the fonts, margins and spacing of their documents to fit more text on a standard sheet of paper. If someone needs to copy documents, tell the person to reduce the size of the documents so they require less sheets of paper.
Keep a bin for waste paper and encourage people in the office to use the waste paper as scrap paper. Attach several sheets and cut them into post it sized pieces. Then, staple them together and hand them out to everyone in the office to use as “recycled” post it notes.
Switch to chlorine-free paper products and use soy or other agri-based inks for printers and fax machines.
 Take advantage of the accessibility and efficiency of electronic communication and electronic data storage to reduce the paper use in the office on a day-to-day basis.


Programs such as Google Docs and AtTask are great ways to share files and information online, without having to print documents or use fax machines to send documents to people.
You may also want to move the company’s files to an electronic data storage system to reduce the amount of paper in filing cabinets and in storage rooms.
 This will prevent the distribution of individual copies of announcements to everyone in the office and cut down on paper use.
 Many businesses receive mounds of unwanted mail, such as catalogs, advertisements and flyers. Unlike households, businesses can't simply register for a mail preference service to reduce junk mail. Instead, businesses must contact the mailers directly and ask to be removed from their mailing lists.You can email or call the mailers and request to be removed for their mailing list. Be polite when you contact them. Most mailers will comply with your request.
You should also forward any mail for employees who no longer work for the company and inform those individuals that they need to update their contact information.If your office receives multiple mailings for the same person, ask the person to contact the mailer and update his/her information.
Your office should also keep mail lists up-to-date so no duplicates are sent to the office.
 Many newer machines have built in energy-saving features that can really reduce the amount of electricity used by your office. So if you’ve been using the same Dell computer for 10 years, it might be a good idea to upgrade to a new version that has energy saving features. Not only will this promote energy savings, it will also show up as savings on the company’s electricity bill.Most computers have a sleep mode that comes on automatically after a period of inactivity. You should also make sure the power management features on your computer are turned on. The procedure to do this will depend on the operating system on your computer. Click here for specific details based on operating system: http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?c=power_mgt.pr_power_mgt_users.
Remind everyone in the office to turn off their computers, as well as copiers, lights and other electronic equipment when they’re done for the day or when they are not using them.
 A busy office should have simple sort recycling bins, divided by material, so everyone can recycle properly. It’s important to empty the bins once per week, at the same time as the garbage, to prevent the buildup of materials., Order coffee cups with the company logo and stock the lunch room with metal utensils, reusable plates and reusable glasses. This will prevent the use of disposable cups, plates and utensils.


The lunch room should also have a microwave, a refrigerator and a dish-washing area to encourage everyone to bring in their lunches and eat together, rather than go out for lunch and create more waste.
The lunch room should also have a coffee machine and a kettle for hot water for tea to encourage employees to bring in their own coffee and tea bags, rather than head to Starbucks on their lunch break.
 An organics compost in the lunch room is a great way to prevent compostable items, such as coffee grounds, fruit peels and paper napkins, from ending up in the garbage.Be aware of any guidelines the office must meet to establish and maintain an organics composting program. Contact your county environmental officer for more information.
 Rather than get rid of old chairs and desks, look for charity organizations that take used furniture and equipment.
 Cut down on greenhouse gas emissions in the air by carpooling with co-workers and keeping one more car off the road. Or invest in a bike and cycle to work every day.Public transit is also a great way to limit your carbon footprint. Many city buses also run on eco-friendly fuel.

