 The best way to preserve your boundaries in dating relationships is to start off on a good foot. If your boundaries are firmly in place, you should avoid getting involved with someone who obviously won’t respect them. Be aware and listen to your gut. This can save you from trouble down the line.


If you have a sense that the other person is playing games, is only out for sex, or is lying, stop there. There’s no use wasting your time. If someone starts out violating boundaries, this behavior will only continue.
For example, you are looking for a committed relationship, but the other person tells you they are just interested in casual sex. There’s no need to take the encounter any further. Don’t fall into the trap of thinking you will change someone’s mind. Move on to someone who’s looking for the same thing you are.
 Not every date may be the perfect lady or gentleman, but they should still treat you with basic human decency. Watch out for people who call you names (even if they declare it’s a joke), stand you up for dates, or don’t respect your privacy.If you feel disrespected by a date early on, they may not be redeemable. Let's say a guy calls you "chick." You might choose to correct them: “I’d appreciate it if you stuck to Tiffany. That’s my name.” But, if it happens again, know that by staying you are sending a message that you’re okay with disrespect.
 The expectation to wait can manifest in several ways while dating. Firstly, you may meet someone who is currently in a relationship, and expects you to play second fiddle. Or, you might be with someone who is toying with you and has no real interest in taking the relationship to the next level. Both of these situations should be avoided at all costs.


Sure enough, a relationship never unfolds how you plan. But, if you find yourself constantly breaking your own rules to keep someone, that’s a sign to let them go., If you find yourself unable to state your boundaries in a relationship or if you have trouble enforcing them, contact a professional therapist. They can help you find ways to assert your boundaries and to establish healthy, mutually respectful relationships.