 If your slideshow is saved to your Dropbox, OneDrive, Box, Google Drive, or attached to an email in your Gmail account, you can copy it to SlideShare without having to download it to your computer.You’ll need to do this from a web browser, as the mobile app does not support uploading files., You’ll see this link at the top right corner of the website. Enter your login credentials into the provided blanks, or click “Login with LinkedIn” to use your LinkedIn credentials instead.


You need to be a LinkedIn member to use SlideShare. If you don’t already have an account with LinkedIn, create one now.
 This button appears at the top right area of the website. You’ll be transported to the “Upload a file” screen.
 This link can be found at the bottom of the “Upload a file” box, just above the row of icons for different cloud services., In addition to the cloud services Dropbox, Box, Google Drive, and OneDrive, you’ll also see an option for Gmail and “Link (URL).” Once you click the name of a service, you’ll see a button that says “Connect to .”


If your slideshow is attached to a message in your Gmail account, choose “Gmail.” The message containing the attachment must be in your Inbox.
If the slideshow is uploaded to another location (such as your personal website) and is accessible by URL, choose “Link (URL).” If you choose this option, you won’t see a button—instead, you’ll see a URL field.
 SlideShare will redirect you to your service’s sign-in screen. Once you are signed in, you’ll return to SlideShare, which should now display a list of your files.


Depending on your service, you may also be prompted to give SlideShare permission to access your files.
If you add a URL, type the URL into the blank and click “Search.” An icon for the slideshow will appear in the window.
 If it’s not in the main root of your cloud account, browse through the folders until you’ve located the file. All slideshows uploaded to SlideShare must meet these requirements:SlideShare supports these slideshow formats: .pdf, .ppt, .pps, .pptx, .ppsx, .potx, .odp.
The maximum slideshow file size is 300mb.
 It’s a blue button at the bottom right part of the current window.
 When the upload is complete, you’ll see a thumbnail of the slideshow on the right side of the screen, along with a mostly-blank form to fill out.
 By default, the first line of text in the presentation will appear in the box. If you don’t want to keep that title, delete the text and type something new.
 Click the Privacy drop-down to make your selection.


Public: Anyone who searches the SlideShare site could potentially find and view your slideshow.
Private – Anyone with Link: People cannot find your slideshow by searching SlideShare, but they will be able to view it if you share with them its URL.
Private – Only Me: Your slideshow will only be accessible to you, and only when you are logged in to SlideShare.
 Click the “Category” drop-down to select a category that suits your slideshow.
 The content of the Description field will depend on what you plan to do with your slideshow.


If your slideshow will be publicly searchable, write something that will give people an idea of what your presentation is all about.
If your slideshow will remain private, just write something that will jog your memory.
 If you want people to happen upon your slideshow, type a few keywords that relate to your presentation, and separate each word with a comma (,).For example, if your slideshow is about teaching kindergartners to read, you can add tags like kindergarten, literacy, reading, and education.
Notice the green “Discoverability Score” bar grows in length as you add useful tags. This means your slideshow will be easy for people to discover. If your presentation will be public, you’ll want that bar to stretch to its full length.
 Once saved, you’ll see a preview of your presentation on the screen. You can view the slides using the navigational arrows at the bottom of the preview.


If you want to change the tags, title, description, or category, click the “Edit” button beneath the preview.
Click the “Privacy Settings” button to change the privacy level of the slideshow.
 If you want to view your slideshow or edit its description at a later date:


Log in to SlideShare.
Hover your mouse over your profile photo at the top right corner of the page.
Select “My Uploads.”
Click the name or thumbnail of the slideshow to view it.

