 Remove the eraser and any lead from your mechanical pencil. Hold the short end of the spoon (or toothbrush) brace in your hand the way you'd hold a gun and tape the pencil to it. The open "eraser" end of the pencil should line up with the bend in the spoon, and the shaft of the pencil should lay on the straight plane of the brace. The point of the pencil will extend off the edge of the brace.


Be sure to tape the pencil to the brace very securely; it should not wobble or wiggle in any way.
 Tape the motor to the short end of your brace. Be sure that it's straight and that the button is centered along the shaft of the brace.
 Place one end of the guitar string through the tip of the pencil and thread it through the tube. When it comes out the other end, pick up your pliers and bend the end of the guitar string into a 90-degree angle. Then bend the tip of the string again to create a second 90-degree angle You're basically creating a hook at the end of your needle. Snip off any extra wire from your hook; it doesn't need to be that long.
 Take the hook you just created and set it into one of the holes in your button. When you spin the button, you should see the needle going in and out of the end of your pencil tube. If necessary, trim down the needle.


If you used an eraser instead of a button, create just one 90-degree angle on the end of your guitar string and firmly press it into the eraser so that it's secure. Please note: it's important that the needle is intentionally off center. Do not line it up exactly in the middle of the eraser.
 Use a plug-in adapter from a CD player, a phone charger or other power source that's made up of two wires. Split the wires apart and attach them to the contacts of the motor.


If you don't want to repeatedly unplug and re-plug your power source when you stop to clean the skin, purchase a small On/Off switch from an electronics store and attach it to your motor connection.
 Once you've finished your tattoo, you must throw away the needle and the tube (mechanical pencil/pen). Do not under any circumstances reuse these items. They can spread diseases such as hepatitis and HIV. Even if you plan to use the materials only on yourself, it's not worth the risk, especially when guitar string and mechanical pencils and pens are so inexpensive.

