 If you need information about the company, be clear about what you want to know. If you are calling to make a complaint, try to mentally summarize your issue before you call to make sure you can quickly and clearly report it over the phone. If you know what needs to happen to resolve the issue, be ready to explain that, as well.
 Automated phone trees have become an unfortunate and frustrating part of life, but there is often a way around them. Do some research online before you call to try and find a customer service number that leads directly to a human. Sites like gethuman.com and dialhuman.com maintain international listings for customer service lines that are staffed by actual people.You can also do a simple web search for the name of the company and "customer service".
 If you do get into a phone tree, try to get out of it as soon as possible by choosing an option for "I have a different problem" or "representative," even if there are choices that do describe your issue.Dialing the 0 key will get you to an operator in many phone trees. Saying "agent" or "representative" will also override the phone tree in many cases.
 Remember that the person answering the phone is doing a difficult, often unpleasant job, and you can make it easier for her by remaining polite and upbeat, and speaking clearly and slowly enough to be easily understood., If the representative you are speaking with claims that he cannot help you with your problem, or if you cannot understand the representative due to a difficult accent or a bad connection, simply ask to speak to a manager. Be polite and firm in your request, and be prepared to re-explain your issue to the next person up the line., Phone representatives often make incorrect statements, or offer false promises that they cannot follow through on. By using online chat for customer service, you create a paper trail that can then be forwarded to management, should a problem arise. You also circumvent any problems you might have with unfamiliar accents or poor connections.