 While you can probably sleep through low levels of sound, loud sounds like yelling can keep you awake. The best way to minimize the impact of loud sounds on your sleep is to drown out the sound. Ideally you’d use a sound machine, such as the kind that plays white noise or ocean waves. If you don’t have a sound machine, though, play soothing music at a low volume, which should help you sleep.Whatever noise you use to drown out the sound of your parents arguing, make sure that the volume isn’t too loud.
Classical music at a low volume is excellent to play when you’re trying to sleep.
If you have to use it, a television can help drown out noise. Bear in mind that a television may actually keep you awake, though.
As a last resort, if you choose to cover your ears with a pillow, make sure that you don’t obstruct your airway at all.;
, If your parents are arguing close to your room, go sleep in another room that’s further away from them. Moving to another room that’s further away should make it more difficult to hear them and easier for you to fall asleep. Make sure that you take your pillow and a blanket with you so that you’re warm and comfortable in the new room., If your parents fight frequently or if you have difficulty sleeping through noise, you might benefit from a pair of ear plugs. Ear plugs are specially designed to fit safely in your ears while blocking out external sounds. Most earplugs will dull the sounds around you but still allow you to hear sounds right next to you, making them an ideal sleep aid.Earplugs are great to have for other reasons too. Invest in a good pair to take with you when you go to shows, loud parties, will be near construction, or even a sporting event.
 Meditation helps calm your mind, breathing, and pulse, and, fortunately, you don’t have to sit in a full lotus position to reap the benefits. By calming your mind and focusing on clearing your thoughts, you will come to accept the argument as part of the space that you’re in, as opposed to an act that is happening outside your room.Practice these techniques when the house is relatively quiet so that you can get used to doing them.
Close your eyes and calmly breathe, in and out through your nose, focusing on the air moving in and out of your body.
Consider where you are – the room, the bed, the house – and accept every sound, light, and piece of furniture as a part of that space. Your parents arguing are a part of that space.
Accept that the space is as it is and focus on clearing your mind of distracting thoughts while tuning out distracting noise.
 It may be that they are just too loud and that you can’t fall asleep. Consider distracting yourself. Distracting yourself allows you to focus your mental energies on something other than their argument and your sleep efforts. Hopefully the distraction will help you put their argument in the background so that you can eventually fall asleep.What’s in your room that you would enjoy doing or looking at?
Do you have music or books?
Or do you like to draw or color?

