 If you meet a dog on the street or at a dog park, ask the owner for permission to play with the dog. Do not approach a dog without an owner.;
, If the dog doesn't know you, approach it slowly. Put your fist out in front of the dog's nose. Do not bend over the dog, as this may intimidate him.


Back off if the dog growls, barks, or stiffens.
If a small dog seems nervous, squat down closer to its level.
 If the dog is done sniffing your hand and doesn't seem hostile, reach out from the side of her head and scratch behind her ears. This is a good place to start petting a dog who doesn't know you.
 The dog may let you pet his neck, shoulders, and upper back as well. Many dogs do not like strangers petting their legs, belly, or lower back, but there are exceptions.


If the dog is not yours, ask the dog's owner if there are any injuries or sensitive spots you should avoid.
 Stop petting or playing if you see any of the following signs of discomfort:


Raised hairs on the scruff or down the back
Stiffened posture and deliberate movements
Mouth closed accompanied with wide pupils or a sideways look
Excessive mouthing to the point of red marks, bruising, or teeth marks
Shying away with tail tucked down
Crouching down

, Just like people, different dogs enjoy playing in different ways. Some dogs love their toys, and others prefer to play by wrestling or running. If this is a new dog in your household, you can guess what it might enjoy by researching its breed online. Over time, you'll get to know the dog's individual personality and exactly what it enjoys.


Smaller dogs and dogs with poor upbringings tend to be more skittish and nervous.
 A cheerful, high-pitched voice will get the dog in "play mode." These are all signs that the dog is feeling playful:


Stretching with his rear in the air and front legs on the ground
Wagging his tail or acting "wiggly"
Pricking his ears up or forward

, Throwing a ball or stick is a good way to start, although not all dogs love fetch. Wave the object to get the dog's attention, then throw it so she can see where it goes.
 If an unfamiliar dog doesn't drop the ball at your feet, don't try to pry it out of its mouth. Until you know the dog won't nip you, it's best to wait until the dog drops the toy on its own.


To protect your fingers, keep your hand clenched in a fist when near an unfamiliar dog's mouth.
 If the dog isn't great at fetch or if you find it boring, try holding up the toy and running with it. Make sure the dog sees the toy and gets excited by it. Many dogs have a natural instinct to chase running people anyway, but it's best not to encourage it outside of playtime.
 Many dogs love play-wrestling, tug-of-war, and other rough games. This can be great fun, but it can be unsafe with an unfamiliar dog. Get to know the dog first, or ask the owner if light roughhousing is okay. Even if the dog is friendly, one of you could hurt the other by accident.


Never hit a dog, pretend to bite it, pin it down, or provoke a dog for a reaction.
Some dog trainers believe that letting a dog win rough games could encourage negative behavior, but animal behavior scientists disagree., Your dog enjoys the attention it gets from daily walks. If you don't have time to play today, go for an on-leash run with the dog instead. The occasional trip to the dog park gives the dog a chance to socialize with other dogs.


Bring water for the dog, especially in warm weather.
City dogs love to get a taste of nature. Most state parks allow dogs on the hiking trails, and sometimes even in the cabins.
 Some dogs are scared of water, squeaky toys, or toys shaped a certain way. Don't push a dog to play when it seems uncomfortable. If it goes into full-blown "fight or flight" mode, back off until it calms down.
 It's not going to be fun anymore, if the dog is too tired. If the dog loses interest and walks away, let it go. Bothering it to keep on playing could make it grumpy. If you notice the dog lay down or start breathing heavy make sure to provide some water. Also stop if the dog starts getting rougher or play-biting more aggressively than he should, even if it doesn't hurt.


It may seem cute when a puppy gnaws your hand or jumps on your head, but these are behaviors it will learn and continue doing as it grows up. Teach it appropriate limits now to save yourself effort later.
Do not punish them or scare the dog. Just walk away and stop engaging with the dog. Even bad attention ("stop") may encourage the dog to keep trying.
 To play tug of war, show the dog the rope and let him take it in his mouth. Hold onto the other end and pull the rope a little, but not so much it hurts his teeth. Let him pull it back and forth, then let him take it, while you smile and look happy.


Growling is normal in this context, not hostile.
Some dogs might interpret tug-of-war as a game of dominance.
 Most dogs love raw hides, bully sticks, and other natural chew toys. Durable, nontoxic rubber chew toys are a longer-lasting option. Either way, supervise the dog to make sure she doesn't injure her gums from over-chewing or from splintered pieces of bone.
 These toys usually have a hidden container that you stock with treats. This could be a good choice to entertain your dog while he's home alone.
 There are all kinds of other toys for different kinds of dogs. Here are a few to consider:


If your dog loves to run, get a supply of balls for him to chase. Some dogs prefer soft fabric balls, but these quickly become dirty and worn.
Many dogs grow attached to animal toys. Get stuffing-free toys from a pet store, since stuffing can be messy and could injure the dog if eaten.
If you have cats, see if the dog likes cat toys. Some dogs enjoy laser pointers and string.
 This can upset or alarm the dog. If your dog acts violent or overprotective around toys, food, or other objects, learn about resource guarding and how to change the behavior.

