 Your instincts are often better at recognizing danger than your rational mind is. If something about a situation seems off, or if you don’t have a good feeling about someone, listen to your gut and get to safety as soon as you can. It’s always better to be too cautious than to get into a dangerous situation.If you don’t know how to leave a situation, make up an excuse. Say that you have to let your dog out or pick up your friend whose car broke down.;
, If you’re inside with a potentially violent person, make sure you can get to the door easily. Don’t block the door, though. If the person feels trapped, they may be more dangerous to deal with.Get into the habit of noticing where the exits are everywhere you go.
 If possible, ask a colleague, friend, or family member to stay with you when you deal with someone who might turn violent. The presence of someone else might be enough to keep the violent person calm. If they do decide to use physical force, you’ll be safer with backup than without it.For instance, if you are a nurse treating a patient who has a history of violence, it’s a good idea to ask one of your colleagues to step into the room with you.
 Knowing some self-defense moves could save your life if you’re ever attacked. Search the internet for some simple techniques you can practice at home, or sign up for a beginners’ self-defense class.Ask a friend to help you practice the techniques you learn.
 If you know that someone with violent tendencies is frequently around children, make their safety your top priority. If they are your own kids, take them to stay at a safe place, like a family member’s house. If they are someone else’s, offer to look after them temporarily or help their parent find a place to take them.If you think that any children are in a dangerous or abusive home situation, let the appropriate authorities know immediately.
Kids can’t protect themselves, so they depend on adults to protect them. Don’t assume someone else will report a bad situation – report it yourself if you know something is wrong.
 Know what you will do if someone around you becomes violent. Ideally, you should leave the building and call the police. If you are at home and cannot leave, retreat to a safe room and lock the door before calling emergency services.If you live with a partner or children, come up with an emergency plan together. Make sure everyone understands what to do to stay safe in a crisis.

