 While your genes are responsible for 60 to 80 percent of your height, good nutrition is responsible for the other 40 to 20 percent of your height.Your diet should be comprised of protein, fruits, vegetables, grains, and dairy products. Limit your intake of added sugar, saturated and trans fat. Good sources of protein include seafood, lean meat and poultry, eggs, beans, peas, legumes, nuts, seeds, and soy products.
Eat fruits instead of drinking fruit juice. If you drink fruit juice, make sure that is 100% juice. If you eat canned fruit, it should say "light" or "packed in own juice."
Eat a variety of vegetables with many different colors such as dark green, red, orange, and starchy vegetables. Fresh and frozen vegetables are better choices than canned vegetables. If you eat canned vegetables, look for vegetables that are low in sodium.
Choose whole grains such as whole-wheat bread, brown rice, wild rice, and quinoa instead of white bread and refined grains.
Dairy should be low-fat or fat-free. Good sources of dairy include milk, cheese, and yogurt.
 Children need 60 minutes of exercise every single day.Exercise causes your body to produce growth hormone and increase the density of your bones.Children can get exercise in many different ways such as gym class at school, recess, playing tag, riding their bike, or at any type of sports practice.Make sure you do a variety of different activities and do activities that are fun for you.
Toddlers should get at least 30 minutes of planned physical activity and 60 minutes of free play each day.
Preschoolers should get at least 60 minutes of planned physical activity and 60 minutes of free play each day.
School age children should get at least an hour of physical activity each day. Each bout of physical activity should last for a minimum of 15 minutes., While you are sleeping, your body releases growth hormone. While missing one night of sleep will not stunt your growth, not getting enough sleep over time can negatively impact your growth.The amount of sleep you need will depend on your age and activity level.


Newborn babies (0-3 months) need between 10.5 and 18 hours of sleep per day.
Infants (4-11 months) need about 9 to 12 hours of sleep at night and a few naps throughout the day.
Toddlers (1-2 years old) need about 11 to 14 hours of sleep a day.Preschoolers (3-5 years old) need 11 to 13 hours of sleep each night.
School aged children (6 to 13 years old) need 9 to 11 hours of sleep each night.
Teenagers usually need about 8.5 to 9 hours of sleep each night.
 Smoking is a sure way to stunt your growth, especially during puberty. Smoking only 10 cigarettes a day for a few years can cause you to be one inch shorter than you would have been.Smoking marijuana can also stunt your growth by decreasing your body's ability to produce growth hormone.To reach your maximum height, it is best if you do not smoke any substance.


If you are a smoker but would like to stop, there are free apps, quit plans, and text message resources that you can use.You may also call 1-800-QUIT-NOW to get information about quitting smoking.

