 - use for when the batter misses the ball (Can also be used if you foul a ball off)
"Now you've seen it!" - use for when the batter takes strike one
"Watch the junk" - use on an 0-2 or 1-2 count when you think the pitcher is going to throw an off-speed pitch, such as a curve or change-up away.
"Gotta protect now!" or "Protect the plate!" - use on an 0-2 count when the batter needs one more strike to strikeout
"Drive him home!" or "Bring him home!" - use when there is a runner in scoring position and you need an RBI.
"Your pitch now" - use on a 3-0 or 3-1 count where the batter is ahead in the count
"It's in the gap" or ""it's dropping" - use when the batter has hit a ball in between fielders and he has doubts whether he will be safe or out
"Good hustle" - this is comforting for someone who just grounded out
"get 'em next time" - same as above, only can be used for any type of out
"What do ya say (Number of player)!"-when you want the player to do well or just giving support.
"Chicken ain't nothing but a bird!"- use pretty much anytime, but especially when the umpire makes a bad call on a pitch; specifically said "Chicken ain't nothin' but a bird Blue!"
"Hey get a nine iron" when a low pitch is called for a strike.;
,
"Get two!" or "Turn two!" or "Roll a pair!" - another way of saying go for a double play
"He's going!" - shout this when an opponent is attempting to steal a base
"Cut 'x' " - insert a number for "x", such as "Cut 4!" The number will apply to a base, either 2, 3, or 4 for home. This tells the outfielder where to throw
"Get one!" - lets a fielder know where he has to throw it, in this case first base
"Can of Corn" - easy play
"Hey lets get 1 and 1." - referring to let's get the first out and then go for the second.
 - when there is a full count on the batter
"Give him a look" or "look over" - this tells the pitcher that the guy is taking a big lead
"Strikes now kid" - when the pitcher has having difficulty finding the strike zone
"Deep breath now!"- when the pitcher is rushing
"Let him hit it" - encouragement to a pitcher who is struggling to throw strikes. You're telling the pitcher to let the batter hit it and the defense will take care of the rest.
"Focus and fire"-when the pitcher has having difficulty finding the strike zone
"He Gone"-when the pitcher strikes a player out"
Ducks on the pond - refers to runners in scoring position.
Don't be a zoo- whenever the coach puts a less than mediocre player in the game. Most likely a player from a "baseball academy" in Alberta

, - Whenever someone breaks their bat (also in reference to Laffy's elbow)

