 Lining a crocheted or knitted purse is quite easy, but you will need some special materials before you get started. You will need:Your knitted or crocheted bag.
Enough fabric to line your bag.
A ruler or measuring tape (optional).
A piece of chalk.
Pins.
Some thread and a needle
A sewing machine (optional).
A clasp for your bag, such as a zipper, Velcro, or a snap (optional).;
, To ensure that your liner will be the same size and shape as your bag, lay out your fabric so that it is doubled. Then, place your purse over the fabric and use the chalk to outline it.Another option is to measure the length and width of your purse and then measure your fabric.You can sue the chalk to mark where you will need to cut the fabric.
 Cut around the edges of the chalk lines you have made on the fabric. Make sure that you cut through both layers of the fabric so that you will have two of the same size pieces when you are done.You can pin the edges of the fabric before you start cutting if you want to ensure that it does not slide around. This may be necessary for a slippery fabric, such as satin.
 After you have cut out your two pieces, fold over what will be the top edge of each piece. Fold over about ½” to 1” of fabric. If the fabric has a print, then fold it over so that the print is showing on both sides.After you fold over the fabric, pin along the edges to secure it in place.
Then, sew along the edges of the fabric pieces to create the top seam of your purse. Sew about ¼” to ½” from the edge of the fabric.
 Next, place your fabric pieces together so that the rough edges of your seam are facing outwards. If your fabric has a print on it, then the print should be facing itself.Then, sew along the outer edges of the sides and bottom of your fabric pieces to attach the two pieces. Sew about a ½” to 1” from the edges of the fabric.
You can sew the edges with a sewing machine or by hand. Use a straight stitch to create a strong seam.
Make sure to leave the top part of your fabric open. This will be the opening of your purse’s iner.
 If you want to add a zipper, some Velcro, or a snap to close your purse, do so before you sew the liner in place. If you are using a snap or Velcro, then make sure that they are centered on the inside of the liner.Check to see if the closure you are adding will fit together properly before you secure the pieces in place.
 After you have finished making the liner for your purse, you can tuck it inside of your knitted or crocheted bag. Make sure that the rough edges of the seam are facing into your knitted or crocheted bag. The liner you have created should fit easily inside of your bag. If it is too large, then you can sew a new seam 1/” to 1” in from the original seam. This will make the liner smaller.
 To secure the liner in place while you sew it to the crocheted or knitted bag, you may want to pin it into place. Place some pins along the top edge of the liner to attach it to the purse edge.You can pin the liner right along the edges of the purse or pin it an inch or two in if you prefer.
Make sure that the seams are lined up. If you added a means of closing the purse, then make sure that this is properly lined up as well.
 After you have secured your liner in place, you can begin to stitch it.Sewing by hand works best for attaching your liner to the purse. This is because the sewing machine may catch on the loops of your knit or crocheted purse.Thread a needle with the color thread of your choice and then begin to sew along the edge of the liner.
Tie a knot at the end of your piece of thread to hold it in place after your first pass through the fabric pieces.
Sew all the way around the liner edge and then tie off the thread.
After you finish sewing the liner in place, your purse is ready to use! Fill it with your normal purse contents or give it to someone as a gift.

