;
, If you use origami-paper, make sure the pattern-side is outside and will be visible later.
, This is often called a cupboard fold, or book fold.
, Make sure to fold over both 'doors' of the cupboard fold.
, Remember to fold over both 'doors' of the cupboard fold. This makes a parallelogram.
, You will end up with a small square.
,, You've made your first unit!

, If you have three different colors of paper, make ten of each color.
 The surface of the stellated icosahedron is made up of a number of pyramids (in fact, if you take the regular icosahedron - a solid with twenty triangular faces - and make each face the base of a triangular pyramid, you get a stellated icosahedron). So we start by using the units to make a series of connected pyramids. To get a more simple idea of this complex cube you are now going to build, just think of an only 12-faced regular pentagonal dodecahedron (a Platonic solid), and imagine each of its 20 vertices (5 at the top, 5 at the bottom and 10 around in-between) will be replaced by a pyramid. With 30 units you will shape together those 20 pyramids.
 The triangular ends of each unit are called 'tabs', and the square in the center of the unit contains 'pockets' made up by the cupboard fold that goes along the diagonal. Begin by putting the tab of one unit (pictured in orange below) into the pocket of another (pictured in yellow).
 Congratulations - you made your first pyramid!

, Continue by taking a new unit (orange in this case), and put its tab in the yellow unit's second pocket.
 Tada! You now have two adjacent pyramids.
 If you are using three unit colors, make sure to never put the tab of a unit into a pocket of another unit of the same color. This ensures a regular, colorful pattern on your stellated icosahedron.
 You may need to feel your way around a bit to make sure that you never end up having to put a tab into a pocket of the same color. Don't worry if you do - you can carefully prise your units apart and rearrange them until you find a proper arrangement.
 The last unit is tricky - you'll have to make sure that both its tabs go into pockets, and both its pockets are filled by the two remaining free tabs. Proceed with care.
 You now have a fully formed, colorful, stellated icosahedron.

