 A cardboard carton used for drinks in any size would be perfect, but you could use other box types, tubes or containers, as long as whatever you pick is not too heavy and it has the basic shape of a minion.;
, Use papier mâché glue to attach the newspaper pieces with. (The glue recipe can be found here). Add at least two, or maybe more, layers to ensure a good coverage.


Ensure that the layers are smooth and even.
Allow to dry fully between each layer.
 Choose the color design. You could paint the papier mâché minion either as a cute and silly yellow minion or as an adorably aggressive purple one. For the sake of this article, it's a yellow minion shown in the images.


For the yellow minion, paint the entire papier mâché yellow once. Allow to dry. Paint another layer over the dry layer of paint, to ensure complete coverage. The newspaper print must not be viewable underneath the paint.
Paint the blue overalls on over the yellow paint, as shown in the image.
Finish by painting on a minion eye or eyes, surrounded by the familiar minion goggles. Search for images online if you're not sure which one or set of eyes you'd prefer. (One eye is less painting work.) Alternatively, make 3-D eyes and goggles from recycled items and glue these into place.
 As it dries, proceed with making the papier mâché arms and legs., This is easily done by adding papier mâché pieces to each paper towel roll; two rolls for the arms and two for the legs. One to two layers of papier mâché should suffice. Allow to dry fully.
 Use strong glue; you will probably have to either hold in place or prop up the arms and legs until the glue takes, to prevent the appendages from slipping down.


You may find that a stapler or craft pin may help with attachment as well.
 Use the smallest size possible, as it needs to match the minion size.


If you can't find gloves small enough, buy baby gloves from the dollar store and stuff them with newspaper or tissue paper before attaching.
 Once dried, glue one glove to each of the arms. Staples or craft pins may help with attachment.


You may not need to use papier mâché for this step. Test a little paint to see if it will stick to the gloves without having to add the papier mâché. If yes, don't bother; if not, you'll need the papier mâché.
 These can be purchased from the dollar store or a thrift store for next-to-nothing. Fill each baby sock with newspaper or the paper tissue paper, then use papier mâché to cover the sock. Staple the socks to enclose the paper, then attach the socks at the end of the minion's feet.


Once again, as with the glove, try some fabric paint first to see whether you need to use papier mâché at all.
The socks may be easier to attach by stapling them in place.
 Paint the socks black for the boots of the minion and the legs blue for pants. Paint the arms yellow and the gloves black. Do any other touch-ups as needed at this point.


You may need to paint more than one layer of paint to cover the clothing parts properly.
 Once dried completely, you will have an adorable papier mâché minion. Now it's time to make it some companions!