 Studies show that a large percentage of ER patients (in some hospitals it approaches 50%) arrive with a non-urgent care need — in other words, their injury or problem is not a life-threatening emergency.These patients take up time and hospital personnel to triage (diagnose and prioritize treatment), which makes ER waits dangerously long for those with really serious injuries. As such, once ER personnel diagnose a condition as non-urgent, they should quickly educate the patient on appropriate use of ER services and then re-route them to caregivers in other hospitals and clinics.


Some patients prefer going to the ER regardless of their injury because they're open 24-hours, contain board-certified emergency practitioners, move people through relatively quickly (usually within a few hour) and they can't turn anyone away by law.
Consider an urgent care clinic if your issues aren't life-threatening.
It's estimated that between 14% and 27% of all ER visits in the U.S. could be handled at non-emergency clinics and health centers., Greeting, registering, examining and then prioritizing a patient and their injury (triaging) can be time consuming, especially if an ER department is under-staffed and/or run inefficiently. Changing patient flow by having a nurse or physician examining a patient in triage shortly after their arrival to the ER can dramatically speed up encounters, weed out the non-urgent cases and reduce throughput times for patients who have life-threatening injuries.According to 2009 data, patients who needed to be seen in less than 14 minutes to have the best chance of survival were being seen in twice that amount of time (37 minutes) — ER waits are estimated to be even longer in more recent years.Registering patients at their bedsides can reduce ER wait times also. Names, addresses, phone numbers, etc. don't necessarily need to be collected before caregivers assess a patient's injury and triage them.
 One of the biggest causes of crowding and wait times in ER departments is "boarding" — a term used to describe holding patients in waiting rooms until an ER bed becomes available.Instead of making patients sit in the waiting area until an ER bed opens up, place them in empty beds in other departments within the hospital or wheel extra beds into nearby hallways. This strategy helps ease overcrowding by dispersing the concentration of emergency patients throughout the hospital.


Some hospitals hold admitted ER patients for hours while waiting for beds to become free. This creates logjams, makes waiting uncomfortable and can endanger lives.
The problem is sometimes exacerbated by financial incentive — hospitals can often charge health insurance companies more if the patient spends time in certain wards or units of the hospital (ICU and ER beds are typically the most expensive to stay in).
 It's not too difficult to use basic predictive programming (such as time of year, day of week, time of day, local weather conditions) to estimate how busy it might be at any given time. During shifts that have a high probability of being busier than normal, hospitals should schedule more staff to accommodate the anticipated patients in order to keep ER wait times reasonable and safe. At the very least, more specialists can be put on-call "just in case." Unfortunately, reduced funding and cut-backs often lead to under-staffing and even entire ER closures. For example, over the last 15 years, the number of ER departments in the U.S. has declined by 10%.Triaging doesn't need to be done exclusively by ER physicians (who are often in short supply). Physician assistants, nurses and nurse practitioners can readily be trained to triage ER patients and reduce the likelihood of bottlenecks developing.
In addition to medical personnel who triage and treat ER patients, various support staff and lab technicians are needed to take x-rays, run blood tests and conduct other diagnostic tests.

