 Reducing clutter can make your room feel tidier. To start, relocate items to other areas of your home. There may be a lot of items you're storing in your bedroom that could be stored elsewhere. For example, do you keep your DVD collection on your bedroom bookshelf? It may be better suited to be stored in the living room, near your television set. This will free up more space on the bookshelf.
 You probably have a lot of clothing items you no longer need or want lying around your closet. Go through your closet and find items you no longer wear. You may find items you bought for a special occasions, items that no longer fit you, and items that are worn out.


You can donate items you're simply not going to wear anymore. If you go to a local thrift store, you may get some money for older items if they're in good condition.
If items are torn or stained, you may be better off tossing them than trying to repurpose them. However, if you're into crafting, you may be able to use the material from old clothing items for projects.
 In addition to old clothing items, a variety of items can be donated to charity. Instead, donate things like old toys, electronics, jewelry, bags, and shoes to local charities. Make sure any items you choose to donate are in decent condition. If anything is badly damaged or stained, you may be better off throwing that item away., Paper mess counts for a lot of bedroom clutter. Old papers from work or school may be stacked on your desk, as well as unwanted mail. Take a day to look through old papers and throw out what you no longer want.


If you throw out any old bills, make sure to shred them first as they may contain sensitive information.
If you decide you want to keep some papers, invest in a folder or binder for them. This will feel more organized than just having them stacked on your desk.
 A lot of clutter in the bedroom comes from old magazines and newspapers being stored there. If you no longer read your New Yorker every month, or if you read news online more than you read it in the paper, consider dropping these subscriptions. You'll save yourself some money while also reducing clutter in your home.Decide what subscriptions to cancel. Go through your existing subscriptions and see what you do and do not read anymore. Cut out anything that's not necessary.
Schedule time during the week to call and cancel subscriptions, or cancel them online.
While in the process of canceling subscriptions, throw out or recycle any magazines or newspapers you no longer want.

