 You may want to make a few sketches to work out proportions.
 This will provide support for the clay and allow it to be a bendable, poseable armature.


Double-twist wire in any weight-bearing limbs. It is also a good idea to leave loops of wire on the ends of weight-bearing limbs. For example, a U shape at the end of a foot will hold weight better than the sharp point of cut wire.
Try to use as few pieces of wire as possible to keep it sturdy. Major areas to be bulked out, such as the rib cage, may require loops of wire to later fill with tinfoil.
You will also want to put wire in any thin bits that will be standing on their own, such as long ears. For fingers, you can probably get away with just using tinfoil for support.
 Once you are happy with the proportions of your skeleton, start bulking things out by crinkling tinfoil over the wire.


When applied in large wrinkled sheets it sticks quite well, and provides a textured surface that the clay can really hold onto.
Think about mass and musculature- you can use tinfoil both to provide a surface for clay to stick to, and also to keep your project as light as possible by filling bulky areas with tinfoil.
After this step, your sculpture should be beginning to take shape, but just require more definition.
 Breaking off chunks and working the clay between your fingers until you can press it into about ¼ thick sheets, which you press onto the tinfoil and smooth together.


Continue until all the surfaces that need to be covered with clay, are. If the clay seems hard, don't worry, it will loosen up with the heat of your hands. If you are having a lot of trouble just start with smaller pieces.
Feel free to keep it simple at this stage, such as leaving a nub of clay on the face for a nose, or a clump on the arm to remind yourself to add more bicep.
 After the armature is covered with a rudimentary layer of polymer clay, go back into areas that seem to need more detail and refine them.


Add muscle, remove excess clay, smooth lumps and shape the figure into what you envision.
Take breaks to look at the sculpture from several angles until it looks correct from all sides.
 Usually in the above steps, it is a good idea to have the sculpture unattached to any base, to permit easy turning in your hands, good anchorage points for smoothing, access those hard-to-reach places, etc.


You will get to a point in refinement that the pressure of holding it in your hands is squishing detail. At this point it is time to put it down. If it is not a sitting or self-supporting figure you will want to staple it to a wood base. This can be later be sculpted over to make it a setting.
 Once your sculpture is sitting in its final position, get out your sculpting tools and go detail crazy! Smooth out the skin, make facial features, skin creases, wrinkles, fingernails, scales, hair, fabric folds; all of the wonderful textures that make a sculpture look really impressive.


Take your time and enjoy yourself; the clay won't dry out.
 Once you are happy with your sculpture's shape and detail, preheat your oven to 275° F (135°C).


Place the sculpture on a baking sheet, and bake for 15-25 minutes. You should take it out when it looks darker in the thinner parts, but before those thinner parts turn dark brown.
When you first remove it you may notice it is not totally hard. Don't worry—it will set after it has cooled.
 20+ hours of work and it is all hardened in 15min.
 There are many wonderful things that you can do with your sculpture after you bake it.


If you left something out you can sculpt something on and bake it again, or bake it separately and glue it on.
Paint it using oils or acrylics. For best results, use acrylics applied in many thin washes. You can also glue on hair, feathers, fur, jewels or fabric. Be creative!

