 If there are speakers currently wired up to your stereo system, fully disconnect them.;
, Using speaker wire or RCA cables (depending on your stereo system and crossover unit), connect the crossover to your amplifier just as you would a speaker.


The crossover should be the last piece of equipment in the chain before the speakers. Depending on your setup, this means your crossover could be wired directly between your amplifier and your speakers, or the crossover could be placed in line after a compressor or equalizer.Depending on your crossover and stereo setup, you will probably need separate crossover units for the left and right channels of your stereo system.
Connect the output of the amplifier to the crossover inputs by attaching speaker wires to the positive and negative terminals of your amplifier and the corresponding inputs of the crossover. Use the red wire for the positive terminal, black for the negative. Slide the exposed wire ends into place and tighten the terminals.
Depending on your amplifier and crossover unit, this can be done either by flipping small switches above the terminals, or by tightening screws with either a screwdriver or allen wrench.
If there is not enough exposed wire at ends of your speaker wires, you may need to strip off up to half an inch of insulation with wire strippers.
 Attach your speakers to the crossover using speaker wire, similarly to the previous step.


Your crossover should have separate outputs for your woofers (bass speakers) and tweeters (treble speakers). Make sure to wire the correct speaker into the correct output.
On many models of crossover, they will be labeled W+ and W- for the woofer positive and negative outputs and T+ and T- for the tweeter.
 Once you've wired the left and right channels, play some music through your system. You should a clean sound from both channels.


If your crossover is adjustable and you aren't happy with the sound you're getting, try adjusting the frequency knobs, or consult the instructions for recommended settings.

