 Ice plants are rarely bothered by pests but aphids and mealybugs do occasionally attack them. Both of these insects are generally less than 1/8-inch long. They suck juices from the ice plants and excrete a clear, sticky liquid called honeydew on the leaves. Severe infestations cause slowed plant growth, yellow leaves that eventually drop and can eventually kill the plants.


Aphids are commonly green or red but they can be nearly any color. They have soft bodies, move slowly and rarely have wings.
Mealybugs are flat, immobile insects that are most often off-white, gray or light tan. They are called mealybugs because they have a waxy coating on their backs that looks mealy.
 Both of these insects can be controlled by simply spraying them off the ice plants with a garden hose. Aphids are usually blown onto the plants by the wind and mealybugs are carried by ants. They are crushed by the water from the hose or knocked off the plant and cannot get back on by themselves.


Attach a nozzle to the garden hose and spray the ice plants with the nozzle set at medium pressure. If the water pressure is too strong, it could damage the plants.
The water will also wash off the honeydew these pests create.
Spray the ice plants every few days if the insects return.
 If the infestation is severe and spraying them with the garden hose is not keeping them under control, spray the plants with insecticidal soap.Insecticidal soap works by smothering aphids and mealybugs when they are sprayed.


Commercially formulated insecticidal soap works well as it is more refined but mild dish soap mixed with water will also work.
 Commercially formulated insecticidal soap is available in concentrated and ready-to-use formulas. Concentrated forms should be mixed with water at a rate of 5 tablespoons per gallon.


Mix it thoroughly and pour it into a spray bottle.
Use the same amount of mild dish soap in water, if you prefer, but do not use dishwasher soap, laundry soap or dish soap that is highly concentrated. Those types of soaps will damage the leaves of the ice plants.
 Make sure the stems, undersides of the leaves and tops of the leaves are coated. Do not spray them in the afternoon when the sunlight is strongest or when temperatures rise above 85ʡF (29ʡC).


The heat and strong sunlight will make the soap dry too quickly and could cause damage to the leaves.
 The soap will only kill aphids and mealybugs that are already on the ice plants and, if left on the plants, it could damage the leaves.


Repeat the treatment once each week if these insects continue to attack the ice plants.

