 Routine is extremely important for children with ADHD. It helpful for them to have a schedule they may refer to. This tells them where they are supposed to be or what they are supposed to be doing, and makes life much easier.A routine can establish specific times for chores and homework. This helps the child to accomplish these tasks. It can also reduce stress for the child and lead to more successes. In so doing, it can help a child build self-esteem, which is often a problem for children with ADHD.A clear routine also reduces conflict about doing homework and chores.
Be as consistent as possible, with scheduled tasks occurring in the same time and place every day.
 Children with ADHD need tasks to be chopped into steps. This sometimes called "chunking."Steps should be given either one at a time or in written form. Set up routines that reflect consistent instructions. Ask the child to repeat the instructions.
Offer praise at the completion of each step.For example, imagine your child is responsible for doing the laundry. You might instruct him or her as follows: First find all the pants and put them into a stack here. (“Awesome!”) Now put shirts in a stack there. (“Super!”). Then have the child fold each stack, then put the stacks in his or her room, one stack at a time.
 Provide your child with tangible reminders of the routine to help him or her stay on track. This makes it harder for the child to forget what he or she is supposed to be doing. For example:


Give the child a planner with their daily schedule written in it.She or he can also use it to write down homework assignments.
Get a calendar or chore board for your home that specifies when tasks need to be done.
Check items off the list as they are completed, and offer praise each time.
 Children with ADHD tend to feel like they are always doing the wrong thing. You can build self-esteem and encourage good behavior by rewarding their successes.


In addition to praise, you can give rewards in the form of small tangible items, like small toys or stickers.
Some people have found a point system works well. This is a structure in which children earn points for good behavior. They can spend those points on special privileges, like a trip to the movies.You can assign points for activities that are part of the daily schedule.This builds self-esteem through repeated success, while also reinforcing the routine.
 Make exercising a scheduled part of your child's daily routine. Whether it's running some laps or playing a sport, movement and exercise can help reduce behavioral problems.


Exercise increases blood-flow to the brain. This can help improve the function of areas that control behavior, planning, thinking and emotions.Exercise also causes the brain to release neurotransmitters such as dopamine. These brain chemicals help control impulsive behavior. They are the same substances that many ADHD medications stimulate the brain to produce., Research has shown that more sleep can help ease and treat ADHD in children. Even just a half-hour of extra sleep can keep kids from being restless at school and improve their behavior. Conversely, cutting back on sleep can result in tears, tantrums and frustration.
 When your child is at school, you can't be there to make sure he or she is following the routine. As such, you'll need to take steps to make sure others are monitoring your child.


Communicate with teachers. It is important that your child's teachers understand his or her condition. They should work with you to ensure that a productive routine continues at school.
Get your child evaluated for special education. Request an evaluation in writing.This, along with an ADHD diagnosis, makes your child eligible for special services. This could include extra time on exams. It could also mean access to self-contained classrooms with specially trained teachers and aides.
Work with teachers to create an individualized education plan (IEP). After your child qualifies for special assistance, you will participate in an IEP conference. School staff and parents work together to create this document. It spells out the academic, behavioral, and social goals of special-ed students. It specifies how results will be determined and specific interventions that will used to achieve the goals.An IEP can help create a structured routine for your child during the school day.
 When your child breaks the routine in a serious way, you may need to punish him or her. Here are some tips for effective discipline that can help keep the routine on track.


Be consistent. Make sure you give out the same consequences every time a certain violation occurs.Do not allow persistence or begging to deter you.
Be timely. Dole out the consequences immediately.Children with ADHD have short attention spans. They may not be able to understand a consequence that occurs long after the undesired behavior.Be powerful. Make sure the consequences are significant enough that the child will care about them.Weak consequences do little to reinforce the routine.
Be calm. Don't get angry or worked up when disciplining your child. This may send a message that your child can manipulate you through bad behavior.