 Just because you have chronic pain doesn’t meant that you have stopped living. It is important that your friends and family include you in things. Tell the person that you want to be included in their life. You want them to call, visit, and invite you to things.Tell them that you want them to tell you about their lives. Tell them not to be nervous about talking about things they do that you cannot.
Say, “I know I have chronic pain, but I want to be included in your life. I want to see you and talk to you.”

, Having chronic pain doesn’t mean you have become a different person. You are still the same person you were before. You still want to be a partner/spouse, parent, sibling, or friend. Though you may need understanding and to modify parts of your life, ask the person to treat you like the person you are.You may say, “I know I have chronic pain and cannot do what I used to; however, I am still your partner, and want you to treat me that way.”

, When you have chronic pain, you need to help the other person recognize your boundaries. Explain to them that you can only do so much, and there are days you can do more or less than other days. Ask them to respect your boundaries and be understanding.For example, you may be able to walk around one day, but unable to do it another day. You may be in so much pain one day that you can barely talk, but another day your pain may be dull and manageable.
Tell the person, “My level of activity and engagement will vary from day to day. Some days I can do more than others. Please be patient and understanding with me.”

, Chronic pain not only takes a toll on your body, but also your mental and emotional state. Many people with chronic pain also suffer from depression symptoms. You should explain to the person that you may not always have the energy to socialize. Sometimes, you pain may be too severe to do anything.Explain that if you cancel or say no, you are not being flaky. It’s not that you don’t want to be around the person.
Say, “I know it may be frustrating if I cancel or can’t commit to plans, but my flare ups and pain cause difficulties for me. I have to put my health first.”

, One of the things you need more than anything when you have chronic pain is support, patience, and understanding. When you explain your chronic pain to the other person, ask them if they are willing to give you these things. Explain that you are still a person with needs and who wants to connect with friends and family, you just have to work around your condition.Try saying, “I need you to be understanding of my limits and patient with me. I know you may get frustrated, but remember that I’m frustrated, too. I’m trying my best, and I need your support.”

, Because of your pain, you may not be able to get out and go like other people. Just walking to the car may be too much for you, and sitting in the car while driving may be impossible. Ask the person if they would mind visiting you.Tell the person that you would love to go somewhere with them, but it may not be possible; however, you are willing to spend time together at your house.
You can suggest movie nights, tv show marathons, game nights, and cooking together.
Say, “I know it may not be ideal, but it would help me out if you could visit me. I am unable to leave the house due to my chronic pain.”

, It is important to treat the emotional and psychological effects of chronic pain while you work on the medical symptoms. To get the support you need, look for a therapist who specializes in somatic conditions and chronic pain. They can teach you positive coping mechanisms and how to manage and challenge unhelpful thoughts about pain.Experiencing chronic pain can turn your world upside-down and make it difficult for you to do the things you once enjoyed. Your goals and plans for the future may be disrupted. A therapist can help you accept how your life has changed and mourn things (which may include experiences) you may have lost.
Psychological treatment can alter how your brain processes pain and in some cases can be as effective as surgery in relieving pain.