 Most airports have signs that clearly tell you which terminal your airline uses. At small airports, however, finding the right terminal is not something you generally have to worry about.
  If the airport is very large, it may have several terminals with a number of different check-in desks. There should be a list at every entrance, but if there isn't, you can ask an airport attendant. Every airline has its own travel check in desks. The name of the airline is displayed behind the counters, however the counters may not always be open when you arrive. 


If you're not checking bags and have already printed your boarding pass, you can skip this step and go straight to security.
 When you get to the counter after waiting in line, the check-in assistant will ask you some routine security questions. You need to make sure you have packed your own bags for your safety and peace of mind. The assistant will then weigh your bags to make sure they pass all weight requirements. After printing a luggage tag and giving you a baggage claim ticket to use in the case of lost bags, they will take your luggage, label it, and put it on a conveyor belt to be sent to the plane.


The check-in assistant will also ask to see your passport or ID and plane tickets or confirmation number. They will then confirm your seating assignment and print your boarding pass.
 The check in staff usually tell you what your gate number is. If you're not sure, ask them, or find your flight on one of the many screens listing information about departing flights.Your gate number should also be on your boarding pass. 

, All your carry-on luggage will be x-rayed and you will have to pass through a metal detector, to make sure you have nothing hidden on you which could endanger the aircraft. Airport security is there to keep both passengers and staff safe, particularly while you are in the air. Cooperate with all security procedures to help ensure everyone's safety. For instance, if you go through the scanner you may set off the alarm and this may prompt a 'pat-down' search by security staff. 


For the screening, you will likely have to remove your cell phone, shoes, coat, and metallic items such as belts and pass them through the X-ray with your carry on bags. You will also have to take any laptops or small containers of liquids and gels out of your bags and pass them through the scanner in a tray provided.
 Find flight information such as gate and status (e.g. on time, delayed) on screens once you go through security. At your gate, there will be more detailed screens indicating when your flight has come in and when passengers will be allowed to start boarding. Also keep your ears open for any flight information which is announced over the intercom, or loud speakers. Follow signs and directions to get to your gate.
 If you have time, use the restroom or grab something to eat at a nearby vendor. When your airplane is ready to board passengers it should be announced over the intercom; listen for your flight number and any other relevant information.  Before you board the plane, the staff will ask to see your ID as well as your boarding pass. Keep these handy and make sure you have them ready just before you are about to board the plane.

