 Take three 6-ounce (170 g) cans of salmon that have been well drained, and dump them in a large bowl. With a fork, gently break the salmon apart into flakes.Red or pink salmon works best for the cakes.
Make sure that the cans you’re using contain skinless, boneless salmon.;
, After you’ve flaked the salmon, mix 1 ½ cups (355 g) of cracker meal into the bowl. Stir until the ingredients are well combined.Instead of a fork or spoon, it may be easier to combine the salmon and cracker meal with clean hands.
You can substitute seasoned or plain bread crumbs, panko, or crushed Saltine crackers for the cracker meal.
 Once the salmon and cracker meal are well mixed, add 2 large eggs that have been beaten, 2 rounded teaspoons (10 g) of Old Bay seasoning, half a red bell pepper that’s been finely chopped, a handful of fresh chives that have been chopped, 2 to 3 tablespoons (30 to 45 g) of chopped fresh dill, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of cayenne pepper sauce, and the zest from 1 lemon. Combine all of the ingredients until they are thoroughly mixed.If the mixture seems too wet as you’re mixing, you can add a little more cracker meal.
You can add other vegetables and seasonings, such as minced onions, chopped green bell pepper, minced garlic, and chopped fresh parsley, to the cake mixture to suit your tastes.
 When the salmon mixture is well combined, use clean hands to shape it into patties that are approximately 3-inches (7.6 cm) in diameter and 1-inch (2.5 cm) thick. You should be able to make approximately 8 to 10 cakes.If possible, allow the cakes to chill in the refrigerator for about a half hour before cooking to help them firm up.
 Add 1-inch (2.5 cm) of vegetable or canola oil to a large, heavy-bottomed skillet, and turn the burner to medium. Allow the oil to heat for approximately 3 to 5 minutes., Carefully place the salmon cakes in the skillet, making sure that they’re in a single layer. Allow them to cook until they’re browned, which should take approximately 3 to 4 minutes per side.Depending on the size of your skillet and the amount of cakes that you make, you may need to fry them in more than one batch.
Use a wide spatula or fish turner to carefully flip the cakes when it’s time to cook the other side., Once the cakes are browned on both sides, use a spatula to remove them from the pan. Place them on a plate or tray lined with paper towel to drain the excess oil.Before serving the cakes, you may want to squeeze the juice from the lemon that you zested over them to help brighten their flavor.
 Set your oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil, and grease it with oil or a nonstick cooking spray to prevent the cakes from sticking.Be sure that you know how your oven indicates that it’s preheated. It may beep or flash an indicator light to alert you.
 Set the salmon cakes on the greased baking sheet in a single layer. Use a pastry brush to lightly dab each cake with canola, vegetable, or olive oil so they’ll brown nicely as they bake.Instead of a baking sheet, you can use a small muffin tin to bake the salmon cakes. Make sure the tin is lightly greased, and scoop approximately ⅓ cup (78 g) of the salmon mixture into each.
 Place the salmon cakes in the preheated oven, and allow them to bake for 20 to 25 minutes. Halfway through the baking time, flip the cakes over so they brown on both sides.You’ll know the salmon cakes are done when both sides are golden brown.
