 Most phone carriers charge extra for tethering, or include tethering in your data limit. Some plans don't allow tethering at all., Android released WiFi and USB tethering in version 2.2. Bluetooth tethering requires Android 3.0 or later.Your phone model and your laptop operating system must have tethering capabilities as well. This is rarely a problem unless a device is more than a few years old.
Some devices with earlier versions of Android can install an app to enable tethering., WiFi provides a fast connection, and can support up to ten devices. However, it drains battery very quickly. Here's how to set it up:Open Settings on your Android phone. Under the Wireless section, tap More → Tethering & portable hotspot.
Turn on "Portable WiFi hotspot."
A hotspot notification should appear. Tap this notification and select "Set up Wi-Fi hotspot." Enter a password using ASCII characters only. (Optionally, enter a network name as well.)
On your laptop, turn on WiFi and select your phone's network. Enter the password you chose.
 A USB cable provides the fastest connection speed. However, USB tethering is (officially) only available on Windows. Just connect the two devices with a USB cable, then enable tethering on your phone with Settings → More → Tethering & portable hotspot → USB tethering.Windows XP users must download a configuration file first, following the instructions on this Google Support page.
Mac users can install third-party drivers on their laptop to enable USB tethering. These are not vetted by Google or Apple. Only install from trustworthy sources.
 Bluetooth is a slower wireless option, but puts less strain on the phone battery.Use it to create an internet connection for one device, as follows:Turn on Bluetooth under your phone Settings.

Turn on Bluetooth on your laptop. Do this from System Preferences on a Mac; from the "action center" → "Connect" option on the Windows 10 taskbar; or by searching for "Bluetooth" in the Search Bar on earlier versions of Windows.
On your phone, select the laptop under Available devices. (If you don't see it, press "Search for devices" or touch the menu icon and tap "Refresh.")
Follow instruction to pair the devices. You may need to enter a passcode on one of the devices. (Try 0000 or 1234 if the other device doesn't display a code.)
On your phone, go to Settings → More → Tethering & portable hotspot → Bluetooth tethering.

