 Bullying may include social alienation, physical force (such as hitting, punching, kicking, or throwing), verbal aggression (such as yelling, name-calling, taunting), or intimidation. A bully may make threats, spread gossip or rumors, or make racial slurs.These actions may occur in person, through social media, texts, or phone calls.
If you’re a parent, your child’s mood may change or they may start acting out. Ask them how things are going and if they’re having any problems with peers.
 A bully’s remarks cannot be interpreted as playful, funny, or silly. The words are meant to harm and likely are said in a mean or angry tone. A bully may do something to make a person feel small while trying to feel big. Bullying is an attack on someone.Unlike teasing, there is nothing affectionate or playful about a bully’s words or actions.
 With teasing, a person who teases should expect to be teased right back. With bullying, however, the bully intends to be the one in control. The bully may have more power among peers than the person being bullied. Also, the bullying may occur as a bid for power, or as a way to show others that they have more power than another.For example, someone with money might make fun of someone who is poor. This is not playful and is done to show a power or status difference.
 A bully is intentional in trying to hurt someone else. Bullying is meant to hurt, not be playful. The bully says something or does something in order to embarrass or humiliate the person. The comments or actions are intended to make someone feel low or bad.A bully may point out something that makes the person different. For example, a bully may say something about a disability, stutter, or difficulty with a school subject.
 A bully may continue to pick on someone, even after they’ve shown that they want it to stop. If someone says that they want the bullying to stop, the bully may enjoy taunting the person or make fun of them feeling embarrassed. Bullying may happen every day on the bus, after school, or during classes.With teasing, a person will often stop if asked. A bully, however, may continue the bullying well after someone has told them to stop.

