 Maybe D.W. is public enemy number 1. Maybe his new companion has infinite knowledge of the universe. Make sure that you can hint at the disaster and create suspense. For example, my doctor discovers a massive surge of time energy creating 'mutations in the space-time continuum'.;
, It needs to introduce something new, maybe a new doctor or companion, or a new alien. It needs to either: Set up the story arc or... Drop a hint. I did a 2-parter where the doctor finds 12 large red spheres in 12 different locations around the world. The hint is a startling realization that the spheres' origin does not exist.
 The future does not have to contain massive space battles or destroyed planets. It could easily be an Atraxi prison with no prisoners (my idea). The past doesn't have to be a special moment, it could only be some African-Americans fighting an other-worldly creature (mine also). Tip: if you did a 2-part story for the first episode, do a short story for the present story. The future would not have to contain hints, but I suggest dropping a few in the next 2 or 3.
 The main episode of your series should be the 7th one! It should show you what the Tardis team is up against, and really give some spoilers. Don't unnecessarily give away previews though. Say what you need to and nothing more. I did one with micro-robots that can turn into any material, and imitate any object.
 Anything. It could be a 2 part story. It should set some side stories about the ending, and also endanger a lot of people. Not the entire world, but a group of people.
 New monsters, new setting, maybe a new cast if you can manage. No big story setups, just fill the gaps, fun-time episodes.
 Don't mention anything about the story arc AT ALL.
 A two-parter or a simple extravaganza? Either way, 12 should have the return of the classic monsters, and 13 should be EPIC! Build a story wall, knock it down to create suspense and awesomeness, and build it up again with some elaborate touches. The audience must understand every question and know what happened without a doubt.
 Good names are: 'The white house globe'. 'The angels circle'. Name them according to what they contain and the style of storytelling used.

