 Anxiety and depression can either come out of the blue or be a result of a traumatic event. Do you have anxiety and depression in your family? If so, this could be genetic. Have you had any traumatic events happen to you before you started feeling down? Examples are deaths of people close to you, abusive relationships, or other negative life-changing events.;
, A psychological therapist can help you figure out what exactly is causing your problems and they can provide you advice to fix them. Therapy can be beneficial if you want it. Other than therapy, you may also need to talk to your doctor about medications. Medicine can only help to some extent but it can make a big difference by balancing the chemicals in your brain to help your mood shift up and clear your head so you can think better thoughts.
 It can be very hard, but some of your friends can be making your anxiety and depression worse so you may want to stop seeing them, or if you are in a relationship, you may want to end it if it is affecting you in a negative way. Relationships are a bad idea when you are in a bad state of mind; first love yourself, then you can love someone else. Take time to be alone and fix yourself, not other people.
 By this, if you're upset, just don't make any decisions right now.


Take time to make yourself feel good. Maybe you feel overwhelmed.
Take a mental health day, or even better go on vacation.
Go out to a spa and make yourself feel refreshed. Anything that helps clear your mind is great for you right now.
 Please, before you hurt yourself or others, call someone. Even 911 if necessary.
 What makes you feel depressed? What makes you feel anxious? If certain things increase your depression and anxiety, it's time to get rid of them or fix them. I personally knew a girl who was depressed because her boyfriend committed suicide. She kept listening to sad love songs about death and abandonment. One day she realized it only kept her stuck in the past and sad. So, she listened to the songs that made her laugh about the good times she had with her boyfriend. Therefore, it helped her move on by letting go of the past instead of reminding herself of it.
 If you like musical instruments, why not take music lessons? If you like sports, join a sport team. Do whatever it is that helps you express who you are individually. This will help you feel more confident and happy about yourself and your life.

