 Talk to your parents and physical education coaches at school, perhaps even your doctor, to determine what type of diet is the best for your metabolism and physical needs. For the most part, healthy eating means eating lean protein, fruits, vegetables, and whole grains with limited sugars and fats.


If you have any known medical conditions, speak to your doctor before beginning a fitness routine. If you ever suspect something is wrong, such as having symptoms like a racing heartbeat even when sitting down, see a doctor as soon as you can., Make a list with your parents of foods that you need to eat to stay on target with becoming fit. If these foods are different from what they usually bring home from the grocery store, ask your mom or dad to start getting them. You may even want to ask for a weekly food budget so that you can purchase these foods yourself.


For example, if your family eats a lot of deep-fried foods, you may want to switch to steaming, sautéing, and eating more fresh veggies. Fresh veggies may be a new thing for your family, so you should communicate your desire to have more of them on hand at home.
You may want to learn how to cook for yourself if your family does not cook the way that you know you should.
Just remember to eat the foods and veggies you ask your parents to buy. Be involved in the preparation so you are not asking someone else to do the work for you. If fresh foods go to waste, your parents will not be as happy about getting special foods for you.
 Don't get caught up in dieting, calorie counting, or portion control. You are a growing girl and indulging in sweet treats once in a while is a normal part of your teenage years. Adopt a mindset of "all things in moderation" and change your approach to food in moderation as well.


If you think you have a problem with food, whether eating too little or too much, or obsessing over food, talk to someone. Tell a parent, a coach, a guidance counselor, or another trusted adult. In fact, sharing your fitness goals and the changes you have made with a trustworthy adult is a good way to stay healthy because they may be able to detect any unhealthy goals or changes before you do.

