 If your dog gets lost and picked up by your city or county’s Animal Control personnel, they are typically allowed to stay in the shelter for longer. The shelter can also use the dog’s licensing information to find you and reunite you with Fido. , If you’ve just gotten a puppy, you have to get him or her licensed before they turn 3 months old. If you’ve gotten a new dog, you have to license him or her within 30 days. If you’ve just moved to Pennsylvania or moved to a new county, you have 30 days to get your dog licensed.The law is a little different in Philadelphia. There, you can wait until your puppy is 4 months old.
 Unless you buy the lifetime license, you must re-register your dog every year before January 1. (The penalty for not doing so is up to $300 plus court costs!) It’s not a difficult process, but it’s easy to forget to do it, so make sure you have a way to remind yourself every year.


If you use Google Calendar or some other online scheduling system, consider setting yourself a recurring reminder for early December. Then set a second one for mid-December in case you missed the first reminder.
 If you’ve adopted a dog from someone else, there is no way to transfer the original owner’s license. You will need to order a new license and provide your own information. , This department houses the Bureau of Dog Law Enforcement, which is responsible for everything from dog licenses to overseeing the welfare of dogs and puppies in breeding facilities and kennels. If you live anywhere other than Philadelphia, this is your resource for dog licenses. A simple Google search for “Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture” will bring up the website. The department is also on Facebook and Twitter. , Some of them have websites where you can fill out a form to get the license, but in many cases you’ll have to call or email.If you do not have Internet access, contact the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture to find the nearest local County Treasurer's office at 717-787-4737.
Some counties provide you with the option to download a copy of the application to mail to your County Treasurer office.
 If you get an annual license, you will have to renew it every year before January 1. Annual licenses may be a cheaper option if your dog is older or if you are planning on selling or giving away your dog soon. Otherwise, a lifetime license will probably be both more convenient and more cost effective in the long run.
 With the exception of Philadelphia, dog licenses are $8.50 for an annual license and $51.50 for a lifetime license. If your dog is spayed or neutered, the annual fee is $6.50, and the lifetime license is $31.50.


Some counties may offer you a discount on dog licenses if you are aged 65 years or older; however, you must provide proof of age to the County Treasurer to receive the discount.
 Most will require your full name and address, the application will require information about your dog; including their sex, breed, color, age, and whether or not they have been spayed or neutered.The information requested on the application may vary depending on the county you live in. Some counties may request your dog's weight, vaccination information, and microchip identification number, if applicable. If your dog is spayed or neutered, you may have to provide proof in the form of written verification provided by a licensed veterinarian. Some counties may also require you to provide a copy of your dog's rabies vaccination certificate., Mail your application and fees to the County Treasurer address listed on your dog license application, or return it in person to your local County Treasurer's office.If your county provides you with the option to obtain a dog license over the Internet, you may be required to pay an additional convenience fee. Be ready with a credit or debit card.
 In most cases, the county treasurer will send you a license within 10 business days, but this time frame may vary depending on the county you reside in. Be sure your dog wears the tag at all times so that they can be identified if they get lost. , If you chose the annual option, you must renew your dog’s license every year before January 1, or you could face fines. Be ready to renew in early December so that your dog is all set by the new year.
 Philadelphia’s requirements are slightly different from other counties. You must visit the Animal Care and Control Team of Philadelphia (ACCT Philly) website to obtain a dog license if you and your dog will reside in Philadelphia.


You can also visit one of ACCT Philly’s license retailers if you want to get the license in person. Their locations are available online. , Licenses for spayed or neutered dogs in Philadelphia County will cost 16 dollars; whereas licenses for dogs that are not spayed or neutered will cost 40 dollars. If you are a senior citizen (65 or older), there is a 50% discount. Service dog licenses are free in Philadelphia, but you still have to apply. There will be a $2 fee if you pay online.
 In Philadelphia, your dog must have a current rabies vaccination. Though the city doesn’t require proof of the vaccination, they do request it. You can get a vaccine certificate from your vet. You’ll need proof from your vet if your dog is spayed or neutered. Note that this will significantly reduce your cost in this particular location.
 There is currently no lifetime license for dogs in Philadelphia, so you must reapply for the license every year. Prior to July 1, 2011, owners could obtain a permanent license for their dog. If this was the case for you, that license will be valid for your pup’s entire life, so you don’t need to worry about getting them a new license every year.