 Computer games are similar to music and movies, they divide into genres. The different types of genres can be strategy, action, shooter, puzzle solving, turn based, sports, or a role playing game. There are other genres that are not mentioned here.;
, What kind of individual would you consider yourself to be. Do you like to think a lot, are you the type to not want to think too much. Asking yourself questions may help you solve the question of which genre to step into.
 Once you have decided you are the type that likes to think a lot, you should consider strategy and puzzle solving games. If you consider yourself to be the type to not want to think too much, consider action or sports. These genres allow your mind to engage the computer. It is usually important to figure out if you want to take your time thinking things through or you just want to run through and have fun.
 The genre strategy can be anywhere from battle warfare to building a civilization. This involves thinking but not too much puzzle solving. In battle warfare, missions are usually given to the player and the orders have to be carried out to win. It is usually up to you being the player to decide what strategy to engage first.
 This genre is more intricate and thinking is more involved in these types of games. Puzzle solving is usually written on the back of the box for the game to let the player know they will have to think in order to pass certain levels. The missions will need to be thought out, you can't simply run through and expect to pass the levels. This type of genre wants you to use your head.
 A shooter is a genre where you are put in a 1st person dimension. All you see is your weapon of choice and the landscape. It's fun because you don't use that much brainpower, you just use firepower. You sneak, run, walk around destroying the computer enemy.
 The action genre is usually along the same lines as a shooter, you just don't have a 1st person dimension. It can be 2nd or 3rd person dimension on the screen as you see your character down below moving around. Sometimes you see your character up close from behind as you move him or her along. Typically problem solving is minimal depending if the game states it will require a lot of thinking to pass the missions.
 A role playing game is called an RPG in the gaming world. This means that you are usually responsible for the characters every move. You are given a specific character and you decide what to do from start to finish. Obviously there is an interesting story involved. The player being you gets to decide what items to buy, which land to visit, which enemy to attack and etc.
 If you are a busy person and constantly is on the move and never home. You should consider a game that does not consume too much of your time. There are several genres that will fulfill your tastes and will not consume too much of your time.
 A sports game is especially fun if you are a fan of a particular sport. If you love basketball, then you should consider a basketball game. If you like watching wrestling or cage fighting on the television, consider a wrestling or cage fighting PC game. Any particular computer sports game will in most cases have a PC game for it.

