 Everyone makes mistakes. The problem with this is that lip gloss is intended to bring out the features of your lips, making them look vibrant and plump.Mistakes you make with your lip gloss application can be fairly obvious, so including your gloss, you should make sure you have:


Facial tissue
Lip gloss
Lip liner (for greater contrast/pop)
Lip moisturizer (petroleum jelly, lip balm, etc.)
Lip pencil
Lipstick (optional)
Mirror or compact
Q-tips/cotton swabs;
, Exfoliation is a process where the outer, dead layer of your skin is removed to give it a fresh look. Rough, cracked, or chapped lips can look less than appealing when you apply your lip gloss. To do this simply you can:


Buy a lip scrub from a local cosmetics store or the cosmetics section of your local drug store.

Make your own lip scrub.
Apply a small amount of petroleum jelly to your lips and then gently scrub with a soft bristle toothbrush., Exfoliation can leave your lips feeling irritated. You should apply a moisturizer, like petroleum jelly or lip balm, to soothe any discomfort you feel. Applying lip gloss to dry, un-moisturized lips can cause the color to cling to dry patches, making your lip gloss look uneven.
 You'll want something that matches your skin tone, but you should also consider about other makeup you will be wearing.If you have several shades available, you should pick a best option and one or two backup colors.


This way, when you apply your lip gloss, if it doesn't work with the rest of your makeup, you can wipe it off before it's too late and use a different shade.
Generally, the following skin tones match with the following shades of gloss:Fair-skinned - light shades, pink, and beigeMedium-toned - rose, mauve, and berryDark-skinned - plum, chocolate, and red, If you're trying to add some edge to your look, you might try using darker, sensual colors, like deep reds. A more innocent look might be achieved with lighter, gentler shades, like pinks and skin tones. Playful color, like oranges, blues, and metallic tones, might be perfect for a fun day out with friends.
 There are three main ways of applying lip gloss, and you can determine the application with a quick look at the lip gloss you plan on using. Take off the cap, and:


If you notice there's a dip-stick with a wand-type applicator on the end, you are using liquid lip gloss. This type can be applied best by dipping the stick in and drag/rubbing it along your lips.If there is a solid stick-type applicator, it's a roll-on variety of lip gloss. For best application, rub on the lip gloss gently in circular motions.
Tube lip gloss should be squeezed out a little bit at a time onto your finger, lip brush, or sponge applicator, then spread gently onto your lips.
 Lip gloss can be a difficult customer, and the last thing you want is for a sticky, clumpy application of gloss to overpower your look. By finishing all of your other makeup beforehand, you'll be able to clearly see if less is more, or if a heavier application is better after all.
 By applying a small amount of petroleum jelly or lip balm to your lips evenly, you can extend the life of your lip gloss. Simply take your finger or an applicator and rub a small amount on your lips, removing any unnecessarily thick or clumpy parts with tissue or Q-tips.
 To make this look appear natural, you'll have to gently blend in the lip pencil when applying your lip gloss.


To bring out your mouth shape with a lip pencil, trace your pencil from the middle part of your top lip and follow its border until you reach the corner. Repeat this for both sides for both top and bottom lip.
 Lipstick can be given extra pop with a clear lip gloss. This kind of application has the added benefit of protecting your lipstick from coming off. If you are afraid of your lipstick smearing or rubbing off, lip gloss is a great option!


You can also blend different colors of lipstick and gloss. You'll likely want to stick with similar shades, but you never know the effect you might end up with.
 Likely you'll have some kind of applicator, be it a wand, roll-on tube, or sponge. Administer your lip gloss onto its applicator, and then, while looking in a wall mirror or compact, put the gloss on the part of your lip that protrudes the most from your face. For most this is the middle of the bottom lip. Then:


Spread your lip gloss lightly toward the edges of the same lip.
Press your bottom and top lips together to spread the gloss from one lip to the other.
Observe the cleanness of your application and use Q-tips and tissues to correct any mistakes.
