 For many adults, issues of being treated like a kid start in the home. It's not easy to remind your parents, siblings, and other family members that you are no longer a child. If your family makes you feel like you're still a kid, ask to talk to them about your concerns. Discuss the issue in private, and ask your family members to take the problem seriously.


Say something like, "I'm 30 years old. I have a steady job, and I maintain my own home. It really hurts my feelings when you treat me like I'm a child."
If you've talked to your family in the past and they repeat their belittling behavior, remind them respectfully by saying something like, "That is one of the hurtful comments I mentioned last time I was here."
In some cases, convincing your family to treat you like an adult may be a losing battle, at any age. Continue to act like an adult, and hopefully, they'll come around.Often, it will take a series of repeated gentle conversations to get the point across. Try to redirect the conversation when it happens. Do not expect the issue to be fixed overnight.
 If you're being treated like a child in the workplace, you need to address the issue right away. This lack of respect may not seem like a problem at first, but you're much more likely to be overlooked when it comes time for promotions, leading a big project, or other responsibilities if coworkers see you as just a child. This is especially true if you allow them to treat you this way.


If a coworker is calling you a child or treating you like a child, ask to talk to them. Say something like, "I've worked really hard to get where I am, and I don't appreciate it when you call me a child. What can I do to improve your view of me?
If a supervisor or boss is treating you like a child. Start by requesting a meeting. Ask your boss, "Why do you call me a child? Is there something I can do to change your view of me?"
It's important for your supervisors to treat you like an adult, so if they are unable or unwilling to work with you, you may need to reach out to human resources or your boss' boss., As an adult, one of the easiest ways to show others your maturity is to consider the big picture when making choices. As an example, if you want to change jobs, take the time to consider the long term ramifications of your actions. Don't just quit your current job and hope a new one works out. Additionally, think through how your choice to change jobs will effect your family, your coworkers, and your business.