 Most likely, you will have a free spot open in your letter slots; however, if you don’t, you will need to discard a letter in order to make a free spot. You cannot initiate the quiz with Gracie unless you have a spot open.


To discard a letter, click on it, and then choose “Discard” by pressing “A” over that option.
You need an available letter slot because if you successfully complete a quiz, Gracie will send you a certificate via mail. If there is no room in your letter slots to accept the mail, then she will not even give you the option of taking the quiz (she will also say something along the lines that indicates this).;
, Gracie will visit your town randomly in Animal Crossing, so you will have to check to see if she’s there. If she is in town, she will appear in front of the Town Hall where her car is parked.


Talk to her by pressing “A.”

, There are no prerequisites to engaging in the quiz other than having an open letter slot. So even if this is your very first time encountering Gracie, she should ask you if you want a Fashionista Badge. Choose “You know it!” in order to start a quiz.


If you want to know a bit more about Gracie’s fashion mission to help prepare yourself for the quiz, select “Uhhh…...what?” which prompts Gracie to tell you a little bit about the fashionista check.
 The questions and answer set are always completely randomized. Her response provides the key components she’ll be looking for:


“These brave, immaculately dressed warriors must display exceptional style…and be masters of the accessorizing arts. Oh, and darling, they have GOT to answer one question about true style.”
Gracie’s response indicates that you must wear an outfit that incorporates accessories and matches well within one style, and you have to answer the question to her quiz.
 If you are successful, you will receive the Fashionista Badge in one of your letter slots, and you’ll be able to give Gracie bells on future visits in exchange for potentially rare Gracie items!

, Many players report this as being the most successful method. There is no solid reasoning behind this method other than the apparent results.
 Gracie is a snobbish/snooty giraffe. You can tell by conversation with her that she dislikes small towns and things she perceives to be associated with them. Instead, she likes extravagant and glamorous things.
 The outcome may not be entirely dependent on your answers; as noted above, Gracie is also looking at your outfit, so this theory supports that there is a hidden overall score comprised of both how Gracie values your outfit and how well you answer the questions that determines whether or not you get the Fashionista badge.


To impress Gracie, follow her standards of wearing only clothes that match (i.e., do not wear clothes of different styles at the same time) and by properly accessorizing and incorporating hat or glasses or other items into your outfit.
 Remember, her questions are random; there are no set questions that have set answers. The first two ideas on how to succeed at Gracie’s fashion check often contradict each other, and they often both work. Though results could be random, don’t forget to have fun with the game.


As an example of the randomness, a player uploaded a video to youtube of his interaction with Gracie’s quiz. He does not choose the first answer to every question, yet he does receive the Fashionista Badge, thus directly contradicting the mandate to answer every question with the first choice.
However, other players could encounter the same set of questions, answer all of them with the first choice, and potentially still get the Fashionista Badge.

