 This is either a list of chores you either find yourself procrastinating about or just never have time for, that do not require a lot of preparation to begin. When you have time to kill, you just might have the motivation to do them. Here are some examples:



Balance your checkbook. If you are waiting for an appointment and your checkbook is handy, you may be able to pull it out and take a look at the check register, totaling up the deposits and debits, and making sure the entries are up to date.
Update your daily planner. Many of these are on PDAs or other electronic devices, and old entries can be deleted to free up space from time to time.
Clean out your cell phone's messages and old contacts. If you have a cell phone with a bunch of old contact information, or that stores a lot of recent calls, missed calls, and voice and text messages, this might be a good time to clear all of the useless stuff out.
Organize your purse or wallet. Be careful that no one is observing you if you have a lot of cash or personal stuff that is pulled out; however, if there are few people around you, you may sort your credit cards, business cards, and other stuff to make things a bit easier to find when you need them.
 This probably should've been first on this page as it's one of the best ideas -- meditating can calm and relax you like nothing else. If you've never done it before, give it a shot! It only takes ten minutes of practically doing nothing.


It is, however, something you'll get better at over time. Don't expect to reach nirvana the first time you try it right before your dentist appointment. Getting adequately zenned is a skill that comes with practice.
 Whether it's homework or cooking dinner, there's probably some activity that you need to get done eventually. How about that old friend that emailed you two months ago you've completely forgotten about? It's either that or laundry!


If you can't think of anything, you're probably not thinking hard enough. Most people have something they can clean, organize, make, submit, research, or finalize. Think ahead -- what will you need done next week?

, Oops, already did that. But you could change this one!

