 Make sure that you are good enough friends with this guy that it won't sound like a date. If you just started hanging out with this guy for a couple weeks, it will probably sound like a date to him. If you've been friends for a couple years, then it shouldn't be a problem. If your friend isn't single (or if you aren't single), make sure your boyfriend and his girlfriend know that it's platonic.;
, Don't just outta the blue ask your friend to go with you in an hour. Call him when you know he will be home or will answer the phone and ask him at least 2 or 3 days in advance. If you know he can't go with you, then don't ask! When you call have an idea of what you want to do. Don't plan the whole thing without him though, make sure you ask him what times, etc. would be good for him.
 Keeping plans with a guy can be hard sometimes, but you have to be flexible. In your mind, have two back up plans just in case. And remember that this is not a date, so if he cancels on you --- don't get too bent out of shape! Be open to the idea of other people coming with you. Don't plan a double date or try to even out the playing field. If two of his friends end up coming and you are the only girl, don't make it seem like a big deal. You're friends so you should feel comfortable around them and not need to even the playing field.
 It's not a date, so don't expect him to pick up the tab! Even so, you were the one who asked him out. On a date, the one who asks pays, so expecting him to pay wouldn't be fair anyway. Since this is not a date though you should each pay your own way, or make an agreement beforehand.
 Was your best friend busy and he was the only one around? Have you all not seen each other in awhile? Does he owe you? Just make sure he knows it's not a date.
 Show him that you do not devote all your time to him. Don't be rude, but since it's not a date, you don't have to call him and thank him. You don't have to email him either. Next time you see him say, "Yea thanks, that was a lot of fun!" or something else that you would tell to a friend. Do not say, "We should do it again sometime!" That is a line that may give the wrong message. Since you are friends, you probably will hang out again, but you don't need to tell him this.
 A relationship isn't necessarily sexual, passionate,or romantic. Don't spend too much time with your friend, and don't go out with him too often. Spend equal amounts of time with all your friends! Avoid too much contact. You don't have to call, text, email, or IM him all the time. He probably doesn't want to talk to you that much! All things are good in moderation...

