 This is the first thing you’ll have to do in order to make room for your secret space. It will help you see more clearly the space available to you. Once clear, you can weigh the pros and cons of each spot to find the suitable space for your secret place. You’ll better be able to evaluate the perfect spot when you can see the entire space.
Try moving things around in your room if you think you can use an area for your space.;
, Use a window nook, part of your closet, or a spot behind your bed to make your spot. Using an existing spot will save you time and headache.


Don’t overlook corners. It is easy to make a corner into a secret spot. It already has shape without you having to add boundaries.
If it’s big enough, you can even use spots under furniture—like under a desk.
 Just because you don’t have a built in nook near the window or a giant walk in closet with space for your secret spot doesn’t mean you can’t have one. If this is the case, get creative and form one.


Think basic. If you create an elaborate secret spot, it will be too noticeable and soon everyone will be asking questions. Try to use materials already in you room to make your secret spot.
Use a blanket to create a space. Laying a blanket over the back of a chair or off the side of your bed is an easy way to create space. Plus using a blanket in your room is not suspicious to anyone that walks by.
Use pillows to build your secret spot. Support the frame with heavier objects and build small walls by stacking some pillows.
Move existing furniture to create the structure of your secret space. A bookshelf can easily create a wall for your new space and if anyone asks, you can simply tell them you wanted to redecorate. , If you aren’t trying to make a spot to hide away in—rather to hide your things in—make it a small spot.


Reach under your bureau or way behind your clothes in your closet to hide your things. Use a spot that your parents aren’t able to reach.
Create a false bottom to a drawer. Empty your dresser drawer, place your stash at the bottom, and use a piece of cardboard that looks like the bottom of your drawer on top of that. Then re-stack your clothes to hide your secret space.

