 In case you are not sure of the amount that you owe, the IRS has made it easy to check on the outstanding balance.


Individual taxpayers in the United States can call 1-800-829-1040, Monday through Friday, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., local time.
Business taxpayers in the United States can call 1-800-829-4933, Monday through Friday, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., local time.
International callers can reach the International Taxpayer Service Call Center at 267-941-1000, Monday through Friday, from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Eastern time. (This is not a toll free call.);
, The IRS has established a “Fresh Start” program to help taxpayers who are unable to pay their tax obligations in full. An installment agreement is a plan that will allow certain qualifying taxpayers the ability to pay their tax debt over time. In order to qualify, each of the following must be true:you must have an outstanding tax debt of no more than $50,000, including all interest and penalties
you have filed all tax returns, whether or not you have made payments
you must be able to pay your debt over a maximum period of six years.
 To apply for an installment agreement, first visit the IRS.gov website, and then follow the links to “Payments” and “Online Payment Agreement.” Once there, review the list of information that you will need to enter in order to submit an application:name
email address
mailing address from most recent tax return
date of birth
filing status
social security number, spouse’s social security number (if filed jointly) or tax ID number

, Select the button to “Apply as Individual.” On the subsequent screen, you will be prompted to enter your login ID and password.If you have not yet used this service before, you will need to open an account first. This process takes about five to ten minutes and is fully self-explanatory. Follow the directions and create your account, then return to the log in screen.
You will need a cell phone each time you log in to this service. For your security, in addition to having you enter a userid and password, the IRS will send you a text message with a one-time access code. You will need to enter that code to proceed with the log-in process.
 If you wish to enter into an Online Payment Agreement, you begin by determining what you can pay, and how soon you can pay off the debt. You need to consider this step carefully and choose a plan that you will be able to pay.First you will be asked to enter the amount that you owe. You will need to get this from your earlier check on your balance.
Select a payment duration. Your first two options are 60 days or 120 days. If you select one of these options, you will have low interest and penalties added to your tax obligation, and you will have no user fees. The third option, paying monthly over a longer period of time, will have higher interest and penalties, and will require the payment of a user fee of up to $120. However, stretching the amount for up to six years will reduce the amount due each month.
 If you select the 60 day or 120 day option, you will be given a specific date by which your full payment is due. You will also receive a warning that failure to pay by that date may result in tax liens or other legal action.


If you select the monthly payment option, you will be prompted to enter the amount of monthly payment that you can afford to pay, and the date of each month that you will make the payment. You then need to select either a direct debit agreement, which will withdraw payments from your bank account each month, or the installment agreement, which requires you to send in the payment each month.
 Whichever plan you establish, you will be prompted to review the details of the plan and confirm that you will comply. Before confirming, make sure that you will be able to make the payments and meet the due date.If you fail to do comply with the plan you propose, the IRS will have the power to assess additional interest or penalties, or levy tax liens on your property. If you are successful in paying off your debt, then additional interest assessments will be over.

