 All of the weapons in Cave Story have their advantages and disadvantages, each for specific purposes.


The Polar Star is the first gun you will acquire. It is probably the most basic weapon out of the game, and therefore is one of the guns you will be using more often. Like the other weapons, it has three upgrade stages, each increasing damage and range. This weapon is effective against most; if not all enemies in the game. The weapon is semi-automatic meaning you will need to press the shoot button for every shot. However, you should not only use this weapon.
For safely taking out enemies downhill, the Fireball may be a better option. Instead of shooting strait forward, the Fireball's projectiles move along the floor until making contact with a foe or going to far. Upgrades include projectile output number, damage, and range.
For bosses, the rocket launcher reigns supreme nine times out of ten. That other one is against the first version of Balrog in which you don't technically have it. Upgrades effect damage. The only downside of the rocket launcher is its limited ammo, so it's recommended mostly against bosses.
The bubbler is practically useless until its third state, in which it surrounds the player in a bubble dome absorbing attacks. Note when you release the shoot button the bubbles turn into projectiles. This is effective against a flying enemy that shoots at you.;
, How will you know which weapons to use? Taking a look at your environment is crucial. Look at all of your foes, and decide weather or not to go full bore with a rocket launcher stream, or pick them off with Polar Star blasts.
 Jumping is one of the most notable yet irritating things in Cave Story. There is, however, a way to master it. Quote will jump higher the longer you hold the jump button. Tapping it will make him hop. When you let go of the jump button, or Quote reaches his maximum height, he will begin his descent. When you come to a certain point of the game, you can double tap the jump button to use the Booster jetpack.


Note that you can't jump as high when under water.
 This step is, without a doubt, a must-read if you plan on completing the game with a perfect run. If not, continue to the next part. In some parts of the game, you will come across a point in which you will do some decision making. Some decisions dictate the outcome of the game, while others can make changes to your inventory. Here are the steps to the best weapons, and the best outcome:


The first time you are asked yes or no will be by Sue in the chamber of egg no. 00. This decision will not matter if you choose yes or no. You will just get a different reaction out of Sue for one chat line.
The next choice will be Grasstown (or Bushlands if you're on the Wii) when you come across the mysterious shouting in the building. You have to choose yes, or else you will not continue on in the game.
 After you defeat her, she will ask if you are going to slaughter the rest of the Mimiga. Say no, and she will become your ally. She will then offer if she can trade her gun for yours. This choice is entirely up to you, in which you will receive the Machine Gun. It is a limited ammo weapon, but unlike the Rocket Launcher, the ammo will regenerate so long as you have the MG equipped. Leveling it up increases the damage.


On level three, you can shoot downward and it will propel you upward. However, if you decide to keep the Polar Star, you can trade that for an ever better weapon knows as the Spur. This, unfortunately, won't come until later on in the game. Or, you can trade it for the snake, mentioned next.
 When you get to the part of the Labyrinth where you have the enemies who shoot at you, you can go into a shop near the entrance of this part and trade the Polar Star for the Snake. No, it's not a legit snake. Just go to the cockroach thing that is behind the counter. The Snake is like the Polar Star in which its projectiles shoot forward, but the projectiles can go through walls. Upgrades include range and damage.
 The decision you make here is crucial. You will see a brief cut-scene of Professor Booster falling. Do not go and check on him. Instead, save your game before attempting the jump across the gap. This way, if you fall, you can just reload. Note there will be a red spot on the floor where you will jump off of to get to the other side. Do not go to Booster because he will give you the Booster v0.8 jetpack. It sounds cool, but if you wait you will get an even better one later on. Also, this one can dictate a major part of the game for the worst.
 Before you continue to Curly after opening the blast door to the Core, go along the bottom and look for something that is sparkling in the water. It will ask to pick up the Tow Rope. Accept. After you defeat the Core and you "drown" you will be able to use the Tow Rope to carry Curly, and continue your adventures with her.
 When you reach the waterway shack, go to the bed and rest. You will set Curly down. Go to the computer and then the bookshelf. Search the bookshelf and you should learn how to drain flooded robots. Drain Curly. When she falls asleep, do not leave her. You will carry her back into the waterway.



Note that this is the worst ending and will make you look like a coward. Just say yes to Kazuma when he wants you to escape with him.
If you say no, just climb your way up the outer wall. Unless, you want to trade the Blade for the Nemesis. Again, this is your decision. Just jump off the edge, and cut back under the metal to a doorway. Ask the little people if they want to trade, then accept.
 This decision will make a different outcome of the game, but it will be more humorous than anything. Just keep the mimiga mask on in the plantation and fly on the rocket up to the Last Cave rather than talk to Momorin Sakamoto.


Assuming you went to get Ma Pignon, he will try to fake you out with some questioning. Just look at the question carefully and answer accordingly. Examine the "Mushroom Badge" in your inventory and talk to him again, and you will battle him. Win to get the real mushroom badge.
After Curly eats Ma Pignon an tells you everything that happened with you two, talk to her again to get the Iron Bond.
 Unlike the previous ending, this one isn't entirely bad and you get to see the end credits. Just follow Sue all the way after battling the Undead Core. Otherwise, go into the shack you saved your game in before you fought the three bosses. Note that to get out of this situation, you just talk to the bookcase on the left.

