 Water keeps skin and hair hydrated. It also keeps bodies healthy! Drinking too much water will over-hydrate you.;
, "Moisturizing" shampoo is important. Use a shampoo that works for your hair type, and rinse it out well.


When using conditioner, keep it 3–4 inches (7.6–10.2 cm) away from your roots. If you don't your hair may come out looking a little greasy. No matter how long your conditioner bottle says to leave it on, always leave it on for three minutes for added moisture and shine.
 The scalp accumulates dirt, oil and dust which can cause the hair follicles to clog up. Regular washing is also beneficial to keeping that scalp clean and keeping the hair shaft clear.


Using specifically formulated products may also assist in increasing the rate of hair growth by feeding hair with essential proteins, amino acids, and nutrients to encourage long healthy and nice hair.
 It seals the cuticle and locks in moisture/oils, leaving your hair silky and smooth. If you rinse it with hot water that needed moisture and oil wash out, and you will notice that your hair is a lot frizzier, than if you rinse it with cool water.
 It protects your hair from drying out, adds moisture, and helps prevent split ends.
 Your hair isn't as strong when it's wet as it is when it's dry. A brush will snag at your hair when wet, causing breakage and split ends. Finger comb your hair or spray in a detangler and comb it with a wide-tooth comb.
 Vitamins keep our skin, hair, and nails healthy. Also, if you don't already take vitamins and you start taking them daily you may notice that your hair is growing a little faster.
 It makes hair strong and healthy! Although the picture is showing bacon and eggs, plants and especially legumes have plenty of proteins, too. In the long run, this is probably the healthier choice anyway - for you, your hair and the planet.
 Remember that hair grows from the top of your head, not the ends. So if you want your hair to be healthy only cut split ends when you have to. Keep up with cutting only split ends - because if you don't your splits will go higher and higher up your hair and then break. So your hair will be shorter.
 Let your hair grow out as far as you want it to!

, Tip your head forward and between 4-5 minutes a day. Massage the scalp to create more blood flow through your head. Be careful not to put too much pressure on the scalp as it may make you feel dizzy, faint and may give you a headache. This method if used will grow your hair between 2-4 inches per week.