 Many companies offer assistance to employees with student loan debt. See what kinds of programs your employer offers.
 If you are worried that you won’t be able to make payments on your federal or private student loans – or if you are already delinquent or in default – you may want to apply for a consolidation loan. These loans take all of your existing student loans and merge them into a single loan. You can often negotiate a lower monthly payment on this new loan.


If your loans are federal, stick with a federal consolidation loan, which you can apply for through the Department of Education. These are almost always a better deal than private consolidation loans.
You can apply for a federal consolidation loan through Studentloans.gov. There are also plenty of resources to help you understand these types of loans better.
Consolidation can be a useful option if you have multiple separate student loans. It can combine them into one easy payment. It is possible that the combined loan will have a lower interest rate then what you would be paying on each loan separately, and this would lower your payment.Inquire with your loan service provider about whether this option can have an interest-lowering effect for your particular situation.
 If you truly cannot afford to make payments, you may qualify for a financial hardship deferment from the Department of Education for a maximum of three years. You will have to prove that you are unemployed, underemployed, or otherwise experiencing tremendous financial difficulties, but if you do so, you will be able to stop making payments temporarily – though interest will continue to accrue on any of your unsubsidized loans. You may also qualify for deferment if:you go back to school.
you serve in the Peace Corps.
you serve in the military.
you are admitted to a full-time rehabilitation program for people with disabilities.
 Forbearance is like deferment – you’ll get to stop making your payments temporarily. However, with forbearance, interest will continue to accrue on all of your loans, whether subsidized or unsubsidized. You may qualify for forbearance if:you enroll in a full-time medical or dental internship.
you are currently teaching in a school that qualifies for the teacher loan forgiveness program.
you serve in AmeriCorps or another volunteer organization full time.
your lowest possible student loan payment is more than 20% of your monthly income.
Forbearance is typically consider for people who do not qualify for deferment, but still cannot make their payments. If you suffer from an illness, or a period of financial hardship, you may qualify for forbearance.
You can apply by contacting your loan service provider. They will likely require financial, medical, or other types of documentation.
 The Department of Education may forgive some part of your student loan debt if you teach or provide public service in specific circumstances. You may qualify if you:


teach for five consecutive years in a school that qualifies for Title I funding under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
work and/or volunteer for ten years in tax-exempt organizations.
serve in the U.S. military.

