 Find a comfortable seat. Sit with your back straight. As you close your eyes, visualize the sacral chakra. This will appear like an orange lotus that is spinning in your pelvic area with light rippling out of it. Let the light spread throughout your body. Maintain this visualization for twenty to thirty minutes.As you meditate, you can use the mantra “ohm” to help you focus and clear your chakra.Make sure to breathe deeply during your meditation.;
, The healing stones for your second chakra include orange stones such as citrine, carnelian, and orange calcite. Lay down. Place the healing stone on top of your sacral chakra just below your navel.You may want to clear all of your chakras at once, starting with your crown chakra and moving down through your body. Leave the stones on your body until you feel your chakras clearing.
You can also swing a pendulum made from the healing stone. Hold the pendulum about six inches away from your pelvic area, and let it spin. Once it stops spinning, you may want to wait five minutes to let your energy settle., Some believe that the sacral chakra operates your pleasure center and helps you have a healthy sex life. A healthy sex life is one in which both you and your partner are mutually receiving pleasure, affirmation, and intimacy from the encounter.Whether you are abstaining from sex or are sexually active, make sure that you are happy with your situation. If you are unhappy with your sex life, consider what you can do to change it.
Try to release any attachments, grudges, bitterness, or sadness about past relationships so that you can effectively focus on your present relationships.
Becoming comfortable with your body is important to a healthy sex life. Learn to love your body and all of its assets. Try not to hide or be ashamed of it in front of your partner.
 Sweet and juicy fruits, particularly those of an orange color, may be helpful to keep your second chakra open. Try eating fruits such as oranges, cantaloupes, or coconuts. Make sure to drink plenty of water as well during this time., The second chakra is thought to operate your creative powers. To help awaken it, try to engage in creative or artistic activities. If you feel as though you do not have any creative ability, remind yourself that skill is not important. Rather, focus on the expression of your inner being. You might try to:


Paint or draw
Write a poem
Sing a song
Play an instrument

