 Toy blocks and other construction toys help with creativity, and sharpen crucial skills like motor and spatial skills. The purpose of a block is to build and create something larger than the block itself and is a great metaphor for life as a whole. Give your child a set of blocks and play with them, watching and helping as they create various structures.Try to find blocks of all different colors, shapes and sizes.
Don’t make assumptions. Instead of saying “Are you building a house?” say “What are you making?”
Begin incorporating blocks at around the age that your child can sit up and hold things alone, perhaps around 9 months of age.;
, Though you should play with your toddler often, you should still allow them to do so on their own most of the time. As the adult, you might tend to take over or direct their play more than you might realize, which can stifle their creativity since they will rely on you for directives. Instead, set time where they can play on their own terms apart from you.This could be while you are cooking or cleaning or enjoying some time to yourself.
Keep them safe, however. Childproof your home to give yourself peace of mind while they are playing alone. Check on them every few minutes or allow them to play in the room that you are in.
 Though you should not always manage their play, you can give them certain ideas to help spark their own creativity. Encourage your child to ‘pretend play’ by assigning them a role like “doctor” and you serving as the “patient” or by allowing them to choose the scenario. This will allow them expand their imagination by imagining themselves to be a different person.This is a also a good way to encourage cooperative play and help develop social skills.


They can pretend play with their siblings or friends, as well.
Allow them to use props for the pretending like costumes, pots, blocks, etc.
 Though playing indoors can be fun, there is a whole world outside that will offer them far more to explore. Allow them to go outside for at least 30 minutes daily when the weather is nice. You can even take them for a walk in the neighborhood., Though it is nice for your toddler to play with you or to play alone, playing with other children their age can really help to spark their imagination. They will also learn to develop interpersonal and conflict resolution skills, as well. Contact your friends who have children around the same age or other parents at the daycare/school your child attends.You might say “Hey, I was wondering if you wanted to let Isaiah come over on Saturday for a couple of hours to play with Frederick?”
You can also schedule playdates online through Meetup groups and by registering for local community toddler activity classes.
 In addition to blocks, there are several others toys that you can get for your child to spark their imagination including:


Art kits
Dress up clothes
Small instruments
A magnifying glass
Clay or Play Doh
Legos

, Another way to spark your child’s imagination is by reading stories to them. These stories allow your child to think about a reality beyond their own and also to visualize the story as you read it. Encouraging a love for reading at a young age can help to foster a lifelong development of imagination and creativity. Choose stories that they can relate to as well as those very different or out of the ordinary.Allow them to select the book every other night.
Tell them stories. You can even try trading off lines or allowing them to fill in the blank. For instance say “Once upon a time there was a beautiful girl named ___ who lived in a ___.”

, Teach them to think outside of the box by using everyday items to create something new and unexpected. Use chair cushions and blankets to make a fort. Use pots and pans to make music. Doing so will encourage them to employ similar inventive ideas., In order to encourage your child to explore, you must model that for them. Try new foods as a family, go to a new park, or try a different route going home from their school. Foster a culture of exploration in them at a young age and they will develop an inquisitive personality and imaginative brain.Make sure to maintain a regular structure so that they can integrate the new experiences. Too much inconsistency and newness can be disorienting and unhealthy for a toddler.
 Though technology can be helpful at times in fostering imagination, it can also take up too much mental space and prevent you from thinking creatively. Limit and monitor the amount of TV your child is watching and avoid providing them with games on a tablet.Letting your toddler play with others and physical objects has been proven to be better for development.Allow electronic use for a maximum of two hours per day.
Model good behavior by limiting your own cellphone and TV use while they are awake.
 To encourage your toddler’s imagination, step outside of always being the “serious adult.” Wear a tiara while you do chores to make your toddler laugh. Get into character during random moments like dinner time. Use a different voice sometimes. This will teach your child about how flexible their own personality is., Children with imaginary friends tend to be better at tasks that involve imagining how someone else might think and also tend to engage more with peers socially.If your toddler should have an imaginary friend, don’t shun or discourage them. Instead, accept this and allow them to explore their imagination fully.Imaginary friends are seen most often in only children.
 When you are selecting a daycare or preschool for your child, be as peculiar as possible. Many schools offer art classes or even teach a second language, so you should try to choose programs like this to foster your child’s creative mind.Read reviews online or talk to your friends who have older children about what they did.
 At an early age, expose your child to different cultures and experiences. Take them to museums and art galleries. Take them to festivals in your area. Learn about other cultures and encourage your child to do the same.Expose them to different activities, such as music and dance. The more they experience, the more you can see which activities pique their curiosity and interest to pursue further.


Look in your local newspaper or on social media to find upcoming cultural events that are kid-friendly.
 Though it is important to teach your child about proper dress, you should give your child some choice in what they put on their bodies. Doing so reinforces the idea that their opinion matters and can be used to shift how they look and what they do, which encourages imagination. If they want to wear an outfit that is a bit strange or mismatched, allow them to do so every so often.Allow them to dress as they like while at home, as well.

