 The small bottle will make it easy to carry around in your pocket or purse. The nasal spray should loosen up the nasal secretions blocking up your nose. Blow your nose after using the nasal spray to remove the blockage.


Lean forward and angle the spray nozzle into the nostril, toward the ear.Spray one or two squirts into each nostril. Use your left hand for your right nostril, and your right hand for your left nostril.
Sniff gently to keep the saline solution from dripping right out of your nose. Make sure not to snort it back into your throat, though, as this may cause irritation in your septum.
 Squeeze out about half the air in the bulb and draw up the salt solution into the bulb. Tilt the child's head back slightly and hover the tip of the bulb over one nostril. Drop three to four drops of the solution into each nostril, avoiding touching the inside of the nostril with the tip as best you can (it can be hard to do this with a wiggling baby!). Try to keep the child's head still for two to three minutes while the solution goes to work.
 After that, you can use the rubber-bulb syringe to gently remove secretions from the child's nose. Use a soft tissue to gently wipe away any secretions that remain around the nostrils. Remember to use a new tissue on each nostril, and make sure to wash your hands before and after each treatment.


Tilt the child's head back slightly.
Press on the bulb to remove about 1/4 of the air from it, then gently insert the tip into the nostril. Release the bulb to suction nasal secretions into the rubber-bulb syringe.
Do not insert the tip deep into the child's nose. You're only removing the material in the front part of the nostril.
Try to avoid touching the inside of the nostril, as it could be sensitive and sore during illness.
 Wash the rubber bulb syringe in warm, soapy water immediately after you've finished using it. Suck soapy water in and squeeze it back out several times. Repeat with clean, un-soapy water. Swirl the water around inside the bulb to remove secretions from the walls.
 You don't want to overdo it with the rubber bulb syringe. Your child's nose is already sore and irritated. If you fiddle with it all the time, the child will only feel more pain. At most, suction nasal secretions four times a day.The best times to do this is before feeding or bed, to help your child breathe better while eating and sleeping.
If the child squirms too much, just relax and try again later. Remember to be very gentle!

, The simplest way to improve nasal congestion is to keep your body moisturized. This keeps the discharge thin and fluid, making it easier to blow your nose or drain. The discharge may drain down the back of your throat. While this is unpleasant, it's normal and healthy. Drinking hot tea or chicken soup may be especially helpful in keeping you hydrated.


Drink at least eight to ten 8 oz. glasses of water every day. Drink even more if you have a fever, or if your illness causes vomiting or diarrhea., To prevent the skin of your nose from drying too much, use Vaseline or a hypoallergenic skin lotion or cream. Apply it to a Q-tip and gently spread it around your nostrils as needed. You can also use a humidifier or just place bowls of water throughout the house. The water will evaporate and humidify the air. Rest and relax as much as possible!

, For infants, nasal congestion can be a serious problem. It can cause difficulty with both breathing and feeding. Call your physician within 12-24 hours if the nasal spray does not help.


Call your physician immediately if your infant or young child has nasal congestion along with any fever, cough, trouble breathing, or trouble feeding due to the congestion.

