 Use a dark-colored pen to draw a simple design on a sheet of paper. You can also cut a page out of a coloring book or print a design from the internet.


A black pen would work best, but you can also use another dark color.;
, If you do not have parchment paper, use wax paper instead.If you can't find parchment paper or wax paper, tuck the design into a plastic, zippered bag instead., You may also find it labeled as puffy paint, dimensional paint, or 3D paint. You can typically find it in the fabric paint section of a fabric store or an arts and crafts store. If you have any inner shapes, like spots on a ladybug, trace around the inner shapes too using your outline color.It might be a good idea to make a few practice strokes on a piece of scrap paper first.This will allow you to get a feel for the puff paint and prevent it from gushing out.
Puff paint is not the same as glitter glue. You can, however, use glittery puff paint, if you'd like.
 Make several thick lines, then use the tip of your puff paint bottle to spread them around.Don't skimp on the puff paint; make it as thick as you can. If it is too thin, it will be hard to peel off.Make sure that all of the colors are touching, or your design will fall apart.
 Extra-fine glitter would work best for this, but you can use other types as well. Don't remove the excess glitter just yet.
 It will take at least 48 hours for the paint to dry. You can test smaller pieces after 24 hours.Most puff paint will look darker and slightly more translucent once it dries. Carefully peek under your design. If the puff paint still looks "milky" from behind, it is not ready.


If you added glitter, shake the glitter off after the paint dries., If your piece is very big, peel it off bit by bit so that it doesn't stretch or rip.If the window is stuck and won't come off easily, put it into the freezer for a few hours, then try again., Press the smooth side (the side that was against your template) against a clean window. To really make them glow, press then against a bright, sunny window.

