 Take beauty lightheartedly, aiming for simplicity and health.;
, When done right, it shouldn't take more than half an hour each morning and night.
 If you feel your hair looks drab, research your face shape and a haircut that would bring out your best features (ask your stylist for help). Generally you should aim for hair that is clean, shiny and healthy. You can achieve this by washing as needed and conditioning as often as necessary for your hair type. Also, embrace your natural texture and heat-style as little as you can. There are plenty of wikiHow articles that can help you with that.
 If you drink plenty of water, get plenty of rest and eat healthy, your beautiful skin will shine through. If it still needs some help, get products for your specific problem. A cleanser, toner and moisturizer should solve most of it. A scrub made with sugar drenched in olive oil should wash away blackheads and acne after some uses.
 You can then keep up the brow grooming yourself with tweezers. Keep lashes lush by applying petroleum jelly every night. If you feel strongly about your eye shape, try simple makeup tricks to make yourself look better like a little liner or producing optical illusions with highlighter.
 You can improve the looks of nearly anything with clever makeup tricks like wearing darker blush under the cheekbones to make them more pronounced. Be careful when choosing products for facial use such as foundation or blush, ask for help from professionals (but forgo as many products as you can). Also seek help of you are unsure on how to apply makeup. Nothing looks worse than poorly applied makeup, no matter how bad do you think you'll look without it.
 Then embellish however you like with nail polish or nail art. A weekly manicure done at home is highly recommended, even if you don't paint your nails, just trim and file.
 First and foremost clean out your closet and research what would make your best features stand out, and dress for your body shape. Then write down a couple outfits to wear when you don't have the time or patience to make a nice outfit. Or better, spend about one hour per season writing down many outfits and you're practically set! Make variations of each outfit like: jeans + colored flats + white top + bright cardigan or something like sweater dress + bright tights + black boots. Then accessorize as you like!

