 Satisfy a long distance lover by sending emails every day. Mix the emotions of the emails between being light and humorous to deep and loving so they are always laughing yet still feel that love, intensity, and lust from you.


Including the mundane details of your day is actually important to make the long distance relationship seem more present. It might seem like a boring email to talk about work projects, meal plans, etc., but it can help you and your partner feel more connected to each other's everyday lives.
Just be sure emails are sent to a private, personal email and never through a work or school platform.;
, Since you don't get to see them in person, the second best thing to do is to send them pictures of you. Send them pictures via email and also via text message, or you could even send developed copies via snail mail. Send a variety of pictures. Some should be loving, smiling shots, but don't forget to throw in a few naughty ones as well.


When sending pictures keep in mind of potential consequences of them falling in the wrong hands. Try to minimize this possibility by securing both your phones and preventing others from accessing sensitive content., Use snail mail to your advantage. Don't forget the power of snail mail and the lasting effect of an intimate handwritten letter sprayed with your favorite perfume or aftershave. Fill your letter with all your deepest darkest secrets of what you want to do with them, then give it a spritz of perfume, cologne, aftershave, etc. so that they can inhale your scent while reading. This will intensify their emotions even more.
 Have long conversations on the phone and use dirty talk to keep things fun and satisfying. Tell your partner what you would like to do with them if you were there physically. You can also try out sexting, which is phone sex through text messages. Either way remember check with your partner to make sure phone sex is acceptable to you both, and only say or do what you feel comfortable doing for a safe and enjoyable time.

It can be exciting to tease your partner about a scheduled phone sex date. For instance, try texting in the middle of the day “I can’t wait for tonight” as a form of foreplay.
 Chat on Skype or use a webcam to pleasure yourself and your long-distance lover. Make them feel like you’re in the same room by performing a private dance for your loved one. Skype can be used for a form of “phone sex,” too. Just be sure to follow good practices.For example, ensure that you set your “date” for when you both have privacy and can engage with one another without distraction. Start things off slow by complimenting your significant other and telling them how attractive and alluring they are. Share details about what kind of things you wish could do to them.
If you feel comfortable, you and your partner can undress and watch each other pleasure yourselves for the ultimate experience.

