 Drink more water and other fluids than you normally would. This will help thin mucus and break it up, making coughs more productive. Try to drink a tall glass of water or another fluid every 2 hours. Avoid caffeinated beverages and alcohol, however, because they are diuretics and can cause you to lose more fluids than you consume.You can also increase your fluid intake with broths, soups and teas. In fact, hot liquids help dissolve the mucus.
You can also put a hot water pack over your chest to help loosen mucus., Chicken noodle soup helps reduce lung inflammation. It also increases your body’s ability to move mucus through your body and get rid of it.Additionally, chicken noodle soup helps kill viral cells and can prevent the growth of new ones.Scientists aren’t certain why chicken noodle soup does these things. They think that the heat, salt, combination of ingredients found in most chicken soups, and the hydration it provides are the likely reasons., Studies have shown that both honey and lemon decrease the growth of microbes that cause infections. Honey in particular inhibits viruses and has been found to be an effective cough suppressant. Try mixing a teaspoon of both lemon juice and honey to hot water.Green tea appears to be effective in helping treat respiratory infections that are the prime culprit in chest congestion. It also has been shown to inhibit viral activity.While not scientifically proven yet, many find relief from adding thyme, marshmallow, licorice, ginger, cinnamon and clove to hot water to help loosen mucus.
To make a thyme tea, add 2 tablespoons of fresh thyme or 1 tablespoon of dried thyme to a cup of hot water, let it steep and then drain the thyme.
For a marshmallow tea, steep 2 teaspoons of the dried herb in one cup of hot water.
Brew a licorice tea by adding 45 drops of licorice tincture to a cup of hot water.
For a spicy tea, add a ½ teaspoon powdered ginger, a pinch of clove and a pinch of cinnamon powder to a cup of hot water., Because chest congestion is so often caused by allergies and other nasal congestion issues, consider cutting out or limiting dairy in your diet – particularly if you're allergic or sensitive to it. While the research is mixed on whether the casein in dairy products promotes mucus, it should be noted that casein is used to create adhesives, and some people think it makes mucus thicker.