 It's important that you go to bed and get up at the same time each day, even on weekends or days off, in order to get sound sleep.Having a consistent schedule reinforces your body's sleep-wake cycle (circadian rhythm) and helps promote deeper sleeps during the night. Avoid staying out really late on weekends and sleeping in the following morning because it will disrupt your schedule for the rest of the week.


Pick a time when you naturally start to feel tired (10:30 pm, for example) and set your alarm for at least eight hours later. However, some people get by okay on seven hours and others need nine hours, but very few people do well outside of the seven to nine hour range.
If you don't fall asleep within 15 to 20 minutes of going to bed, get up and do something relaxing. Worrying about falling asleep is counterproductive and can lead to insomnia.
Some people are naturally "night owls" and prefer to stay up later, but make sure your job / school schedule allows you to get enough sleep in the mornings. Late to bed and early to rise will leave you chronically tired.;
, It's also important to develop relaxing bedtime rituals to tell your body and mind it's time to wind down and prepare for sleep.Relaxing night-time activities promote better and deeper sleeps by easing the transition between wakefulness and drowsiness. Conversely, avoiding stressful night-time activities is important to keep your mind from racing and your hormones (adrenaline) pumping.


Relaxing evening activities include taking a warm bath or shower, relaxing to soothing classical or jazz music, and reading a funny book.
Consider lighting some aromatherapy candles (such as lavender) to relax and wind down your evening.
Deep breathing techniques and meditation prior to bedtime can also help you relax and get to sleep.Avoid watching TV (especially scary movies) or using the computer just prior to bedtime. Don't think about finances either.
Limit your bedroom activities to sleeping and having sex — don't use it to eat in, study, play on the computer or pay bills.
 To trigger sleep quickly, it's important to make your bedroom or sleeping space as quiet, calm, cool and dark as you can make it.Loud noises, activity, higher temperatures and light all make it difficult to fall asleep and stay asleep, so minimize or eliminate each one. Consider using thick curtains or black-out shades, sleep mask, overhead fan, white noise machine and/or earplugs to create a comfortable environment that induces sleepiness.


Most people need a room to be cooler than 75°F to be comfortable enough to fall asleep, although changing to lighter bedding and using fans help also.
Don't use bright or noisy clocks near your bed. Choose a silent battery operated one, but don't place it within full view. Watching the time pass can increase anxiety and trigger sleeplessness.Make sure your mattress and pillow are comfortable. Most people do best with firm orthopedic mattresses, although some like soft beds. If you're always waking up sore, you need to change something.
 Consuming food and beverages in the evening often have a big impact on sleep. Eating before bedtime isn't ideal because it can cause an energy burst and increase your risk of painful bloating, indigestion or heartburn. On the other hand, not eating for many hours prior to bedtime can lead to hunger pains, a grumbling stomach and food fixation. The best plan of action is eating about 3 hours prior to bedtime and sticking with natural non-spicy foods such as whole grains (pastas and breads), lean meats / fish, cooked veggies, fresh fruit and low-fat dairy products.Some foods contain tryptophan and glutamine, amino acids which promote sleepiness. As such, consider having a turkey sandwich with cheese on whole grain bread for an evening snack.
Caffeinated beverages (coffee, black tea, hot chocolate, colas, energy drinks) should also be avoided in the evening because caffeine stimulates neurons in the brain and keeps you alert.Alcohol also disrupts sleep. Although it can make most people drowsy, it typically leads to restless sleep. Avoid alcohol in the evening if you want to sleep soundly and wake up rested.
 Regular physical activity during the day helps you to fall asleep faster and to enjoy deeper sleeps.However, the timing of your exercise is important: too soon to bedtime can leave you energized and alert. As such, exercise either in the mornings or before dinner when you can capitalize on the energy boost, but not within a few hours of bedtime — unless it's just a leisurely walk after dinner. If you don't have an exercise routine yet, start with at least 30 minutes of aerobic activity (walking, hiking, cycling) daily and mix in some weight training a few times per week.Exercise burns calories and promotes weight loss, which can improve the quality of your sleep. People who are overweight tend to experience more aches, pains, digestive problems and breathing issues, which can disrupt sleep.
Real vigorous exercise (weight training, boxing, martial arts, swimming) increases your body's production of adrenaline and testosterone (especially in men), which prevents sleep. Thus, avoid such activity at least five hours prior to bedtime., For people who get up early for work and/or exercise earlier in the day, a late afternoon or early evening nap is sometimes tempting, but they can interfere with nighttime sleep — especially if you're experiencing insomnia or restless sleeps already.The elderly also favor naps because they are often up in the night multiple times for health issues (typically genitourinary problems) and get out of bed early and sleep deprived. This cycle can prevent sound sleep at night when you it the most.


If you really need a nap during the day, limit yourself to less than 30 minutes (a "power nap") and take it well before dinner.
A short, well-timed nap can invigorate you and make a minimal impact on your sleep at night, but longer or multiple naps are always disruptive.
To avoid napping too long, set an alarm and don't sleep in your bed — choose a comfortable chair or sofa instead.
If you work night shifts, you'll need to do more than just nap during the day. You'll have to adjust your internal clock by making your bedroom as dark and quiet as possible and try for the seven to nine hours of deep sleep.
 Too much stress at a time or constant (chronic) low-levels of stress are very common sleep disturbers. To help restore some peace and tranquility in your life, you need to consider healthy ways to manage your stress. Start with getting organized, setting priorities and delegating tasks both at work and at home.Take more restful breaks and laugh more with coworkers, friends and family. Don't be afraid to make significant life changes to free yourself from high stress situations — reduce contact with overly negative and critical people


Be realistic with your obligations and responsibilities. Most people get stressed out because they over-commit or over-schedule. Don't promise people things that you can't reasonably deliver.
Manage your time better and quit showing up late. Plan ahead and leave more time to do things and get places.
Use your exercise routine to reduce stress instead of overeating on "feel good" food. Binge eating will lead to weight gain and make you feel worse in the long run.
Talk to friends and family about your stressful situations. A little bit of venting can really help. If you can't talk, write your feelings down in a journal instead.
 There are numerous plant-based herbal remedies that promote relaxation, but the one most used as an aid for getting better or deeper sleeps is valerian root.Valerian root has mildly sedating effects, which leads to sleepiness or drowsiness.It's usually taken as a tincture or capsule, but it can also be consumed as a herbal tea. Valerian is most effect for short-term use — for up to six weeks at a time.


Valerian likely works by increasing gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the brain, which has calming effects that lead to drowsiness.
Drugs such as alprazolam (Xanax) and diazepam (Valium) also work by increasing GABA levels in the brain.
Take valerian one to two hours before bedtime — between 250 to 600 mg in capsules. It may take a few weeks of supplementing before the effects become significant.
Valerian is generally very safe, although In very high doses it can have a negative effect on the liver.
 Chamomile is one of the most popular herbal supplements in the United States and often taken to combat anxiety and insomnia (sleeplessness).The flowers of the chamomile plant act as a mild sedative and can calm the nerves, promote relaxation and trigger sleepiness. Chamomile tea is widely available. Drink a cup of chamomile tea about one hour or so before bedtime.


Drinking chamomile tea (or any other herbal tea) too close to bedtime can cause you to have to urinate in the night, which disrupts your sleep. Experiment with how much is right for your body.
Because chamomile can cause drowsiness rather quickly, you should not consume it and drive or operate heavy machinery afterwards.
Chamomile is also available as a tincture and capsules, although drinking the tea gets absorbed into your body quicker.
 Melatonin is a natural hormone made by the small pineal gland within your brain. It's the main hormone for establishing your circadian rhythm and triggering deep sleep at night when it's dark, although some people don't produce enough. Melatonin supplements can help induce a deep sleep, particularly in people who have disrupted circadian rhythms (from jet lag or working nights), or those with low levels of natural melatonin.Taking melatonin may also help with insomnia, although the current research is inconclusive.In terms of dosage, take between 1 to 3 mg of melatonin about 45 minutes or an hour before bedtime.
Melatonin is also a strong anti-oxidant that boosts your immune system during sleep, so it has other health benefits.
The main downside to supplementing with melatonin is that you may feel groggy for the first five to 10 minutes while waking in the morning.
 If none of the above-mentioned suggestions and remedies allows you to sleep soundly, then make an appointment with your family doctor. Not being able to get to sleep normally or not sleeping soundly for more than a few weeks is usually diagnosed as insomnia, although many medical conditions can cause it, such as chronic pain syndrome, depression, restless leg syndrome, sleep apnea (severe snoring), bladder control problems, arthritis, cancer, overactive thyroid, menopause, heart disease and chronic heartburn / indigestion.Your prescription drugs might be causing your sleeping issues. If you're taking medications for depression, high blood pressure, allergies, weight loss or ADHD (such as Ritalin), then your doctor may need to alter your dosage or find alternative drugs.
Check the labels of any medications you take regularly. Many contain stimulants such as caffeine or pseudoephedrine, which can disrupt sleep.Your doctor may refer you to a sleep specialist, who may monitor you at a clinic while you sleep. Electrodes are attached to your head to see if your brain follows normal sleep cycles.
 If your doctor thinks it's necessary, he/she may prescribe medication to help you sleep soundly at night. Some medications are more effective for short-term insomnia, whereas others are more powerful and effective for long-term insomnia and other sleep disorders.Sleeping pills can be habit forming and cause other side effects, such as low blood pressure (hypotension), nausea, anxiety, excessive daytime drowsiness, bad dreams (night terrors) and sleepwalking.


Sleeping pills for short-term bouts of insomnia include temazepam (Restoril), flurazepam (Dalmane), estazolam (ProSom), ramelteon (Rozerem) and triazolam (Halcion).Halcion usage is strictly monitored because some people can become addicted to it.
Newer sleeping pills with a better safety profile include zolpidem (Ambien), zaleplon (Sonata) and eszopiclone (Lunesta).
Sleeping pills more appropriate for longer-term insomnia and some other sleep disorders include diazepam, lorazepam, and quazepam.
Some over-the-counter (OTC) medications can induce drowsiness, such as cold medications and antihistamines.
OTC anti-inflammatories (ibuprofen, aspirin) and muscle relaxants can also induce sleep in many people.
 Ask your doctor for a referral to a psychologist or therapist who practices CBT, which can benefit people having a difficult time getting to sleep and getting quality sleep. CBT is used to identify and modulate factors that trigger sleeping problems, such as negative thoughts, excessive stress, poor sleep hygiene, irregular schedules and disruptive lifestyles.CBT is an effective and drug-free approach that can remove the triggers preventing you from sleeping soundly.


CBT often involves sleep education, information on better sleep hygiene, relaxation training, cognitive control methods, psychotherapy and biofeedback.
CBT promotes helpful behaviors (mentioned above), such as keeping regular bedtimes and wake-up times, as well as eliminating or modifying afternoon naps.
CBT therapists work with you to help control or eliminate negative thoughts, stress, anxiety, worries and any false beliefs that are preventing deep sleeps.

