 If you are a producer or handler of farmed products (e.g., produce and meat), you may be able to certify your products as organic. The US Department of Agriculture (USDA) offers a certification process that, if successfully applied for, will allow you to use the organic mark and market your products as organic. Before you can apply for certification as an organic food operation, you must use organic practices.Some of these organic practices include increasing soil quality, using organic seeds, rotating your crops, managing pests weeds and diseases, maintaining acceptable living conditions for livestock, maintaining animal health, using organic feed, and avoiding the commingling of organic and non-organic food during processing.Be aware that any land used for non-organic farming practices must go through a three year transition period before you can certify as organic. For example, if you used to grow non-organic tomatoes on your land, you will have to transition to organic practices for three full years before you can certify your product as organic., The USDA organic certification process is handled by private, foreign, or state entities that have been accredited by the USDA. These entities are called certifying agents.The USDA keeps an updated list of certifying agents. Look through that list to find a certifying agent near you.When you find a certifying agent, contact them to start the application process.
 Your certifying agent will request that you fill out a certification application and submit it. The Application will ask you for a detailed description of the operation you are looking to get certified, a history of substances used on the land during the previous three years, the organic products grown, and a written plan describing the practices and substances you will use to maintain your organic operation.You will be required to pay a fee when you submit your application. The amount of your fee will depend on the size, type, and complexity of your operation, as well as who your certifying agent is. In general, the certification fee ranges from a few hundred dollars to thousands of dollars., Once your application has been submitted, the certifying agent will review your application. The review will work to verify your application materials in order to ensure that your practices meet the required organic standards., After the initial review, the certifying agent will send an inspector out to your operation to conduct an on-site review. The inspector will look at your land, the products being produced, and the items being used on your land. They will go through your operation to make sure everything in your application matches what is actually being done.Once the on-site inspection is complete, the inspector will draft a report and send it to the certifying agent.
 Your certifying agent will look through the inspection report, and your completed application, to make sure you have complied with all organic requirements. If your application is accepted, you will receive certification. When you receive certification, your certifying agent will give you an organic certificate., Once you receive organic certification, you will be able to download the USDA Organic Seal and use it on your products. Before you download the seal, make sure you understand how you must use it and what it must look like. This information will vary depending on the type of product you have. You can find all of this information on the USDA website., As a certified organic producer or handler you will be required to recertify every year. To do so you will submit an annual update to your certifying agent. An inspector will come out and do an on-site inspection of your operation, which will result in the inspector creating an submitting a report to the certifying agent. The certifying agent will review your annual update and the report to determine if you will maintain your certification.