 These are the best leaves for a compost pile. They usually have higher mineral content than manure.;
, Keep it at 10 to 15 percent of your pile. Oak leaves contain more acid that other leaves, which can be poor compost for vegetable gardens.
 If you only have a few types of trees on your property, visit heavily wooded sections of the town in late fall. Ask people you see raking if you can bag up leaves or take their bags of weeds.


Most leaves in a city are swept up with a street sweeper. You can check the fall street sweeping schedule and go the day before to collect extra leaves from the curb.
Try to avoid picking up the leaves at the very bottom of curb piles, because they can contain oil and other residue from cars. Call landscaping companies to ask if they give away leaves they gather. Pick up the leaves at the company’s location.
, The addition of grass clippings will save you time adding nitrogen later on.
 Have 1 person pile the leaves while the other person grinds.
 Self-propelled mowers are hard to control through a leaf pile.
 Leaves that are ground up will compost much more quickly than those that are whole.
 You can also use wooden slats, like those on a shipping crate. Either material will allow oxygen to get to your compost. If possible, build a swinging gate into 1 side of your compost bin. This opening will allow you to turn your compost more easily and to remove it when you want to use it.
 Compost, when done properly, takes about 6 months. You can start a compost pile in the fall and distribute it through the garden in the spring, before you plant.
 When you first start the pile, it will be loose and prone to blowing around the yard. Plan to cover the compost pile with a plastic tarp, if you cannot construct a container.
 Don’t place it on concrete or it will create standing water.
 The easiest method is to use bags of grass clippings from your mower.
, Avoid dairy, dense breads or meats.
 You should put several bags (3 to 5) of leaves on the pile, then add a bag of manure or grass clippings, vegetable scraps or manure.
 During dry weather, sprinkle it with a garden hose. Avoid creating standing pools of water, which can encourage mold. The compost should be damp enough that when you can pick up a handful of compost and squeeze, only a few drops of water drip out.
 The heat that forms inside the moist pile of leaves and clippings is often called “cooking.” , The top layer should be buried and the leaf compost should look fresh and wet on the top.
 Frequent turning will make it cook faster.
 You may need to add a little bit of water occasionally, but not very much, or it can also cause mold. , When the compost turns a uniform dark brown, you will know it is time to use it.

