 As soon as you suspect that you may throw up, make an announcement. Ideally, the driver will be able to pull over, and you will be able to get out and vomit. Make sure that they know how urgent your problem is.


If you are the driver, do not attempt to throw up out the window. You must either pull over or resign yourself to vomiting inside the vehicle. Your safety and the safety of your passengers is much more important than the cleanliness of your car.;
, If you’re in a center seat and have to switch with someone else, be sure that you both buckle up again after the switch.


Determine which car windows will roll down. Don’t move to a childproofed window that doesn’t roll down. If possible, get to a window that rolls completely down, but any window that you can get your head out of will work. Van windows that crack open instead of rolling down likely won’t work.
If you cannot get to an appropriate window, DO NOT open the door. There have been reports of people falling out of moving vehicles while opening doors to vomit. Your safety is much more important than the cleanliness of your friend’s car. , If there is a person behind you, warn them to close their window, especially if the car is moving at high speeds.
 Positioning yourself in the back of the window will make it less likely that vomit will fly back into the car.
 Do this at the last possible moment. Your head and the tops of your shoulders should be all that are out of the window. Leaning any more of your body out of a window is unsafe. You could fall or even be hit by a passing object. Try to keep your seatbelt on if possible.


Be especially careful with this step. There has been at least one reported death when a person leaned out too far in an attempt to vomit., If you look down, you will soil the car. You may even get vomit into the window frame, which will be difficult to get out and may leave a smell, so look away if you can. , Creating a smaller hole for the vomit to escape from will project it farther away from the vehicle. (Imagine how water from a hose sprays farther and with more force when you cover part of the opening.) You may not be able to control it at this point, but it’s worth a shot. , Try to vomit straight outward if you can. If you can’t project outward, try to aim toward the rear of the car. You may get some on the vehicle, but you’re much less likely to get vomit in your face this way.
 If you didn’t project well, you may need to sponge off the exterior of the car later or take it to a car wash.
 If there are napkins or tissues available, try to wipe your mouth. If you have gum, mints, or something to drink, try to get the taste out of your mouth.

