 Also select the options for "By Owner" and "Has Title".;
, Ask if the person you are speaking to is the legal owner of the car and if they currently have the title to it. You need to speak to the owner of the vehicle.
 Ask the owner if they have documentation to prove that their vehicle would pass any such testing requirements as it sits. Ask for the expiration date on their current registration. You need to know if you'll have to shell out additional monies to bring the car up to specifications before you can register it, should you choose to purchase it.
 Open a new browser and select a service record/accident reporting service website. Key in the Vin number and check for any accidents/repairs that might indicate that the car is likely to have serious mechanical or structural problems. Look for a previous "Salvage" title on the vehicle and the most recent odometer reading. It is more difficult to register and insure a vehicle with a "Salvage" title, and a vehicle with high mileage (high odometer reading) may require more expensive maintenance and repairs in order to get it to, or keep it in roadworthy condition.
 Make sure you see the vehicle during the daytime and can spare up to an hour to examine it yourself, and have a mechanic check it over for you.
 This will afford you the opportunity to arrive early and observe the owner driving the vehicle into the lot. As they arrive, you should be looking for things like: Is there smoke coming from the vehicle? Is the vehicle making any strange knocking or ticking noises? Do the breaks or tires squeal as they turn into a parking space and come to a stop? When the owner turns the vehicle ignition off, does the car immediately stop running, or does it make odd choking/knocking noises? And finally, what does the owner do when they exit the vehicle (assuming they have not seen you yet)? Does he or she wipe down the car to ensure it looks sparkly? Or does the man or woman grab a bottle out of the car and pop the hood to top off fluids?

, Ask to see the title and registration and compare them with any inspection stickers you may find on the windshields of the vehicle. Note any discrepancies and question the owner about them. If in doubt about who the car is titled and registered to, ask for the owner's drivers license and the vehicle insurance paperwork. If there is any discrepancy, regardless of your feelings about the person or vehicle, find another car. The name should be the same (signature included) on each piece of documentation.
 Walk around the vehicle and visually inspect each tire and wheel well. Look for signs of tire weakness or failure. Run your hand over each tire, feeling for uneven tread wear. (this may indicate poor wheel alignment gone unchecked, or worse, a wracked car frame causing uneven contact between the tires and the ground). Stand at the front corner of each side of the vehicle and look down the body for indications of dents or abnormalities in the body that might indicate a previously damaged vehicle. Such indications might include: wavy body panels, inconsistencies in the paint texture or shine, inconsistent rust patterns, or a suddenly way-too-talkative owner. At the front and rear of the vehicle, kneel down and look under the vehicle. At the front, look for a different paint color or overspray consistent with the vehicle paint color. Look at the inside line between the front and back tire on each side of the vehicle for obvious alignment problems or evidence that the car has been in a frame-wracking crash. Make sure all light lenses are in good condition. At the rear of the vehicle, examine the first few inches of the tailpipe with a flashlight. Look for rust or holes, then examine the length of the pipe for defects such as missing clamps, holes, excessive rust. While you're on your knees, examine the entire undercarriage of the vehicle for rust, failing pieces (even if you're unsure what each piece actually is), and deep scrapes or scratches that indicate significant impact against the underside of the vehicle.
 Often, while you're looking closely at their vehicle, an owner who's neglected to mention problems he or she is aware of, will begin acknowledging, or even pointing out indications of an accident, repairs, or damage done to the vehicle, and provide you with details that can help you decide whether the vehicle is a good investment., Upon opening each cabin door, check to ensure that the windows and locks perform properly and that the glass is solid. Inside the driver's side door, on the frame of the vehicle, you should find a sticker with the vehicle's Vin number stamped on it; compare this number with the Vin number the owner has provided you. Examine the interior, and atop and under the seats for rust (a window, windshield or sunroof leak left unrepaired for a period of time will result in rust on the interior fabrics that is difficult to remove. If you see any, feel along the gasket of adjacent windows for signs of weakness or failure). In the trunk, look for signs of rust, loose compartments, missing or damaged spare tire/tire changing equipment.
 If you spot nothing, get up and start your examination under the hood. Look for any visible sign of a bent frame near the grill area, then examine the radiator for damage to the screen or holes. If nothing else of the engine is visible, ask the owner for any repair and maintenance records they might have and where they have their vehicle serviced. Look for indications in the records that the motor or transmission has been changed.
 Follow them to the service center and observe how the car drives and how the owner drives it. If, at leaving red lights, the owner punches it instead of driving normally, make a note to ask your mechanic to check for potential transmission problems. If the owner has to re-start the vehicle at any time during the drive, be wary. Watch for braking problems and steering problems. If the car looks like it is crabbing down the roadway, like the front and back tires are not in a straight line, the car frame needs thorough inspection for significant frame damage.
 Relate what the owner has told you about the vehicle and ask if what he or she sees is consistent with what you've been told. Ask them if they would buy the vehicle for the price the owner is asking, and how much it will likely cost you to make any necessary repairs to the vehicle.
, Take a moment to gather your thoughts and process what you've heard and seen regarding the vehicle. If, after a few moments, you feel unsure and hesitant, thank the owner and proceed no further. If, on the other hand, you are certain that this is the right car for you, at nearly the right price, return to the owner and make him or her an offer to purchase the vehicle. Use the information you've gained from your examination of the vehicle and your mechanic's advice to negotiate with the owner until you agree on a purchase amount.
 Make sure you have the title to the vehicle signed and dated by the owner and by you before you leave. Under no circumstances should anyone except you drive the vehicle from this moment forward. The owner will need to make arrangements to return him or herself home, but it would be unwise for you to accompany them, or provide them with a ride.

