 House your crickets in a plastic storage container.You can purchase a cricket cage from the pet store or you may use a Rubbermaid tub, garbage cab, aquarium,or an old plastic food container. Poke a hole in the top of the container to provide some ventilation.Use a smaller container if you have a few dozen crickets or less. If you have a larger number of crickets, you will need a garbage can or an aquarium sized cage.The holes should be small enough for air to flow, but not big enough for your crickets to get out. Use a thumbtack to make small holes.
You can also make a large hole in the top of the container and glue a mesh screen. Use a metal screen instead of fiberglass screen.Using a substrate is not recommended because it makes cleaning more difficult and produces more odor. However, if you do use substrate, sand, wood shavings, or coconut fiber is acceptable.;
, Your crickets need space to climb and to get away from the other crickets. If they remain on top of each other, they can suffocate. Stack an egg crate either vertically or horizontally in the cage.Depending on the size of your cage, you may need to cut the egg crate so it will fit.
You can also use old paper towel or toilet paper rolls instead of egg crates.
 Your crickets need a warm environment between 75°F - 85°F.You can use an incandescent bulb to provide heat. If you are trying to get smaller crickets (i.e. ½ inch or smaller) to grow, keep the temperature between 80°F - 90°F., Remove dead crickets, casing, and waste every week. Dead crickets release toxins that will kill the live crickets. Crickets are very sensitive to any fumes or chemicals. You should also clean the cage every time you get a new shipment of crickets.Tilt the cage to one side and move the egg crates to the other end. Your crickets will stay on the egg crates. You can then remove anything you need to from the cage.
If you need to clean the entire cage, remove the egg cartons and place them in another temporary container. Clean the cage with hot water and a mild soap/bleach solution. Rinse the cage out until you can no longer smell the soap/bleach mixture.

