 Being a sniper is not all about firing at long distance targets; snipers are often responsible for gathering reconnaissance and general operations beyond fortified front lines. Because of the danger of being alone or in small groups with very little support, it’s imperative that a sniper learn to quickly establish environmental norms for their situation. Be conscious of your environment and the sights, sounds and activities that should be normal so you can more readily identify things that aren’t.In a city, the environmental baseline would likely include the sounds of traffic, lots of people conversing, and crowded streets.
In a wooded area, the sounds of insects, wind in the trees and far off highways may create the baseline.
Pay attention to your surroundings and use previous experiences to inform you as to what to expect.
 Once you have determined what the environmental baseline is, you can begin to asses any abnormal behavior or circumstances in the area around you. If the insects in the forest suddenly stop making noise, or traffic in the city is suddenly interrupted it likely means there is something out of the ordinary going on. In day to day life, it’s normal to tell yourself that sound you heard was nothing to worry about, but as a sniper forward of enemy lines, you can’t afford to make such assumptions.The tendency to think abnormal things going on will work out fine is called the “normalcy bias” and it can prevent you from reacting to dangerous situations quickly enough.
If you notice something out of the ordinary, make note of it but don’t focus all of your attention on it.
 Combatting the normalcy bias requires an intense focus on your surroundings, but it’s important not to allow that focus to linger too long on any one thing. If you devote your full attention to one thing in your field of view, you may not notice other risks developing around you. Make note of things you notice, but continue to survey your surroundings for other threats. Focusing on one thing to the detriment of noticing others is referred to as “focus lock.”With your attention held by a possible target in front of you, you may not notice other threats forming behind you.
Like driving in a car, you don’t stare at the guard rail hoping not to hit it, but you maintain your awareness of it while looking at the road ahead of you.
 Use the expertise you develop from forming environmental baselines, combatting the normalcy bias and avoiding focus lock to begin to predict the behaviors of people around you. As you observe others, you will find that behavior often fits patterns. By identifying these patterns (such as taxi cabs stopping more frequently than other cars, people jogging when crossing busy streets instead of walking and so forth) you can begin to predict events around you. Once you can form an educated prediction of what should occur in the near future, you will be better prepared to identify risks if things change.By predicting the actions of those in your field of view, you will notice unusual behavior from individuals sooner than by strictly observing them.
The more you observe and predict, the better you will become at picking out unusual circumstances.
 As a sniper, you will often work in pairs or small groups with very little outside support. Sometimes, you or someone you are with may develop a “bad feeling” about a situation that may be difficult to articulate. Don’t simply disregard these feelings, as your body may be interpreting information you haven’t consciously considered yet. If you or your partner has a bad feeling about your location or situation, it’s often best to act on that feeling.You may have unconsciously noticed something that increases the risk factor of your current situation, but failed to consciously consider it.
Finding a new vantage point is always better than compromising the mission or losing your life because you disregarded your gut feeling.

