 You can use the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Airnow.gov website or the American Lung Association tools at stateoftheair.org to find how high air pollution levels are in your town. Click on “City Rankings” and “Compare Your Air” tabs at the top of the page., It will help you check air quality levels on a day-to-day basis.
 For example, New York State publishes an Air Quality Index every day as part of the Department of Environmental Conservation website., Staying outdoors can increase your risk of lung diseases, heart attacks, asthma and other health problems., Choose a high efficiency model that rates 9 or higher on the MERV scale. Replace the filter every three to six months, depending upon the product’s recommendations., It will introduce fewer particles into your car.
 Air pollution is highest in the sun’s rays, so working out in cool weather outdoors or in a gym indoors will help you avoid too much exposure.


Fill up your gas tank after dark. The sun’s rays also contribute to increased gasoline emissions during the day.
 The air quality is lower on thoroughfares and highways than it is on quiet residential streets.
 Cigarette smoke creates air pollution.
 The air quality should be higher in your home and you will reduce emissions outdoors.
 They produce fewer gasoline emissions and they will be safer for your lungs.
 Some studies have been conducted that indicate certain vitamin-rich foods can help your body to be more resilient. These changes in diet pose no increased risk for other diseases, and they may protect against cancers.
 These nutrients assist the formation and maintenance of mucous membranes that line the nasal passages and intestinal tract, making them more resistant to infection. Good sources include margarine, butter, sweet potatoes, carrots and liver.
 Good sources include oranges, strawberries, mango, grapefruit, broccoli and papaya.
 This nutrient protects against cell damage, increases the oxygen supply to cells and thus, strengthens the immune system. Try leafy green vegetables, whole grain cereal, egg yolks, butter and vegetable oils.
 Selenium protects against free-radical damage to the liver and lungs that can lead to cancer. Eat eggs, onions, garlic, whole grains and fish.