 Sit with your legs stretched straight out in front of you. Without moving legs, point your feet backward towards your body as far as they will comfortably go. Hold for 10 seconds. Then, point your toes down away from your body. Hold for 10 more seconds. Next, point toes towards the opposite foot and hold for 10 seconds. Then, point your toes away from the opposite foot and hold for 10 more seconds. Lastly, move the ankles 10 times clockwise and 10 times counterclockwise.


This exercise was developed by the Summit Medical Group, a rehabilitation center, to help increase the range of motion or flexibility of the ankles.
According to Summit, increased flexibility and strength in the ankle muscles, especially the tibialis muscles, can help to greatly reduce injuries such as sprains.
Use this series as a warm-up for the remaining stretching exercises., This stretch is similar to the warm up, but it is a more targeted stretch. Sit against the couch with your feet straight out in front of you, so that they are perpendicular to your legs. Flex your feet back towards you as far as they will go while keeping your legs flat on the ground. Try to keep your feet extended, so your toes and heels move in a straight line. Hold for five seconds. Relax and then push your toes away from the body as far as they will go.


Repeat 15 times, moving both feet at the same time. You can also do this exercise while you are lying down.
To get a deeper stretch, you can use an elastic band.
Pointing the toes away from the body helps to strengthen the muscles in the calves.
 Sit in a chair and flex your right foot. Loop a large towel under your foot. Pull on the ends of the towel and pull it toward you. Stretch your toes towards you as far as you can while remaining comfortable. Hold stretch for 10 seconds and repeat 3 times with each foot.


This stretches the muscles in the shins. Flexible shins, like calves, are important for full recovery from plantar fasciitis.
You can also do this with a resistance band on the floor. Hook the band around a table leg. Walk away from the table and loop your foot in the band. Bring your toes toward you, pulling against the band., Stand on a stair. Move until you are only standing on the stair with the balls of your feet. Hold onto the railings or wall on both sides for balance. Slowly lower your heel towards the step below you until you feel the stretching in the calf muscles. Hold this pose for 15-30 seconds, then relax. Do three reps.


This exercise helps stretch out the muscles of the calf. Calf muscle stretching, according to the American Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Society, is integral to the treatment of plantar fasciitis. This is because excessively tight calf muscles make it more difficult to properly flex and stretch the heel. This is necessary to help recover from this painful condition. , Stand facing the wall with hands resting on the wall for balance. Step forward with one leg and bend the knee slightly. Stretch the other leg behind you so that your heel is resting on the floor. Then, lean slowly into the wall until you feel the stretching in your calf. Hold for 15–30 seconds and do three reps.


This exercise stretches the soleus, one of the major muscles in the calf.
 Stand facing the wall, placing your hands on the wall for balance. Stretch your leg out behind you and point your foot, placing the top of your foot on the ground. Relax and feel the stretching in the ankle. Hold this pose for 15–30 seconds, stopping to rest for a moment if you feel any cramping in the toes. Do three reps on each foot.


Work yourself up to holding the stance for one minute.
This is designed to stretch out the flexors muscles in the foot, which help you move the feet in relation to the leg.