 Apologies mean a lot—but only if they're sincere—don't apologize by saying something like "I'm sorry if my actions caused anybody any discomfort." Roughly translated, that means "Gee, sorry you're so thin-skinned."


For example, saying something like "Honey, I'm sorry if making a pass at your sister bothered you, I was really drunk," blames your girlfriend for being upset, and makes an excuse for you—neither of which, despite the words, amounts to an apology.
Instead, say "Honey, I am so sorry for my actions. It was totally inappropriate, and I have no excuse. It will never happen again." She's still not going to forgive you right away, but at least you've taken ownership of your actions and show contrition—instead of blaming everybody but yourself. That counts for a lot.;
, Sometimes, words will not be enough. As horrible or simple as what you did may have been, write a letter telling her you know what you did was your fault, how sorry you are, and how you'll never do it again, will not only show you really are apologizing, it will also give her something that she can—and will—re-read. You would do well to deliver the letter with flowers.


In the example above, you may have two letters to write, not just one: The first letter, with roses (or her favorite flower), to your girlfriend; the second letter, to her sister. Do not send her sister flowers unless it's a bouquet you'd be comfortable sending to your mother.
 Tell her that you are very sorry and never meant to hurt her. This is a good place to leave the conversation, and take your leave:

, Don't keep saying sorry, because she will get more mad at you than she already is. Say your piece, and then excuse yourself. If you live with her, go take a walk, or shop for something she likes.—Just get out from underfoot for a while. If you live elsewhere, go home.
 Email or text message her and make small talk. This may just get the conversation started on the right track to being how you were before, but realize that you can't completely ignore the fact that you were in the wrong.
 In fact she may never forgive you, but all you can do, until she lets you know, is just wait.

