 Before you caress a friend, you should make eye contact and greet her to connect with her in a verbal way. This could be a simple greeting like “hello, how are you” or this could be a form of farewell at the end of a conversation or hang out, like “nice to see you, have a good day.” Look the friend in the eye as you speak to her and move your body closer to her so she is aware you may be going in for a friendly caress like a hug.
 Not everyone enjoys physical contact or being touched, even by close friends or acquaintances. To avoid invading your friend’s personal space, you should gauge if your friend would not mind friendly touching before you move in for a caress.


Notice your friend’s body language as you say good bye or hello to her, especially if you usually do not hug or touch this friend. If your friend displays closed body language, with her hands crossed over her chest and a good amount of space between you, she may not be amenable to a hug or a friendly pat. If she displays open body language, with her body facing towards you, her hands relaxed at her sides, and her body close to yours, she may be open to a friendly hug hello or goodbye.
 If you are talking to someone you just met or do not know very well, you may not want to freak her out or invade her personal space be diving right for a hug, a handshake, or a friendly caress. To prevent making things awkward, you may want to ask the new friend directly if it would be okay to hug her, shake her hand, or give her a friendly pat on the arm.


Asking permission can also be important for individuals who are uncomfortable with touch due to psychological discomfort with touching from strangers that may be tied to trauma or past negative experiences with touch. Some people do not like friendly touching from strangers, so if the new friend says no to a hug or friendly caress, respect her decision and do not force the hug or caress.
 If your friend is projecting open body language and maintaining eye contact with you, you may have the all clear to give your friend a hug or a friendly pat on the arm. If a new friend gives you the okay to touch her, you may want to give them a brief hug or a handshake.


Keep the hug friendly by ensuring the hug does not last too long or evolve into more romantic touching. Hug a good friend with joy and enthusiasm, with your hands wrapped around their lower back, but do not place your hands on your friend’s bum or chest, as this could be taken as romantic caressing instead of friendly caressing.

