 This medication acts as a neutralizer in your stomach. It reduces the acid by combating it with basic (the opposite of acidic) properties. You can get antacids without a prescription and can take them when needed.


Common antacids include Mylanta, Tums, Caltrate, Maalox, and Mi-Acid., H2 blockers reduce the amount of acid that your stomach creates to help it digest food. It may sound like a bad idea to do that, but H2 blockers actually don’t have much of an effect on your digestive system. They do reduce acid reflux.Pepcid, Axid, and Zantac are some of the most common forms of H2 blockers.Taking these over-the-counter medications shouldn’t do any harm if you take them as directed and you do actually have acid reflux. They will not be helpful if you are suffering from another condition you have mistaken for acid reflux.
If this is your first experience with acid reflux, consult a doctor before taking these medications. The concern here is not negative side effects or possible harm. Rather, it is to determine if you are choosing the best medication for your problem.
 This medication, like H2 blockers, keeps your stomach from developing too much acid. When your stomach has a lot of acid in it, you have a better chance of developing acid reflux.


Omeprazole (Prilosec), lansoprazole (Prevacid), and pantoprazole(Protonix) are some of the most common proton pump inhibitors.If your doctors believes you have acid reflux, her or she likely prescribe omeprazole. This is usually the first-choice for medication, often prescribed before any additional testing. If your reflux gets better after taking this medication, this confirms the diagnosis. If you continue to have problems, further investigation and alternative treatments may be necessary.
 This drug can help strengthen your lower esophageal sphincter. This is the little valve in the end of your esophagus that keeps food in the stomach. Prokinetic medication also helps your stomach to empty more quickly. This decreases food regurgitation.If other treatments haven't been effective, your doctor may try adding this medication to the mix to create a combination of effects. Your doctor will come up with the right combination and regimen that works for you.You may be prescribed medications like bethanechol (Urecholine) or metoclopramide (Reglan or Maxeran).Prokinetic medications may have severe, serious side effects. These include fatigue, sleepiness, depression, irregular heartbeat, anxiety, and problems with physical movement (such as muscle spasms)., If medication doesn't work or your suffer from esophageal damage due to chronic reflux, you may be a candidate for surgery. The main procedure is called fundoplication.


This surgery entails wrapping the upper part of your stomach around your the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). This helps in preventing reflux through the LES.Generally, patients can leave the hospital within 1-3 days and can go back to work within 2-3 weeks.Patients requiring proton pump inhibitors for over 10 years should consider surgery as a more cost-effective solution.