 Your best bet, of course, is to try to time anything you have to do out and away from home with when your baby takes a nap. By making sure that they're sleeping while you're out, this will reduce how much you have to worry about keeping them entertained.


For example, put them in a baby carrier right before naptime and then do your grocery shopping. They'll fall asleep on your chest and let you get your shopping done without a shouting match.
Another example is if you have to go on an airplane or a car trip. Schedule the travel to coincide with baby's nighttime sleep routine. Get them ready for bed but instead of putting them in bed, put them in the car. They sleep and let you drive in peace.
 For strollers and car seats, the thing that will help you the most is getting and keeping on hand some toys which can attach to where your child will be sitting. Babies love to throw their toys over the side or down onto the ground or floor, making them cry and creating more work for you. By keeping toys which latch onto the seat, you make sure that baby can get their toy back whenever they want.
 For keeping your junior happy and entertained while you're out and about, food can be crucial. They might not be really hungry, but taking the time to pick through a bowl of Cheerios can buy you just enough time to get through the line at the post office without a boredom meltdown.


Try to choose snacks that baby can eat alone. Small items that take a lot of time to eat are a great choice here. Cheerios, raisins, apple chips, and seedless grapes (halved lengthwise or quartered for safety) are all good options here.
Avoid hard foods, unhealthy foods, and foods which are difficult to chew and swallow (like peanut butter). This is especially important when you're in the car, since it's harder for you to notice when baby chokes. Also avoid messy foods like peas, which easily roll away from baby.
 Bring a series of nesting tupperware containers and a bag of dried peas or beans. Put baby to the task of transferring beans from one tupperware and into another. This will easily keep them entertained for hours.


If you didn't bring these materials with you or if you can't, you can use stuff that's found on the airplane in a pinch. Ask for some empty coffee cups and stack them. The child knocks them down. Or play the "shell game".
 Many parents use a rear-facing car seat (which is the safest method for a one year old), but this can leave your baby feeling stressed because they can't see you. Get a mirror which attaches to their seat. Not only will this reduce their stress by helping them see you, they can also entertain themselves by looking at their reflection.

