 Your awareness is very important. For taking an active participation in the conservation of the wildlife, you should first be aware of the status of wildlife in India. You should also know what threats are being faced by Indian wildlife. Internet and various publications media are the means through which you can stay informed about different projects for wildlife conservation. There are many efforts that are being made to save wildlife, some of which are in the form of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in India. For instance, you should know that wildlife conservation in India first started with Jim Corbett National Park. The up-to-date information about these conservation projects can also be obtained from the local wildlife organizations.;
, You should not buy products that are made from the parts of the body of a wild animal. Your smart consumption will decrease the demand for the items made from the rare wild species. By purchasing items like meat, souvenirs, leather items, etc, you may unintentionally stimulate illegal wildlife traffic.
 Recycling and reusing goods reduce the negative effect on the environment. Moreover, decreasing the energy consumption also decreases the load off the natural resources. The environmental balance saves the habitats of the wild animals.
 Although pesticides and herbicides may be helpful for the preservation of crops but it is harmful for wild animals. These preservatives are especially hazardous for the amphibians. The wild animals suffer a lot because of the presence of preservatives in their habitat.
 Once you have acquired sound knowledge about wildlife conservation, disseminate what you have learned among the people. You can organize events to enlighten people about the importance of conserving wildlife and ways to save endangered species. You can also write letters to editors. You may file petitions to the leaders for saving wildlife, if you see anything that may compromise wildlife safety. To strengthen you voice in support of animal safety, you may start writing blogs on, say, the importance of conservation.Pictures can speak louder than words. Use graphics, illustration, photographs and images to spread awareness. You can even host a photography exhibition highlighting the gracious cause of wildlife conservation. This effort will help to prevent the barbaric poaching of wild animals and is a helping hand for the preservation of animals.
 Money is an important factor in the conservation effort. You can also help save animals by raising funds or donating money to the various organizations working to save the animals. To collect donation money, you can organize various fundraising campaigns at your school, colony, etc. By following methods, you can raise money for donating-


You can ask people to donate money during family celebrations such as birthdays, wedding, etc.
You can organize various events to collect money like a sale, an exhibition and so on; or you may also take part in a marathon held for wildlife conservation.
You can encourage your colleagues to make it a habit of donating money from their payroll for wildlife conservation.
 Wildlife in India is in deep crisis and thus it requires the participation of more and more people for its success. Hence, choosing a career in it will be a major step towards saving these animals. A career in this sector is indeed challenging and exciting. Although, there is not very well-paid job opportunities but it gives immense satisfaction of doing a noble deed.
 There are several N.G.Os that offer volunteer programs in wildlife conservation. The range of these programs incorporates working with animals, helping in wildlife events, saving animals in need, cleaning the wildlife habitats. It is a great way to participate in wildlife conservation projects effectively. One can find a list of the numerous events being held for the conservation of the fortune creatures of nature.

