 You don't have to do a sport, just try to be up and moving for at least 1 hour a day. Sometimes physical exercise does that for you. Don't just give up, it may be a lot of work, but when you're older you're going to be thankful for a fit body. Cute butts, are key to attracting a guy's attention, but it doesn't have to be HUGE. Seventeen Magazine is a great read, and it gives you health tips in every issue.;
, Always drink water throughout the day it keeps your breath fresh. Chew mint gum or have mints with you. Take a shower everyday and after every work out. Wash your face with an amazing face wash. If you have acne, spend money to get a really good face wash because acne is not attractive! Make sure to shave your legs everyday, whether it's gym or if you want to wear shorts. When you get out of the shower put a nice smelling lotion on, and then spray yourself with matching perfume. Spray the perfume while you're in a towel and after you get dressed. Some good lotions and perfumes come from Bath and Body Works.
 Get your hair trimmed or cut every 6 weeks. This improves hair growth and gets rid of unsightly split-ends. On the weekends try to find out which products are best for your hair. If you straighten your hair, wear it natural on the weekends, and don't straighten it everyday or you will get split ends. Wear which hairstyle makes you feels most comfortable. If you choose, deep condition your hair once a week, this improves the health of your hair and this tends to add shine. Healthy hair also grows faster.
 In the summer, have your nails done in bright colors (i.e. hot pink, purple, turquoise). In the spring, have your nails done in pastel colors (i.e. greens, baby pinks and blues). In the fall, have your nails done in earth tones (i.e. greens, oranges, reds). And in the winter, have your nails done in darker colors to make them POP (i.e. dark red, dark blue, dark purple). Remember French manicures are good for any season. Remember, NATURAL is always in too.
 One piercing is good, but if you want a little diamond or colored stud get a second. That way you have the option of wearing one or two earrings

, Make-up should be used to enhance your beauty, not to cover up flaws, so try to clear your skin. Mascara is a must have as well as lip gloss. if you have pimples you can cover them using cover up. Just make sure you use the right color for your skin.
 The clothes you wear should make you feel comfortable. Try to pick your outfits the night before you go to school or an event, so in the morning you have more time to focus on make-up and hair. Don't be intimidated by other girls outfits if they are really cute. Just compliment her, and be the better person. Use her as a role model and try to find outfits in the stores instead of just buying shirts and pants

, Add your own personal style to your outfits, hair or make-up. Get highlights, wear bright colored eyeliner or eyeshadow, or wear the same necklace with every outfit.

