 Many studio executives and screenplay writers will throw your script out after the first sentence if it is improperly formatted.There are a variety of programs available online that will format your screenplay for you, from free programs like Celtx and WritersDuets to Final Draft, the industry standard.


The type should be in 12pt Courier font.
Always attach a title page to the front with your name and contact information in the bottom left corner.
 Reading screenplays is essential if you ever want to write them. A good screenplay must tell the entire story without any actors or cameras—it must paint a picture in the readers head as if they were watching the movie at that very moment. This is an art form, and you can only learn it by reading the masters.


Perform an internet search for “Title + Screenplay PDF.” While not every screenplay is online, a large number of them have been posted on various websites.
Reading screenplays is a great way to learn formatting as well – if you see a scene a movie you like and don’t know how to format, like a montage or transition, read the screenplay to see how it is written out.
 The first question you will be asked in an interview is, “can we see your work?” Very few people in Hollywood are concerned with your degree or resume outside of writing – what they want to see is a fresh voice that is willing to write for a living. Once you’ve written one screenplay and it is as good as you can possibly imagine, sit down and write another.


Try to write 3-4 pieces in the same genre (horror, comedy, drama, etc.) since most studios specialize in one type of film. If your first screenplay gets noticed, you then have 2-3 extra scripts the same studio might want., Log lines are short, 10-second summations of your film. Think of the brief explanations provided next to movies online and in the newspaper. You want to communicate, in general, the main character, the mood, and the plot in only one sentence, which is often harder than it looks. The best log-lines hook a person before they’ve even opened your script, and in the fast paced world of Hollywood, you may only get 30 seconds to grab someone.


’’Inside Man:’’ A cop has to talk down a bank robber after the criminal’s perfect heist spirals into a hostage situation.
’’The Shawshank Redemption:’’ Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency.
’’Forest Gump:’’ Forrest Gump, while not intelligent, has accidentally been present at many historic moments, but his true love, Jenny, eludes him., There are hundreds of stories about unknown writers winning $10,000 and a trip to Hollywood after winning a big contest like the Austin Screenwriting Contest or Final Draft’s Big Break. More importantly, most contests offer feedback on your script, giving you advice on how to improve it from industry experts. This is especially crucial if you don’t live in L.A, as contests are a direct line to Hollywood if you win.


Most contests cost between $35 - $100 to apply to, but they are cheaper the earlier you submit.
Read reviews of contests before submitting to them to see if they are worth your money. Sites like MovieBytes.com offer reader reviews of each contest offered.
 Just like burgeoning directors must start as Production Assistants, a writer usually needs to start at the bottom before getting their own show or movie deal. Writer’s assistants answer phones, take notes, and run errands, but the important part of the job is making connections and lasting friendships. You never know when a writer will get a new gig and ask you to come along as a co-writer.Apply to writer’s assistant jobs on television and film studio websites, under “Employment.”
Websites like Internmatch, EntertainmentJobs.com, and Craigslist often list posts for writing assistants.
 Time and time again, stories filter out of Hollywood about assistants, crew-members, and extras who are more concerned with their own writing then the project they are working on. This not only annoys your superiors, but distracts you from doing your job. Work hard and do everything you can to help your project run smoothly and you will be promoted, noticed, and asked to share your ideas.However, when your chance arises to talk about your writing – take it!

, Work on a crew, act as an extra, and write commercials if you have to. Every experience you get will teach you something and bring you one step closer to your dreams. Remember that every connection you make can turn into something important, so make as many connections as possible.

