 Notice how your flash drive has a rectangular block sticking out of it.There will be a similar hole in your computer; this will be the USB port.;
, For desktop computers, you can usually find USB ports on either the front or the back of the PC. USB ports on your laptop computer will typically be found on the sides or in the back.
 Plug orientation matters, so if you are having difficulty, try turning the plug upside down and inserting it again.
 Most newer computers have an automatic interface that should ask you what you want to do. You should select the option that says "Open Folder to View Files," or a similar message.


In many cases a dialog box will pop up from your task bar in Windows, or a "Flash Drive" icon will appear on your desktop in MacOSX and Linux. Clicking these will also open your flash drive.
 If your computer does not have an autoplay function, or if another setting has interfered with the prompts for opening your flash drive, instead open the file explorer., Within this directory, you should find a section labeled "Devices with removable storage." If you have inserted the flash drive correctly, you should see it beneath this heading.


If you own a Mac, the Finder sidebar can expedite your search. Look under the "Removable Devices" header.
 Windows computers can also use the "Start" menu to open the "Computer" directory. Newer versions of Windows might require you to click the "File Explorer" heading. If this is the case, simply click the heading and find "Computer" in the left sidebar.


You will find the flash drive below the label "Devices and Drives," "Devices with Removable Storage," or a similar heading. Leave this window open to later to transfer files to this location.
 Right click these files with your mouse to open a dropdown menu. In this menu, click the "Copy" option.


If you have a Mac, hold Ctrl when clicking to bring up the dropdown menu.
You can also "Cut" the files, which removes them from their original location and allows you to "Paste" them to a new location.
Larger files might trigger a pop up box indicating how long the file transfer will take. Smaller files appear almost instantaneously in your flash drive

, Right click the empty space in the lower right hand quadrant of your flash drive folder and select "Paste."


For Mac users, hold Ctrl and click to bring up the same menu. Find the "Paste" option in the dropdown menu and select it.
 Not doing this can corrupt data or ruin a perfectly good flash drive.You can safely remove the drive by right clicking its icon on the desktop or system tray, and selecting the option that says "Safely Remove Hardware" or "Eject" from the menu.


Mac users can perform the same functions by holding Ctrl and clicking.
 Here you should find your flash drive under the "Devices and removable storage" header. Right click the icon or Ctrl and click for Mac computers and select either "Eject" or "Safely Remove."



Wait until you see the "it's safe to remove this hardware" message. Removing your flash drive before this can damage your flash drive or corrupt your files. Once you see this, you can physically disconnect the USB drive from your computer.
 Firmly take the flash drive in hand and smoothly remove the flash drive with steady, moderate pressure. There should be some resistance; this is natural.
 Remember to look for the rectangular block inside the slot of your USB port; this is the key feature that allows for USB connections.
 Do this in the same fashion as described in the section on copying files to your flash drive.
 Do this by following the same procedure you used on your own computer. You should see your desired files still inside the flash drive directory.
 Again, right click the highlighted files, or control click for Macs, and select "Copy" from the dropdown menu.
 You can do this easily by right clicking an empty part of your desktop and selecting "Paste" from the menu. Mac users can perform the same sequence using Ctrl and clicking.


Alternatively, you can drag and drop the files or folders from the USB drive straight into your desired folder.
 Some computers might automatically alphabetize your desktop icons, so you should check your desktop carefully.
 Right click or control click its icon on the desktop or in the system tray, and select the option from the dropdown menu that says, "Safely Remove Hardware" or "Eject." Once you receive the "it's safe to remove this hardware" message, you can physically disconnect the USB drive from your computer.

