 You won't be doing either your dog or your rat any favors by forcing a friendship. You'll need to let the animals bond at their own pace. Pushing a friendship too quickly can result in a potentially dangerous situation for your rat. Always monitor your pets and work at their pace when getting them familiar with one another., Before you introduce your rat to your dog, it's a good idea to make sure your rat is comfortable with you holding it. If your rat is nervous about being handled, it may be difficult to control or more ready to start a fight when you introduce it to your dog. Your rat should be totally comfortable with you and with being handled before you attempt any introduction.If your rat is new to your home, allow it at least two days to relax and get used to the new environment.
Whenever you pick your rat up, place one hand under its front legs and the other under its rear legs.
Your rat will prefer to sit or walk on your arms, instead of being being held.
Introducing your rat into a large room can make them nervous. Try to let them roam in a smaller room that they can get familiar with.
Never pick up your rat by the tail.
 To help make the first introduction a safe one, try putting both your rat and your dog in their own cage or kennel. Once they are securely placed in their cages, you can bring the cages next to one another and allow your pets to meet each other. The cages will prevent any serious fights or injuries from occurring if one pet becomes nervous or aggressive. If you don't have a dog crate, try keeping the rat in its cage and your dog on a leash.
Your pets will be able to get used to each other's scents by being next to each other.
Keep introducing your dog and rat in this way to build familiarity before allowing them to meet without their cages.
Make sure your dog and rat are comfortable near one another before introducing them outside their cages. Neither pet should seem afraid or aggressive towards the other.
 If your dog and rat don't seem to mind one another through their cages, try introducing them outside the cage. Keep in mind that this step can be dangerous and you will need to keep a close eye on both your pets. Watch how your dog and rat interact as they meet each other outside their cages for the first time.Keep your dog on a leash while introducing it to your pet rat.
Be ready to hold your dog back if it attempts to bite your rat or becomes aggressive.
If you are worried about your dog biting your pet rat, try putting a muzzle on your dog.
It can be a good idea to introduce your rat and dog in a space that neither of them feel is their territory.
Never leave your pets alone. Even if you feel they are getting along just fine, you will still need to watch them., While your pets are getting used to one another, you will need to provide constant supervision. You'll want to keep a close eye on their behavior, watching for any signs of aggression or fear from either of them. If you do notice any unwanted behavior, separate them immediately and try again some other time.If your dog displays any growling, hair raising, barking, snarling or starts biting, remove your dog immediately.
If your rat fluffs up its fur, bites, scratches or chomps its teeth, remove your rat and place it back into its cage.
 Once your pets have had some time together, it's time to return your rat back to its cage. This will give both your pets some time to rest and calm down after their initial encounters. Let your pets rest up and try another introduction at a later time.