 Don’t repeatedly send them unwanted gifts, follow them, stand outside their home, or generally do anything to make them feel uncomfortable. If you want to be friends with the celeb, you won’t want to make them feel unsafe. Keep a safe distance and don’t overdo it with the attention.Cyber stalking is also an issue. Don’t post anything negative the defame their character, spread rumors, or generally harass them online.
 If you want to make friends with famous people just to use them, keep in mind that they will probably see right through you. Famous people deal with strangers who just want to use them for their money or connections all the time, and they will be able to tell if that’s the case with you. Make sure you are trying to establish a friendship for the right reasons.


For example, if you do make friends with someone famous, pay your own way. If they offer to pay for things, that’s fine, but never expect or ask them to. Treat them like you would any other normal person.
 Famous people deal with obsessive fans all the time. They probably keep most people at a bit of a distance for a while until they’re sure that person genuinely wants to be their friend and isn’t just a crazy fan. Many famous people don’t communicate directly with fans online, or answer private messages. It might be very difficult to become friends with famous people at all.


Give it time if you have started communicating with someone famous. Don’t expect a relationship to happen overnight. They will probably need some time to trust you and decide they want to meet you or hang out with you.
 Once you have made friends with someone famous, be a good person and a good friend to them. If you use them or act like someone you’re not just to keep their attention, they will more than likely notice and be turned off by it. Treat them like any other friend, and they will probably appreciate it.


Famous people don’t usually want to be treated like they’re more important than anyone else, especially by people they consider friends. They would probably appreciate you treating them like a normal person, and like someone they can be themselves around.

