 Fat is just stored food; in other words, it’s fuel for your body. Carbohydrates are your primary outside source of fuel, and your body can burn either carbs or fat just the same. So as long as you feed your body carbohydrates, it will not burn fat.However, cutting carbs alone may not help you shed fat, unless you are also cutting your overall calories as part of the process.
Remember that all carbs are not created equal (e.g., refined sugar and whole grains). There are okay carbs for you (the slow-burning kind like oatmeal and the ones in veggies); the bad ones are the simple sugars (think white things and candies).
 Protein and carbs contain roughly the same amount of calories per gram, but protein is not a preferred fuel like carbs. The protein is used as building blocks for muscle in your body and won't turn to fat. So make lean meats, fish, and soy a regular part of your diet.When you're packing on protein and saying no to carbs, your brain will send signals, which you interpret as hunger, before switching to ketosis (i.e., fat burning). After that, your hunger pangs should subside.
Eating a lot of protein is hard on the liver and kidneys, and there are other considerations for "keto dieting." It is not advised to consume zero carbs; just limit them, and stick to the good ones.
 Alcohol is full of empty calories (that is, bad carbs), and when you consume some, it's hard not to consume more. So while it's tempting to join in socially, refrain — or at least severely restrict yourself. After all, excessive drinking can make fat burning the least of your worries!If you absolutely must drink alcohol, keep it to one drink if you're a woman or two if you're a man. But that should only be a once-in-a-while thing, for the sake of your fat burning goals.
 Some studies have shown that 25 ounces of green tea or 16 ounces of coffee can spur an increase in your metabolism. Just make sure you don’t load up your cup with spoonfuls of sugar.Green tea and coffee seem to offer a wide range of possible health benefits, perhaps most notably the former’s antioxidant properties.
 Don’t focus only on the foods you can’t eat or should avoid whenever possible; there are many delicious foods that you can and should eat to keep your metabolism on the upswing. So stock up on foods like:Oatmeal
Lowfat or nonfat dairy (a little counterintuitive, but studies say that those who consume suggested amounts of dairy burn fat more easily than those who don't)Healthy fats, like nuts, avocados, olive oil, and fatty fish
Eggs (or, even better, egg whites)
Spicy foods
Grapefruit

