 Getting serious at the start will make you appear clingy, and there's no greater turn-off to an Aries woman than a clingy partner. Be lighthearted, make jokes, and above all, treat her platonically until she makes the first move. This is essential.


Aries is a male cardinal sign - ruled by the planet Mars, the symbol of war. You are dealing with a fearless leader. She is a woman who refuses to play by the usual female rules. She doesn't care what people think, and she won't be a stickler for tradition. She won't behave like those other girly submissive women! Because she's ruled by a male sign, it really is essential when dating that she make the first move.
An Aries woman will let you know right off the bat if she's attracted to you sexually, whether with her words or body language. Aries in general are unskilled at keeping secrets, no matter how hard they try. It's likely that if an Aries woman likes you, you'll know. You may sometimes come across an Aries woman who seems shy; open up to her and she will unfold before you.;
, When approaching her for a date, be confident, make eye contact, and smile. Aries women tend to be unorthodox in their interests, so don't be shy. Come right out and suggest rock climbing, or roller skating, or sneaking unseen into the movies. And listen when she makes her own suggestions, which are bound to lead you to unexpected places!

, The motto for the sign of Aries is "I am", and you'll understand why within the first few minutes of conversation. An Aries woman is a creature of her own mind, and often gets caught up on the nuances of her own identity and life goals. Provide positive feedback when prompted, and add in your own advice. Aries women appreciate constructive advice on their life paths and personality, but be careful how you phrase your words so as to not step on her toes emotionally - and be prepared for her to not follow your advice at all!

, When talking about yourself, be as honest and forthright as possible. Don't try to play mind games or conceal parts of your character. Aries women abhor dishonesty and duplicity, and will dump you if they suspect that you're being less than truthful with them. Don't be afraid to talk about yourself, though; feel free to tell her about you.


Talk about your future aspirations. Aries women are very loyal friends and companions, and if they think your goals are worthwhile, they love to help out, if they can.
 Let her set the pace for your relationship. Nurture a strong element of friendship and spontaneity when you are together, and keep things fun and interesting by trying new things together, working on something together, or engaging in friendly competition. Stifle any jealous tendencies you may have, because if you try to come between her and her friends, your relationship will be over before it begins. Aries women don't have time for those who try to order her around.
 Aries women are characteristically very strong, loyal, levelheaded and focused about her goals. Some might say she appear rude at first, but try not to judge her too quickly in the initial encounters. Try to look beyond the first impression when you are dealing with females who are of the sun sign Aries.


These women are very sentimental and sensitive, even if they appear rude. Understand their complicated emotions that are tied and mixed up in their minds. These women are far from cold if that is what you think about them; it is due to the fact they take time to accept changes. In fact, these women are warmhearted, extremely loyal, and affectionate.
 Trust has always been an issue for those born under the sign of Aries. Because they say what they mean, they expect everyone else to speak the truth as well. As a result, many Aries have been taken advantage of and used - repeatedly. No matter how often their trust is misplaced and they face the hurtful consequences, Aries always gets back up, forgetting the hurt, and gives their trust away again in all the wrong places. However, the average Aries woman will trust you with her life after knowing you for five minutes. This is one of her most endearing characteristics. It actually stems from her total lack of fear, and her faith in the goodness of others. She thinks everyone is just like her - and she would never take advantage of someone's trust. If you understand that, this is one of her most appealing strengths, and also her greatest weakness, then you'll respect her premature trust and never take advantage of her.
 If she is initially approached correctly, she can be very friendly, helpful and loyal. At some point of time she might be the only person you could turn to in all situations. She is someone whom you could totally depend on and rely on even in the worst possible times of your life. She might be the only person you might think of in such situations that will not let you down. The Aries will always defend the underdog, with heroic courage. There need be no others on her side. She'll fearlessly tell anyone what she really thinks - and this includes gun-wielding maniacs. She will also be the person who will feel your pain and share your happiness. Aries empathize with and actively support those who are struggling to survive, but they have little time for whiners, complainers and unjustified depressives.
 She is made up of strong substance. She is stronger than you, and if you need her, just call her; she will come. She will not give up easily and she will only relax when she has achieved what she had set her mind on. Don't doubt her or take away her liberty and freedom, and she will respect your trust and faith in her and will remain loyal and confident in you. She will do nothing that might harm the confidence you have in her.
 She will not like it, and will rebel against you. She must get the respect she deserves. Make her feel special. Make her feel the importance she has in your life. Cook her favorite meals if you can. Sing or send her songs or write romantic love letters. Poems are also not a bad idea. Try to make her feel special and you will always have her. Above all, fight for her, especially when she is at her weakest, and you will never lose her.
 She will appreciate everything that you have done for her, and will do anything to maintain the love and trust in a relationship she decides to pursue. An Aries woman is a woman of actions. She also sticks to what she says and does not change irrespective of time or season. She might exhibit small amounts of anger, but don't take this seriously, as it may be due to her professional life - she is very driven. It could also be a natural sign of frustration, because she is missing something or someone in her life. Instead, show her love and affection, and most of all, friendship at this time, and she will always remain loyal and grateful.
 Very few can be trusted to care for an Aries woman. Perhaps it's a Leo male who takes her into his pride. Maybe she'll fall for some deep Scorpio eyes (yes, Scorpio can get the better of Aries). But be sure that even if your Aries woman is bossy by day, she may be submissive at night. Are you really strong enough, confident enough to handle this fiery and fearless female? Here's a hint: if you have to ask her to let you be the boss for a while, it means she is the dominant one.

