 If you want to be a Christian based on what the Bible says, then it is necessary to believe that the Bible has been inspired by God Himself, and says exactly what He wants it to say.;
, And this is the word which by the gospel is preached to you."(1 Peter 1:23,25)


After receiving the gift of the Holy Spirit , be spiritually minded that is always thinking about what God wants from the scriptures. (Luke 13:2)

, As Jesus said, "Unless you 'repent' , you will likewise perish."


Repent means that you must "change your thinking" and "turn away from your old ways", and that is hear and believe as: "faith by hearing -- and hearing, by the word of God."(Romans 10:17) "How shall one believe unless he is taught?"
Jesus said, "...blessed they that hear the word of God, and do it."(Luke 11:27,28) You will be blessed by following the words of Jesus Christ the Lord, to do them...

"For this cause also we thank God without ceasing, because, when you received the word of God which you heard of us, you received not the word of men, but as 'it is in truth, the word of God, which effectually works also in you that believe'."(1 Thessalonians 2:13)



, Here is what the Bible says about that:


"All scripture given by inspiration of God, and profitable for doctrine’', for reproof , for correction, for ‘’training in righteousness:"(2 Timothy 3:16)
Examine "Why become a Christian?" Here is what the Bible says about sin (wrong-doing):
Twice, in both Deuteronomy 5:11 and in Exodus 20:7, God says "You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes His name in vain."
Jesus said in Matthew 12:36 "But I say to you that for every idle word men may speak, they will give account of it in the day of judgment."
Christ teaches that your thoughts matter. It is not just written laws and physical acts. The 10 Commandments say "You shall not murder" and "You shall not commit adultery,..." But, in his famed Sermon on the Mount, Christ went beyond actions and showed our attitudes matter as well; for example, he said if you have hated anyone, then you are guilty of murder and if you have thought a lustful thought you are guilty of adultery, all of which helps show the absolute need of God's grace. (Matt. 5:21-28)

To be a Christian, therefore, involves one's heart condition in accepting God's plan and then live by His attitudes, also:

"For 'by grace' are you saved 'through faith'; and that not of yourselves for it is the gift of God: so that it may be impossible for anyone to boast."(Ephesians 2:8-9)Never also think that because grace prevails you will continue to sin and ask forgiveness.



John 4:8 Says "God is love." Yes: God is love, and God is patient, but a common misconception is that because God is loving, He cannot or will not punish sin.
The Bible says God is a God of justice, as well as a merciful God. And when God "rolls up the heavens and earth as we now know them like a scroll," all those whose names are not written in the "Lamb's Book of Life" will appear before God to be sent to the second death (called Hell). Only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book (The book of the saved) will not be condemned to the second death.

