 Start by understanding the beat in your head to get how the music is. If it helps, count 1, 2, 3, 4 in your head. Try to pick out the rhythm the band/artist is using for time, it can be a steady beat from the drums, or from the bass.;
, Shift all of your weight to one foot. You can lift the other foot slightly off the ground to make sure all your weight is off of it.


At every other count (preferably 1 to 3) shift your weight completely to the other foot. You can also shift your weight at every single count, but starting out slowly will help you get comfortable before you begin dancing fast.
Keep your legs loose and bend your knees slightly; there should be just a little bit of "bounce" to your weight shifts, and a subtle bounce (in place) on the counts when you aren't shifting your weight as well.
 Once you're shifting your weight to the rhythm, begin moving your feet. Right before you shift your weight to a foot, move it slightly, even just an inch or two from where it was before. When you move your foot, keep it fairly close to the ground.


If you're dancing with someone else, be sure to move around in a way that accommodates your partner without stepping on him or her.
 When you put your weight on a foot, move your hips (and your body) slightly in the direction of that foot. If you shift your weight onto your right foot, for example, move your hips to the right. You can twist your body slightly to add a little more movement. For example, when you move to the right, put your right shoulder forward a little and left shoulder back vice versa for when you move to the left.
 If you're uncomfortable, the tendency is to keep your arms close or to let them hang limp. Instead, move your arms around. Keep your hands open or in very loose fists. You can put your arms in the air or at 90 degree angles at your sides (like when you're running)or try one of the arm moves listed below. Whatever you do, don't get stuck on just one move; keep switching it up.


Roll the dice. Make a loose fist and shake your arm and hand as though you are shaking a pair of dice for a roll. After a few shakes, "roll" the dice. Don't overuse this move to the point that it becomes comical. (More commonly used by men).
Mow the lawn. Bend forward and with one hand grasp the starter of an imaginary lawn mower. Pull your hand back as though you're pulling on the string to start the mower. Once you get it going, you can take a few steps while you mow the lawn. This move requires a certain amount of confidence to pull off, but it's a lot of fun and can bring a smile or a laugh to those dancing around you. (More commonly used by men).
Swing an air lasso. Grab an imaginary lasso and swing it above your head as though you're about to rope a cow. Shift your weight to the foot opposite your "lasso hand" and thrust your hips in that direction. (More commonly used by women).
Pump your fist. Make a fist and then make a pumping motion overhead in a celebratory fashion. (Best used when attending a concert).
 Natural impulses should be followed when dancing freestyle. It's easy to feel like you're only good at one move, but the more you feel the rhythm the more natural the motions will come out. Listening to subtleties in music will also help to train your body to move. Most importantly: be creative! Creating your own dance moves is easy with confidence and an understanding of your body., Move one of your forearms to your forehead and move the other arm to the left.