


Look at how large the practices are around you and what they offer their patients. Use this information to carve out a niche for your business.
See what advertising of theirs catches your eye. Ask yourself if any of those dentists' marketing techniques will fit your business.;
, They typically charge a lot, but you want people to be able to find you. If you can afford it, consider a small or large ad for greater recognition.
,


Send out private invitations to friends and family.
Consider purchasing a mailing list of your surrounding area to send invitations to.
Send a press release inviting the media to your event or to cover the news of the grand opening.
 Because it is not legal to put anything in a mailbox that is not stamped, door hangers allow you to catch your audience's attention and not get any complaints that you are doing anything illegal.



Go for an affluent market by placing print ads in local magazine publications. Magazines are kept longer than newspapers, and generally advertisements are put on color, glossy or semi-gloss paper.
Think about an ad campaign in the local newspaper if you have the budget for it. The trick to newspaper advertising is repeat exposure because newspapers are generally not held onto for a long period of time.



Create a website that lists your business's vital information such as hours of operation, contact info and physical address. Include sharp, colorful photos to show off your facility and staff.
Sign up for a Facebook page for your business and build your fan base through family and friends, and eventually through potential customers.



Sign up to become a member of your local Chamber of Commerce, and attend their networking events.
Join a group like Kiwanis, Rotary or Rotaract, which is like Rotary but instead targeted to those 18 to 30 years old.
Become a part of a local volunteer organization and commit time and effort outside of your office to build recognition within the community.
 This can typically be done in the form of a gift card or a Visa gift card.

