 You must have initiative, be creative, be outgoing and have a high level of self-confidence. Additional skills include having solid presentation skills and being an excellent speaker, as the primary aspect of your job is contact with the public, the media and the press.;
, The nature of the work often entails travel and an occasional around-the-clock schedule to meet deadlines. Working in public relations is often stressful.
 Supplemental coursework should include communications, journalism, research and writing in addition to advertising, business administration and political science.
 Explore this possibility by contacting several organizations to learn if they provide training programs for college students.
 A key advantage is being able to network with others and having access to industry publications and resources.


Many colleges and universities offer students the option of joining student associations that are specifically designed for those currently enrolled in a public relations degree program. Examples include the Public Relations Student Society of America and the International Association of Business Communicators.
Membership within local chapters of student associations will provide you with the opportunity to make contacts with public relations specialists already working within the field. Networking can lead to a job offer from public relations firms that are actively recruiting.
 If you have worked in other forms of media such as television or radio, include this as well within your portfolio.
 Browse for open positions through industry newsletters and associations, online job boards and by attending job fairs. Attending industry conferences is an excellent way to meet fellow professionals and to explore possible openings for work in public relations.
 Positions can be found in not only public relations firms but also at advertising agencies, government offices, educational institutions and health care organizations. Consider relocating to an urban area to work in public relations.

