 The types of rewards you give your English Springer Spaniel should vary so they don’t get complacent or tired of one type of treat. The treats you give don’t have to be food related. You can also give your Springer praise, affection, a play session with their favorite toy, or access to their play area.


You will be able to know which rewards your Springer likes the best. Your Springer will be more eager to get those than other rewards.
You can also change treats depending on the day if your Springer likes them all., As your English Springer Spaniel trains, they will get used to having a treat after every command. However, as your Springer gets better, you need to vary how often you give their treats in order to keep them guessing. As opposed to rewarding your Springer every time they do something they are supposed to, skip a few as they get better at commands to keep them on their toes.


This will make your Springer work harder for the treats because they already know they will get them if they do things correctly.
Start by treating every other correct behavior. As your Springer gets better at this, start skipping two, three, and four behaviors in between treats. Don’t do more than this. The few skipped ones will keep your Springer working for the treats but also let them know the treats are still coming., Your English Springer Spaniel puppy will want to be around you and get affection from you, so they will be easy to train. However, at such a young age, your Springer’s attention span will not be very long. This means you need to keep your training sessions on the shirt side. When you first start, the sessions should be no longer than five minutes.


If you see your Springer’s attention wavering, go ahead and cut the session off. You aren’t going to get anywhere if your Springer isn’t paying attention.
As your Springer ages, they will be able to pay attention longer you’re your sessions can run longer., Whenever you close your training sessions, make sure you end it on a good note. Give your English Springer Spaniel an easy command you know they can do at the end. This way, your Springer will perform the command and you can end the session with a treat or affection.


This will keep good feelings in your puppy’s mind as they leave the training session, which will make them more willing to come back to it in the future.