 These include getting dressed, bathing, eating, toileting, paying the bills, cleaning, shopping, making telephone calls, etc. Is the person able to do these tasks on their own, or is the disability preventing them from doing so? Sit down with the person and discuss these things to show that you care.A good way to frame these questions is to say that you read that they are important and normal questions to check in on for all people in "situations such as yours" (referring to the person who is disabled).
Another option, if you are uncomfortable asking such personal questions, is to set up an appointment with the family doctor, who has been trained to go over these questions in a professional and respectful way.;
, Are you or other family members or friends able to help? Is a full-time caregiver needed?


Note that ensuring the basic needs of daily living are accounted for and looked after is key to enhancing life for a person with a disability.
It not only lifts one's spirits by alleviating stress that these things will be taken care of, but also helps someone living with a disability to feel supported and cared for by those around them as it shows that others have taken an interest in their well-being.
 One option is to contact an occupational therapist (someone whose job consists of helping to adapt home situations for people with disabilities).You can start by making some basic adjustments yourself to help the person with a disability, as you and the affected person see fit. Some things to consider include:


Is the person now wheelchair-bound? If so, are there ramps to get in and out of the house? Whether or not they are in a wheelchair, are they able to get from one floor or the house to another if it is a multi-floor house? Is there any way to make this easier, such as with the installation of handrails?
Bathroom tasks may also be made easier with handrails, for instance to help with showering and/or toileting.
If the person is at risk of falls where they may not be able to get up to reach a telephone and call for help, do they have a medical alert button they can press and/or a medical alert bracelet detailing their medical conditions for if and when something happens and emergency medical personnel arrive?
These are just some of the things to consider. The person themselves (with the disability) can likely give you the best indication as to things they are struggling with mobility-wise at home, and either you or the occupational therapist can then think of creative ways to help.
The occupational therapist can also conduct a complete evaluation of the home environment that is much more thorough, and provide innovative solutions that we often cannot think of ourselves given that they work in this field and have lots of experience., Look into assistance programs such as "Meals on Wheels" to see if your loved one qualifies for this assistance. These are great services that can ensure ready-to-eat meals delivered to their door.
 In cases of extreme injury and/or illness, it may be impossible for the person to manage on their own at home. It may also be too expensive to hire full-time caregivers, and even full-time caregivers may not be able to provide adequate medical care and support in severe cases.


For cases where the medical needs of looking after the disability are higher, consider transferring the person to a facility where this type of care can be available on an "as-need" basis, or even on a 24/7 basis.
Another reason to transfer someone with a disability to a group care facility is to enhance their social connections. It is a fine line to walk, because some people get depressed at the idea of moving out of their home; however, others thrive as it gives them many more options of things to do during the day, people to connect with, and others who are in similar situations.

