 A day or two before you leave, you should start drinking small glasses of water at regular intervals. Since dehydration can be a trigger for seasickness, it is important to start hydrating early. When you go on your trip, bring a bottle of water, and take small sips from it. Do not chug it down all at once.Avoid alcohol before your trip, as alcohol can cause dehydration.
 Make sure to get plenty of sleep before your trip so that you are relaxed. This will prevent tension that might trigger the motion seasickness. Eat a light meal before you leave. Both starving and overeating might cause you to feel nauseous, so it is important to have something in your stomach.Some people find that it helps to eat green apples before they leave as the pectin in the apple settles their stomach.
 The middle has less motion than the bow and stern. Find a place to sit and relax in the middle of the cruise ship deck and take some deep breaths of fresh air., The stationary horizon will always appear still and in the same place. Your brain will recognize the stillness and send clues to your inner ear. Your inner ear then regains its balance and the seasick feeling subsides.,


Stay away from alcoholic or caffeinated drinks and substitute water or decaf tea.
Adding lemon to your water may help alleviate symptoms. Allow yourself to really smell the lemon — you can even suck on a lemon wedge if you can stand the sourness!, Staying active, or as active as you feel up to, can also help to keep you from dwelling on how you feel.


If there is a treadmill on the boat, however, this can actually make your nausea and feeling of seasickness worse. This is because running on a treadmill while the ship is moving increases the motion and instability of things around you.
In terms of staying active, then, if your seasickness is only mild it can help to distract yourself with activities such as shopping, walking, or talking with others.
 Steering the boat will help you concentrate on something other than feeling sick, it will force you to look at the horizon and it allows you to anticipate the movement of the boat, giving your body ample time to prepare its response.
 These wristbands push on pressure points in your wrist. This may be able to help you feel less nauseous on the boat. Acupuncture wristbands may be available over the counter or online.