 The easiest way to determine if someone likes you is by asking them outright. Choose a person that shares similar interests and evaluate their values. Give yourself time to get to know the person first. If you both enjoy each other's company and often have the same opinion on issues, there's a good chance that they like you.If the person tries to talk about deeper and personal things rather than superficial pleasantries, it's a good chance that they may like you.You can say something like, "Hey, I really have a good time hanging out with you. Would you like to go on a date?"
You can also say something like, "I noticed that we are similar in a lot of different ways, and I like spending time with you. Do you feel the same way?"

, Someone's body language may clue you to if they like you or not. Take note if the person leans into you, and exhibits open body language when they are around you. Frequent, prolonged eye contact or gazing in your direction is also another sign.If they look comfortable, relaxed, and happy, it's a good indication that they like being around you. If they touch you on the shoulder or arm, it's another sign that they are into you.


Take note of how the person interacts with other people as well. Do they pay you special attention or is this person regularly flirtatious with others as well?
If the person crosses their arms or legs and sits pointing away from you, this could be an indication that they don't like you., If the individual always wants to be around you or makes excuses to be in your presence, there's a chance that they like you.Going out of their way to talk to you at recess or lunch is a good sign that they like you.
 When a person likes you, they will usually give you compliments. This is a sign that they like you. Consider how close you are to the person and how personal they try to get with you. If they ask you how you feel emotionally or try to get intimate details about your life, there's a chance that they like you. If they ask you what you're doing over the weekend or seem curious to what you do on your free time, there's a good likelihood that they would be receptive to spending social time with you.


Concentrate on what they have to say and take it in and internalize it. Instead of spending time thinking about your response, hear them out.