 When you go to a drive-thru for coffee or food and there’s someone in line behind you, tell the cashier you’d like to pay for their order. Alternately, you can do this inside of a restaurant or coffee shop on your way out. The object is to do this discreetly and anonymously, without receiving accolades.


Try saying, “I’d like to pay for the person behind me. Could you add it to my bill?” You could also request that the cashier relays a message, such as, “Please pay it forward someday!”
If you’re uneasy about how much the bill might be, contribute a specific amount instead. For instance, try saying, “Here is ten dollars towards the bill of the person behind me.” If the cashier mentions there will be change, tell them to keep it in their tip jar, if they have one, or ask them to give it back to person behind you.
 Call friends, neighbors or family over to visit. You can mention whether the invitation is for brunch, lunch, dinner or tea/coffee. You can be extra kind by telling them they don’t need to bring anything but themselves., You can do this on a website such as Craigslist (their “free” category is under the “for sale” section). Items you may want to consider giving away are vast, ranging from furniture and household items to tickets, toys, games and auto parts. When you don’t need something any more and/or you’re considering throwing it away (for example, on your trash bulk pickup date), consider whether you can give it away instead.


Remember to take safety precautions when meeting with strangers from the classifieds. You can read more about that at https://www.craigslist.org/about/safety


, Donate canned food or other acceptable items to a food bank. You can organize a drive by getting friends and family together and asking them to bring items.Find food banks near you at http://www.FeedingAmerica.org or http://www.FoodPantries.org.
 Find a local church, Goodwill or other nonprofit. Another way to do this is look online for a drop-off box near you that accepts such items.
 Purchase holiday cards at a supermarket or stationary store and send some delightful snail mail to your loved ones. Another idea for spreading kindness over the holidays is delivering treats through a service or in person.


There are many companies that offer mail order gifts of edible items such as Christmas cookies, nuts and other goodies. Consider ordering a box to arrive as a surprise for some of the people you know. Alternately, you can show up on their doorstep when you know they’ll be home, with your family and a box of homemade sweets. Ring the doorbell, and when they answer, sing one or two of your favorite carols!

, You can improvise with your own ideas of anonymous gifts, but a couple ideas to consider are stamps or books. Consider carrying a pack of sticky notes and a pen with you for the purpose of acts of kindness.


Occasionally when you go to the post office to buy stamps, purchase extra and leave them in or beside the machine.Take a good book you’re willing to part with and leave it in a public place with a note for someone else to enjoy it.Write something like, “This is for you. Please take it and try to pass on act of kindness to someone else.”

, A good way to do this is to buy or make two to four bouquets (or more). Select a nursing home from a local directory, like the yellow pages. When you arrive at the nursing home, find a staff member. Give one bouquet of flowers to them to keep, and ask them to give the other bouquets to residents who could use cheering up. This technique utilizes the rule of reciprocity, also called, “the norm of reciprocity.”If the staff member asks why you’ve given them flowers, just say, “It’s a ‘thank you’ for passing these out.” If you prefer not to do this in person, you can have a flower delivery company send bouquets with a similar note.
The rule of reciprocity means that the person you are generous to is likely to feel obliged to do you a favor in return. In this case, since you’re giving a bouquet to a staff member as well, you increase the likelihood that they will pass the kindness on well, by thinking carefully about which residents would most benefit from the gift.
Alternately, you can bring other types of gifts besides flowers, such as homemade knitted scarves.
 Find a local children’s hospital in a directory. Call ahead first or visit the hospital’s website to find out where you should bring the gifts and if there are any guidelines about what you can give. Prepare some items you think kids would enjoy, such as kids’ craft sets, stuffed animals, or quilts., This is a great activity you can do with kids. Set it up as you might a lemonade stand, with a table, chairs, and a large sign. You can opt to serve coffee, hot chocolate, or both.Make sure to dress appropriately for the weather. This is a nice way to spread kindness over the holidays!
Write on the sign, “FREE Coffee and Hot Cocoa!” Consider adding to the sign or somewhere at your table an advisory such as: “Warning: beverages may be very hot.”
Items you may need are thermoses, coffee and/or hot chocolate, disposable coffee cups with lids, marshmallows, packs of sugar or artificial sweetener, packs of flavored or unflavored creamers, and stirrers.

