 Calcium can help prevent and reduce the pain you have associated with your period, as well as many other PMS symptoms. Calcium can be consumed through items such as: dairy products, fortified soy beverages, canned salmon and sardines, and leafy greens.You can also take additional calcium via a calcium supplement of between 500 mg and 1,200 mg per day.
 Low magnesium levels can be associated with many PMS symptoms, including cramps and headaches. Increase the amount of foods you consume that are high in magnesium, such as: sunflower seeds, nuts, lentils, legumes, whole grains, soybeans, figs and green vegetables.You can also increase your magnesium intake by taking magnesium supplements in a pill form. For the best effect, take 360 mg per day for three days before your period begins., Vitamin B6 helps produce serotonin. Serotonin can help reduce anxiety and depression brought on by PMS. Foods with high amounts of vitamin B6 are: beef, pork, chicken, fish, whole grain cereals, bananas, avocados, and potatoes.While vitamin B6 is found in supplements, but be careful not to take more than 100 mg per day. Excess vitamin B6 can be toxic.
 Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium and can act as an anti-inflammatory. Try taking 400 IU per day to help reduce the pain you have due to your period., Vitamin E has been shown to decrease pain associated with your period when 500 IU is taken per day. It is best to start taking the vitamin E supplements two days before your period begins, and stop three days after your period has started. Therefore you’d be taking it for five days., Omega-3 fatty acids are most often found in fish oil as a supplement. It can be taken in pill form or liquid form.Fish oil is an anti-inflammatory and can help reduce the pain associated with your period.
 Several types of herbal teas contain ingredients that can help reduce the painful cramps brought on by your period.Raspberry leaf tea can help to relax your uterus and reduce cramping.
Chamomile tea contains an anti-spasmodic which can also reduce cramping.
Cramp bark tea (made using 1 teaspoon of dried cramp bark simmered in 1 cup of water for 15 minutes) can help reduce pain. It can be taken up to three times a day., Evening primrose oil can be obtain both in liquid form and in pill form. It contains an essential fatty acid called gamma linolenic acid (GLA). GLA blocks prostaglandins in your body which can cause painful cramps during your period.For the best effects, take 500 to 1,000 mg per day., Taking ginger supplements in extract form (specifically Zintoma or Goldaru) can help reduce the pain associated with your period.Take 250 mg four times a day for the first three days of your period.

