 A large network of legal aid programs operate on federal grants.Legal aid programs employ lawyers and paralegals to offer free services to people who are eligible. Legal aid programs are an excellent resource for help with divorce proceedings, employment issues, landlord and tenant issues, and a number of other legal problems.To qualify for legal aid, your income must be below a certain amount. The definition of "low income" varies from state to state. In many states, your income must be below the federal poverty line to qualify, which you can determine here.
You can search online or in the phone directory for “legal aid” to find an office in your area.;
, Bar associations often offer free legal help through pro bono programs.Lawyers willing to work for free, or "pro bono," are matched with people who qualify for free legal advice. Some nonprofits dedicate themselves to providing pro bono legal help to those in need. Research pro bono programs in your area by looking online or contacting a legal aid office to get a referral.To qualify for a pro bono program, you may be asked to prove that your income is below a certain amount.
Many local bar associations also offer programs that can reduce or eliminate legal fees or resources on how to find these programs. Many bar associations also have a referral service that will include a free consultation with an attorney. To find out if your local bar association has a program like this, visit the American Bar Association.
Additionally, some private law firms contain pro bono departments within their firms. These types of programs are usually geared toward specific issues that impact the community. Because private firms often have more resources than public legal aid programs, the pro bono work of these firms generally will focus on civil rights issues and suits against the government.
To find a private firm with a pro bono program in your area, simply search “private law firms + pro bono work” online.
 Many states have self-help clinics designed to provide free legal advice to anyone who asks. Some clinics accept questions in person, and others accept questions submitted online. The questions are typically answered by lawyers or paralegals, and the process is often confidential.Self-help clinics are good resources when you have a question or two about the process you need to undertake or which forms to fill out. However, they are not substitute for actually retaining a lawyer who can help with your case.


To find a self-help program, call your local courthouse or look online. If you find a program that accepts questions in person, arrive as early as you can to ensure that you are helped.
Most of the programs that accept questions in person are held at courthouses and handle specific legal issues, so make sure that you attend the right program to get help with your specific issue. For example, some courts run a “domestic relations clinic” on specified days at the local domestic relations courthouse.
Many local courthouses also run programs for a wider range of issues, including probate (will writing) issues and planning, personal injury, landlord/tenant issues and debt collection suits. If the program is held at a civil court, the attorneys there will likely not handle criminal issues.
 Legal hotlines provide advice for people in specific situations, such as victims of domestic abuse. In some cases, the advice is free. In other cases, it is very low cost. Do a search for legal hotlines in your state, and find one that will give advice appropriate to your situation.


It’s important to call a hotline in your state of residence. The laws differ from state to state, so you might get the wrong advice if you call a hotline in another state.
For example, many bar associations in Texas run a “Legal Line” that runs on certain days of week. Texas also has legal hotlines for victims of domestic violence, people facing employment issues, and “Older Texans.”, Many law schools run legal clinics as a way to give law students practical experience. Clinics can take general civil or criminal matters, or can be geared toward one type of legal case, such as a foreclosure relief clinic or a domestic violence clinic.


Legal help in the clinic setting is often offered by law students who are supervised by experienced law professors. Although the law students are not licensed attorneys, they are heavily supervised by experienced lawyers who will make sure that everything on your case is done correctly.
Legal clinics often help people who have low incomes, but the specialized clinics will usually take good cases regardless of the individual’s income to give the students experience.
To find a legal clinic, look on the websites of law schools in your area.

