 From the five pointed star pose, bring your feet back together in mountain pose. Bird pose is a balancing pose that you do first with one foot then with the other.Reach behind you with both of your arms, palms facing down. Your arms are like the wings of a bird. Find a point in front of you on which to focus, then raise one foot behind you.
Balance for two or three deep breaths, then slowly lower your foot and repeat the pose with the other foot raised.
 Bee's breath is a form of yogic breathing that has a very calming effect. If you know a child who is prone to anxiety attacks or temper tantrums, bee's breath can be a way to help them calm down.Sit on your knees with your arms behind you. As you inhale through your nose, lengthen your spine and think about filling your lungs with air from the bottom to the top.
Pause after your inhale, then lower your forehead towards the floor as you begin your exhale. Buzz like a bee as you exhale through your mouth. Pause again at the end of the exhale, then repeat the cycle.
 A guided visualization can help even younger kids relax and relieve stress while also allowing them to use their imagination. Start by having the child lay on their back, palms on the floor at their sides.Tell the child to imagine they are lying on a fluffy cloud. Have them breathe slowly and deeply in and out. You can point them to certain aspects of the cloud, or encourage them to share their visualization with you.
 The ladybug pose is a yoga squat that helps open your hips. If you sit in a chair at work all day, or if your trying yoga with kids who sit at a desk all day in school, this pose will help release tension in your hips and lower back.From a standing position, extend your feet a little wider than hip-width apart and slowly lower your hips. Adjust your bodyweight until you find a comfortable squat.
Press your palms together in front of your chest and press your elbows against your inner knees to bind the position. Take several deep breaths in and out, and then release the position.
 Downward facing dog is one of the most common poses in yoga, and provides a whole body stretch for kids and adults alike. The pose also helps you relax and let go of stress.Have the child start on all fours. Then have them roll over their toes and extend their legs and lift their hips up in the air. Pull back with the upper body, lifting the weight away from the wrists. Press down through the heels to lengthen the legs and give the hamstrings a good stretch.
 From downward facing dog, it is relatively easy to lower down into child's pose. Simply bend the knees and lower the hips until you are sitting on your heels. You can keep your arms extended overhead or draw them to your sides, palms facing up.Child's pose is a relaxing pose. If you're teaching it to kids, they may find it familiar and comforting. Since child's pose is so gentle, you can stay in this pose as long as you like, meditating and breathing deeply.

