 One way to discourage aggressive behavior is to have clear, consistent consequences for aggressive actions. This helps the child learn that there are negative consequences if they do something. By not giving in to tantrums or negative behavior, you are not rewarding this destructive behavior.For example, if your child starts hitting you because you want to leave the park, don’t let them stay at the park to avoid a tantrum. Instead, take them home and take away a toy or give them another consequence. This will help them realize that throwing a tantrum and hitting doesn’t get them what they want.
 Aggressive behavior usually stems from a child’s inability to deal with their strong feelings and their lack of control. You can teach your child how to manage these emotions in a more constructive, healthy, non-aggressive way.For example, you can teach your child to punch a stuffed animal or bean bag instead of hitting a person when they are mad. You can tell them to rip paper or jump around. You may also tell them to go to their special place alone.
 One way to help manage aggressive behavior or a tantrum is to distract your child. When you distract your child, you interrupt their aggression with a completely different train of thought. This can help break the cycle of aggressive emotion.For example, you may start talking to your toddler about something they enjoy, suggest that you play a game, or give them a kiss.
 Many times, aggressive behavior in toddlers occurs because they are unable to communicate their frustration or anger. Help your children learn how to use their words. It may be something as simple as the word “no!” instead of hitting.Tell your child to say “no!” instead of hitting, biting, or yelling. You can also teach them to say things like, “Stop!”; or, “That hurts!”; or, “That’s mine!”

, If your child is extremely aggressive, you may need to take them to the pediatrician or a pediatric psychologist. This may happen if the aggression happens multiple times a day or every day, or if it lasts for multiple weeks. You may also consider it if none of the strategies you’ve used have helped.You may want to seek help if your child is causing physical harm to themselves or others, attacks you, other children, or other adults, or if you fear for others’ safety.

