 Corporate flight attendants are required to have a high school diploma. Companies often prefer applicants with a university or college degree.Prior to embarking on this career path, make sure you have the basic level of required formal education.


There are no requirements with regards to the length of your undergraduate degree. However, four year degrees are generally more respectable.
Your undergraduate degree can be in any area of specialization. However, an undergraduate degree in hospitality, tourism, liberal arts, or culinary arts may be advantageous.;
, Many corporate flight attendants transition from careers as flight attendants for major commercial airlines.If you do not have any flight attendant experience at all, you may want to start out as a public transport flight attendant on a commercial airline.However, you could also skip this step and train directly for corporate flight attendant positions.You can find commercial flight attendant jobs by attending airline conferences and searching online job boards. You may want to look for jobs with smaller or regional airlines, which often have more openings for entry level candidates., Corporate flight attendants have many responsibilities beyond those of commercial flight attendants. For instance, corporate flight attendants are often required to have specialized first aid training, alongside corporate security, hotel security, and high end food services training.Ask friends or colleagues in the aviation industry about the responsibilities for this position.
Attend a flight attendant conference and try to meet people in the industry. Ask them for details on what is involved in being a corporate flight attendant. For instance, you might attend the National Business Aviation Association conference or similar events., Specialized corporate flight attendant training courses are suitable for both novices and people with previous aviation experience.Courses are typically four or five days in length and often assume some previous aviation experience.


Ask your friends and colleagues for recommendations on good training courses. Courses cover topics like trip preparation, wine, and food safety, amongst other topics. There is no standardized curriculum so you need to do your research.
Go to professional aviation websites to search for available courses. Courses cover everything from wine presentation to water ditching.Check to see if the aviation website and course is legitimate and recognized by the Federal Aviation Administration.Look for the acronym FAA.
Courses typically cost between three and four and a half thousand dollars. You will also need to factor in the travel costs if there are no courses offered in your region. Find a course that works for your location, budget, and schedule.
Make sure your course covers emergency flight situations. Some of the things you should know include ditching (i.e., evacuating in water), volatile fuel threats and fires, evacuations, blocked exit procedures, decompressions, life raft operations, and malfunctions.These topics should be covered by a corporate flight attendant training course., Although a corporate flight attendant training course will cover food safety and even wine preparation, you might want to obtain some extra training in food services or safety.


Obtain additional training and experience in high end dining. As a corporate flight attendant, you will have to put more effort into food services and, in particular, plating or dressing food. This includes food handling, safety techniques and dressing food.Consider taking a course at a cooking school that covers food plating, style, and wine. You can search for courses at your local community college.
In addition, you might consider working as a waiter in a high end restaurant for a few months to gain valuable plating experience.



Read the flight manuals for the aircrafts that you fly on regularly.Read the email bulletins from airline companies that include safety in the subject line., Knowledge of corporate culture and security is highly valued for this position.So you should become knowledgable of the corporate culture and the personality of the CEO you hope to work for.Read the corporate websites of the companies you hope to work for. Identify keywords and major themes on the corporate website. This should help you during the interview process.
Ask colleagues who work for the company you hope to fly with. Ask them about the corporate culture and what you might need to know as a corporate flight attendant.

