 Open any Internet browser you like by double-clicking its icon on your desktop.;
, Type in https://www.bitcasa.com/ on the address bar and hit Enter; you will be taken to the Bitcasa’s home page.
 From the home page, click on the “Log in” link found on the upper-right part of the screen. Enter your Bitcasa username (or email) and password, and click on the “Log in” button to proceed.
 Upon login, you’ll be brought to the My Drive page. This is the main directory for all your files and folders within your Bitcasa account.
 From My Drive, you can navigate through all the folders and subfolders by clicking on them.


Folders are identified with a folder icon beside them.
 Various files are supported by Bitcasa, which means you can view them directly from the website without needing to download them first to your desktop. Just click on the files you’d like to open and view, and they will be opened for your viewing.


The file types are properly identified with the respective icons beside them.
 The files and folders are displayed in lists by default. If you’d like to change this view to icons, look for the “View” option on the upper-right side of the header menu. Click on this to trigger a view switch between list and icon views.
 You can define the sorting parameter for the files and folders. You can sort them by name, size, and date in both ascending and descending order. Look for the “Sort” option on the upper-right side of the header menu. Click on this to view the sorting options.
 Bitcasa filters all the files in your account into four predefined categories: Photos, Music, Videos, and Documents. If you only want to view files from a specific category, all you have to do is click the respective category from the left panel menu, under My Drive.


The files that belong to the category you chose, regardless of their sub-folders and locations, will be displayed for easier navigation.
 Go to the folder level where the file or folder you’d like to move is located. Use the tick box beside the file or the folder to select it. You can select multiple files and folders to move at the same time.


Once done with your selection, click the “Move” option from the header menu. A pop-up box will appear asking you where you want to move the selected files or folders.
Select the destination folder and click the “Submit” button. The selected files or folders will immediately be moved to their new location.
 Go to the folder level where the file or folder you’d like to copy is located. Use the tick box beside the file or the folder to select it. You can select multiple files and folders to copy at the same time.


Once done with your selection, click the “Copy” option from the header menu. A pop-up box will appear asking you where you want to copy the selected files or folders.
Select the destination folder and click the “Submit” button. The selected files or folders will immediately be copied to the selected location.
 Go to the folder level where the file or folder you’d like to delete is located. Use the tick box beside the file or the folder to select it. You can select multiple files and folders to delete at the same time.


Once done with your selection, click the “Delete” option from the header menu. A pop-up box will appear asking for your confirmation.
Click the “Delete” button to confirm. The selected files or folders will immediately be deleted.
 Go to the folder level where the file or folder you’d like to download is located. Use the tick box beside the file or the folder to select it. You can select multiple files and folders to download at the same time.


Once done with your selection, click the “Download” option from the header menu. The selected files and folders will begin downloading to your desktop.
The files and folders will be in a compressed ZIP file for easier management.
 Go to the folder level where the file or folder you’d like to send is located. Use the tick box beside the file or the folder to select it. You can select multiple files and folders to send at the same time.


Once done with your selection, click the “Send” option from the header menu. Bitcasa will create a send link that will contain a snapshot of the selected files and folders.
The send link, together with predefined options for sharing, will be displayed for your use in a pop-up box.
 Go to the folder level where the new folder will be located. Once you’re at the folder level, click the “New Folder” option from the header menu. Input the name of the new folder in the pop-up box and click the “Submit” button.


The new folder will be created right away.
 Go to the folder level where you want to upload your files. On the left panel menu, right after the file categories, you can find the “Upload” option. Click this and select the files from your desktop that you’d like to upload to Bitcasa.


The files will be uploaded simultaneously to the folder where you’re in.
 Another way to upload to Bitcasa is by selecting and dragging the files from your desktop right onto your browser.


The files will be uploaded simultaneously to the folder where you’re currently in.
 On the left panel menu, right after “Upload,” is the “Send Links” option. Click this to go to the Link Manager.
 The Link Manager displays all the files and folders you’ve shared from Bitcasa. The names of the files and folders, their corresponding sizes, and creation dates are also displayed.
 To view the snapshot of the files and folders you’ve shared, just click on the name. A new browser window will open with the files and folders you’ve shared. You can view them, and even download them, from here.


These are snapshots of the files and folders you’ve shared. These are not the current and actual ones you have in your Bitcasa account.
 Each of the send links can be retrieved for re-sending. Just click on the corresponding icon under the “Send” column to view the send links, together with predefined options for sharing.
 If you’d like to retire the send links, just click on the corresponding trash icon under the “Delete” column. A pop-up confirmation message will appear. Click “Delete” to confirm.


The deleted send links will be removed permanently and will no longer be accessible. The snapshots of the files and folders embedded within the deleted send links will also be removed.

