 After shaving, gently pat your skin dry. Then apply a moisturizing, alcohol-free lotion. This will help you avoid irritating your freshly shaved skin, as well as those small razor burn bumps that sometimes appear. Try moisturizing with 100% pure shea butter for natural, alcohol-free moisture.
 Choose a self-tanner that matches your current skin tone. If you have fair skin, choose a light to medium formula. If your skin is darker or has olive tones, go for a dark formula. A mousse or lotion-based tanner will give you more control in the application process.After you exfoliate, shave, dry off and moisturize, apply the self tanner one teaspoon at a time.
Start at your ankles, and smooth the self-tanner into your skin using small circular motions.
Allow the tanner to dry for twice as long as the directions suggest, and avoid showering for at least six hours after application.
Keep in mind that if you are using a gradual formula it might take two to four applications before you reach your desired shade.
 Oils are a gateway to glowing, shiny legs. If you want to go the natural route, try applying a natural organic oil to your legs after exfoliating and shaving. It will add moisture and shine. If you want more shimmer, opt for a shimmering body oil, which can be purchased online or at the makeup counter of your favorite department store.Try rubbing one teaspoon of coconut oil into your skin for glowing, shiny legs.
Almond oil is rich in vitamins A and E. Apply a small amount with a cotton ball and allow it to soak into your legs.
Baby oil, which is typically 98% mineral oil, can add moisture and shine to your legs.
Argan oil is packed with antioxidants, fatty acids, and linoleic acid. Try rubbing one teaspoon of argan oil into your legs after shaving.
 If you have dark skin, a good moisturizer is often all you need to get your legs glowing. On fairer skin tones, you can add some glow with a good shimmer powder or mineral powder. Just take a large makeup brush and apply lightly to the front of your legs. You can find shimmer and mineral powder at the makeup counter in department stores, or at places like Target.