 Denim comes in a variety of colors, but most denim dresses are usually some shade of blue. However, you still have options when it comes to the depth of the blue. Some denim washes work best for more polished looks, while others are ideal for a relaxed outfit.Dark wash denim tends to have a more dressed up look, so they work well for work or an evening out.
Lighter wash denim dresses usually have a more casual appearance, which makes them ideal for daytime wear.
Medium rinse denim dresses are versatile, and can work for a variety of looks.;
, For warm weather, a tank style denim dress is a versatile option. Some options are fitted, while others are shift style without a defined waist. Depending on the accessories that you pair with it, you can easily dress them up or down so it’s ideal for both day and night.A tank style denim dress is an ideal option for layering over and under, which allows you to transition them into colder weather.
Tank style dress also make ideal coverups for the beach or pool.
 For a more tailored, sophisticated look, choose a shirt style denim dress. Add a belt to help define the waist, and pair it with menswear-inspired accessories for an outfit that’s appropriate for school, a casual work setting, or running errands.Wear a denim shirt dress with suede oxfords or loafers to play up the menswear look.
Choose classic patterns, such as stripes or plaid, for your bag and other accessories to keep the look polished.
 If you want to wear a denim dress for a date or evening out, a fitted style works best. A bustier style denim dress is a particularly good option. Wear it with heels or wedges and a statement necklace or pair of earrings for a flirty, dramatic look.If you prefer a more sedate look, a denim sheath dress is an ideal alternative. It is also a fitted style but usually has a higher neckline to provide more coverage.
A wrap style denim dress is another fitted style that works well for an evening out. It’s a particularly good option if you have a curvy or hourglass figure because it emphasizes the waist.
 When you want a casual, everyday look, a denim tunic dress is a good option. Its loose fit gives it a more relaxed feel and makes it more comfortable for most figures.If you feel like a tunic style dress is too shapeless, you can add a belt to define your waist.
A tunic dress pairs well with casual shoes, such as tennis shoes, flat sandals, ballet flats, or even flip flops.
 If you want to get more wear out of your denim dress, consider layering a tee shirt under it. It’s an ideal option with a tank style dress, but you can also do it with short and three-quarter sleeve styles.With a tank style denim dress, you can layer a short sleeve tee, tank top, or camisole under it. In cooler weather, a long-sleeve tee is a good option.
With a short- or three-quarter sleeve dress, layer a long-sleeve tee underneath it.
You may also want to layer a tank top, camisole, or short-sleeve tee under a denim dress with any sleeve length to provide more coverage for your chest.
 In cooler weather, you may want to add a layer over your dress to keep warm. Wear a cardigan or a fitted blazer over the dress to give it a more polished look. For a more dramatic look, layer a flowy duster over your dress.While you can wear nearly any jacket over a denim dress, it’s best to avoid a denim style. Too much denim can give you a dated look.
You can also layer a sweater or shirt over the top of your dress and use it as a skirt if you prefer.
 While denim dresses are usually popular in warmer weather, you can easily transition yours to cooler weather by wearing tights with it. Tights in neutral colors, such as black, gray, and brown, work best with denim, but you can also use a bolder color.Boots pair especially well with a denim dress and tights. Both to the knee and ankle styles are flattering options.
If you want more coverage for your legs in cooler weather, you can substitute leggings for tights with your denim dress.
 Bright, bold shades pair well with a denim dress, particularly a dark wash style. Choose a vibrant color for a layering piece, such as a tee shirt or cardigan; an accessory, such as a belt, scarf, or hat; or your shoes.Bright shades of red, blue, yellow, orange, green, and purple can work well with dark, medium, and light rinse denim dresses.
Be careful when pairing neon colors, such as hot pink or lime green, with a denim dress, particularly if it’s a light wash. That combination can have a very dated look.
 If you prefer a more subdued look, wear your denim dress with pastel accents. They can help soften the look of the denim for a more feminine feel. Add a necklace with pale pink, blue, and mint beads or throw on a pair of pale yellow ballet flats with your dress.While pastel shades can work with a denim dress in virtually any wash, they do pair best with dark and medium wash because it creates more of a contrast.
 Because the denim serves as a neutral, you can pair your dress with accessories and other pieces in striking prints. It’s best to focus on one print at a time, though, to keep your outfit from looking too busy.Animal print works well with a denim dress. Incorporate a scarf, belt, or shoes in a the print to spice up your outfit.
Bright floral prints can pair well with a denim dress. Layer a colorful floral print cardigan over it, or carry a bag in a floral design with your dress.
Colorful stripes, polka dots, and checks are other patterns to consider with a denim dress.
 Because denim is a rough, sturdy material, you can create an interesting contrast by pairing your dress with delicate items. For example, you might layer a lacy camisole under it or use a satin ribbon belt to define the waist.Delicate pearl earrings and/or a necklace can help soften the look of a denim dress.
Ballet flats with bow details are ideal when you want to add a delicate, feminine touch.
 If your denim dress feels a little too casual or basic, adding some edgy accessories to it can help give it a more modern look. Smooth leather creates a nice contrast with the rough denim, so layer a leather jacket over it or pair a leather cuff bracelet with it. Spiked items, such as necklace, earrings, or bag, can also work well with a denim dress.Pairing a denim dress with leather motorcycle boots can also help give your look some edge.
 Another way to create contrast with your denim dress is to pair with fabrics in unique texture. You might layer a velvet blazer over it or pair it with colorful silk scarf. Corduroy and tweed can also work well with a denim dress.You might carry a suede bag or weird suede boots or booties with your denim dress.
A tweed or corduroy jacket layers well over a denim dress.
For a more polished, dressed up look, layer a silk blouse under a denim tank dress.

