 The lease attaches to straps around the dog's muzzle so that when the dog pulls, its head will be forced around, facing you. Attaching the leash to the dog's muzzle automatically redirects its focus toward you., When training your dog, try using a slip or choke collar under the supervision of a trained expert. These collars will tighten around the dog’s neck if they pull on the leash, effectively choking them. Using these collars for training will help your dog associate pulling with being choked.While these collars can effective for training a dog, many experts argue that they are dangerous or unnecessary. It is recommended that you never use a choke collar unless under the direct supervision of animal behaviorist.These collars work by using negative reinforcement. Most dog training experts suggest that your dog will respond better to positive reinforcement that it will to negative reinforcement- so keep that in mind when considering using this training tool.
These collars are for training only. Never leave this collar on your dog or use it as a substitute for their regular collar.
These collars are controversial, so consider the arguments for or against choke collars before deciding to try this method.
 These harnesses attach to the dogs collar with a clip, and are fastened across the dogs underbelly.


It works through attaching your leash to the front chest strap, which means you will gain more control over your dog. When your dog pulls on its leash, it will be guided back towards you, naturally and gently discouraging him from pulling.
The leash attachment at the chest prevents putting any pressure on your dog’s throat and neck, which is especially important as this could cause tracheal damage.
 Run the dog to tire it out before attaching the leash and going for a walk. A tired dog is far more manageable and will be more responsive to your commands during the walk.Try playing fetch in the yard for 10 minutes before going on a walk.
 End training sessions on a happy success moment. Don't end it when he/she is messing up. Success is continuing to make progress. Never allow the dog to remain unhappy at the end of your training session. 