 The easiest way to sell your personal seat license (PSL) is to go through a broker. Most brokers are now online. You are able to create an account and list your asking price. Sellers then log onto the same website and make an offer.


You can find brokers by typing your team and “sell PSL” into your favorite web browser.
The website pslsource.com sells PSLs for 17 NFL teams. Some teams, however, won’t let brokers sell or buy their PSLs. The Tennessee Titans, for example, direct all PSL holders to a particular website which handles the transfer and sale of the Titans’ PSLs.;
, You might already have an account if you purchased your PSL through a broker. However, if you didn’t, then you can typically create an account by providing the following information:email address
your first and last name
your address
a phone number
a username and password

, You will have to enter information about the seat and also set your list price. Remember that buyers are encouraged to negotiate with you.


Accordingly, you might want to list the price higher than the absolute minimum you would be willing to accept. This gives you some room to come down on price, which will make the buyer feel like he or she got a deal.
For example, if the absolute minimum you would be willing to accept is $5,000, then you might want to list for $7,500.
Always check what equivalent PSLs have been listed for. In particular, see how much seats in your stadium tier are priced. You don’t want to price too high.
 Interested buyers will notify you and make an offer. You can accept, decline, or make a counter-offer.If a bid is so low as to be insulting, then you might want to reject it out of hand. However, you should generally attempt to negotiate up to a higher price.
 Effective negotiation can be difficult online because you can’t rely on visual clues. However, you should still use standard negotiation techniques when negotiating with a potential buyer.


Let’s say you put a price of $7,500 but are willing to accept $5,000. A buyer offers $4,000. You shouldn’t immediately drop your price to $5,000. Instead, assume the buyer wants to haggle some more.
Move down in $500 increments. In the example above, counter with an offer for $7,000.
 Once you receive a bid that looks good to you, you can accept it. The online broker will then remove the listing.
 The broker will probably have you fill out paperwork so that you can complete the transfer of the PSL. You should keep a copy of all paperwork and return it promptly. Mail it certified mail, return receipt requested so that you will know when it has been received.


Each professional sports team creates a window in which PSLs can be transferred. Some teams allow transfers to be made year-round.However, other teams provide only a limited window. For example, the Chicago Bears football team has set a transfer period from February 1 to July 1.If you sell outside the transfer period, then the funds will be held until the next transfer period. Accordingly, if you sold your Chicago Bears PSL on August 1, then you will have to wait until February 1 to receive your funds and execute the transfer.

