 The federal agency maintains information on national pollution laws and agency regulations for dealing with pollution on private property, as well as an online complaint form you can use.On the website you can find information regarding the types of pollution issues the EPA handles. Often the EPA requires that you first submit a complaint to your state or local government before the EPA will step in.
The EPA provides a list with examples of typical situations people might encounter and who you should call to deal with the problem.
If you've looked over the information on the EPA's website and determined you should file a complaint with them, you can click the "report environmental violations" link to access the online complaint form.
 To file a complaint with the EPA, you will need to have information about the property, including the names of its owners, and the type of pollution that is occurring there.You will need to have information about the property causing the pollution and the person who owns it, as well as the dates you experienced the problem.
If the pollution is a continuing issue, you'll need to be able to provide an estimated date when the problem occurred.
You may want to review the types of issues addressed by the EPA to determine the types of details you should include in your complaint to get the EPA involved.
 You can file a complaint with the EPA right from the agency's website. The agency allows you to remain anonymous. However, if you don't provide your name and contact information, investigators won't have any way to contact you.If you've already contacted your state or local agency, the EPA provides space for you to indicate that and list the name of the person handling the complaint, if you know the name of someone who investigated or otherwise handled your situation.
You have a number of options you can use to characterize the incident, as well as a box to describe it in your own words. However, you don't have the ability to attach files or other images to your EPA complaint.
 Before you click "send report," go over the information you've provided and make sure it's true and accurate to the best of your knowledge. Intentionally providing false information to the EPA can lead to fines or jail time.Before you click the button to send, you must check off a statement that you understand you are submitting your report under penalty of perjury.
Keep in mind that the EPA has discretion regarding how to respond to your complaint or whether to initiate an investigation.

