 If someone offers you something you can’t eat, you should politely turn it down. You do not have to explain why unless you want to. Simply state, “No, thank you,” and move on.If your host insists that you try something, you might take a small portion to try a taste. Tell them that it was delicious. You can say, “You’re right. That’s amazing. But I’m so full right now off of all the other food that I can’t possibly eat another bite.”

, There can be heavy pressure at holiday parties to drink alcohol, but you should be avoiding alcohol during your pre-pregnancy diet. Avoid this pressure by gently insisting that you cannot drink at that party. Let them know that you have specific health reasons for abstaining.


You might say, “We’re trying to get pregnant, so I have to avoid alcohol this year.”
If you do not want people to know about your attempts to conceive, you might come up with an excuse. For example, you can say, “I can’t drink right now. I’m on medication that doesn't allow it,” or “I’m the designated driver tonight, so no alcohol.”

, If you don’t mind explaining your pre-pregnancy diet, you might tell people that you are on it. This might help reduce the pressure you receive from other people. Let them know what a pre-pregnancy diet does and why it is important that you watch what you eat this holiday season.


You might say, “What a mother eats before pregnancy can impact the health of the baby. I am on a diet to prepare my body for pregnancy.”If you do not want people to know that you are trying to conceive, you might say, “I’m on a diet right now. It’s important for my health right now that I avoid certain foods.”

, It is important that you do not get sick, as it can delay pregnancy or cause problems early in the pregnancy. In addition to washing your hands often, you should make sure that you do not mix up your plate, cup, or utensils with anybody else's.If you lose your cup, ask for another one. You can say, “I must have misplaced my cup. Do you mind if I get another?”
Politely refuse if someone offers you something from their plate. You might say, “Thanks for the offer, but I can get my own.”

