 If you broil a cut of meat that is too large or too thick, the outside will burn but the center will remain raw.Avoid broiling pieces of meat that exceed two pounds. Look for steaks that are one and a half pounds or less. Fish fillets are typically a good size for broiling.


Before broiling beef steaks and fillets, make them thinner by pounding them with a meat tenderizer. This will help them cook thoroughly and more quickly., If you put cold meat straight under a broiler, it won’t cook well. Take your meat out of the refrigerator beforehand and let it become room temperature before you begin.When your meat is almost room temperature, go ahead and preheat your broiler so that it will be nice and hot by the time you’re ready to place the meat in the oven.
 To prevent sticking, be sure to oil both sides of the meat before you begin broiling it. This is the case for all meats – beef, chicken and fish. If you have been marinating your meat in a mixture that already contains oil, you don’t need to brush it with any additional oil.


After oiling, place the meat on the broiling pan.Season the meat according to your tastes with dry seasonings. Avoid putting sauces on the meat before broiling, since these can burn quickly under the heat source.
 The size and thickness of the meat will dictate how close the pan should be to the heat source. In general, the thicker the cut, the further away it should be from direct heat. This will prevent the outside from scorching before the center has cooked through.


For every half inch of thickness, allow two inches of distance from the heat source.
Adjust your racks as needed and place the meat into your oven., The amount of time your meat broils will depend on how you want it cooked and how thick it is. You will need to watch it closely. Flip the cuts over once the first side has browned to ensure even cooking.Don’t use a fork to flip the meat, since this will puncture it and allow its juices to escape. Use tongs, a spatula or some other utensil to flip the meat over.









The goal when broiling meat is to get a brown, crusty exterior and a juicy center.Keep the meat or fish in the oven until it is cooked through and seared on the outside.

