 Only naturalized citizens of a country-- by birth, through a parent's citizenship, or by successfully applying for citizenship -- may vote in that country's elections. In most cases, a driver's license, passport, or current government photo ID will suffice.


In certain circumstances you may be allowed use in photocopy of those documents, but most states require the original identification document the first time you register to vote.;
, With very few exceptions it is illegal for a state to restrict or waive the voting rights of any citizen 18 years old or older in the United States. In 19 states you can vote in primary elections at the age of 17, though there are some restrictions. You may not vote in presidential elections until 18 in any state.
If you will turn 18 by election day you will still be eligible to vote as long as your register in advance.
 Every state in the US has the power to choose their own voting requirements, paperwork, and procedure for registering new voters. In order to vote in a state you need proof of residency, such as a lease or utility bill, and you may not be registered in any other state.


You may switch what state you vote in at any time, but you may not vote in two states at once.
 While many states allow felons who have been pardoned or paroled to vote, only two states let convicted felons vote while in prison. In 11 other states you may lose your voting rights completely if convicted of a felony.


In the majority of states you are ineligible to vote until you have served your full parole sentence. , In every state you must turn in your registration paperwork between two weeks and month before the next election. This is done to prevent voter fraud and make sure you are accounted for at the polling place when you go to vote.


The US government lists all of the state deadlines on their website here.
 Perform an internet search for "Your State + Voting Eligibility" to check specific voting requirements. While there is a lot of overlap, each state has it's own protocol, so do your research before you submit an application.


You can contact your state election committee through the US government's database on this website.
 In some states you can vote in primaries without a party affiliation, but this is rare. Registering with a political party also provides them with campaign money and influence.


Party affiliation is not required to be a voter, and you can register as an "Independent."

, Contact your local election board or State a few weeks before the election to make sure that you are eligible to got. You may check this through the same state election board found in step six , This form, available for free through the United States Election Assistance Commission, allows you to register to vote over the mail. The form is available in English, Spanish, Chinese, Korean, Japanese, Tagalog, and Vietnamese, and is downloaded as a PDF file.


You will need to print and mail this form, as it cannot be filed electronically.
You may also use this document to change your address, apply for an absentee ballot, or switch political parties.
Currently the states of North Dakota, Wyoming, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands do not accept the National Mail Voter Registration Form. If you live in any of these states/territories, please refer to the section labeled "Registering in Person." , The first several pages of the form contain detailed instructions, and there is an attached document with state-by-state instructions as well. Be sure to read everything before you start filling out the form so that you don't make any mistakes and are ineligible to vote.


You can also refer to your state's election website to get information and forms.
 Never lie, skip information, or use nicknames on your voting form, as you will likely become ineligible to vote. Use your full legal name and the most up-to-date information.


If you have any questions about what to write then use to the name and address on your photo ID.
 Make a photocopy of your current passport, driver's license, or other photo ID and put it in the envelope with your application.


Re-read your states instructions to see if you must turn in the original document as well.
 And the end of every state's specific instructions is the address to send your application to. Make sure you get it in before the deadline.


If you were successful, you should get a letter in 2-4 weeks informing you of your registration. , Registering in person is a good way to ensure that your form will be filled out correctly, and it prevents you from having to potentially mail in valuable ID documents. Contact your state election committee or call one of the following local establishments to see if they register voters.


The Department of Motor Vehicles.
Local election offices
Armed service recruiting centers
Public Assistance Agencies, such as shelters or non-profits
Local political party branches
Voting assistance centers (usually open close to elections) , Look up any special registration needs of your state, such as an extra ID or a fee, and be prepared with them before you show up to register.


You are usually allowed to bring your registration form home and return it at a later date if you forget something.
 Just to be safe, you should bring at least two of the following documents with you to register. Be sure to show up on time, as registration centers can get busy. Acceptable documents include a current:


Government issued photo ID
Driver's License
Passport

, The deadline for in-person registration is typically shorter because you don't have to wait for the mail to send your application, but you should still register as early as possible in case there are issues with your paperwork. Registering in-person is quick and easy, so get it done sooner rather than later.


As elections get closer voter registration centers may get crowded, so give yourself plenty of time to make sure your voice is heard. 