 Try to figure out what your friend is trying to tell you through the behavior. Behavior is always communicating something; you just have to really look deep to see what your friend's behavior is signifying.Hiding anxiety or social phobias is one reason some people will avoid social situations at all costs. This would be the friend who seems nice and involved in things but at the last minute simply does not show up. He or she may not know how to tell you how scary social situations feel for him or her, and figure you are less likely to get hurt feelings by a no show.
A friend who comes up with excuse after excuse for not attending an event or even jokes about you overacting to a no-show may not really be a friend. In a normal relationship, if a friend misses an event for a real reason there would be an apology and a genuine concern for the resulting feelings., There’s a chance a friend who is frequently unreliable may not be as committed to the relationship as you are. Perhaps you were hoping to turn a coworker or social acquaintance into a closer relationship, but this person hasn’t gotten the message. Find out where you stand with this person.


A flaky friend’s motives may also be tied to a lack of boundaries on your friendship. Some people prefer for example to leave work friends at work and will never socialize outside of the office. If this is the case, he or she may not feel comfortable making that clear so invites are accepted but never followed through. This does not mean this friend thinks any less of you—he or she just doesn’t mix business with pleasure so to speak.
A friend may seem to be unreliable is that he or she isn’t really a friend in the same light that you think the person should be. If a coworker is only friendly in front of others because of status or a perceived value in the friendship, you may have a social climber on your hands., Part of how he or she got to the point of being that unreliable friend also includes the behavior after the problem. This may be as simple as acting like nothing happened because he or she forgets commitments or making a choice to act as if nothing happened.


The friend who always seems disorganized and forgets things in the office, loses documents and even misses work deadlines may have something more going on than skipping your event to be hurtful. If this is a new development for someone who is always well organized, this could indicate problems at home or a medical issue., It’s easy to say your friend is “flakey” or a whole list of negative descriptors, but what is the basic behavior you see as being negative? You may have a friend who just doesn’t show up to an event or is he or she simply forgetful?When you look at the specific behavior, also look at whether or not there is a pattern of behavior for you and for others. Are you the only friend he or she stands up or does the evasive behavior apply to many people in the office?
An unreliable friend may also fall into the category of only being your “friend” when it benefits him or her. This is a very different situation as it isn’t someone simply being forgetful but perhaps using the friendship for some sort of gain.
Defining the undesired behavior versus things that are just a part of your friend’s personality will help you deal with the situation. A friend who thrives on being spontaneous may seem unreliable because he or she will not commit to attending an event, which is very different from a friend who lies about attending an event he or she knows won’t happen.
 Is there a pattern to the behavior? Is your friend only flakey when it comes to social events or is he or she forgetful in different situations? Seeing a pattern in the behavior may show you an underlying cause of why he or she isn’t following through on commitments. If you can see a pattern when things are happening and when they are not you may find that the negative behavior actually has little to do with you.Is the negative behavior consistent or is the friend a good friend at times? If the friend is hiding a secret to explain the behavior he or she may be fine in some situations but not OK in others.
Is your friend a good meaning person who just seems to overbook to the point of disappointing others because they can’t say no?

, Is this your only unreliable friends or does this seem to be a pattern in your life? Is there a chance you are taking things too personally for this one friend for some reason?There are times when you run into a friend that all of the sudden just gets on your nerves for some unknown underlying issue. This may play manifest with you focusing undo attention on behavior that is normally fine within your social circle.

