 If you frequently use lotion on your hands, you may be inadvertently making them clammy. While some lotions (like those that contain antiperspirant chemicals) can actually help dry your hands out, others can make them much moister. Some substances, like petroleum jelly, can even make your hands extra wet or greasy. If you use lotion frequently, consider switching your go-to lotion for one that's lighter or one that's specifically formulated to have a drying effect.
 Gloves, pockets, and any other types of clothing that surround the hands can lead to excess sweating and moisture. These items trap moisture and heat against the hand, causing the hands to produce more sweat and making it more difficult for the sweat that is produced to evaporate. To fix this, simply leave your hands uncovered throughout the day when you can — their natural moisture should evaporate more freely.


If it's too cold to leave your hands uncovered, try using fingerless gloves or gloves made out of a lighter material if possible. Ideally, these will keep your hands warm while allowing some air to reach them.
 Sometimes, even something as simple as a person's diet can lead to excessive sweating. Certain foods can trigger a sweating response, which, if you're susceptible to clammy hands, can make your problem much worse. Consider avoiding the following food and drink items if they're frequent additions to your diet:


Spicy foods: Believe it or not, hot, spicy foods trigger the same responses in your body that are caused by actual physical heat, often leading to sweating.Caffeine: Some people sweat if they consume excessive caffeine because the chemical stimulates the nervous system leading, to jumpiness, heightened activity, nervousness, and so on. The effect is often greatest when drinking hot caffeinated beverages.Alcohol: For some people, getting drunk or "buzzed" can lead to excessive sweating due to a process called vasodilation in which the body's blood vessels expand and increase the temperature of the skin, giving the feeling of warmth., For some people, sweaty hands aren't a symptom of a physical problem, but instead a reaction to sources of stress or nervousness in their life. In these cases, removing moisture from the hands is only a temporary solution — to get lasting relief, it's necessary to eliminate the underlying mental or emotional stresses. There's no single "right" way to do this — everyone's personal stresses are different — so if you think this may apply to you, try talking to your doctor or a licensed therapist for advice. Below are just a few techniques frequently prescribed to deal with stress:Yoga
Biofeedback
Meditation
Giving up harmful habits or substances
Making more/different social connections
New exercise regimens
Different work/life arrangements

