 If you already have a credit card, check your card agreement or your issuer's website to see whether you have a points reward program. This program allows you to earn points based on your purchases that can be redeemed for rewards like cash back, gift cards, or frequent flyer miles. Contact your card issuer if you are unsure if your card qualifies for this type of program., If your current card doesn't offer points rewards or the chance to convert points to miles, you'll need to get a card that does. This type of reward is offered from almost all credit cards that offer points, but some options are better than others. Search online to locate cards that allow you to transfer points to miles at a good rate. For example, the following rewards programs allows you to transfer points to miles at a rate of 1 to 1:


American Express Member Rewards. This is available to all American Express cardholders.
Citi Thank You. This is available on Citi Thank You cards and others.
Chase Ultimate Rewards. Access this program by signing up for a Chase Sapphire Preferred or Ink Plus for Business card.There may be other cards offering a good transfer rate that are a better fit to your spending habits and financial situation. Research terms for several different cards before making a decision.
 Many credit cards offer signup bonuses that immediately credit your rewards account a large number of points if you reach a certain spending milestone within a set time period. In many cases, this can be a significant number of points, perhaps 50,000 or 100,000.


However, you should avoid simply spending to reach this limit, as this might cause you to overspend. Instead, make sure that the spending milestone is in line with your regular spending patterns., Points must be built up by making qualifying purchases on your credit card. The qualifications for a qualified purchase vary between card issuers, so check your card agreement to see what you should use your card for. For example, some point rewards programs offer a flat points rate for all purchases. However, others reward certain purchases, like gas or entertainment, at a higher rate. Others might have a rotating high rewards category each month.


Wherever possible, put qualifying purchases on your credit card. This will help you earn points without changing your spending habits., Even with signup bonuses and frequent credit card purchases, building up a points balance will take time. Many flights you will want to take after converting your points will end up costing upwards of 30,000 miles. For example, a trip to Europe from the US might cost 50,000 to 60,000 points. This means you'll have to take the time to build up a points balance before they will become truly useful., Request a copy of your points program information from your credit card company by calling customer support. This information will also be available online through your card issuer's website. Reward programs typically vary. Different credit cards have different guidelines and restrictions and you should know the specifics of the program to which you belong.


Figure out how, specifically, you can convert your points. You may need to call, but in many cases you can go through the whole process online., Confirm or clarify any details regarding the reward program you don't understand. Make sure that you have all of the information you need to make an informed decision about the best way to use your frequent flyer miles.


Ask about any changes to the rewards program, as these can happen without notice and may affect your miles conversion., This will depend on your card and the chosen frequent flyer miles program. For instance, for some credit cards, 1 point is equivalent to 1 mile. If you have 20,000 points then you will be eligible for 20,000 miles. American Express converts 1,000 rewards points to 750 Delta SkyMiles, while Citi converts 1,000 rewards points to 1,000 Advantage miles.


Transfer your points to the frequent flyer program that offers the best conversion rates., Most points expire within a set timeframe if they go unused. You will want to convert your points to miles and use them before they expire. If your points are expiring and you have no chance to use them, consider giving them to a friend or family member. You can also donate them to charity in most cases., Look out for any regulations or blackout dates that may be imposed upon your miles. Some companies do not allow travel on certain days, times of the year, or to certain destinations. Take notice of restrictions on dates, airlines and destinations.
 Some companies require that you sign up for a frequent flyer account, while others will apply a travel credit directly to your card account. Investigate flight prices in miles as well. Trip prices may vary widely between airlines, so be sure to check several different ones to find the best deal.For example, one airline might offer a specific trip for 70,000 miles, whereas another might have the same trip for 50,000.
 It may take weeks or months to redeem your credit card points for frequent flyer miles that you can use to book a flight. However, some rewards programs allow you to convert points instantly and many of them will make the conversion within a week. Check the terms of your rewards program or call customer service to get an idea of how much time you need to allocate for this process.Try booking in off-times for your destination, as this will make your travel cheaper. For example, don't try to fly to Mexico during the winter holidays, as flights will be more expensive., Not all airlines are valid with frequent flyer rewards. Make sure your points have definitely been converted and you have received a travel credit before booking your flight.


You should also transfer miles to airlines you have transferred miles to or flown with in the past. This will allow you to build up miles with that airline and earn greater rewards.
Miles may be used on all airlines within the same alliance (a group of airlines). The main alliances are:

Star Alliance: United, US Airways, Swiss Air, Lufthansa, and others.
One World: American Airways, British Airways, Iberia, and others.
SkyTeam: Delta, Air France, Korean, and others., There will usually be a field asking for your frequent flyer account number. Have this information on hand. If you run into trouble booking using rewards point, call the airlines to speak to a representative. They will be able to help you complete the transaction.