 Because of the way mullets tend to congregate in large schools and appear close to the surface of the water, it is probably most common for people to fish them with cast nets. While this is an easier and more efficient method than using a hook and line, mullets are known to have excellent eyesight and can dart away quickly when they see a net being cast.When getting a net, check your local fishing regulations for permitted mesh size.
In Florida, for example, it is not permitted to use a net for freshwater bait fishing that is greater than 1 inch stretched mesh.;
, You need to find a place where mullet gather that you can reach with your net. It's not uncommon the find mullet near sea walls, off piers, inshore from boats, as well as in shady canals and streams.If you don't have a good idea of where to look, ask someone in your local fishing shop or club

, Before you go out there and cast your net into the water, you want to be sure you know how to handle it. The mullet might not hang around to give you a second chance if you get it wrong. A good way to practice is just t set up some kind of target in your backyard, such as an old tire or a ball.


Stand a few feet away and try to catch the target in the net.
Move further away as you get better to test your skills.
 Mullet often travel in big schools and can be quite active in the water, leaping in and out. This means that if there are some nearby they can be quite easy to spot. Look for disturbances in the water, such as patches of bubbles. Be patient and watch for fish breaking the surface of the water., Once you have spotted some mullet within reach, it's time to cast your net. Wrap the end of the rope around your throwing wrist, with the rest of the rope loosely coiled around your arm. Allow the net to droop by your side with the weights at the bottom.


With your other hand, take hold of the lead line at the point directly below your right thumb.
Now with you right hand take hold of the lead line and hold it out about an arms length from your other hand, which will be in front of your chest.
Rotate you body back to the right and swing forward, releasing the net at a slight upward angle towards the fish., Once cast the net will sink into water, trapping any unfortunate mullet. Keep a slight tension on the rope so you can feel what is going on. The net will descend in the water. After a while you will feel it hit the bottom and the rope you are holding will stop drawing down into the water. Soon after this happens begin to pull it back in towards you. A sharp tug when you feel it hit the bottom will close the net and trap the fish.Coiling the rope over your arm as you pull it in will help to keep everything tidy avoid the risk of tripping or tying yourself up.

