 Make sure to keep punishments as equal as possible and avoid constantly singling out a child who engages in more inappropriate behavior in front of their siblings. This may cause them to act out more to get attention and may lead siblings to see them as a "problem child."

, It is easy to victimize one child and villainize the other when they aren’t getting along. After all, it’s human nature to see an aggressor and a victim, but this is not usually the case. Most of the time, your children need to work their issues out among themselves because they are both (or all) guilty of something. Taking a side will leave one child feeling unfairly judged.In cases that you do need to intervene (such as physical violence) you should give all children involved the same consequences.
For example, if your children are fighting because one child is trying to take a toy from the other, you can stay neutral by staying out of the squabble, or taking the toy from both children.
 When it comes to your children, there is no such thing as an objective observer. If you make the determination on which child “wins” something and which child “loses,” you are stepping into a trap. Even if one child clearly crossed the finish line first, the other(s) will feel that you are siding with their sibling.Instead, your role should be to praise each child for what they did well in the competition without taking sides.


For example, if you are asked to determine the winner of a drawing contest, choosing one child over the other(s) will make your children feel like you are choosing a favorite child. Instead, abstain from being the judge of this competition.
 Your children will have differing opinions on a range of things. While you may actually agree with one point of view and not the other, encourage unique thinking and communicate that it’s okay to have different opinions, likes, and dislikes. Allow them to each form their own opinions without supporting or undermining them. To side with one child leaves the other(s) feeling as though they are not favored equally.For example, if one child prefers comedy movies to suspenseful movies, do not dismiss or uphold either opinion. Even if you sway one way or the other, avoid undermining the child who thinks differently.

