 In areas not used to grow other crops, you can apply tebuthiuron (Spike) to your soil. This can kill blackberry bushes, but may also harm other surrounding vegetation.Place tebuthiuron pellets to the base of blackberry plants to control their growth long-term.Be aware that tebuthiuron is toxic not only to vegetation, but can also be to mammals, too.It is also water soluble, so it can easily contaminate ground water.
Wear protective clothing when you apply tebuthiuron to minimize your exposure to the pesticide.Make sure to check and see if it is legal to use tebuthiuron where you live. It has been banned in Europe since 2002 because if its toxicity.
 One of the most effective ways to kill blackberries is by applying an herbicide directly to the plant while it is actively growing. This allows it to get into the plant’s structure and kill rhizomes, thus deterring regrowth.Use foliar-based herbicides, which you apply to the part of the plant visible above the ground, in early summer or at the start of the growing season when their tissue is rapidly expanding.Spray herbicides such as glyphosate, dicamba, or triclopyr on the blackberry bush.You can purchase these at many home improvement and hardware stores.
Be careful when mixing and applying these chemicals because they can kill other plants. Make sure to avoid contact with your skin as well.
 Since the bark at the base of the bush helps transport the nutrients needed for the plant to survive, treat it with an herbicide. This can help kill the bush at any time of year and also minimize contact with chemicals.Use a concentrated form of triclopyr to treat the basal bark.Spray the solution directly at base of the bush directly on the bark.Cover about 6-12 inches of the basal bark with spray, depending on how large the plant is.Make sure to not oversaturate the bark with the solution, which can cause toxic runoff., An alternative way to administer triclopyr is to spray the dormant stems and leaves of your blackberry bush. This can also kill the plant while minimizing your contact with the chemical.Use this solution only in the fall and winter when the plant stem and leaves are dormant.Spray the plant until it is thoroughly wet, again avoiding oversaturation that can cause toxic runoff., If your blackberry bush growth is especially pernicious, consider hiring a landscape professional. He can help you assess and deal with the problem without killing off all of your other vegetation.Discuss your concerns with the landscaper and ask about how to manage the situation more effectively after his treatment.
The Landscape Contractors Association can help you find a qualified landscape professional in your local area.

