 In some cases, particularly for investments, your returns may not be clearly stated as monthly, quarterly, or weekly rates. In this case, you will have to use year-to-date calculations to annualize your rate of return. This is not a useful calculation for determining an annualized rate for interest payments or calculating any interest rate that compounds during the year. However, it is useful for getting a better idea of an investment's performance on an annual basis so that it can be compared to other investments., Find how much your investment had made or lost this year in dollars (or your local currency). This is done by subtracting it's value at the beginning of the year from its current value.

For example, an investment with a value of $20,000 at the beginning of the year and $20,800 now would have a year return to date of $800 ($20,800-$20,000)., This is done by dividing the year return to date by the investment's initial value and then multiplying by 100.

For the previous example, this would be $800 (the year return to date) divided by $20,000 (the initial value), to get 0.04. 

Multiply this number by 100 to get the percentage return, which would be 100*0.04, or 4 percent., The time factor calculates how much of the year has passed. This number is then used to annualize the percentage return. To calculate this number, divide the number of months that have already passed in the year by 12.For example, if you are calculating these values at the end of August, this would mean that 8 months have passed in the current year. 

In this case, your time factor would be calculated as 12 divided by 8, which would give a time factor of 1.5.
 Multiply your percentage return by your time factor to get the year-to-date return. This results reflects how the investment is performing on an annual scale and this number can now be used to compare this investment's return to investments with different time periods.For the previous example, this number would be the percentage return, 4 percent, multiplied by the time factor, 1.5, to get a 1.5*4, or 6 percent, year-to-date return. 

So, for an investment with a value of $20,000 that has earned $800 up to the end of August, the annualized yearly return would be 6 percent.


