 If your child is hesitant about getting glasses, let them pick out which frames they get to wear. While you should encourage your child to get plastic frames instead of wire, they can choose the color or design. This will make them more excited about getting glasses, and they may be less hesitant about wearing them., Many issues that children have with glasses are easily fixed. If your child is being stubborn, sit them down, and ask them, “Why don’t you want to wear your glasses?” Listen to their answer, and address it respectfully. Do not dismiss their feelings.


If the glasses are uncomfortable or ill-fitting, you can take them back to the optician to have them resized properly.If the child is embarrassed about wearing glasses or if they think they are uncool, remind the child of celebrities, superheroes, or other characters who wear glasses, such as Clark Kent or Harry Potter.Your child might need a few days to adjust to their new vision. If they are complaining about vision after a few days, return to your eye doctor to see if the prescription can be adjusted.
 Young children, particularly toddlers, may try to take off their glasses repeatedly. If this happens, do not get mad. Instead, be persistent. Every time the child removes their glasses, give them a short break from wearing the glasses before putting them back on. This could be anywhere from ten minutes to an hour., When you first receive the glasses, choose a pleasant activity where your child must wear their glasses. This could be reading a bedtime story, coloring a picture, or watching a cartoon. Before you begin, make sure the child is wearing their glasses. Start the story or activity. If the child takes off their glasses, stop the activity until they put the glasses back on themselves. This will teach the child to associate wearing their glasses with pleasant experiences., There are many bedtime stories that feature protagonists wearing glasses. You can read these to your child to normalize eyeglasses and to teach them the basics of care. This may even teach them to enjoy wearing eyeglasses. Some books include:Winnie Flies Again by Valerie Thomas and Korky Paul

I Really Absolutely Must Have Glasses by Lauren Child

Monty, the Dog Who Wears Glasses by Colin West

