 As with side-swept bangs, the simplest way to style blunt bangs is to use a blow dryer and get them styled as naturally as possible. Use a round brush rolled underneath your bangs and your blow dryer set to a low setting to get your bangs styled without unwanted curls or waves. Use a light misting of hairspray to set your bangs after blow-drying them.
 Blunt bangs have the advantage of an obvious part at their roots, giving the perfect placement for a braided headband. Section out a thin section of hair running from ear to ear along the part of your bangs, and pull the rest of your hair up in a ponytail. French braid this section of hair all the way across, essentially hiding the roots of the bangs. Use an elastic band or a few bobby pins to pin the ends in place behind the opposite ear.
 Although your bangs don’t have the length required for a full-on pouf, you can tease them slightly and pull them to the side for a sweet look. Use a fine tooth comb to rat out the roots of your bangs, and twist them to the side of your face. Pin them in place with two bobby pins in the shape of an ‘X’.
 This look is best accompanied with an updo, or with the top half of your hair pinned back. Use a brush or comb to tease the roots of the entire front section of your hair, including your bangs and the pieces further down that frame your face. Push the front section of your hair back, creating a big pouf all the way around your face. Slide on a headband about 1 inch (2.5 cm) into the poof, so that the hair nearest your hairline lays flat while the hair beyond the headband is bumped up.









Use hairspray or pomade to blend your bangs into the rest of your hair, and keep them from sticking straight up past your headband.
 Once again, blunt bangs are the perfect haircut for wearing with a beanie because they allow a bit of hair to appear, while the rest of your head is wrapped up and warm for the winter. Style your bangs out in the front as you normally would (the blow-out style is nice for this), and then slip on a beanie or knit hat of choice. Place the hat so that the front edge just barely covers the roots of your bangs.If your hair is very slippery or the hat is a bit loose, use a few bobby pins to pin it in place.

