 The scene culture puts a lot of emphasis on online presence, especially via social media and networking platforms. This originated with Myspace and continues today on all social media platforms. Members of the scene culture will have friends and followers in excess and typically post profile images of themselves that are highly stylized. The details of their lives are often shared frequently via pictures and status updates, sometimes exhaustively.


By contrast, emo culture is far more introverted. A social media presence is common, but the sharing isn’t excessive and friends and followers are usually obtained through connections through music and shared interests in particular bands.
Online communities are frequently created by those of the emo culture, and they often use the internet to seek out other emos that they can connect to.Emo posts and status updates are often cryptic and emotional.Quoting song lyrics as a way to explain to the world how you feel inside is a common emo characteristic.
 The scene culture overwhelmingly embraces and celebrates gender-bending and androgyny. The approach is reminiscent of glam rock icons of the 1970s, such as David Bowie. Experimentation in sexuality is commonplace and the lines between genders are deliberately blurred. Feminine or androgynous looks are favored by all genders within scene culture, with little emphasis on masculinity.


While the emo subculture in no way condemns androgyny, there is no emphasis on it at all. In fact, in the past emo has been criticized for being incredibly male-centric.
This criticism is debatable, as all criticisms are, but the members of emo bands are predominantly male.
However, there is no gender dominance among the fans of emo music, which appears to be enjoyed by all equally.
 While the stereotype is frequently overstated, there is a tendency among those who identify as emo to be emotional, sensitive, shy, introverted, withdrawn and even angsty. This stereotype originated in emo music, which often focuses on similar themes.Because of the intimate connection to music that often characterizes an emo personality, these themes are often used to describe the general mood of the members of emo subculture. You are far more likely to see a smile on the face of someone who identifies as scene rather than emo.


Scene culture focuses on fashion and socializing and, generally speaking, its members are more outgoing and friendlier than those of the emo culture.
There is no particular emphasis placed on emotions in scene culture.Emo culture is sometimes criticized for promoting self-harm, suicide, and death in general. This is exaggerated and largely incorrect.
Emo culture's emphasis on emotion is often misinterpreted negatively by those outside of the culture.
 Members of the emo subculture tend to express themselves via poetry, art and music. Scene culture communicates largely through fashion and their sense of style.Emphasis is placed on visual communication and experimentation in scene culture.
Emo culture, on the other hand, finds self-expression mostly through music, and to a lesser extent, other types of art.

