 If the thought of striking up casual conversation with someone sounds intimidating, being near people others might challenge the idea that you are a loner. Sit near a group of people at lunch or find a crowd to hang around. You will look more social and you might inadvertently have a conversation.


Go to the library, a public pool, or some other place where people hang out and just chill.
In a library you might strike up a conversation by inquiring where a specific section is and then asking about a book they would recommend.
 Interacting with strangers can be a little scary, but it can be an important part of not appearing to be a loner. Strike up a conversation with someone and see how it goes. Remember, it is practice with little social consequences. Pay attention for topics that you have in common with the person you are talking to. These are great starting points for beginning a conversation.
For example, if someone is from a similar geographic region as you, or if you are familiar with where they are from, make a point of talking about that. Try to find a point of commonality with others. For example, you could ask, "Have you always lived in this town?" and you might find out that an acquaintance has lived in town the same amount of time as you or that you have relatives in the same neighboring state.
Talking to someone who has to talk to you can be a good way to practice. Chat up a customer service representative at a store or a waiter at your favorite restaurant.
 Your friends are the perfect group to help challenge the idea that you are a loner. Make time to for social activities with your friends and do it in a public place. Go to the mall or the arcade together.


Invite a friend to get coffee or meet up for lunch. Set a date and time and then stick to it.
Do not simply hang around people. You need to interact with them and chat.
 Your family members are a natural social network that you can tap. Go to family events and gatherings, or organize them yourself. This is a great way to socialize and challenge the idea that you are ambivalent about interacting with others.


Organize a family picnic or an outing to an amusement park. Create an event for your family to get together.
Although family is important, it is also key to develop friends besides your relatives. Grandma is great, but she might not be able to understand you the way as someone your own age.

