 In order to strengthen your practice and continue on your journey of self-discovery, you will need to meditate regularly. For introspective meditation, you will want to practice for 10-20 minutes every day or for at least 3 to 4 days a week.This regular practice alters your brain activity by strengthening the parts of your brain connected to empathy and understanding yourself and others.The act of disciplining and committing yourself to a practice may itself provide you with insights about what you are capable of.
Regular meditation will help you hone your concentration. Eventually, you may be able to meditate in busy and noisy situations.
 One important way of enhancing your meditation practice is to engage in mindfulness throughout your day. Instead of allowing your anxieties to distract you from the world around you, focus on the here and now. Concentrate on the things that you are doing in the present and the people you are with. Being able to stay present will help you strengthen your focus by limiting negative thinking and anxiety.Practicing mindfulness may also help improve your mood and help reduce stress., Maintaining your physical health is an important step towards developing your practice. In the short term, you should stretch well before meditating to avoid cramping or discomfort during your practice. In the long term, try to eat healthy and live an active life. This will ensure that you are physically able to develop and grow in your meditation practice.Being disciplined about your diet and exercise may grant you knew discoveries about yourself.
 It is important to recognize that you will not immediately arrive at a point of self-awareness and discovery. It takes a lot of time and practice. In fact, meditation alone will not help you better understand yourself. Meditation, in combination with daily mindfulness practices, will help you achieve your goal of self-discovery., If you are having a difficult time focusing on your own, a guided meditation may help you get started. In this practice, an experienced practitioner verbally guides you through the meditation process. This can help you work on your focus by allowing your mind to relax and follow someone else as they lead you through the practice.You can find audio and video clips of guided practices online.
There are also guided meditation tracks on Spotify.

