 Out of the seven habits as Stephen Covey described in his all time classic book "Seven Habits of Highly Effective People", this habit is absolutely key to success of any project. As you work with your stakeholders, ask very pointed questions about "what their product or service is expected to bring to the market or the organization?". Know the outcome and its planned benefits. This is the critical milestone your project will aim to achieve.


For example: Let's assume that in response to your "what" question, your client told you that they are looking to roll out a web-based software to sell widgets online, with potential customer base in North America and Europe. Through out this article we will continue with this example.;
, "Why" you might ask... well, if you know the answer to this question, then you can draft the scope in a way that will ultimately influence the design of the product.


Continuing with the example taken above, in your discovery session you figured out that the customers of your client are multi-national organizations with foot-prints spanning across two continents. Your client is a major supplier of those widgets for them. In order to streamline their supply chain management and reducing cost while enhancing the customer satisfaction, it is important for your client to move their business online. Order acquisition, order processing and payment collection all these aspects will drive their cost reduction strategy. Once you know this level of detail, you gained additional understanding of the scope that the end product should have a user interface for order capture and receipt of the payments, it will also become clearer that since user base is spread across continents, you may need to care for additional language on the front-end tool and currency conversion when processing payments.


Do you see how important it is to capture these facts in your scope to ultimately influence the design?

, Stakeholder by definition, is an individual or an organization who has a vested interest in the project; in other words, the existence of the project will have an impact on their day-to-day business and potentially profitability. A few examples of stakeholders in the example we have taken may be end users, back office order processing unit, a shipping company who will deliver the widgets, a third party payment processor, the finance unit of your client organization who may look for very clear metrics and reporting of orders etc. How does it impact scope? As you assess different user bases of the application your client is looking to build, you will realize that the application is going to touch a lot more areas of your client's organization over and above the primary customers. You will also note that there are back office processing requirements. Since there are external payment processors involved you will need to include connectivity, networking and payment gateway requirements in your scope. Missing one of the key stakeholders can have a significant impact on the success of the project.
 How you are going to approach the project is the question you will end up spending most of your time during discovery session. Answering "How" will bring you closest to the design and might make you feel like you are stepping outside of your "comfort zone", but that's not the case. It is important to know about "how" of the product delivery at a high level because when you gathered information on the "what", "why" and "who", you documented part of scope. however, say one of the customers is in a country where credit cards processing is not widely accepted or have substantial amount of chargeback if paid thru credit cards. Obviously this may not make financial sense for your client.


At this point, your role is not to identify what the alternative payment processing solution may be, rather it will be important for you to note that an alternative payment processing method will be essential for the success of the project and that is the direct impact on the scope of the project.
 One of the key success factors for any project is its location strategy. Where is the project going to be developed? Where are the supporting systems going to be held? Where will the back office operations such as order processing, packaging, accounting etc. located? What about any customer service center? From a scope perspective, it is important to know the "where"  because it could impact strategic partnerships your client may need to establish to hire talent and management staff for an ongoing business. Your project plan is not complete until a capacity plan is complete and human capital pool is identified. Inclusion of "where" in scope is the foundation for a project plan that will likely have a successful impact.
 If there is one question your client is very eager about is "when" will this project be delivered. The scope you define based on your discovery has a direct impact on when can it come to fruition. Alternatively, you can ask your client "when" do they want it delivered. Sounds contradictory however, if you know with what level of urgency your client is pursuing the delivery of the project, you will be better positioned to negotiate the scope itself.


Going back to the example, during answering "what" your client mentioned customers will be in North America and Europe. one of the things you are asked to include is multi language support in the front-end tool. Then the client turns around and demands the project be delivered in six months. You might say that it is possible however, you recommend reducing "project scope" to English only in the first cut and in subsequent rollout you will introduce other language support. Answering to "when" is the key to adjusting project scope either to include more or less than what client is asking for. It is also a great way to manage your clientele expectations and positively impact their bottom line.

