 Particularly if you live in a larger city, there may be a tenants' rights agency near you that can help you with the problem of secondhand smoke in your apartment.Tenants' rights agencies exist to help you assert your housing rights as provided by federal and state law and local ordinances. Any help they provide typically is free of charge.
Tenants' rights agencies also often have attorneys on staff who can assess your situation and provide you advice on the next steps you should take.
If secondhand smoke is a problem for many other tenants, someone at the tenants' rights agency also may be able to help you hold a tenants' meeting or organize a tenant union in your building or complex to give you more power to assert your rights to smoke-free housing against a reluctant landlord.
 If your community has a housing safety or sanitation board, they may accept complaints about secondhand smoke – particularly if you have a health condition that is exacerbated by the smoke.Some cities and counties also have passed smoke-free ordinances that may restrict smoking in rental units. If your landlord is violating a local ordinance by allowing tenants to smoke in their apartments, you can get help from the city or county to end the problem.
Even without a local ordinance, the local housing board may take action against your landlord for failing to provide reasonable accommodation to you if you have a health condition or special sensitivity to second-hand smoke.
When you file your complaint, bring along all the copies you have of your letters to your neighbors and your landlord, as well as any other documentation you have that supports your claims.
 You can find fliers and posters online that you can print out and post in common areas to help educate and inform your neighbors about various health risks associated with secondhand smoke.Check the websites of health organizations such as the American Heart Association or the American Lung Association. There also are anti-smoking organizations that have materials.
Be careful that you're not creating a nuisance yourself by distributing these materials. Post them in common areas where tenants are free to post bulletins or other items, but don't litter.
For example, leaving fliers on people's cars or in their doors may be seen as a nuisance or as harassment, particularly if you're continually leafleting neighboring smokers that you've already engaged about the issue.
 As a last resort, you may want to consider filing a lawsuit against your neighbor, or against your landlord to force them to remedy the problem of secondhand smoke in your apartment. Most attorneys offer a free initial consultation to evaluate your case.Look for attorneys who specialize in landlord-tenant law or in local nuisance law. You may be able to sue your neighbor for creating a nuisance, or your landlord for failing to abate that nuisance.
If you're a renter, you typically will want to focus on suing your landlord as opposed to suing your neighbor. Even if you win your lawsuit against your neighbor, you may have difficulty enforcing the judgement against them.
Typically you can file these lawsuits in small claims court, which are designed for people to use on their own without the assistance of an attorney.
However, take advantage of free consultations to get more information and advice on your potential lawsuit.
You can search for attorneys on the website of your state or local bar association, which typically will have a searchable directory of member-attorneys who are licensed to practice law in your area.
 If you have the means to do so – and particularly if you're nearing the end of your lease – you may want to move to a different apartment community in your area that has a 100 percent smoke-free policy.Simply moving away may not satisfy your desire to assert your rights, but in some cases it may be the easiest solution.
Even if your landlord was unwilling to help you before, if you state that you're ready to move to a smoke-free complex, they may become more interested in helping you to avoid losing you as a tenant – particularly if you've been a good tenant who paid your rent on time and never caused any problems.
You can ask your landlord if you can break your lease if you've still got several months left. It may actually be cheaper (from your landlord's point of view), to just let you cut your lease and go than to make any accommodations that would be necessary for you to stay.
If you find yourself having to move because of the secondhand smoke issue, bring it up to your landlord and ask for a break on any damages you would be charged, or for a full refund of your security deposit regardless of any damages. Make sure you get any such agreement in writing.
If your landlord agrees to give you a full refund of your damage deposit, this doesn't mean you should leave your apartment in disarray.
Clean up after you've moved all of your stuff out and make an effort to repair any minor damages you might have caused that go beyond normal wear and tear.

