 Chance poetry is a way of generating poetry independent of the will of the writer. It originated during the Dada movement in Western Europe. In this type of freeform poetry, you use activities based around chance to generate content for your poem and arrange the content randomly or at will. These activities are called “chance operations”.Most chance poetry will use an original text as their source, such as a newspaper, an encyclopedia, or a known work of literature. You will then use a chance operation, such as throwing darts or rolling dice, to rearrange the original text or play off the original text to create your poem.
The purpose of chance poetry is to take the writer’s ego and intentions out of the process of creating the poem. You leave the arrangement and content of the poem mostly up to chance. This method also allows you to create unusual images and syntax you may not have come up with on your own. It can also create more space for the reader to interpret the results of your chance operation, where the reader has to actively participate in the poem by interpreting, dissecting, and musing on the results of the chance operation.
 To get a better sense of the possibilities inherent in chance poetry, you should read several known examples of chance poetry. Several examples include:


“Stein 100: A Feather Likeness of the Justice Chair” by Jackson McLow.“Three Centos” by Kate Fagan.“Head Citations” by Kenneth Goldsmith., To write a chance poem, you will first need to determine which chance operation you are going to use to generate content for the poem. You should use an original text written by you or by someone else and manipulate it in some way to generate a new text or poem.You may use one of the most common chance operations, which involves taking a text and cutting out words from the text. Then, place the text in a bag and shake the bag up. Take out a cut out word and record it. Then, take another cut out word and write it down next to the first cut out word. Continue to do this until you have a poem of a certain length.
Other chance operations involve rolling dice to determine how many words you skip over or move in the text. For example, you may roll six on the dice, which means you only include every sixth word from the original text in your chance poem. You can follow a similar procedure with throwing darts.
Some chance poets use randomizing computer programs to create chance poems. You can plug in the original text and then hit randomize in the program. You will then have a chance poem that has been randomly rearranged by the program.
 No matter what type of chance operation you choose, often the fun part is doing the chance operation on the original text. The only real rule in chance poetry is to commit to the chance operation, even if it creates a text that may not make sense or be clear on first read. Following the chance operation can also allow you to create unique images and lines that you may not have thought of on your own.You may want to limit how long the poem is going to be so you can determine when the chance operation can come to an end and you can finish the poem.
For example, you may have chosen to cut out words from an original text and putting them together to form lines of a poem. If you choose a newspaper article, you may have terms like "tragic" "accident" "news" "I" "reported" "street" "woman" "alone". You may then arrange these words so they form a new image, such as: "Tragic news of a street woman alone" or "I reported a woman alone".
 Once you have completed the chance operation on the original text and have generated a poem, you should read it over. Read it out loud and consider how the words sound together on each line. Note any interesting images or phrases that appear in the poem.


Though it may be tempting to edit the poem so it fits a certain idea or theme, you may want to consider not adjusting it too much. A big part of chance poetry is allowing the words to exist on the page as they appear, by chance. Adjusting them too much would conflict with the chance aspect of the poem and potentially ruin your chance operation.

