 This includes color patterns and textures you would like to incorporate into your wedding.;
, A good way to decide this is by the size of your wedding guests list. Think about how many people you will need to seat at each table. The larger the group, the smaller the centerpiece and vise versa. (This avoids any incidentals that can lead to disaster!)


Example 1 : Tall Vase. Example 2: Small Floating Light centerpiece.

TALL VASE : This can be done in a few simple steps, it is easy to add your own creativity into this project.

Purchase desired number (1 per table) of clear glass vases, about 24 inches (61.0 cm) high. The width can be up to you depending on how full you would like your center piece to look.
You will need: Glass beads (color is optional, clear is the most common). Tall artificial blossom branches (3-6 per vase). Floral or Feather accents (2 for every 3 branches). Water to fill vase (optional)
Now that you have acquired all the necessary items in your chosen styles and colors you can begin piecing it together. Start by filling each vase halfway with the glass beads.
Take the branches and place them in the vase positioning them semi outward so they are lined around the rim opposed to directly in the middle.Push them softly into the beads (about 2 inches of the way in)





,,,




SMALL FLOATING LIGHT CENTERPIECE:This can be done in a few simple steps, it is easy to add your own creativity into this project.(Red is a common color used for this center piece)

Purchase desired number of 10" cylinder glass vases, an equal number of cylinder votive candle holders and mirror style square 7.5" Square Glass Candle Plate. (1 per table)
You will also need: Real roses (1 per table with 3-4 spare roses remaining), Glass Beads in your desired color (same color for both), White votive candles, and water.
Start by cutting each roses stem so the rose bud can be placed in the vase standing 3 inches (7.6 cm) under the rim.
Leave the rose standing upward and gently fill the 1/3 of the vase with glass beads (do this by hand to avoid damaging the rose, the stem should still be very visible.)





,, (keep in mind the flower should be completely under water and the glass beads should hold its place)

,,, Take about 3-4 petals and place them on the square candle plate surrounding the vase and candle holder.
