 E. Coli predominantly affects the gastrointestinal tracts in adults. It causes either watery diarrhea or, in more severe cases, bloody diarrhea that can lead to other complications such as kidney failure. E. Coli infections occur most frequently while traveling to areas of the world with poorer hygiene than we have here in North America. It is transmitted via fecal contamination of food, water, etc.Symptoms of an E. Coli infection include:


Abdominal pain
Nausea and/or vomiting
Diarrhea
Fever
Abdominal cramps;
, It is important to understand that E. Coli infections are not able to be "cured" (and the bacteria cannot be "killed") with typical medical drugs such as antibiotics or even antidiarrheals. Rather, the treatment offered by medical professionals is "supportive," meaning it consists of rest, fluids, and medications for symptom management such as pain and/or nausea.


This is counter-intuitive for many people, who often expect medical drugs as a "cure" for illnesses such as an E. Coli infection.
Antidiarrheal medications are not helpful because they delay the passage of the infection and a worsening of symptoms. Your best bet, counter-intuitive as it may seem, is to allow the diarrhea to continue to get rid of the infection as soon as possible.Antibiotics are also not recommended — they have been shown to worsen the illness, because when the bacteria are killed they release more toxins, resulting in greater damage., Because antibiotics are not advised in E. Coli infections, it will be up to your immune system to kill off the infection. Fortunately, your immune system is very capable of doing this, given adequate time and proper support. Rest, follow your doctor's instructions, and allow your immune system to do its job!


Talk to your doctor about the supportive measures you can take to get through the infection. It will be important to stay hydrated as you will be losing lots of fluids while you are sick.
 It may sound simple, but rest is key to recovering as quickly as possible from an E. Coli infection. Since there is not much that traditional medical treatments can do, rest becomes very important to allow your body the energy to best fight off the infection using its own natural defences.


Take time off work or school. Not only is it important to stay home and rest for your own recovery, it is also important as a means to avoid contaminating others in the workplace or school. You should remain isolated socially because E. Coli infections are very contagious and you do not want to be responsible for infecting your entire office or class with this unpleasant bacteria.
Be sure to wash your hands frequently, and to avoid others as much as possible for the duration of your illness (which should get better within a week or so).

E. Coli is transmitted through fecal matter, so wash your hands extra thoroughly after using the restroom., E. Coli infections tend to cause lots of diarrhea. As a result, is important to rehydrate yourself with water and fluids containing carbohydrates and electrolytes to compensate for the fluids lost in the diarrhea.


Dehydration is more serious in extremes of age. If the individual with E. Coli is an infant or a senior citizen, consider taking him to his doctor for treatment., Oral rehydration salts (ORS) is a powder containing salts and electrolytes that are needed in the body. It is more effective than plain water when it comes to rehydration. The powder is mixed in a litre of water and then the solution should be drunk of the next 24 hours. The powder can be obtained online and in pharmacies and most grocery stores.


Alternatively, ORS can be prepared at home by dissolving 4 tablespoons of sugar and half teaspoonful each of baking soda and salt in one liter of water.
For further information, read wikiHow's How to Make an Oral Rehydration Salts Drink.
The powder should be mixed in safe water to avoid further infection. Boil it if need be.
 You will be given intravenous fluids to replace the electrolytes and ions that have been lost during diarrhea and vomiting. An indication of when to go to hospital is when you can no longer tolerate fluids by mouth because of nausea, or when you are having diarrhea more than four times a day. If in doubt, it is best to see a medical professional to assess whether IV fluids can help to speed your recovery.


Electrolytes are substances that are found in the body and help to maintain the normal functioning of the body.
You may be required to get a blood transfusion in cases of severe bloody diarrhea (which some strains of E. Coli cause). Your blood will be checked to determine hemoglobin levels. This helps to know the amount of blood that has been lost so that the blood can be transfused back.
 To help with symptom relief, you can take pain medication such as Acetaminophen (Tylenol) for abdominal pain. This is available over-the-counter at your local drugstore or pharmacy. Follow the dosing directions on the bottle. You can also try anti-nauseant medications such as Dimenhydrinate (Gravol) to help combat nausea.
 As your condition improves, start with a low fibre diet at first. This will help the digestive tract restore its normal function more quickly. If you have too much fibre, your stool will bulk up and pass through your digestive tract too quickly — a process that is already likely happening with your condition. You can add more fibre back into your diet after the diarrhea has subsided and when you are feeling better.Also avoid alcohol and caffeine. Alcohol can alter your liver metabolism and it is harmful to the lining of your stomach. Caffeine worsens diarrhea by increasing dehydration.
 This includes preparation and cooking of the food. The foods that are usually eaten raw (such as fruits and vegetables) should be thoroughly cleaned before eating to prevent ingestion of contaminated food.Drinking water should be boiled if need be and should be kept in a clean place for cooling. The water that is being used for cooking needs to be clean to avoid contamination.
 Swimming pools should be treated with chlorine and the pool water should be changed regularly. This is to avoid contamination and to ensure that it is safe for swimming.


Fecal contamination in pools does happen more often than most think. In a recent study by the CDC, 58% of public swimming pools tested positive for fecal contamination.This doesn't mean there is E. Coli present necessarily, but it does provide the environment for it to be transmitted.
If you are swimming, avoid swallowing pool water as much as possible. Also, shower after leaving the pool to greatly diminish any chances of infection.
 It is important to keep your hands clean at all times. E. Coli is contagious and can be spread from one person to another through fecal contamination. Poor hygiene in the restroom can lead to the bacteria's spread.


Wash your hands with warm soap and water. Scrub for at least 20 seconds.
 Ensure that your food is cooked well before consumption. If it's undercooked, don't eat it — especially beef. Cooking food thoroughly ensures that any microbe that might be present in the food are not ingested.A food thermometer should be used to ensure that the food being consumed is safe. Beef is only done when it has reached an internal temperature of 160° F (71.1°C).

