 It is very important to make sure you have enough food and calories in your body before you go outside for a day of physical activity in the snow. It is especially important for skiing because you need fuel in order to stay warm.


Eat a complete breakfast. Make sure you intake enough carbohydrates to give you energy and fuel for physical activity during the day as well as proteins that help you satisfy your appetite and help build and repair your muscles.






Hydrate. It is very important before spending a day doing physical activity to drink lots of water. This is to prevent your body from being dehydrated out on the slopes.





;
, Make sure you are prepared for the day of skiing ahead of you to ensure that you stay warm during the day. There are many important factors to consider before going out skiing and the following that you should consider:


Know your body. Are you a typically hot-blooded person? Or do you get cold very easily? By knowing your body’s natural reactions, it can be helpful when deciding how to prepare yourself for a day outside in the cold snow. It can also help you determine if you need to wear that extra layer of clothing or not.






Know the climate. Are you going to be skiing in Colorado where it rarely rains? Is it going to be a sunny day where you may need to bring sunscreen? Are you going to be skiing in chilly cold weather conditions where you need a heavy-duty ski jacket? These are important questions to ask yourself before you go skiing, because different locations have different climates, which can influence your choice on what to wear when skiing to stay warm.






How long will you be skiing for? It is also important to plan on how long you will be out on the slopes skiing. Depending on the change in weather conditions, or if it’s expected to rain or snow later in the day, it would be a good idea to prepare and decide whether or not you should bring an extra layer of clothing with you.
 Make sure you dress appropriately before you go outside skiing. This is a crucial step and you do not want to end up being wet and cold at the end of your day. Here are the following critical items that you may need before going out skiing.


Wear base-layers. Whenever you are skiing, it is imperative that you wear base-layers. If you are skiing, you'll want layers. If you wipe-out or fall onto the snow, your "shell", or your exterior layer (heavy coat), will get wet quickly, and you'll want to stay as dry as possible. From long underwear to long sleeve tees, base-layers should be comfortable, light, and breathable clothes. You need the base-layers to be comfortable and be form-fitting to your body so they fit nicely under your ski jacket and you can move freely. These layers also need to be breathable so if they get wet from the snow or from sweating, they can dry quickly and not cause a problem. Also depending on the weather or if you tend to get cold, you can wear multiple base layers on top of each other. Recommended base-layer clothing are made of Merino wool and polyester because they are optimal materials for keeping moisture away from your skin.







Ski jacket. As mentioned above, when you go skiing, you need to wear a “shell” or ski jacket over your base-layers. A ski jacket is used to protect your upper body. You should try to find a jacket that is waterproof to protect you from being wet, insulating to keep you warm, and form fitting to allow you to move freely while you ski.







Ski pants. Also referred to as snow pants, ski pants are also important when it comes to dressing appropriately before you go skiing. It’s recommended that the ski pants are long enough to cover your snow boots in order to insulate your legs and prevent moisture from snow entering under your ski pants. Ski pants also block wind and icy chills from entering your legs and feet, helping you stay warm while you ski.







Ski gloves. Ski gloves are specifically designed for skiing because they are waterproof, insulating, and protective from windy and chilly weather conditions. It’s important to find a pair of gloves that are also comfortable and form fitting for your hands. A good pair of gloves will allow you to move your hands pretty freely without the gloves being very loose, and falling off.







Ski socks. Ski socks, like base–layers need to be comfortable, light, and breathable socks. Wearing only one pair of quality ski socks will go a long way. Socks often get wet when skiing, so it’s important to find socks that can dry very quickly.







Ski helmet. A ski helmet is extremely important for protecting your head in case of an accident or a wipe-out. Ski helmets also warm your head as well. They insulate your head and protect your head from the wind chill and snow.
 Often times, people like to get extra ski accessories to stay warm when they go out skiing. The following are popular ski accessories that you may want to think about getting before going out to ski:



Hand and feet warmers. These are very popular and are inexpensive accessory for people when they go outside in cold winter weather conditions. Hand and feet warmers are little packets that can be easily inserted into your ski gloves and ski boots.







Glove and boot liners. If you don’t like hand and feet warmers, another alternative to keep your fingers and toes extra warm is to purchase glove and boot liners. They are thin fleece material liners that you can wear under your ski gloves and inside your ski boots. They provide insulation to your hands and feet, helping you stay warm while skiing.







Neck gaiters. This is a tube-like accessory made of insulating material that protects your neck and face from windy and chilly weather conditions while skiing. They provide extra warmth and a good neck gaiter is breathable and moisture resistant so there is ventilation and mobility while you ski.







