 It might be a date if they show up in a dress, heels, or slacks, or it just appears in general that they put in an extra effort to see you. If your “date” is wearing an unwashed sweatshirt and it looks (or smells) like they didn’t even bother to shower, then it is probably not a date., If they ask you questions about yourself, pay attention to you, look at you often, listen to you, and generally seem like they care about you, then it is likely to be a date. It might not be a date if they are barely paying attention to you and are not trying to make conversation., If it was a date, you would be their current love life, not whatever they are talking about. It is not a date if they are going on about another person they are interested in, asking for relationship advice, or hitting on other people during the date., You can tell a lot about a situation based on someone’s body language. If they lean toward you, put their arm around you, try to hold your hand, or turn their body toward you, they might be interested in you. Whereas, if they are leaned over in the opposite direction, barely even noticing you’re on the other side of the couch, then it is not a date.If they seem a little too comfortable and relaxed, you might be hanging out as just friends.If they are nervous or fidgety it might be because it is a date.
 If they offer to pay for you, it is likely a date. If you offer to pay and they decline, pay attention to how they decline. If they seem weirded out you offered to pay at all, then it might not be a date. If they seem flattered but insist on paying for themselves, it might be a date., If they kiss you goodbye, then you can probably assume it was a date. Giving you a hive-five or handshake or simply just saying goodbye are not signals you just went on a date. It might not have been a date if they seem really offhand and casual about the goodbye (“See you later. Bye”). If they say a thoughtful goodbye, it is more likely it was a date. (“I had a great time tonight. I hope I see you again soon.”)