 In a heated situation it’s easy to lash out at the person we feel has offended us, causing us to say or do things we later regret. Prevent further damage to the relationship by taking a moment to regain your composure. Get some alone time. Tell your friend that you need a moment to clear your head. Do any of the following to calm down after an argument: Go for a walk
Meditate
Practice deep breathing
Run, box, or engage in an activity that provides an outlet for you to vent your frustrations
Listen to relaxing music or guided imagery videos on YouTube
Take a warm bath and use essential oils or light candles;
, If this is your first fight with a friend, you might feel very confused. Why did this happen? Truth is, conflict is an inevitable stumbling block in most relationships. Different people have different values and opinions and sometimes those differences cause you to bump heads. Common reasons friends may disagree include either of you:having problems comprehending what the other is trying to say
having difficulty empathizing with the other’s feelings or current circumstances
exhibiting different beliefs, values, and opinions than the other
demonstrating different needs than the other
feeling stressed out or upset, and accidentally (or, on purpose) taking it out on the other

, Most of the reasons for conflict revolve around not seeing things from another’s perspective. Once you have calmed down, try to think objectively about why the argument may have happened, and how both of you acted during the fight. Grab a pen and notepad and write down a few points from each of your perspectives.Writing from your own perspective will probably be easy. However, you may find it difficult to write from your friend’s point-of-view. If you have no idea what your friend was thinking or feeling, that may be a sign that you need to listen and be more aware of his/her emotions in the future.
If you have trouble recognizing your friend’s perspective, then his or her feelings probably fall into the category of not feeling heard or understood, among other things.
 In the midst of an argument, it can be dreadfully hard to remember the positives about another. As you prepare to talk to your friend about the misunderstanding, recount the good traits this person holds. Analyzing these good traits can help you to not see the situation as all bad and provide clarity as you work towards resolving the conflict.


Why is he/she a part of your life? What do you value about this friendship? How has this person been there for you in the past?

, If you or your friend’s emotions are still running high, it may be hard to reach a solution on your own. Reach out to someone who is unbiased and not affected by the fight. Ask this person sit in on the discussion in order to ensure that both you and your friend are able to voice your concerns.
 Tell him/her she upset you, and that you would like to resolve the problem. If emotions are still running high, you might send a text message, email, or call the person to schedule the meeting. Don’t get into details during this exchange. Simply call your friend and tell him/her that you want to talk about the fight. Decide on a time that is convenient for both of you.An example of how you might broach the subject with your friend may be: "Hi, I can't stop thinking about our fight, and I miss you. Can we talk this over?" Try not to get into the details or your feelings over the phone or via email/text.
 When it is your turn to talk, clearly state your point-of-view without blaming or accusing your friend of any wrongdoing. Stick to the facts. A good rule of thumb is to use “I” statements that remove accusatory tones and prevent your friend from getting defensive.


Start by stating your feelings: “I feel ____...” Then connect the feeling to the issue at hand. For example, “I feel ignored when you spend time with your other friends and don’t return my calls.”
Finally, add some sort of solution to your statement. “I wish that you could at least text me and let me know you’re busy rather than just missing all of my calls”.
 Active listening is a method of listening that allows the speaker to get his or her message across and the listener to fully receive the message without distractions or inattention. Active listeners restate the speaker’s message with less words to verify that they understood the intended message. They also reflect empathy by demonstrating that the speaker’s unique feelings are heard. A good acronym for active listening is SOLER. S- squarely face the speaker
O-open your posture (arms uncrossed and at your sides)
L-lean towards the speaker
E-eye contact is maintained
R-relax while attending

, Remain on the current matter. It may feel as if it helps you to more thoroughly explain your concerns if you bring in related examples of the person’s behavior. Avoid this at all costs.


More issues up for discussion makes it harder to resolve any of them. Also, you are more likely to offend your friend if you seem to be building a case against him or her. This is actually counterproductive to conflict resolution. Talk about the issue at hand only.
 Sometimes, but not always, the best thing to do is to forget about the fight completely. Other times, coming out of the fight can make your friendship stronger. Negotiation involves accepting some of your friend’s suggested changes for the relationship and that person reciprocating.An example of a compromise might be: “I understand that you lose track of time when you’re with your other friends. I'll try not to get offended when I don't hear back from you. It would be great if you could just shoot a quick text telling me you’ll call back later. Does that sound reasonable to you?”

, Even if you still feel that you were in the right about the initial argument, it will minimize guilt and defensiveness if you both apologize for your role in the fight.


”I’m sorry for getting angry about you not returning my calls. I will try to be more understanding in the future.”
Give your friend a hug, make plans to hang out later, or change the subject to make it clear that the fight is over.

