 In a legal separation, the court determines the rights and responsibilities for each party. This allows a married couple who are unsure whether or not they want a divorce to live separately and determine if the marriage can be fixed. During a legal separation, the following rights or responsibilities may be accorded to the parties:A court may establish that one spouse should receive alimony.
A court can approve a child custody arrangement and child support.
Any earnings made during the separation are not considered marital property and will not be included in any subsequent divorce proceeding.
A court judgment for legal separation does not bar either party from seeking a divorce.
Parties who are legally separated can not get remarried unless they seek a divorce.
After two years, a legal separation can become an accepted grounds/justification for divorce.;
, Uncontested divorces are the most common type of divorce. In an uncontested divorce, the parties negotiate all of the terms of the divorce, including the division of property, alimony, child custody and support.


Once parties agree to all of the terms, they draft a written marital agreement.
One person submits the agreement along with the Divorce Complaint (discussed in detail below) to the circuit court where the other spouse resides.A judge will review the agreement and if she approves, the agreement will become part of the divorce decree.You can view a sample marriage settlement agreement at: http://www.wikiform.org/legal-forms/divorce/alabama/alabama-marital-settlement-agreement-form.html.
 If the parties want an uncontested divorce but are having difficulty agreeing on some of the terms, they should consider hiring a mediator. A mediator is an independent party that meets with each spouse and attempts to guide the parties towards an agreement.


You can locate mediators or learn more about divorce mediation by calling the Alabama Dispute Resolution Center at (334) 269-0409.
An Alabama attorney can also assist you with divorce mediation., Alabama requires that at least one of the spouses must have resided in the state for at least 6 months before he or she can file for divorce., A Divorce Complaint is the legal document that a party must file to begin divorce proceedings. The Complaint must provide the following information:


The name and address of the person filing for divorce (plaintiff).
The name and address of the non-filing spouse (defendant).
That both parties are at least 19 years old.
That the plaintiff has resided in Alabama for the previous 6 months.
The date and location that the couple was married.
The grounds for divorce or that the parties are seeking a no-fault divorce, which means the spouse filing for divorce does not need to show that the other spouse did something wrong.
The names, dates of birth and social security numbers for any children.
The date the parties separated and began living separatelyAttach a certified copy of your marriage certificate to the Complaint.You can view a sample divorce complaints at: http://www.wikiform.org/legal-forms/divorce/alabama/alabama-divorce-complaint-form.html and http://eforms.alacourt.gov/Do%20It%20Yourself%20Forms/Divorce%20Complaint.pdf.
 If you are asserting that your spouse did something wrong, which caused you to seek a divorce, you must set forth a legally recognized reason in your Complaint. Alabama recognizes the following grounds for divorce:


Adultery or voluntary abandonment for at least one year prior to filing for divorce;
Imprisonment for at least two years and with a sentence of at least seven years;
The commission of a crime against nature, either before or after marriage;
While married, becoming addicted to habitual use of alcohol, opium, morphine, cocaine, or other similar drug;
Incompatibility of temperament or irretrievable breakdown of marriage as defined by the court;
Confinement during the marriage to a mental institution for at least five years;
If the wife was pregnant at the time of marriage without the husband’s knowledge or agency;
If one party committed violence against the other party;
If the spouses have lived separate and apart from each other for at least two years and resided in Alabama during those two years., When preparing to file your documents, you must make sure that you are filing the Complaint in the county where either you or your spouse has resided for at least 6 months prior to filing for divorce.


Alabama circuit courts have jurisdiction over divorce proceedings. To locate circuit courts by county, visit: http://www.sos.state.al.us/vb/election/all.aspx?trgtoffice=Circuit%20Clerk.
If the defendant lives in Alabama, the plaintiff should file the Complaint in the county where the defendant resides.
If the defendant does not live in Alabama, the plaintiff should file the Complaint where he or she has resided for at least 6 months prior to filing for divorce., You should contact the court clerk and ask him or her to identify any additional forms and fees that you are required to bring when filing your divorce case. Generally, you need the following:


An original and two copies of the Complaint to be stamped by the court clerk.
A filing fee.Some counties may have additional forms or requirements that the clerk can inform you about or you can check the circuit court’s website for divorce forms.
 The plaintiff is required to provide the defendant with a time-stamped copy of the Complaint, which is referred to as “serving” the Complaint. You can provide your spouse a copy of the Complaint in the following ways:


Ask your spouse or his or her attorney whether they will agree to accept delivery of the Complaint. This acceptance must be in writing and signed by the spouse accepting service and by a witness.
Ask the court clerk for an Acknowledgement of Service form, which you will have to complete, attach the written delivery acceptance, and file with the court.
You can hire a qualified person, such as a sheriff or constable, to serve the Complaint. Once they serve the Complaint, they will notify the court.
If your spouse will not accept service, ask the court clerk whether you can send it to his or her address via certified mail., The defendant has 30 days to file an Answer, which is a formal legal response to the Complaint. If the defendant files an Answer, the case will be set for trial, unless the parties can negotiate the terms of the divorce.


If the defendant fails to file an Answer within 30 days, the Plaintiff can file a Request for Divorce Judgment by Default. If you are not asking for assets to be divided and you have no children, the court may enter a judgment without a hearing.
If you are asking the Court to divide property or assign custody, the Court will hold a default hearing.
At the hearing, the judge will determine whether you have grounds for the divorce. If the court finds that there are sufficient grounds, it will finalize the terms of the divorce, including property division, custody, child support and alimony.
You must use your best efforts to notify your spouse of the hearing.
After a decision is made at the hearing, your spouse has 30 days to file a motion to overturn the default judgment.You can view a sample Answer and Request for Divorce by Default at: http://eforms.alacourt.gov/Do%20It%20Yourself%20Forms/Forms/AllItems.aspx.
 The county where you filed for divorce may require both parties to make financial disclosures. You may be required to turn over all documents that relate to the following:


Income, assets and debts.
Tax returns, bank statements, and credit card statements.
Personal financial statements and any other documentation that contains relevant financial information., If your spouse files an Answer or you filed for default judgment, you must attend a court hearing where the court will make a final decision on all of the terms of the divorce. At the hearing, the parties will be allowed to present witnesses and evidence to help support their case. Judges will try to have the parties resolve their differences and may even hold multiple hearings in order to give the parties time to reach an agreement.If the parties cannot agree, the judge will make the following determinations:


An equitable division of propertyAlimonyCustody and visitation arrangements Child-support, Alabama is an equitable distribution state. Assets and liabilities will not necessarily be divided 50/50. Instead, the property that each person had before the marriage is returned to that person.Whatever remains will be divided in the most fair manner possible.


Courts may examine how much each person earns, his or her earning potential, and the value of one person staying at home with children (if children are involved) to determine to help them determine the most equitable way to divide property.One person can be awarded between one-third and two-thirds of the property obtained during the marriage., The judge will his discretion to decide whether limited alimony is necessary to help a long-term, economically-dependent spouse enter the job market. The judge may take the following into account: standard of living, earning power, length of marriage, and, if fault is determined, the misconduct of the offending spouse.The judge may order that alimony be paid to one party before the divorce is finalized.Alimony is usually awarded only for a set period of time so that the spouse can return to school or make preparations to find a job.
 If children are involved and spouses cannot decide who will have custody, the court will have to decide what is in the best interest of the child or children.The judge will take the following into account:The gender and age of the child
The emotional, social, moral, material, and educational needs of the child
The home environments offered by each party
The characteristics of those seeking custody, including age, character, stability, and mental and physical health
The capacity and interest of each parent to provide for the emotional, social, moral, material, and educational needs of the child
The interpersonal relationship between the child and each parent
The interpersonal relationship between the child and any other children of either party
The effect on the child of disrupting or continuing the current custody situation
The preference of the child, if the child is old and mature enough
The report and recommendation of any expert witnesses or other independent investigator
Any available alternatives
Any other relevant matter that is proven by the evidence

, The court considers the needs of the child and the parent’s ability to earn and pay that amount.The court will use Child Support Guidelines to decide how much the non-custodial parent can pay. The court look at the total income of both parents as well as the number of children and will use the Guidelines to determine what is appropriate., Once the court makes its determinations on all of the issues in the case, it will issue a final order of divorce also called a divorce decree. This document sets forth all of the terms of your divorce that both spouses must follow. Once this document is issued, you are officially divorced.