 Your ring finger is the finger next to your pinkie on your left hand. This tradition originated in ancient Rome, where is was believed that the vein in the ring finger ran directly to the heart. The Romans called this vein the "vena amoris" or vein of love and wore their wedding bands on this finger as a way to signify romance.This is a pretty cute reason to wear your ring on your ring finger. Here are some ways to do it:


Place your wedding band on your left hand ring finger and wear it alone.
Try wearing your wedding band and engagement ring together in the order you received them. This means that the diamond ring goes on the bottom and the wedding band on top of it. This is the traditional way of wearing rings, but it may not work for every ring style.
Wear them together with the engagement ring on top instead. Maybe your rings look nicer or fit better this way. Some people prefer to wear their rings this way because they feel that wearing the wedding band on the bottom keeps it closer to the heart.;
, Place your wedding ring on your right hand ring finger and your engagement ring on the other, or the other way around. This is a less traditional option, but there are many good reasons to wear your rings this way. Here are some things to consider:


This arrangement may be more comfortable for people with shorter fingers or who don't like having more than one ring on each finger.
This can be a nice way to display your rings if you don't have a matching set or if your rings don't fit well next to each other.
Perhaps both of your rings are simply so stunning that they need to be displayed alone and without distraction.
 Though both rings are intended to be worn, and most women do, some choose not to wear both of them at the same time. Here are some things to consider:


One ring may be very expensive and you might like to reserve it for special occasions.
Some people are more comfortable wearing just one ring at a time, but still want a chance to wear them both. Alternating rings can a nice compromise.
 You're married now, you can make your own decisions about these things! It's your ring, wear it how you want. Here are some things to consider:


Engagement rings are mostly worn on the ring finger of the left hand. Most people who wear their engagement rings stick to tradition.
Promise rings are often worn on the ring finger of the right hand.
Though there may be an “official” way of wearing your rings, this is the 21st Century and you can make your own way of doing things. Your ring is beautiful and will look amazing on whichever finger you prefer to wear it.

