 Not all insurance policies include flood damage, and it is often a secondary policy that you'll have to have before the flood occurs. Before you notify your insurance agency, it's a good idea to check over your policy to ensure that you are covered for flood damage.In addition to checking for a flood policy, you should also check your declarations page.
Make sure all of your information is up to date.
If you have a mortgage, make sure that your mortgage company information is up to date on your insurance policy. If you refinanced with another company, you'll need to let your insurance agent know immediately.;
, Keep your policy information on hand and call your insurance agent or company right away. It can take several days or even weeks for a claim to be processed, and there may be a time limit on when you can file a claim, so it's important to begin that process as soon as possible.


Have your insurance policy number on hand when you call.
Be sure to specify which agency/company your policy is with, as some agents work for multiple companies.Let your insurer know the best phone number and/or email address to reach you at any time of day., When you call to file your claim, it's important to ask your agent what the expected time frame will be for that claim. This is not necessarily a guaranteed date, of course, but it can give you an idea of when an agent will be visiting your home, which is a crucial part of the process. That way you can plan accordingly, and have all the documentation you'll need before your agent arrives.Depending on your insurer and the specific policy you have, there may be a great deal of variance on how long the process will take. That's why it's important to ask your agent, as he will be able to give you a better idea of what to expect.
 Before an adjuster can come and assess the damage to your home and belongings, you'll need to separate out the damaged from the undamaged property. This will make it easier for your insurance adjuster to determine what was actually damaged and how much that damage will cost to repair. It will also help prevent undamaged items from being damaged by water or mold in the damaged property.Your town or county may require you to dispose of damaged items. Do not dispose of anything until your adjuster has assessed the extent of damage.
You can compile the damaged property in your garage or yard, if it is safe and feasible to do so. That way your home and undamaged property will not be subjected to any additional mold.
 This is a crucial part of the insurance claims process. Without proper and thorough documentation, your insurer could deny your claim.


Take photographs of any damaged/discarded objects, including furniture, clothing, appliances, and other belongings.
Photograph any structural damage, cosmetic/surface-level damage, and any standing water levels, both inside and outside your home. You can also use video footage to supplement your photos if you have a video recorder.
Photograph and document any damage to other structures on your property. This may include your garage, tool shed, or swimming pool.
Have your electrical system assessed by a professional electrician. Most insurance companies will reimburse you for any necessary inspections.
Once again, do not throw out any items until an insurance adjuster has visited your home., In addition to photographing the damage to your home, it's a good idea to keep a running list of all damaged or lost items. Include each item's description, value, approximate date of purchase, and any receipts you may have retained.If your property was destroyed or washed away during flooding, work from memory as best you can and keep a running tally of everything lost, damaged, or destroyed.If at all possible, your inventory should include:


the date and place of purchase
model number
serial number
a detailed description of the items
the original purchase cost
any receipts you may have retained, Once you've documented the damage, it may be several days (or longer) before an adjuster can come and assess the damage. This may take even longer than usual if your entire community or region was struck by flooding. It's important to ensure that your living environment is safe and habitable in the meantime.Don't make expensive permanent repairs just yet. That will come after your claim has been approved.
Focus on fixing immediate problems, such as managing mold, removing water-logged carpeting, etc.
Save receipts from any and all temporary repairs you spend money on.
You can submit your temporary repair receipts with your claim for reimbursement from your insurance company. However, ensure that your insurer will cover such expenses first by talking to your adjuster or a representative.If your home is uninhabitable, or if you need to relocate while your home is being repaired, keep a record of those expenses and save your receipts.
 Once your adjuster is able to visit your home, you should show him around the property and detail all of the damage inside and outside your home. Make copies of both the itemized inventory and the photographs you took, and submit these to your adjuster.Depending on your insurer and the extent of damage in your region, your insurance company may send you a "proof of loss" form before an adjuster can visit. Simply document the damage as you would for an adjuster and include copies of all your documentation.
You will not receive any compensation until you have completed a proof of loss form and/or had an adjuster assess your damage.Alert your insurer if you have not been assigned an adjuster after several days.
Let your adjuster know immediately if any portion of your contact information changes., Assuming your insurer will pay for repairs, you should be able to choose any repair firm you want. However, it's important to make clear to each contractor that you will not be able to pay for permanent repairs until the claim is processed.Once you've received a number of bids, show them to your insurance adjuster. He will then agree with one or more of your bids, at which point that contractor can begin working on your home.
If all of the bids are too high for your insurance adjuster, you can ask him to negotiate a better price with a contractor. Your adjuster may also recommend reputable firms he's worked with in the past.
Be sure your repair/construction company has the necessary building permits before construction begins.
Make sure you're completely satisfied with any and all repair work before signing any forms. You may revoke your right to demand modifications or further repairs once you sign that the job is complete.
 If your claim is approved, you will receive some form of compensation for lost and damaged items, as well as any property damage. However, the time table for this will vary, depending on your insurance company, your specific policy, and whether or not your claim is found to be payable. Your claim will only be deemed payable once:


you and your insurer agree on the extent of damage and the cost of repairs/replacementyou have completed and submitted an accurate, signed proof of loss form
any supporting documentation has been submitted with your claim

, If both your home and the contents of your dwelling are damaged, you may receive two separate checks from your insurer. One will be made out to you for the home damage, or to you and your mortgage lender (if your home is mortgaged).Another check will be sent solely to you to compensate you for the items lost or damaged inside your home.Many mortgage policies require you to name the mortgage lender in your homeowner's policy and stipulate that they receive a portion of any structural damage insurance settlements.
 Some insurance policies are classified as replacement cost policies. This means that any personal possessions that are damaged must be replaced by you out of pocket before your insurance company will reimburse you.If you do not want to replace certain items that were damaged/destroyed, your insurance company will pay you those items' cash value instead.
You will typically have several months (depending on your policy) to replace your items and collect the full replacement cost after receiving your initial cash value payment.
 Some repair and construction companies may ask you to sign a "direction to pay" form, which takes you out as the middle man and has your insurance company pay the money directly to that repair company. This is not necessarily a bad thing, as it simplifies the repayment process.Direction to pay arrangements are not dictated by your insurance company. It may be requested by a construction company, and it is up to you to either go with that company or find another one if you do not want direction to pay.
 Once repairs are underway (or even completed), you may later find additional damage that was caused by the flooding. This may be structural property damage or personal property. If you want to get compensation for these additional damages, you'll need to file a request for an Additional Flood Payment with your insurer.You will need to repeat the entire claims process, but only for the damage you recently discovered.
Your request must be made within the standard 60 day limit, unless you've been granted any time extensions by FEMA.
Notify your adjuster or insurance agent immediately upon discovering any additional damage.
Document the newly-discovered damage as you did previously.
Your adjuster may need to visit your home to assess the most recently-discovered damage and verify your losses.
 Your adjuster will have more knowledge about your claim than any agent or representative with your insurance company. Therefore, it may be worthwhile to communicate directly with him on any issues you're confused or unsatisfied with.Decisions you may be confused or unsatisfied with include those based on your application of coverage, the timing of when you filed your proof of loss, or the damage estimate.
Contact your adjuster on these and similar matters before speaking to an insurance agent.
 If you are still not clear on why a decision was reached, or if you do not agree with that decision, you can then move on to the adjuster's supervisor. Ask your adjuster for his supervisor's contact information, and reach out to the supervisor before notifying an insurance agent., If your adjuster's supervisor is unable to help you, or if you still do not agree with his decision, you may then move on to your insurance company. The adjuster himself, as well as his supervisor, should be appealed to first, as they will have greater knowledge about your damage and the claim you filed.Contact your insurance agent through your usual means of communication, or look up the contact information for a representative at your insurance company.
 If you're still unclear on what's happening with your claim, or if you still have outstanding issues that are not being handled properly, you may contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). They can help clarify the process and may be able to help you mount an appeal if you did not have any luck with your adjuster, his supervisor, or your insurance company.