 Being charming all day every day is not an easy task. The most important thing is starting your day off right. This begins with getting the right amount of sleep, usually 8 hours work best. After rolling out of bed at about 6am make sure you comment on at least one photo from every one of your Facebook friends. After spending 30 minutes picking the right outfit from your absurdly crowded - yet organized - closet, head to the washroom to practice your smile. A great smile is like Hello-Kitty meets the Care-bears (in other words, the most magical thing on the planet), so make sure to have that down to a science. From here on out, the charm should come pretty naturally, just make sure to throw away all inhibitions. If you see a group of people that you have never met before, just walk up to them with that charming smile you've practiced and say something silly, for example: "I really like that shirt." Even if people seem genuinely off-put by your outgoing nature and seemingly lack of self-consciousness: Do not leave...Unless of course you know you're just being annoying, than leave. Keep laughing at everyone's comments, and sooner or later your will be 1) going on friend-dinner date's with them, 2) attending their weddings as a +1 or 3) bringing cookies to their potluck/birthday party.;
, Wardrobe is key! Business casual screams friendship, so even when heading to a "dress-down" event (e.g. a yoga class) make sure to have your khaki's pressed (Note, alternative can be perfectly hemmed Mavis Jeans), your dress shirt starched, and your blazer recently dry-cleaned.
 The key to keeping your schedule full of social engagements is multitasking. As long as you keep in mind warnings from your g-cal that you have too many meetings scheduled for the same time - you will make it to all of them. The best antidote for the dreaded Fear Of Missing Out is to never ever miss out. Even if you are out of the country; Seminars, conferences, pot lucks, drum circles, cooking workshops. The key is always say yes to everything and everybody.
 (don't forget to enthusiastically yell 'Thank you!' to the bus driver as you get off) to ask how their day was. Public transit is also a great opportunity to create a new connection with a stranger and invite them to your next potluck or painting party (true story!).
 Combine exercise with socializing; schedule runs and bike rides with friends or join a running group (your new group of best friends). Even if you think you are out of shape, or don't have rain-appropriate cycling gear... go anyway! You don't want to miss out on possible fun and friendship. If you are baking cookies for one group of friends, quadruple that recipe so you can distribute joy and happiness to at least 3 more groups of friends!

, We're not just talking requests for friendship (duh - never turn one down!) but also anything and everything that people request in their online status is yours for accepting. Friends looking for someone to help them move? Bike right over. Someone can't find an article online? Email it to them stat. Hot chick looking for someone to run with her a distance you have never tried before? Your shoes are already on. Don't forget to first like their original requesting status, and then like their shout-outs you will for sure receive in their next status for being the most helpful and charming friend out there. Learn to step back or you'll just come off as pushy or needy.

