 That way, you have a reliable fan group that will buy your book when it’s published -- something publishers like to see. Post your comics online and use social networking sites to direct readers to your work. Check with local weekly papers to see whether they use local comics.;
, Individual publishers often sponsor contests and talent searches, as do organizations. Many of these contests offer publication in an anthology as a prize, which can help establish your credibility as a comic book artist.
 You can do this through online research, browsing at a comic store or attending a convention. Many publishers hire writers and artists to work on existing projects, rather than publishing those writers’ and artists’ books. If the publisher offers a limited number of characters and styles in its offerings, you’ll have a more difficult time getting your book published with them. Instead, seek out a publisher with diverse offerings and comic approaches.
 Publishers receive so many manuscripts that if you fail to follow their guidelines, you may not be able to get a comic book published, because they may not even review your work.
 Most publishers require a submission of sequential pages long enough to reveal your storytelling skills, so choose a sample with a clear plot or one that reveals your characters. Make sure, too, that it demonstrates your artistic skill. Photocopy the sample once you decide on it.
 If the publisher does accept unsolicited manuscripts, you’ll want to write a cover letter.


A query letter should introduce your work; highlight your accomplishments, such as any contests you’ve won and how many readers you have; summarize the comic book you hope to submit to them for review; and discuss why you believe your work is a good match for the publisher.
A cover letter should also introduce your work, highlight your accomplishments and discuss why your work is a good match for the publisher. Instead of fully summarizing your work, briefly set the context for the sample and discuss where in the book it appears.
 Send the cover letter and your sample to those publishers that do. Be sure to include your email, phone number and physical address.
 This usually takes a minimum of 4 weeks, but check the submission guidelines to find out how long the review process takes the publisher.


If the publisher likes the idea you present in your query letter, they will ask you to submit a sample.
If the publisher likes the idea you present in your cover letter, they may ask you to submit your entire manuscript.
Check the submission guidelines to find out whether the publisher will contact you if they reject your idea.

