 Consistent attention and affection is the key to happiness. You can never spoil a child with too much love.;
, Try to cuddle and read to them every night. If that is not possible, do it in the morning. Kids love for you to sit on the floor and build with them or create something with them. Take time everyday and just sit with them and talk. The important thing is let them know you enjoy being with them. It is the highlight of your day.
 Even if it bores you silly! Children just love routine because it makes them feel safe. Start a solid meal routine and explain to them why they need to eat healthy foods. Make a bedtime routine as well. Plan an enjoyable bath and reading time.
 Create a loving family for your child in which adults fuss, talk, play, brag and take pictures of them. Always talk in loving terms about your child. Watch your words at all times. Many adults make the mistakes of thinking children can not hear them so talk about them in a positive way and let them hear you. An example is you are on the phone and you say to your relative or friend how happy you are with the child because (and name a reason). If you are talking to other parents, never put down your own child. Just compliments.
 As they are growing up, they are trying to figure out their place in life. Tell them how happy you are they are here with you. Tell them they will always have a permanent place with you in life. Discuss your pregnancy or adoption in positive joyful terms. They don't need to hear about the 20 hour labor or how their real mother did not want them.
 Keep the home life serene. Having a crisis all the time or fighting constantly is extremely stressful to any child. Put their needs first, not yours. If you are living a selfish life, now is the time to stop. Always put your child's needs first, before a boyfriend or girlfriend without question.
 Model upbeat and positive attitudes. Stop complaining about how horrible your day is or what a terrible life you had. This is your time to make an impact on a young life, so do it in an honorable way. Be a role model all the time and show good values and common sense.
 Tell them they are the most important thing in the world to you. Hold their hands as you walk in a crowd. Carry them when they are small. Talk to them about the dangers in life, when they are ready. Don't ignore your child's fears, but comfort them instead.
 Don't corner a child if they make an error and always give them a way out to save face. If your child does lie to you, tell them that you know in your heart that they are not the type of person who lies, explain that you understand they did it to avoid getting in trouble, but you expect them to always tell the truth. If a child keeps lying, then they may be looking for attention. Rethink how you can make them feel better about themselves. Come up with positive nicknames for your child such as "Honest Mike" or "Trustworthy Susan".
 They are not a "mini you'. They are a human being, that needs to be allowed to slowly grow into a healthy happy adult. Forget your dreams and wishes that you wish to impose on them. Let them have a childhood that doesn't reflect you pressuring them to become what you want them to be. Children are forced into feeling they must be perfect or "fill in the blank" to be loved. Do not do that to any child. Loving unconditionally means loving them as they are not what you want them to be.
 Make a wall in your home that is all about them. School pictures, art work, class work and pictures of you with them doing fun things. Change it from time to time. Show if off to family and friends.

