 Swipe down from the top of your screen to bring up the notification panel, and tap on the gear icon in the upper right corner. Scroll down the Settings menu until you see “Security,” and then tap on the box opposite “Unknown Sources.” This will let you install apps from sources other than the Google Play Store.
 Using the browser on your device, search for “ElfYourself free download.” The search should turn up multiple results from many sources. Each web page will have a different format, but generally you will want to download from reputable sites like Tom’s Guide, apkmania.com, and AppBrain.
 Tap the “Download” or “Install” button in the web page to begin downloading the installer file with the suffix “.apk”. Do not click on flashy download buttons from ads, as those will redirect you to another site and possibly download malware or adware instead.


A notification will appear in the status bar, telling you that a download is in progress. It will also show you the progress, the name of the .apk file, and the data transfer rate. Once the download finishes, you will be notified.
 Using a file browser application like ES File Explorer or even your stock file explorer app, navigate to the Downloads folder in your device’s internal memory (most file browsers will open the internal memory directory by default). Scroll down the files until you see the “Downloads” folder and tap on it.


Look for the name of the .apk file (which should have appeared in the web page and the download notification) and tap on it. The Android installer service will open, asking you to grant permissions to the app, which are listed in the pop-up window. Tap “Accept” in the lower right corner of the Permissions window, and then tap the “Install” button in the lower right of the next window to begin installing the app.
 Once the app is done installing, the “Install” button will be replaced with the “Open” button; tap on it to launch the app. You can also tap the Elf Yourself icon in the home screen or app drawer to launch it.

