 In a large bowl, wash the rice. Pour the water off and refill with clean water. Change the water 2-3 times, until the water is mostly clear.You should always rinse rice before you cook it. Rinsing the rice gets rid of surface starches and helps prevent clumping. Rinsing can also give a fresher taste to the dish.
Wash the rice by stirring it in circles with your fingers. You can also rub the rice gently to loosen the starches.;
, Use a pressure cooker to cook the rice with 1 3/4 cups of water for 5 whistles over a medium flame.You can also pressure cook the rice with 2 cups of water for 4 whistles, or on a low flame for 1 whistle.The rice should be mushy and overcooked.
You can also cook the rice in a pot. To do this, keep the rice covered in water for 30 minutes. Bring 6 cups of water to boil in a pot, then add the rice. Bring to boil again. Boil for 12 minutes. Drain and put this in a bowl.Add salt immediately to prevent clumps as it cools., Add warm milk to the rice and mix well. Then, add butter and mix until it becomes creamy.Let the rice completely cool.
 Add the yogurt to the rice and mix well. Get rid of all the lumps in the rice. Don't add yogurt to hot rice. It can kill the live cultures and upset your stomach. Set it aside after you have mixed it together.


For a tangier taste, add more yogurt. For a creamier taste, add more milk and butter., You need to temper the next set of ingredients. Tempering is the process of gradually heating up the ingredients from room temperature to prevent the mixture from curdling unnecessarily when mixed with the other ingredients. To start, place the black mustard seeds in the pan. When the seeds start to pop or crackle, add the urad dal, curry leaves, red chilies, and green chilies. Stir continuously as you sauté over a medium flame for about a minute.Make sure the coriander and curry leaves are chopped finely. Chop the green chili into big pieces.You can also add the ginger into the sauté instead of adding it later if you want., After sauteing the ingredients, immediately pour them over the bowl of rice.Take out the chilies after you have mixed the tempered ingredients into the rice., After stirring in the tempered items, add the ginger, cashews, and cilantro. Mix well.


Make sure the cashews are finely chopped.
You can also garnish curd rice with fruit. Add pomegranates, seedless green grapes, pineapple pieces, coconut, apple, raisins, or chopped mango.You can also add vegetables, such as carrots and cucumbers.
 You can serve the rice hot or cold.This dish works great at the end of a meal. South Indian pickles compliment this dish very well.


Chill the leftovers. This makes a great lunch to take to work the next day.