 For example, many catalogs are printed on 11x17 paper with two pages on one side of a sheet of paper. If you go with this layout, then you can design your pages in a standard 8.5x11 format. Choosing your layout up front is important because the amount of real estate you have on each sheet of paper will dictate how big your pictures are going to be, how much text content you can have, and other important elements. You can use just about any basic word processing software at this point to create a mock up page. You’re basically just seeing what works so you know what to do next.;
, This part of the project can take awhile since you will likely need the help of product managers and technical staff to confirm details. Keeping yourself organized will be vital at this point. You should keep your product details organized in a database for quick reference, and don’t forget to back up your data regularly.
 You can either set up a small photography set for product pictures, download pictures from online databases, or hire a photographer to get all the pictures together. All images should be at least 300 DPI so they print with clear details and color. Image files can be very large, so make sure you have at least several gigabytes of hard drive space available for images. Staying organized at this point is also important. You should be able to quickly match up product details with the images, so take the time to develop product names or numbers that can be linked up.
 Some companies use Microsoft Publisher, Adobe InDesign, or even Word to design their catalogs. The real key here, no matter what software package you are using, is that you match the right copy with the images. If you’ve kept your information organized up to this point, it should just be a matter of dragging and dropping the content into the right place on the page. Here’s a huge time-saving tip: let one person or team control this aspect of the process so that only one version is released at a time. Do not let multiple individuals or groups have access to your main catalog file at this point. You want to be able to control who has access. When you release a rough draft, you must be confident that everyone is looking at the same document.
 Don’t skip this step! You may be confident in your spell checking software and staff, but it never hurts to get a little help. First, let staff outside of your team proof it. You’ve been staring at your catalog for days, weeks, or even months. You are not objective at this point, so get some fresh eyes on it. Second, divide the proofing up. Don’t just send someone a PDF of the whole catalog. Their eyes will cross by page five and they will not give you any good feedback beyond that. Divide the work up in 2-10 page increments. Third, develop a simple feedback system that one or few people control. As feedback rolls in, someone needs to be documenting the proofing ideas, getting approval on changes, and overseeing that the changes are made.
 Most send catalog printing duties off to a professional printer, which can be as simple as uploading a file after making a few selections. Just make sure you get at least a digital proof of your work and consider having a physical proof sent to you to be doubly sure. A physical proof can also provide you with one more chance to proof your catalog before sending it to the presses. Having the catalog in your hands is very different than staring at a computer monitor.

