 If you are being bullied because of your acne, know that it is not your fault. Instead of engaging with the bully, shrug off their insults. You can respond in a calm but firm tone. If they realize they cannot upset you, they may stop bullying.


You can tell the bully to stop. In a calm voice, say something like, “Stop doing that. Calling me names is not cool, and I’m not going to tolerate it.”
You can also use humor or sarcasm to deflect taunts.For example, if some says you have a pimple on your cheek, say sarcastically, “Oh really? I didn’t notice.”
You can brush off the bullying with a statement like, “So what? Acne doesn’t get in the way of me living my life.”
If all else fails, walk away. Turn your back to the bully, and do not respond., Your acne does not make you any less beautiful. If a concerned family member or friend tries to lecture you about your acne, stand up for yourself. Let them know that you still think you are beautiful.


You can say, “So what if I have acne? I still think I look great.”
You can also draw attention to your talents and good qualities. You can say “I don’t need to have clear skin to be smart” or “acne doesn’t stop me from winning at basketball.”

, You may find that some people have dozens of opinions on how you should be treating your acne. Remember that they mean well. Thank them politely but let them know that you are handling the situation.You can say, “Thanks for the concern, but I am working with my dermatologist to treat the acne. My acne is quite stubborn, and I’m doing everything I can.”

, Often, acne sufferers imagine that other people are focusing on their physical imperfections. In reality, very few people are paying attention to your acne. People will notice your personality over your pimples. Tell yourself this every time you begin to feel self-doubt.
 It can be easy to withdraw from social situations when you have acne. You may feel as though everyone notices your acne or that they are judging you for it. Withdrawing will not help your acne, nor will it make you feel better about your appearance. No matter what, make an effort to socialize. Doing so will make you feel better in the long run.When speaking to someone, you might feel as though you have to look away, so that they do not see your face. Instead, look them straight in the eye. This will help you build confidence.