 When buying any potted plant from a nursery or garden center, gently life the plant out of the container and look at the roots. The plant should have these characteristics:


A firm but not compacted root ball.
White roots that do not show any signs of rot.
A dense cluster of roots that hold the soil.
Roots that extend to the edge of the container but do not circle around the inside of the container.;
, Always choose the healthiest plant to be sure that you'll have years of enjoyment. Here are a few things you should look for in a Pencil Tree:


The plant should stand upright and not look wilted.
The color should be uniformly green, except on older plants where the trunk is brown and looks similar to bark.
The plant should be free of insects and plant damage.
 The Pencil Tree is a slow growing plant that can grow up to 5 feet (1.5 m) tall. Here are some tips:


Plants between 3 inches (7.6 cm) and 2 feet (61 cm) tall will grow in a 4 inches (10 cm) deep container.
Taller plants will do well in containers that are between 6 and 10 inches deep.
 The Pencil Tree is drought tolerant and survives with infrequent watering. Areas with low rainfall are perfect for the Pencil Tree. When this plant gets too much water, the roots will rot.
 The Pencil Tree tolerates a range a light conditions. The plant will thrive in areas with partial sun, filtered sunlight and full sun.
 The Pencil Tree tolerates all types of soils.


Use a basic potting soil mix for container grown Pencil Trees.
In the landscape, the plant will grow in eroded soils, saline soils and other difficult growing conditions.
 The Pencil Tree is resistant to most pests and diseases. Most pests and diseases avoid the milky latex contained inside the stems. In wet and humid areas, the plant may suffer from stem and root rot.
 In the winter, the tips of the Pencil Tree may turn a reddish color. This is normal. During periods of freezing temperatures, the plant will need some protection.


Cover plants grown in the landscape with an old sheet. Place stakes around the plant and drape the sheet over the plant so that the sheet does not touch the plant.
Bring container-grown plants indoors or cover the plants with a sheet.
 Small Pencil Trees may need some support as they begin to grow.


Insert a stick into the soil near the trunk of the plant.
Loosely tie the main stem (the trunk) to the stick.
Adjust the tie and the supporting stick as the plant grows.
 As the Pencil Tree grows, prune the plant to keep it at a desired height.


Wear gloves to protect your hands from the milky latex.
Cut a stem near a point where the stem branches from the main branch.
 The stems that were cut off when the plant was pruned can be placed in soil. These stems will grow roots and begin to grow. Here's how to propagate a Pencil Tree:


Plant the cut end of the stem in a small container of potting soil.
Water the soil so that the soil is soaked.
Allow the plant to slightly dry out (but not completely) while it is growing roots.

