 By treating your measurements like fractions, you can convert in a way that makes it easy to get the right answer (and units) every time. Start by writing your number of miles as the top part of a fraction (the numerator). In the bottom part of the fraction (the denominator), write a 1.


Let's say that we want to figure out how many kilometers are in 5.4 miles. In this case, we would write a fraction like this: 5.4 miles/1.
When you're converting this way, always include the units in the fractions. They will be important later., Now, you want to make a fraction that shows how many kilometers are in a mile. This is a lot easier than it sounds — see below for help.


We already know that there are about 1.6 kilometers in a mile. We can use this to build our fraction. In the numerator (the top part), we would write "1.6 kilometers" and in the denominator (the bottom part), we would write "1 mile." This gives us 1.6 kilometers/1 mile.
 Now, just multiply the two fractions. See our article on multiplying fractions if you need help. As you multiply, look for units that show up once in the numerator and once in the denominator. When you find a pair, cross both out.


In our example, we have 5.4 miles/1 × 1.6 kilometers/1 mile. "Mile" appears on top in the first fraction and on the bottom in the second, so we can cross both "miles" out. Multiplying, we get 8.64.
 In the last step, you should have crossed out all of the units except for one. These are the units in your answer.


In our example, "kilometers" are the only units not crossed out, so we know our answer is 8.64 kilometers.
 Now that you know how to do easy conversions, you can use the same approach for longer ones. Just follow the same steps. Write your starting measurement as a fraction over 1, then write your conversions as fractions so that your units cancel (except for the units you want your answer in) and multiply.For example, let's say that you want to know what 5.4 miles is in centimeters. You don't know the conversion for miles to centimeters, but you do know that there are 1.6 kilometers in a mile, 1,000 meters in a kilometer, and 100 centimeters in a meter. This is all you need to set up your problem:



5.4 miles/1 × 1.6 kilometers/1 mile × 1000 meters/1 kilometer × 100 centimeters/1 meter




Notice that all of the units cancel except for centimeters (because it only appears once). Multiplying through, your final answer is 864,000 centimeters.

