 Most of these materials can be found around your home. Anything you lack can be bought at your local grocery store, general retailer, or craft store. For this project, you'll need:


Card stock (in two colors: brown and glittery silver or gold)
Cutting mat (optional)
Decorations (pom-poms, sparkly pipe cleaner, bells, etc.)
Hot glue gun (and glue)
Pencil (optional)
Popsicle sticks (at least 3; pre-dyed green ones preferred)
Ruler
Scissors
Twine (at least 6" (15.24 cm) in length)
Utility knife

, Take your ruler and a single popsicle stick. Measure inward from one end of the popsicle stick ¾" (1.9 cm). At ¾" (1.9 cm), draw a line with your pencil or use your utility knife to gently score the popsicle stick across its middle. This is where you'll cut to remove the end the stick. After marking:


Use a pair of sturdy scissors to cut the end of the stick off. In some cases, your scissors may not be sturdy enough to cut through the popsicle stick.
If scissors won't work, place a cutting mat or piece of cardboard beneath the popsicle stick. Apply firm pressure with your utility knife to deeply score the stick along the guideline. Bend the stick along the scoring to break it off cleanly., You may want to make a template, like a stencil, and use this to help you draw a star design on your glittery card stock. Stars can be difficult to cut free-hand from your card stock. Then:


Use your pencil to draw a 1" by 1" (2.5 cm by 2.5 cm) square on your brown card stock. This will be glued to your popsicle stick tree to form its trunk.
Cut the trunk free from the card stock with your scissors by following your guidelines., Insert glue into the slot on the top-back of the gun and then plug it in. Some configurations of the glue feeder mechanism may be slightly different. Place a piece of scrap paper under the nozzle of your gun to catch any drippage, then wait about 5 minutes for the gun to heat up.


Depending on your model of hot glue gun and other factors, like its age, your gun may require slightly more or less time than 5 minutes to heat up.
Most hot glue guns have a plastic arm that folds up so the gun stands upright, handled oriented to the table, with a slight downward angle. This helps improve glue flow., Take the popsicle stick you have cut and put two dabs of hot glue on both ends. Attach the two uncut popsicles sticks to it, with each one connecting to the cut one at opposite end. The uncut sticks should at about the midpoint above the cut stick to form a triangle. Then:


Apply a large dab of glue with your hot glue gun to the end of the uncut stick at the bottom of the crossed part.
Take your 6" (15.2 cm) of twine and insert its ends into the large dab of glue to form a loop with the twine.
Press the uncut stick on the top of the crossed part so it sandwiches the twine and adheres to the uncut stick on the bottom of the cross.
Work quickly when applying hot glue, as it dries fast. Once it is dry, it will lose its adhesive properties and become thick and hard., Use your hot glue gun to apply a dab of glue to the center of the back of your star. Glue the star to the top of your tree, where the uncut sticks cross. Then:


Take your 1" by 1" (2.5 cm by 2.5 cm) square and apply a dab of hot glue at the middle of one edge of the square.
Attach your square to the cut stick at the middle of the base of your tree.
 You could coil your tree in sparkly pipe cleaner to give it the effect of being decorated with tinsel. By adding small, colorful pom-poms to your tree with your hot glue gun, you can give the impression that your popsicle stick tree has Christmas lights.


For more creative or colorful designs, you might add rhinestones, glitter, sequins, and so on.
You can repurpose items, like buttons or small bells, and hot glue these to your popsicle sticks to give your tree a nifty, unique appearance.
Once the finishing touches are complete and the glue is dry, hang your Christmas tree from a door handle to show off your (or your kids') handiwork.

