 Interferon is most commonly given to cats orally. They are given a dosage of 30 IU that is to be administered once each day for seven days. Then, the cat does not receive the medicine for seven days. After seven days, the cat is given the medication daily again for seven days, and then goes off for seven days.This pattern continues until the vet decides the symptoms have gone away.
To give your cat a tablet, you can try mixing the tablet in with their food. You can also use a treat or pill pockets that are designed specifically to help your cat eat the pill. You can also ask your vet for a pill giver, which is a syringe you place the pill in that you put in the cat's mouth to deposit the pill to the back of the tongue so they will swallow it.Talk to your vet about the best way to give the interferon to your cat.
 An alternate way that the vet may give you the interferon for your cat is a daily pill that is a smaller dosage. This smaller dosage is based on the weight of the cat, and is given once each day with no weeks off.Make sure to ask your vet what dosage the medication is and how frequently you are to give it to the cat.
 If the cat is being treated for the herpes virus, the vet may prescribe interferon in the form of eyedrops. To give this to the cat, wash your hands and secure the cat. Carefully lift the cat’s eyelids with your fingers and drop the medicine in their eyes. Close the eyes and gently massage them to spread the medicine.Make sure not to touch the tip of the dropper to any part of the eye.
To administer the eyedrops, hold the cat securely in your lap. Tilt their head up so their nose is pointed towards the ceiling. If you have an extra person who can help, you can get them to hold the cat while you administer the eyedrops. You can also try wrapping the cat.
 Some viruses are treated with an injection of interferon. The vet will give you the supplies you need to inject your cat with interferon.Many people give cats injections while they are eating because the cat is distracted and you can quickly inject them without too much fuss.Pinch some of the skin of your cat’s back. Hold the syringe like you would a pen. Insert the needle at a downward angle into the fold of skin quickly. Depress the plunger to administer the medicine. Then pull out the needle.
If you need help, have someone hold the cat while you give them the injection.

