 You can treat SI pain at home by icing the area for 15 to 20 minutes at a time. Use an ice pack or a bag of frozen peas. Place the ice pack on the area for 15 to 20 minutes, and then remove it for 15 to 20 minutes. Continue icing the area for two days to a week.After one to two weeks, the inflammation around your SI joint should be reduced. You may be able to gradually return to normal activities if the swelling and pain goes away.;
, You can also apply heat to the area to encourage healing. Only do this after the acute, intense pain has been treated with an ice pack. You may apply a heat wrap to the area or take a hot bath to reduce any pain.Try to soak in a hot bath on a regular basis to make the SI pain go away. If the area does not seem to be healing after several hot baths, you may want to see a doctor.
 As part of your home treatment for SI pain, you should rest as much as you can and avoid any activities that could make the area worse. You may stop doing strenuous activities, such as lifting up heavy objects or doing repetitive motions that will stress out your SI joint. Take a break so the SI joint can recover and heal.If the SI joint pain is intense and severe, you may need to take some time off of work and rest in bed until it heals. You should also see your doctor if the pain does not go away with home treatment or seems to be getting worse.
 Avoid repetitive motions that cause pain in your sacroiliac joint. The purpose of resting a joint is to help to decrease inflammation, which is best accomplished when the joint is not put under repeated stress.

To add additional relief, massage the area around your SI joint, or seek help from a professional masseur. This can help loosen and relax the ligaments as well as the SI joint.
Taping the hip area can also help provide quick relief for an inflamed SI joint., You can take OTC anti-inflammatory medication such as ibuprofen or naproxen to help reduce your pain and discomfort. Follow the dosage instructions on the label and do not take more than the recommended dose. The OTC pain medication can dull your pain and make it easier for you to recover from the SI joint issue.Keep in mind you should not use the OTC medication for a prolonged period of time to treat any SI joint pain. If you think your SI joint is not getting better, you should go see your doctor.

