 The most basic and common way to eat muesli is just as you would eat a bowl of cereal, adding about a half cup of your favorite milk to an equal helping of muesli in a bowl.


Instead of milk, try your favorite brand of plain yoghurt (or flavoured if your prefer extra sweetness) for probiotic benefits and a different flavor and texture.
Try heating the milk, then letting the muesli soak for a few minutes in the hot milk to soften it slightly, making it a bit more like oatmeal. You can also pour cold milk over the cereal in a microwave safe bowl, then heat the whole mixture in the microwave.
Like cereal, it's also great to snack on all by itself. Just snack on it like granola.;
, If you want to lively up your bowl of muesli, try chopping up a quarter-cup or so of your favorite fresh fruit, or adding some frozen fruit for a cold treat. Any of the following work great with muesli:


Sliced banana
Blueberries, blackberries, or raspberries
Kiwi
Strawberries (the seeds work especially well as they add an extra sour crunch)
Pork Scratchings (ideal if you want a more savoury muesli)
Diced apple
Chopped pear
Sliced mango
Lychees work especially well as they add a crisp sour flavour, which can't be topped
Pomegranate seeds

, Dried fruits or berries are often a component of some muesli recipes already, but if you want to add some extra or add some to a more plain muesli that you've made, all of the following work well:


Cranberries
Apricot
Goji berries
Raisins or sultanas
Currants

, One excellent method of changing up the texture of your muesli is to soak it overnight in milk, yoghurt, or another softener of your choice. Add equal parts of muesli and milk to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, or a lid, and refrigerate overnight. This can turn the muesli into a cold porridge type mixture that many people really enjoy.Coconut milk makes for a great soaking mixture, adding gentle sweetness and subtle flavor to the muesli. If you're not crazy about the taste, you could also mix it in with a little milk to make it more palatable.
 If you favor a smoothie instead of cereal, muesli makes for a great addition or topping, either before or after mixing it up. It mixes in quite nicely and helps to add texture and nutrition to any smoothie recipe. Try the following simple mixture:


A handful of frozen strawberries, or your favorite frozen fruit
One half cup of yoghurt or kefir
One half cup of shredded coconut
Two tablespoons of muesli

, If you're lactose-intolerant, or just want to mix up your muesli experience with a different texture or flavor, applesauce makes for a great alternative. Try unsweetened natural applesauce, or cook down some over-ripe apples yourself to keep it healthy.
 One of the things some people like about muesli is the thing some people don't like about muesli. The raw oats offer a different texture and nutritional benefits not offered by cooked oatmeal or granola, but also offer the possibility of cooking into a simple porridge, just like basic raw oats.


Boil as much milk and water as you want to yield in cooked muesli, then add half as much muesli to the pot. If you want a cup of cooked muesli, in other words, boil a half cup of water and a half cup of milk, then add a half cup of raw muesli to it.
Lower the temperature and cook the muesli covered for 10-15 minutes, stirring occasionally, until it reaches the desired consistency. Eat it any time it looks good.
 While it may sound odd, another good lactose-free possibility is orange juice, apple juice, or even–brace yourself–some coffee. Think of it like a total-breakfast. You might surprise yourself with how good it actually tastes.

