 The Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act (AHERA), is a law that was passed by the U.S. Congress to deal with asbestos in school buildings. If you study this law, you will find definitions of various forms of asbestos. The law also includes requirements regarding inspections at school buildings. The Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act can be found at 15 U.S.C. §§2641-2656.To locate and study statutes, you can either search the citation online or visit a law library. Reference librarians in law libraries can help you find exactly what you need when you have the citation reference.
To search the law online, you can either search by the title, or by the citation number. Simply entering “15 USC 2641” into the search bar will get you to the full chapter of the federal legislation.
 The Asbestos Information Act, passed by Congress in 1988, provided transparency for the public regarding manufacturers who make products that use asbestos. The law includes requirements for recording and maintaining records about products using asbestos or asbestos-containing material.The Asbestos Information Act is also referred to as The Asbestos Information Act of 1988. It can be searched by that title or by its citation at 15 U.S.C. §2607.
 The Asbestos School Hazard Abatement Reauthorization Act, abbreviated ASHARA, was passed by Congress to further protect schools from the dangers of asbestos. This law contains four main objectives:to assist schools in carrying out their responsibilities under AHERA
to provide scientific and technical assistance to state agencies that deal with asbestos
to provide funding to state and local agencies for training regarding asbestos protection
to protect school employees against any repercussions for pointing out asbestos concerns in schools.
 The Clean Air Act (CAA) was passed by Congress in 1977 to protect against all forms of air pollution, including the release of asbestos into the air. The CAA, in Section 7412, specifically names asbestos as one of many chemical air pollutants that are covered.You can find more detail of the CAA by searching its name or statute citation at 42 U.S.C. §§7401-7671.
 The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) was passed by Congress in 1974 and then reauthorized in 1996.This law sets standards for safe drinking water and requires the EPA to produce regular reports about contaminants, including asbestos, in the nation’s drinking water.
 When someone talks about “the law,” that phrase can apply to several different sources. Federal law comes from statutes passed by Congress and signed into law by the President.State law comes from statutes that are passed by a state’s legislature and signed by that state’s governor. Federal laws control an issue nationwide, while state laws only apply to the state that issued them. Much of asbestos law comes from federal statutes, because consumer and worker safety is legislated nationally.

