 One of the foods people miss the most when reducing their carb consumption is bread. Fortunately, there are more and more low-carb bread options. Look for an option with low amounts of total carbohydrates, but high amounts of dietary fiber.For instance, breads from companies like Ezekiel's and Udi's often have high nutritional value and low amounts of the ingredients that lead to empty carb consumption.
When looking, check out gluten-free bread options. Since more and more people are reducing their gluten intake, more and more enjoyable gluten-free breads are hitting supermarket shelves.
 Many people that start eating a low-carb diet struggle with the feeling that they don’t have much to choose from; however, considering the plethora of vegetables and herbs that you can find, there is not shortage of different flavors and styles of food.Even within the subcategory of leafy greens, you’ve got kale, green cabbage, spinach, chard, bok choy, kale, and more to work into meals in different ways.
Further, artichokes, asparagus, broccoli, green beans, eggplant, zucchini, and snow peas can increase the flavor and appeal of many different dishes.
Other great under-appreciated ingredients to add flavor to almost any dish include fennel, alfalfa sprouts, chives, and arugula.
Whenever it feels like you’ve run out of options, walk through your grocery store’s produce area. You’ll likely find something you’ve never tried before.
 If you’re successfully reducing your carb intake — particularly refined carbs in packaged foods, you’re also eliminating many foods that include bad fats. Further, a moderate fat intake is needed to supply essential fatty acids, and help keep you full since you are cutting out carbs. Choose olive oil, coconut oil, or a good blend like SmartBalance. Do avoid hydrogenated and partially-hydrogenated fats, and foods that contain trans fats., If you prefer to keep your mind on work during the day and tend to eat smaller lunch, you may find yourself getting hungry before dinner time. If this occurs, there are a few good low-carb snack options that will be especially helpful in holding you over. Try hard-boiled eggs, cheese slices, or a few handfuls of nuts.Cottage cheese, apples, and fruit smoothies made with protein powders, water, berries, and Stevia also make great low-carb snacks., Another type of food that's hard to give up while going low-carb: dessert. Fortunately, there are some types desserts you can get away with eating in small portions.Chocolate-covered nuts or berries and other fruit-based desserts are good options, as long as they have no or very little crust.
For the ultimate low-carb treat, spread a bit of hazelnut spread on a graham cracker and top with a slice of banana.
Try this no-carb chocolate cake. The recipe makes one serving. You will need one egg, 1 tablespoon water, 1 tablespoon sour cream, 2 tablespoon cocoa powder, 1/2 teaspoon baking powder and 1 tablespoon stevia or truvia. Mix all ingredients until smooth in an individual baking dish or ramekin. Microwave for one minute. Enjoy!

