 Did you do well on a big project at work? Congratulate yourself! Can you see results since you started going to the gym? Mental high-five! Each day, try to think of at least one thing that you like about yourself. This will become a habit, and will have a great impact on your self-esteem. Soon, you'll even feel more confident about being bald!

, By stretching your mental muscles, you can find new reasons to be proud of yourself. Try learning a new skill or language, playing word games, and meditation. All of these activities are shown to increase mental dexterity. The smarter you feel, the better you'll feel about yourself in general. Intellect is directly related to your confidence level. As you strengthen your mind, you will also strengthen your confidence level. You will start to realize that your baldness does not define you--you have lots of great qualities., Try to avoid negative thoughts. But don't get mad at yourself if you have one! Instead, accept it, acknowledge it, and move on. Eventually, you can train yourself to have fewer and fewer negative thoughts. It will also help if you strive to place yourself in positive situations. Surround yourself with supportive friends and family who think you are great!Try doing positive affirmations in the mirror. Look at yourself--bald head included--and tell yourself that you look great and feel great.
 Hold your head up high and walk tall. When you meet a new person, look them in the eye, smile, and offer a firm hand shake. These are all ways that you can appear confident. And evidence tells us that when you act confident, you will also begin to feel confident., Maybe you don't quite feel confidence in every part of yourself. It will come with practice, but for now, enhance the parts of yourself that make you feel strong and secure. Pick out your favorite outfit and paste on your best smile. If you are confident in parts of your image, that feeling will spread until you eventually feel an overall increased level of confidence. Soon you'll be showing off your baldness with the rest of your positive traits.