 Though technically all vegetables can be steamed (what can't be?), certain vegetables steam better than others do, and all steam at different rates. Broccoli, cauliflower, carrots, asparagus, artichokes, and green beans will all turn out nicely and are standard steaming fare. But if you want to get creative, throw in some potatoes or radishes, too! Here's a brief rundown on steaming times:


Asparagus: 5 to 8 minutes
Broccoli: stalks for 7 minutes, florets for 5
Carrots: 10 to 15 minutes, depending on size
Cauliflower: stalks for 7 minutes, florets for 5 (whole head 15-25 minutes)
Corn on the cob: 8 to 10 minutes
Green beans: 4 to 6 minutes
Potatoes, cubed: 10 to 15 minutes
Spinach: 2 to 3 minutes
;
, While certain greens are easy to just get out of the fridge, give a quick rinse-down, and toss in the pan, some need preparing. You would not put an entire pumpkin in a steamer, would you?


Carrots take much less time the smaller they are cut up; the same goes for cauliflower and potatoes. Use your logic when it comes to certain vegetables like asparagus, where the tips should be cut off beforehand. The vegetables need to be in their ready-to-eat form on steaming.
 If you have a legitimate steamer, great! Throw some water in that bad boy and stop reading this page. However, if you don't, you have several methods/devices/tricks of the trade at your disposal:


A steamer is a pot of water with a bowl/basket/container on top with holes in the bottom. If you have a colander that is heat resistant or some pan that fits this description that does not touch the bottom of the pot with water (otherwise that is just boiling), that can be used as a steamer. You will need a lid to put on it, too.
Use the microwave. All you need for this is a microwave-safe dish and some plastic wrap.
You can improvise the steaming method by just using a pan with a matching lid. All you do is add a bit of water to the vegetables and count on the steam to do most of the job. Some nutrients will seep into the water, though, yes, so this method isn't ideal.


