 Many different types of people can join a protest. There may be police, medics, and counter-protestors at the event as well as advocates for your cause. To associate yourself with the peaceful protest, wear bright, identifiable clothing that has the logo, slogans, or colors of the cause you are working with.For example, if you are at a protest for LGBT rights, you may want to wear rainbow clothing, as this is an identifiable sign of the cause.
If counter-protestors start causing problems, this clothing can identify you as part of the peaceful crowd.
 A good protest will gain visibility for a cause by catching the eyes of people passing by. Picket signs are a great way to show why you’re protesting without confronting people.Make short but catchy slogans for your signs, such as “Stopping pollution is the only solution” or “If you can read this, thank a teacher.”
Avoid slogans that bully, insult, or dehumanize other people. For example, if you are protesting a local law, you should avoid calling your political representatives names like “idiots.” Instead, criticize the law itself.
 Instead of yelling at or assaulting spectators, you should make sure that they understand your cause. Flyers should contain information on where the person can learn more about the cause. List a website, email, or charity that the person can contact.

You may want to collect emails at the protest so that you can contact people afterwards to continue the good work. Spectators can give their email address to learn more.
Informative flyers should contain bullet points with the most important facts and persuasive statistics.
You may want to include information on how someone can become involved in the cause. For example, you might include the mailing address for your political representatives or the date for your next action meeting.
 If you are arrested at the protest, you should not resist, even if you believe that you are being unfairly treated. Instead, cooperate with the police to ensure that you are not charged for other crimes.Ask if you are being arrested. If they say yes, do not resist. Instead, ask to speak to your lawyer or the legal observer.
Be honest about your identity. Hand over your ID when requested. You do not have to answer any other questions.
If you believe that the police are unfairly arresting someone, remember that interfering with the arrest is a crime. Instead, document the arrest by filming it or writing down the officer’s badge number and name.
 Protests can be unpredictable. Even if you are peaceful yourself, some disruptions can still occur. In that case, make sure that you are prepared to get yourself out of the situation safely.It is best to have a buddy or group of friends with you at the protest. If something happens, help each other get out of the situation safely.
Bring any essential medications, even if you do not think you will need to take them during the protest. This includes inhalers and epipens.
Take some extra cash in case you need to get a taxi or use a payphone to call for help.

