 As stated above, spinal fusion surgery is not an easy thing to go through. You need to prepare yourself mentally as well as physically. Knowing everything you can about the procedure helps tremendously. Ask your doctor as many questions as you can think of, read up about it online, and try to get in contact with someone who actually has undergone the procedure. A great website to get in contact with adolescents with scoliosis is Spine kids. (note: spine kids has closed its doors, but can be found on Facebook) It is such an amazing website! Adults should check out the National Scoliosis Foundation.;
, If so, you'll probably be asked to take some iron tablets. If you do take them, make sure to add fiber to your diet. As embarrassing as it sounds, iron tablets tend to make you constipated.
 Try to eat a healthy diet. Get plenty of exercise and tone up your muscles, because you will be "out of commission" for quite some time after the surgery. Toning up your arms is an especially good idea because you will be using them to help propel you out of bed after surgery. You won't just be able to sit up, you'll have to log roll to your side and then use your arms to push you upright. Don't worry, you'll learn this in the hospital.
 Try to get everything in a comfortable reach (i.e. move things from a high cabinet lower, vice versa). In the shower, try to get a loofah with a long plastic handle so you can easily wash your body since you won't be able to bend. If you really need to shave your legs, you can either ask someone to help you or attach a razor to a stick. Just be careful. You may want to have a shower chair, since it will be very hard to stand for long periods of time after surgery and you may get dizzy/lightheaded easily. Just make sure when you're taking a shower that you have someone in the bathroom with you for a few weeks immediately after just in case.
 Even the most independent people will need assistance, because scoliosis surgery is no simple procedure. When you walk around after surgery, especially up and down stairs, have someone there to make sure you don't fall. You will have very poor balance for a while after surgery as your body gets used to its new position.
 You will be very stiff after surgery and will have to get used to doing things a little differently. Depending on the length of your fusion you will most likely not be able to bend normally, only at the waist. Walking around will feel very different due to the stiffness. On a positive note, you will likely have great posture!

, You will not regret spending the extra bucks for them. For a while, you will be very uncomfortable and will need a pillow to sit against, and the memory foam one is very comfortable as it molds to your body. Don't be embarrassed to bring your pillow with you to a restaurant, school, etc. after surgery.
 Bring some very comfortable clothes. Button-down pajama sets are very useful, as it will be hard to lift your arms over your head at first. While you're in the actual hospital, though, you'll probably end up wearing your gown for almost the entire time.


If you're female, make sure to bring some sanitary napkins with you (no tampons unfortunately). The stress of the surgery often causes many females to start their periods. And trust me, you don't want to use the pads the hospital has.
Other things to bring to the hospital may include a robe (you may be cold often after surgery), slippers with a solid grip to walk around in, socks (fluffy spa socks are great), chapstick (your lips will be very dry and you'll appreciate it), toothbrush/toothpaste, deodorant, face wipes, a hairbrush, and anything else you feel is necessary. Before surgery, females will typically be asked to put their hair in two tight braids. This is to prevent knots and just to make it easier. You won't care about how you look right after surgery.
 When you can't bend at the waist it can be hard to get up from a seated position. Get a shower chair with back and arms. The elevated toilet seat needs arms, too.
 Get a couple of small mini travel or baby pillows to put behind your arms when laying down or reclined. This makes your arms more comfortable when your resting or using your computer. You will find it more comfortable when laying down sometimes to have a pillow to hug. Or when lying on your side to put a pillow behind your back and one in front of you. This keeps you balanced & takes the stress off of your back. If it is time to replace your bed, consider getting an adjustable bed as it will make your recovery and the rest of your life more comfy at bedtime.


There are some thin lumbar bed pillows that are absolutely wonderful and provide a lot of comfort for the lumbar. After the surgery due the changes in the lumbar and not being able to bend when laying down, you will have a space between your back and the mattress, The bed lumbar pillow is perfect for sleeping on your back or side.

