 Play the CSR Racing video there to get an idea of what to expect in the game.;
, This game is structured in tiers from Tier-1 to Tier-5. You advance through the tiers by winning races against some of the best opponents. You start the game racing in Tier-1 so you have to use a Tier-1 car. When you qualify for Tier-2 you have to buy a Tier-2 car. The Audi A1 is an example of a Tier-1 car. You can't use the Audi A1 in Tier-2 competition and so on. There is some overlapping though, for instance, you can use the Audi A1 in Tier-2 in a limited way. It is limited to RR Racing, to build cash in Tier-2 until you're ready to purchase the tier-2 car that you want to use for advancing to Tier-3.
 There are 3 levels of difficulty in RR, Rookie, Amateur, and Pro. The best way to build cash in RR is to select the difficulty level to suit your level of winning, or to match your cars level of winning. Of course, you can start upgrading your car to win more times per race, and build even more cash.
 One has a 1/4 mile race and another has a 1/2 mile race. Some cars will do best on a longer track, but another car will like the short track better. This depends mostly on the how you upgrade your car and how fast you are at shifting with proper use of the throttle.
 There is the temptation to buy more cars than you need but you can only use one car, for the most part, in one tier, and you can't sell your cars in this game. Your agent will randomly offer you a different deal, like 70% off on a new car. When she makes that offer on the car you want, accept it, it's a good deal. But don't buy 6 cars in the first tier, they will be just sitting unused, and you may only be able to upgrade the one used for competition.
 When you begin the game in the first tier, you are given a car to get you started. Usually it's a Dodge Dart and you won't have any money at first. You have to use that car to start building up some cash to buy the car you really want. The best way to build cash is to select "Regulation RR" play which will build up the most money the easiest way. It won't take very long to win $10,000 or $20,000 to purchase your new car.
, You don't actually drive the car in this game. You only have to shift gears and control throttle at precisely the right moments to win some races. You should be able to build up enough cash to purchase upgrades for your current car, allowing you to win more per race. Then you can advance through this tier and purchase the car you want to drive for the next tier.  

, You start out with a stock car and the only way to win anything and go on to the next tier is to upgrade the car with horsepower and speed increasing items like new engines, turbo chargers, gear boxes, and even new tires for better traction. You will get pretty good at this in time.
 At some point you will have to defeat a Pitt Crew and their boss to advance to the next tier. The best way to handle this competition is to race one or two trials with the first crew member. If you lose, don't keep trying. You will really need to upgrade your car. You can purchase upgrades to the next upgrade level, then go back to try again. Repeat this until you can progress through the entire crew. At the same time, you can always go back to RR and get more money for more new upgrades.
 Tier-5 is the last tier (for now). It is also the toughest to win. You could win all tiers by using nitrous but you should be able to win without it, with determination, and clever upgrade selections. The toughest pit boss to beat is Tier-5 Boss; Errol.
 Practice increasing your shifting speed (this is important) and fully upgrading, to at least 702 hp, your BMW Z4 GT3, or equivalent car. With this preparation, you should be able to beat the last and toughest boss. Good luck.

