 This takes a lot of work, but it will help you avoid that awkward picture where your forearm is blocking half your face. If you try this enough times, people will be shocked to hear that what they see is a self-pic and not a professional photo.


If your arms get tired, you can alternate between holding the camera at arm's length, and changing into different outfits or looking for a new background.;
, This can add a new perspective, and will show that you're proud to be taking a selfie. It will also show that you don't take yourself too seriously--you're just having fun.


Remember that the mirror will also reflect whatever is behind you, so make sure that you're in front of something that is fun but not too distracting.
 The wrong angle can ruin a perfectly good picture, so it's important to try as many looks as possible to learn what works.


Remember that the angles that work when others take the photo may not be best for a self-pic. While you may look flattering from the left side when your friend takes your photo, you may find that a different angle works best when you're the boss.
Avoid taking photos from below--you'll look longer and more flattering if the camera is posed slightly above you.
Avoid taking photos head-on. This will keep you from looking boxy, and will add a more interesting look to your photo.
 Since you're the photographer, you have nothing to lose!


Pose in as many different outfits as you can to see what looks best.
Take photos with different backgrounds, whether you're in different locations of a city or different parts of your house.
If you found a location you love, try taking photos at different times of day to see how the lighting changes your look.
 You may look more composed if you're not worrying about operating the camera, and will be able to hit just the right expression.


Set the timer to give yourself enough time to get settled in your pose--you want to avoid running back and forth between the camera and your location, which will make you look frazzled.
If you really love the timer method, you can invest in a camera remote so you don't have to run back and forth at all.
 If you're feeling happy and surrounded by your favorite things, it will show in your photo! Since you're already taking pictures of yourself, you might as well indulge in some of your favorite things.


Bake cookies while you're taking the picture. The delicious smell--and the sugar high from the occasional snack--will make you glow in the photo.
Listen to your favorite "pump up" music. This will put you in a more energetic, playful mood, and may lead you to try new poses you wouldn't have considered otherwise.

