 Have you ever had the experience of cracked, uneven ice cubes when you try to remove them? That usually happens when room temperature water gets poured over already-frozen cubes. If you want all your ice to be even and consistent, only fill the tray when it's completely empty.


Rinse the tray out beforehand, to remove freezer sediment and little chunks. This also helps to warm up the tray slightly, resulting in more even cubes. Cubes will be easier to get out later if you do this.
If you you need to, empty the ice cubes into a Ziplock freezer bag, or store them in a bowl in the freezer. Easy fix.;
, When the water freezes, it expands. This is why the ice in your drink floats, even in a glass of water. When you make ice, try to account for the fact that the cubes will get a little bigger as they freeze, and don't overfill.Pro tip: If you want perfectly clear ice, instead of cloudy, boil the water first. When it cools, freeze it normally. The more times you boil, the more clear the ice when it freezes.
 For the best ice cubes, place your ice cube tray flat and even. Clear out any freezer bags or other items that might be in the freezer, and set the trays on a flat surface.


Don't stack ice cube trays on top of one another, if you can help it. Sometimes, you'll get weird cubes, or spill the water on the bottom of the freezer.
Freezers are usually set at 32 degrees F (0 C) or below.
In most freezers, water should freeze in about one to three hours, depending on the size of the cubes and the temperature of the freezer.
 After your cubes are frozen, turn the tray to make sure they're not liquid on the inside. To pop them out, you can usually just pry one up and out, or twist the tray very slightly to loosen them from the sides, then pull them out.


Sometimes, it takes some work to get the cubes loose from the sides of the tray. Don't start banging it around, though, or you'll crack the tray. Instead, run a bit of warm water in the tap and wet a cloth. Sit the ice cube tray on the cloth to melt the underside slightly. They'll pop right out.
 Ice cube trays come in a variety of shapes, sizes, and features. You can get an ice cube tray with a cover, to prevent freezer burn and crystals from forming on the top. You can get big cocktail ice trays and individual ice cube trays shaped like the Death Star from Star Wars. Get creative!


If you don't want to buy a tray, don't. Look around your kitchen from strangely-shaped objects you could fill with water. That lobster-shaped pan? Make a big lobster cube. Make a coffee-cup-shaped ice cube. Why not?

