 Echolalia has many uses as a form of communication. Autistic children may use it...


If they don't know the meaning of individual words or the purposes or uses of questions. In these cases, children rely on phrases that they've heard to communicate. For example, saying "Do you want a cookie?" instead of “Can I have a cookie?” because in the past when an adult said the first question, a cookie materialized.If they are stressed. Echolalia is easier than spontaneous speech, which makes it easier to use during stress. For example, an autistic in a crowded room might be struggling to process all the noise and movement around them, so forming complete sentences might be too much.
If they feel the same way they felt another time when a statement was used. Echolalia can communicate feelings. For example, the child may say, "The pool is closed today" to express any type of disappointment, because there was one time that the pool was closed and he was disappointed.If they need time to think. For example, when asked what they want for supper, an autistic person might ask themselves "What do I want for supper?" This shows that they heard it and gives them time to think.If they're trying to connect.Echolalia may be used as games or jokes., This can help autistic people in several ways:


Remembering things. Autistic children may have trouble keeping track of a series of steps. They may repeat the sequence to themselves as they work, to help them remember and assure themselves that they are doing it correctly. For example: "Get a cup. Pour your juice slowly. Not too fast. Put the cap back on. Good job."
Calming down. Repeating a reassuring phrase can help autistic children control their emotions and relax.

Stimming. Vocal stimming may help with a number of things: concentration, self-control, and elevating mood. If the child is disrupting others, you may ask for them to turn down the volume, but it's usually best to let them enjoy themselves., This will help you discern its purpose.


A child who uses echolalia before a meltdown probably is using it due to severe distress or sensory overload.
A child who repeats your question (e.g. "Do you want a cookie?" to express wanting a cookie) may not understand the meaning or purpose of a question.
A child who repeats phrases to themselves in a singsong voice is probably using it for concentration or enjoyment., Sometimes it may be a frustrating experience having the ends of all your statements and questions repeated. Remember that the child is trying to communicate when doing this. They simply don't have the same language skills that you do yet.


Take deep breaths. If you need to, go into a different room for a little while if you get very frustrated and take some deep breaths and collect your thoughts.
Remember that the child is probably frustrated too. (They certainly aren't having meltdowns for the fun of it.)
Take care of yourself. Parenting can be exhausting sometimes, and there’s nothing wrong with admitting that. Take baths, practice yoga, allow yourself time with other adults, and consider joining a community group of parents or caregivers of autistic/disabled children.
 If autistic children don't feel pressured to respond immediately, they can feel more relaxed and use language better.Be patient and make it clear that you're happy to hear what they have to say, no matter how long it takes for them to say it.


Allow pauses in the conversation for your child to think. Forming a coherent response may take a lot of cognitive energy for them.

