 While many other file sharing protocols exist, BitTorrent is the most effective and popular method for downloading feature-length films. To use this method, you will need to install the client software on your computer.


Most of the best clients are available for free. Some of the most popular clients are uTorrent, Tixati, Vuze, Transmission.
Be aware of the legality. In most jurisdictions, downloading a movie that you are not purchasing legitimately, and don't already own on another format (such as a DVD), is in violation of copyright laws.
 After installing your torrent client software, you can download the torrent file for the movie you wish to watch.


The best way to find the movie you want is to search for the film using torrent search engine. These sites come and go as they are shut down by law enforcement and then reopened with new servers and a different name.
You can also find torrent files using a regular search engine. A torrent file has a ".torrent" extension, and is actually just a text file telling your torrent client where to download the pieces of the movie.
 Double-click on the torrent file to load it into your torrent client. Depending on your settings, the download should begin automatically. You may need to indicate where you want to save the file.


Once the file has downloaded completely, leave the torrent software open for several hours to allow other users to download the file from you. Some torrent trackers require that you maintain a good ratio of uploaded to downloaded files.
 Once the torrent has finished downloading, your client software will save the actual video file to the location you indicated. Double-click the file to open it in your default media player.


Many movies released through torrents will not work properly with Windows Media Player or QuickTime. In order to play these movies you will need to download an alternative media player, such as VLC or Media Player Classic.
You can safely delete the torrent file itself once the video clip has finished downloading.
 Besides torrent sites, you can acquire public domain movies for free with no legal repercussions. The most comprehensive collection of these films can be found at Archive.org.

