 Daily washing may cause the oils to be stripped too quickly, encouraging them to come back as even oilier to make up for the loss. If you have naturally greasy hair, it's recommended that you only wash it every 2-3 days.


Look for a shampoo guaranteed to work on greasy hair. The best kind of shampoo is one that removes excess oil without drying out your hair. It may take some trial and error to find a good one––ask your hairdresser for advice.
Use a clarifying shampoo once a month. This type of shampoo is designed to remove any build-up of grease and hair product. Do not use a clarifying shampoo every day though, as it can strip your hair of oils, causing your hair to produce more in response. Instead, for daily washing use a mild shampoo that doesn't strip your hair of oils.
 Avoid using them at the root as this part of the hair is already moisturised by the natural oils (grease) produced within hours of washing your hair. A conditioner is actually meant to nourish the drier ends anyway, so try to keep its use just for the lower half of your hair.


Some people use no conditioner at all, or use it infrequently, say, once a week, to avoid over-moisturising.
If your hair gets tangled easily, apply something moisturizing and silky; a very small amount of olive oil works well. Use only enough to make your hands slightly shiny, then apply to hair away from your scalp.
If your hair is very oily, you may not need conditioner. However, it is best to condition the ends of your hair to stop them from drying out.
 Hot water strips your hair of oils and your scalp will replenish them immediately, and will make your hair turn greasy and even hard to comb.


Try a small amount of vinegar as a final rinse. Start with 1 tablespoon per 8 fl oz (236ml) of water and adjust from there. The smell goes away as the hair dries.
Or, try using fresh lemon. Brush the root of your hair with half fresh cut lemon (you can use both halves). Keep the lemon for 5 minutes before taking a bath. Repeat, with every shower, and the difference will come within 2 weeks.

