 Organization should be based on your own preferences such as whether you want to be able to pull out certain Pokémon types for battles or want to keep them in numerical order so you can know what's missing in the set you're collecting. There are several ways to categorize Pokémon cards including:


Type (i.e. grass, ground, fighting, water, fire)
Set
Evolution
Pokédex number- each Pokémon is assigned a number in the master list of Pokémon.
Rarity., You can combine different organizational methods by layering them. For example, you can have a group of all water type Pokémon and then as a subgroup, they are arranged by rarity, going from most rare to the most common card type. It's helpful to keep a master list somewhere easy to find, like the front pocket of a binder, so that you can reference it and locate a card within a group or subgroup quickly.
 As you accumulate cards, you want to make sure that you stay organized so that you know where to find a card when you need it. Label makers are a great way to mark your binders and tins with the groups and subgroups you have chosen. Also, have a separate space for duplicates or similar cards so that your main collection doesn't become cluttered.
 There are several options for storing and preserving your cards. A 3-ring binder can hold sheets of page protectors with special pockets for trading cards. The clear plastic is a great way to display your cards with easy access so you can organize the cards as you collect more. Another option is to buy individual sleeves or toploaders to hold separate cards that can then all be stored in a box or tin. Sleeves help protect from scratches and toploaders are a stiffer plastic sleeve that prevents cards from bending. You can buy binders at office supply stores or online and sheets and sleeves can be found at any hobby store. To cut down on costs, buy in bulk to save money in the long run., Since the cards are made from paper, they are susceptible to becoming damaged and this will decrease their value. Keep your cards safe from these possible risks so that you don't have to worry about losing parts of your collection. Additionally, store your cards in a cool, dry place such as a closet or plastic bin. Avoid rubber bands for holding cards together since the bands can bend the cards and compromise the card structure.


Wear and tear from handling the cards
Water damage
Smoke damage
Food and drink stains
Sunlight and fading from light exposure, As you continue to collect, you'll start to accumulate some valuable cards, such as holographic or rare cards. Put those cards into a sleeve and then put them in a top loader. A binder is good for easy access to your cards, especially if you use them for battling other collectors, but using both a sleeve and toploader will prevent extra dust, water, and handling from ruining your special cards.