 One cause of petechiae is straining too much for too long. For instance, a long coughing fit or an overemotional bout of crying can lead to petechiae. You can also get petechiae from vomiting or straining while lifting weights. It's also a common symptom to have after you've given birth., Certain medications can be the cause of petechiae. For instance, anticoagulants such as warfarin and heparin can cause petechiae. Similarly, drugs in the naproxen family, such as Aleve, Anaprox, and Naprosyn can also cause petechiae.A few other drugs that can cause petechiae include quinine, penicillin, nitrofurantoin, carbamazepine, desipramine, indomethacin, and atropine.If you think one of your medications is causing petechiae, talk to your doctor. She can evaluate whether you need to be on that particular medicine or whether you can switch to something else.
 Specific infectious diseases can also lead to this problem. Anything from a bacterial infection to a fungal infection can cause petechiae, such as mononucleosis, scarlet fever, strep throat, meningococcemia, as well as a number of less common infectious organisms., Petechiae can also be a symptom of other diseases that disrupt appropriate blood clotting, such as leukemia and other bone marrow cancers.It can also be the result of a vitamin c deficiency (also known as scurvy) or a vitamin k deficiency, as both are required for proper blood clotting.It's worth noting that some treatments, such as chemotherapy, can also result in petechiae., This disease causes you to have clotting problems. It does so by taking away some of your platelets, which are found in your blood.Doctors do not know the exact mechanism by which this occurs, hence the term "idiopathic" (a word that indicates the cause is unknown).


This disease can lead to petechiae and purpura because platelets usually work to plug up any small tears in your blood vessels. When you don't have enough platelets, your blood can't repair vessels properly, leading to bleeding underneath the skin. That can cause small red spots, petechiae, or larger blood spots, called purpura., If you are a healthy person experiencing new onset petechiae for no reason (you haven't been vomiting, straining, or doing something else that would easily explain the condition), you should see a doctor about it.Though petechiae usually go away on their own if you don't have another disease, it's best to find out if they have an underlying cause.It's especially important to take your child to the doctor if she gets petechiae for no reason that you can see, and if it covers a large part of her body., If you have an infection or disease that causes your petechiae, the best way to treat the petechiae is to try to cure the disease. Your doctor can help you decide what medication is best for your disease., In older people who's blood clotting system is naturally less effective, even minor trauma can cause significant petechiae. One way to prevent petechia if you're older is to try to avoid trauma. Of course, sometimes you can't avoid an injury, but do not take unnecessary risks.For instance, if you have trouble balancing properly, consider using a cane or walker.
 This may cause petechiae due to trauma, injury, or straining to disappear, but it will not treat any underlying conditions which cause petechiae. Cold can help cut down on inflammation and can help reduce future petechiae, as well.To make a cold compress, wrap an ice pack in a washcloth or towel and hold it against the area with petechiae 15 to 20 minutes or less if you can't stand it that long. Do not put an ice pack directly on your skin, as it can cause damage to your skin.
You can also just use cool water on a washcloth held up to the area.
 The main way to get rid of petechiae is to wait for them to heal on their own. Once you treat the underlying cause, the petechiae should fade away.