 Rock tumblers are great for rock polishing because they give the rock a more defined shine than hand-polishing, and they can polish dozens of rocks at once. You can buy rock tumblers online from specialty sites or Amazon. Keep in mind that pricing of rock tumblers varies dramatically, so buy one in accordance with your needs. Also purchase grit designed for rock polishing in coarse (80 grit), medium (220 grit) and fine (400 grit) grinds.


A cheap, plastic tumbler is a good option if you only want to use it a few times. Spring for a more expensive tumbler if you can see rock polishing as a new hobby.
 Before you start polishing your rocks, sort them so that the rocks you put into the tumbler are of similar hardness and surface shape.You don’t want to put rocks of different hardness in the tumbler because the harder rocks will wear down and scratch the softer rocks. You also don’t want to put in differently shaped rocks, with some being jagged while others round, because the rounder rocks will get polished faster than the irregular rocks.
Try to put in rocks of various sizes. This will help the rocks achieve a more uniform shaping.
 First, wash your rocks with soap and water. Once washed, drop the rocks of similar hardness and shape into the tumbler. Then take the rocks out of the tumbler and weigh them. After weighing them, put them back in the tumbler.
 Measure out .1 pound of grit for every pound of rocks in the tumbler. Then pour water into the tumbler until it reaches the bottom of the top layer of rocks. Seal the lid of the tumbler and turn it on. Run the tumbler for 24 hours and then open it to check on the progress of the rocks. Then put the lid back on and start the tumbler again. Tumble the rocks for 3 to 7 days, checking every 24 hours to make sure that everything is going smoothly.
The coarse grit is meant to smooth out the shape of the rocks. For rounder rocks, it should only take about 3 days to get a nice shape. For more jagged rocks, it may take about 7 to even the surface out.
Checking every 24 hours lets you see the progress of the rocks. After checking, you may decide that either they are ready for the next step, or that you want to keep tumbling them for another day.
 After 3-7 days, take the rocks out of the tumbler and place them in a pan. Clean the grit off of the rocks and clean the inside of the tumbler. Don't wash the grit down the sink because it will solidify and clog your drain. Instead, throw it in the garbage.Thoroughly wash your rocks and the tumbler until they are spotless. Having even small amounts of coarse grit left over can disrupt the next part of the process.
 Place the clean rocks back in the tumbler. Put in the same amount of medium grit as you did coarse grit. Then fill the tumbler with water until the water reaches the bottom of the top layer of rocks. Seal the lid on the tumbler and turn it on. Run the tumbler for four or five days, checking every 24 hours.


After four or five days, stop the machine and open it up. Place the rocks in a container and clean out the grit.
Again, make sure that the rocks and the container are completely clean, and throw out the grit instead of flushing it away., Place the clean rocks back into the tumbler. Put in the same amount of fine grit as you did coarse and medium. Pour in water until it touches the bottom of the top layer of rocks. Then put on the lid and start the tumbling process. This cycle should take about 7 days. Check every 24 hours to check the progress.This is the last stage of using grit, so don’t cut the cycle short until you are happy with the smoothness and shininess of the rocks. You may need to clean a rock off to see the shine when you’re checking in on the progress of the rocks.
 Thoroughly clean the rocks and the tumbler. Make sure that you have removed all the grit from the nooks and crannies of the tumbler, as this can affect its future performance. When you remove the grit from your rocks, you'll see that they are brilliant and shiny!, Sometimes soft rocks don’t get the brilliance you need just by tumbling. To add a finishing touch to rocks that need more shine, use leather and polish. Dab a bit of polish onto a sheet of leather, then rub the rock against it, making sure to use the polish on the entire surface. This gives the rock the brilliance that you want!