 You may think that you should watch the ball when your player you are defending doesn't have the ball. Don't do that. A part about defense is watching the forwards on the other team, for clues of where the ball is. You can't have anyone get the open slip on you. Once the ball's behind you, it's gone. Always keep your eyes on those forwards.;
, You need to talk as a team to know who is marking who and know what to do. Communication is especially important if you have a main defensive role, like centre back or goalkeeper. If there is a new guy, talk to get him up to what is happening; don't let the other team have an advantage over your new guy.
 Try to stay in the carrier's space.
 If the ball is on their side move up to half to draw them offsides. But don't go past half as you'll be offsides. Again, communication and practice are vital to be able to play a high line. If you attempt to play a high line and you haven't practiced it, it will probably end in being out of position.
 In addition, it is very common for a slide tackle to get someone a yellow card.
 For example: You are in front of your opponent - he sends the ball left, intercept it by being in your ready-stance, keeping your arms extended to the sides for balance.
 One may go between your legs or over your head, so make sure you are not tensed up. Be loose and alive, to match the opponent's moves in any direction. A way to eliminate the pass when the opponent stops to pass -- between your legs or over your head -- is by keeping your legs staggered (feet not side by side), and in an athletic stance with your knees bent a little, ready to spring.
 Be ready to send the second foot. For example: You are in front of an opponent, and you think he is going to pass left, however when he moved you took your left foot to the left but he passed right; you must be ready to launch toward the right.
, If someone tries to pass to your opponent, get to the ball first and look for passes that you can intercept.







Block. If the opponent has the ball and is facing the goal, don't give him or her room to shoot. Stay within a couple feet. If he or she shoots, be prepared to dive in and block it, whether it be with foot or your body.






If your opponent moves, move with him or her. Stay on your toes. If you must give your opponent room, "herd" him or her towards the sideline or onto his weaker foot (the one that is already extended).






Don't let your opponent get past you. Stay on your toes, and be ready to sprint at any time by staying in an athletic stance.
 So, usually, don't stab or swipe at the ball. You will be off balance, out of position. Your opponent can dribble right past you if you are lurching forward. Just stay close and on guard.
 If you have a teammate behind you (supporting you), you can look to try to take the ball from your opponent. If not, don't try.
, Make your opponent think only about you, not what else is going on around the field.
 When you are on the sidelines, study his or her 1-on-1 moves and habits.
 If there aren't a lot of defenders in your half of the field, contain your opponent, slowing him or her down and making time for help to arrive. If there are plenty of defenders/support in your half of the field, you can be a little more assertive.
 Know how they compare to yours, and take risks accordingly.
 Be aware of other players in your field of view. Try to anticipate where your opponent would like to pass, if he can.
 Deception is as powerful as speed. If your opponent thinks you're passive, you can surprise him or her by acting instantly, not showing your trickiness all the time.
 Instead of watching your opponent's feet watch the ball.
 To defend your goal, stay ahead of the opponent.
 If he gets overextended or off balance, then attack.
 Think before fouling them. Understand that if you do take down your opponent, most of the time this will result in a yellow card. With a few tackles (mainly the ones that deny the other player a chance to score), you will be ejected from the game with a red card. Red cards tend to include multiple-game suspensions in many leagues, so before you foul the player from behind, remember what the consequences are! In addition, taking down and potentially injuring a player who has beaten you fairly is not good for your team, as you may be suspended for one or more games.
 To be ready to go where the action will probably need to go. They will be trying to get the ball to a better position to a more open area, away from the sideline, away from the crowded area and such.

