 For a basic PVC paint job, you’ll need a large sheet of high-grit sandpaper, a small container of acetone, a clean washcloth, one or more cans of spray paint in your chosen color and the PVC you wish to paint. Make sure you have everything you need before you begin painting.


Practice proper workshop safety. Wear gloves, protective eyewear and a ventilated facemask to filter out dust and chemicals.Choose a spray paint that’s specially formulated for use on plastics, such as Krylon Fusion or Rust-Oleum Plastic.;
, Lay down a large dropcloth or plastic tarp where you plan to do your painting. Keep all furniture and nearby appliances and electronics covered. Remember to work in a space that permits proper airflow, like a garage or workshop with the doors and windows open.Work in a well-ventilated, open space. This will not only help the paint dry faster but keep you from being exposed to harmful acetone and paint fumes.Spray paint tends to disperse when it’s applied, so a dropcloth will be useful for protecting floors, countertops and other work surfaces.
If you don’t have access to a dropcloth, you could also use a few overlapping sheets of newspaper.
 The PVC should already be the right size and shape for the project you have planned. Take care of any necessary measuring, cutting and assembling in advance. That way, all you’ll have to do is add a custom color and install.








If the PVC you’re painting needs to be fitted with elbow corners, for instance, they should be in place prior to sanding and painting.
 Go over the outer surface of the PVC with a high-grit sandpaper. The most efficient way to do this is to place the sheet of sandpaper in your palm and wrap your whole hand around the pipe. You can then scour the PVC from one end to the other with a wrapping motion to achieve a uniform finish.








Avoid oversanding the PVC, as this can result in walls of inconsistent thicknesses that may wear out at a faster rate.
A fine sandpaper with a grit of 220 or higher is recommended., Place the corner of a clean, dry cloth over the mouth of an upturned bottle of acetone to dampen it. Then, wipe the acetone over the sanded PVC. You don’t need to use a lot—just enough to prepare the surface of the PVC for painting.








Wiping the PVC will help remove any loose grit left over from sanding.
The acetone will also cause the plastic to expand and become more porous, allowing it to hold paint better., Using slow, steady strokes, spray a light mist of paint down the length of the PVC pipe, making each pass as light as possible to prevent drips or runs. After you’ve painted one edge of the PVC, rotate it to paint the other side. Aim for a smooth, even finish free of bald spots and defects.








Continue applying additional coats until you reach the desired depth of color.
Let the paint dry for 20 to 30 minutes between coats., Once you’ve achieved the color and coverage you want, set the PVC aside and let it begin to set. Painted PVC will require 24 hours or more to dry to the touch. The paint should be sufficiently cured to withstand heat, pressure and scratches before being used in household or construction projects.








If you plan on using the PVC for especially messy or heavy-duty jobs, it may need to cure for as long as one 20-30 days.