 It doesn’t have to be any sort of romantic invitation. You can ask him to see a movie with a whole group of people, or work on some homework together. You can even ask if he just wants to meet up at a school sporting event or another local event in town. It doesn’t matter what the invitation is — what matters is that you’re showing interest and getting to spend time with him outside of school.If he rejects your invitation once, don’t worry. Sometimes guys are shy, and sometimes they have other obligations. If he rejects two more invitations, then consider moving on. There are plenty of other guys to pursue.
 Sometimes, there simply might not be anything fun to invite him to. Create a way to spend extra time with him. If you walk home from school every day, maybe you can change your route a bit so that you can walk with him. Ask him to study with you or work on a project together if you're in the same class. Join him in whatever activity he does during breaks. You might have to get a bit creative, but you should certainly be able to find ways to get extra face time with your crush.
 This is key. If your crush spends all of his time with a certain group of people, it can be really helpful to befriend them. By joining his social circle, you’ll increase your odds of seeing him at social events outside of school. Of course, this doesn’t mean to ditch your current friends or use his friends to get to this boy. It simply means to get to know his friends and, if you enjoy their company, make a little extra effort to become friends.


Sit next to his friends in class and start a conversation. If he has girl friends, compliment them on something, like their outfit or backpack. If you're having a party, make sure you invite his friends and not just him. Go out of your way to make his friends see you as a friendly, warm person.
 Tell him that you like him. It’s best to do this if you think he’s returned your flirty vibes, and you’ve developed a level of comfort around each other. Let your friendship grow a little bit before revealing your crush, just so he doesn’t feel overwhelmed or totally caught off guard. Not only will he be impressed that you had the confidence to tell him your feelings outright, he will also be flattered. Who wouldn’t?Some signs that he might be into you include initiating physical closeness, laughing at jokes or having inside jokes with you, gently teasing you, blushing around you, making an effort to be around you, and asking you questions about yourself.
You don’t need to make this a serious, sit-down chat in which you pour out your heart. All you need to do is tell him what you think about him, or what makes you like being around him. Keep it casual.
Do this when you’re able to talk to him alone. It’s OK if you’re with a group of people, just try to find a time to break apart and talk to him one-on-one.
Say something like, “I have so much fun hanging out with you. I think you’re really funny and smart, and I like you as more than a friend.”

, You’ve put your cards on the table, and now you can give him the opportunity to do the same. Simply ask something like, “So, do you think you may have a bit of a crush on me?” It sounds terrifying, but it could make the difference.He may be shy, so respect that he might not be comfortable answering you. Don't pressure him or demand a certain answer.


While a “no” answer might be upsetting at first, it will save you time and more hurt feelings in the future. You can move on, and you can stop giving energy and time to a boy who doesn’t reciprocate feelings.

