 Certain foods do not hold up well as leftovers and some make excellent leftovers! Knowing which foods you should consume right away and which ones will make great leftovers will help you know how much to prepare.


Search for recipes that make delicious leftovers. There are plenty of websites, like Allrecipes and BBC Good Food, that list recipes specifically for this purpose.In general, foods with fresh (not cooked) produce will not make good leftovers. The produce will be wilted and mushy by the time you are ready to eat it.

Curries make great leftovers because of the herbs and spices in the sauce release, even more, flavor the longer they are kept.
Beans and legumes can last up to five days as leftovers and are very tasty!, If you’re cooking for yourself or one other person, be wary of the quantities listed in a recipe you may be preparing. If the recipe was designed with a family in mind, it may not be practical to assume you’ll be able to eat the leftovers yourself.If the recipe is for a family and you are only cooking for one or two, cut the amount of ingredients listed in the recipe by half. You may also need to reduce the cooking time.
Look for recipes that are aimed at individuals who are only cooking for one or two people.
 When returning from the grocery store, use your perishable produce as soon as possible. Produce will begin to rot within a week or two so it is important to use it up first so as not to waste food.


Determine which recipes the produce will be used in right away to ensure that all of the produce gets used.
You can use the produce to make preserves or for pickling.
Freeze the produce for later use.
 There are many ways that you can utilize scraps of food, instead of throwing them in the garbage or into the garbage disposal.


When buying chicken, purchase the bone and skin versions and cut it up yourself when you return from the store, instead of buying the boneless, skinless kind. The bones and skins can be used in combination with vegetable trimmings to make a sizable amount of chicken stock.You can strain and store the excess bacon fat in a pan after frying up some bacon strips. After it cools down, it yields a shelf-stable cooking oil with a delicious flavor.

