 Powders are the most effective pesticide for active Carpenter bee nests. Products such as Carbaryl dust (Sevin) and boric acid (Borid Turbo Aerosol) are effective.;
, A tried and tested remedy for bees is spraying petrol or diesel into their burrows. It's a homemade pesticide, if you will. It will kill them, but petrol is flammable and can damage the structure you pour it over, so use it carefully.


Take caution not to get petrol on your skin or inhale its fumes. Wear an N-95 respirator, some goggles, and gloves when applying petrol to the burrow.
If using a spray bottle to spread petrol, be sure to label it and set it aside for petrol-only use in the future. You probably don't want to use the spray bottle to spritz your plants with water after using it to gas carpenter bees.
 While it's not the most gentle product to use for carpenter bee extermination, it's certainly effective. Aerosol carburetor cleaner has an extension tube for the can, and can be had cheaply from a discount or auto supply store. Some types will kill them instantly inside their burrow; others will make their prospective home very uninhabitable.


Be very careful to not get this in your face or eyes; wear protection and read the precautions for safety.
 Carpenter bees are notoriously sensitive to noise, which may in fact be a sensitivity to vibrations. Set up a soundbox or boombox next to their prospective dwellings to encourage them to leave. This method is both safe and no-hassle.
 In spring, carpenter bees fly around looking for burrows to lay eggs and deposit pollen as food for the larvae. (They use old burrows too, therefore it is a good idea to plug them.) This means they are very active for two to three weeks. A badminton or tennis racket is very effective to smack them with, especially easy with their habit of stopping and hovering for a moment.


Make sure to give them a good brisk smack! Stepping on them, (with shoes of course), is an obvious extra option after you smack them.
 Professional exterminators know what they are doing, and can rid you of the bees efficiently.

