 Humans are social creatures by nature, even introverts. For this reason, you may need to take opportunities to interact with others if you want to build healthy relationships with others.


Find reasons to put yourself in contact with other people. The more times you do this, the more likely that you will interact with others, and the more likely those interactions will be meaningful.Go out. Go to a coffee shop, Take a trip. Attend a concert or play.
Find meet-ups. Find groups in your community that share your values and interests and go to events they host. Meetup.com is a great resource for this, but there are others you can find through a brief online search.
Be available. Make yourself say "yes" to invitations from acquaintances, coworkers, family, and friends. This can be as simple as lunch on a Friday, to camping on the weekend, to attending a child's dance recital. It doesn't matter what you've been invited to. Provided it doesn't interfere with necessary weekly responsibilities, just say "yes.";
, When we respect diversity, we respect the right of others to be different from ourselves, opening the door to safer, more meaningful and fruitful interactions.Ways to respect diversity are:


Learn about another culture or religion by attention a service at a worship center.
Volunteer in your community to help individuals with disabilities or special needs.
Travel to other countries and practice local customs when possible and respectful to do so.
Watch documentaries that introduce you to different cultures and parts of the world., High-quality personal relationships are defined by closeness, respect, shared values and support. Studies have shown that quality personal relationships not only help our mental health but also contribute to our physical well-being.

Spend quality time together engaging in meaningful activities.For example, go on a walk, visit a museum, or just sit and have a conversation.
 Trust is an essential component of a healthy relationship — it is difficult to make a deeper connection if you don't feel safe with the other person. Demonstrate your trustworthiness by admitting when you are wrong and apologizing sincerely, being reliable, and communicating openly.

You should look for people with these same attributes.

If you can't be accountable for your actions and try to blame your mistakes on others, it will be hard for people to trust you. Admit your mistakes and apologize sincerely.
Be reliable by following through with your promises. This can be as simple as showing up to hang out with your friend when you said you would or completing a work project by the agreed-upon deadline.Show other people that when you say you'll do something, they can trust that you will do it.
Say what you mean and do what you say.Don't tell someone you will keep a secret and then share it with someone else. Your behaviors and words should match up.
Remember that this is a gradual process — you need to earn a person's trust, especially if they have been burned in the past., This isn't simply doing sweet things for others, like giving gifts, but how you interact with others day to day. Treating others with genuine kindness and respect is an integral part of building a healthy connection. Trusting someone and deepening your relationship requires vulnerability, and it will be difficult for anyone to be vulnerable with you if they think you may mock them or treat them badly. Kindness, on the other hand, makes people feel valued and cared for.One instance in which can be difficult to show kindness is during conflict. Instead of blaming, yelling, calling the person names or exploiting their insecurities, choose instead to express why you are hurt and angry.