 If you can find a good price, it may actually be cheaper to purchase your own trailer and transport the motorcycle yourself. You can browse sites like Craigslist and eBay, where you may find unexpectedly cheap rates. Just make sure to examine any trailer you purchase ahead of time to make sure it's in good condition. If you move a lot, you may want to invest in simply buying your own trailer.


If you're friends with other motorcyclists, see if anyone is willing to lend out their trailer. This will eliminate all the costs of renting and buying. If you're a trustworthy person, and have a solid relationship with someone who owns their own trailer, this may be a good alternative to renting.
It may be a good idea to do some research into what to look for in a motorcycle trailer. If you've never transported a motorcycle before, there may be specific requirements you should be aware of before making a purchase.
 If you're moving for a job, you may be able to get some of the costs covered by your new company. About 50% of companies will fund a new employee's full move, and about 97% will pay for at least some of the costs. If you can get your company to fund your move, some of this money could go towards your motorcycle trailer., If you're eligible for a federal tax deduction, this can save you 25% on your total moving costs. If you're moving for business reasons, you can usually deduct some costs from your taxes assuming certain conditions are met.For a tax deduction, you need to be moving at least 50 miles from your old home. You also must be working full time for at least 39 weeks of the first year in your new house or apartment. If you're a member of the US Army, however, you're eligible for a tax deduction on moving costs without meeting these conditions.
Save all receipts from moving. These will help you when you file your taxes.
 It can get costly to rent a trailer for a long trip. If you know anyone along the route to your new home, consider driving your motorcycle halfway. You can leave the motorcycle at the home of a trusted friend or family member, and then have it transported from this closer location. If rental rates are particularly high for the time of year you're moving, this may be worth the effort.
 If you're transporting your motorcycle due to a big move, try to cut back on other costs. You can save money by making small changes to your moving routine, which you can put towards your motorcycle rental.


Find free boxes for a move. If you're packing up all your belongings, box costs can get high fast. You can save some money by getting boxes for free. Ask neighbors, family members, and local businesses to pass along any empty boxes to you.Try to do as much of the moving on your own as you can. Avoid hiring movers or hiring someone to clean your home or apartment. Put in as much work yourself as you possibly can.