 For a commercial property, the value depends largely on how profitable it is. Profits can be increased by raising rents, or, by reducing expenses. Fortunately, it is possible to reduce expenses without impacting the operations of the property significantly.


Consider adding energy efficient light bulbs throughout the property. This will cost money upfront, but will save significantly over time.
Consider passing some expenses, like gas utilities for example, on to tenants. If your gas company can individually meter units, consider asking them to do so. This will enable you to monitor and charge gas expenses to individual tenants.
Investing in modern heating and air conditioning systems can also go a long way to reducing costs over the long-term.
Enter into a long-term contract with suppliers. This may decrease the costs of your regular supplies purchases.
Consistent maintenance can also reduce your expenses by reducing the chance of expensive accidents.
 Property valuations are often outdated or inaccurate, and sometimes a simple reassessment can significantly lower your tax obligation, thus improving your bottom line..


Your property value is often only assessed by local governments, and therefore your property value may reflect a time period where property values were higher. In addition, assessors often make errors, and your assessor very well may have over-estimated how valuable your property is.
If you feel your property is overvalued, you can contact your local tax assessor and ask for a revaluation. If you are unhappy with the new figure, you can always appeal their opinion.
To do so, visit your tax assessor's office and request forms to appeal. You can also request information on the values of other properties as well. If you notice that similar properties are carrying lower valuations, the strength of your case increases greatly.
Alternatively, contact an attorney or real estate agent who specializes in appealing property assessments.
 The building should be up-to-date, comparable to surrounding buildings in quality and representative of the area's aesthetic style. Make sure that you’re using current, energy-efficient heating and air-conditioning, water heaters, and lights to save on regular energy costs.Upgrading the roofing on your property can be one way to modernize its appearance, cut costs, and prevent damage to your property. For this reason, a new roof can offer an excellent return on investment.
Go green. When updating your property, keep eco-friendliness in mind. This will not only keep your property relevant in today's earth-conscious consumer market, but it will also lower overhead costs. Green options include solar panels, energy-efficient appliances and energy conserving windows. There may even be tax incentives.When modernizing, ensure every change creates more value than it costs. For example, if you are spending $2,000 on new air conditioning, for example, this new air conditioning should lead to $2,000 in saved costs over time, or should enable you to attract, maintain, or increase rents on tenants.

