 You can find stripper-wear in catalogs, porn stores, and various places online. Just make sure your outfit is easy to take off while wearing heels. Make sure you're aware of the laws of where you are working; some states expect you to wear a certain type of underwear. All things considered, here's a list of what you should buy:


High heels (generally, you're looking at a 3" minimum)
A thong (find out the laws where you live; most exotic dancers wear "regulation" g-strings)
Lingerie or legitimate dance costume

, Sit down with yourself and a cup of coffee and think about if this is really what you want to do. Some women have found that they're ostracized in any and all circles for being a stripper, or even just having been one in the past.Are you armed to deal with the psychological consequences as well?


What's more, money is not necessarily a guarantee. If you are good, you can expect to make up to $500 during a day shift or up to $1,000+ on night shift (location depending). But if you do not know how to handle yourself and "sell" your services, you may go home with no money and in debt. It is not carved in stone that if you walk into a strip club and look good you will make money.
Keep in mind that competition is fierce. Yes, the job is based partly on looks, but there are girls who look like supermodels who can leave the club in the red. Most girls who start stripping do not realize that stripping is a sales job where they are selling their time, their attention and dances for money. You can't just show up and "phone it in" to make a decent wage.
 When at work, you will be constantly gawked at, touched, and possibly feel violated. You will need to get used to being naked around strangers and strangers trying to touch you in ways you may not want to be touched. Though it sounds rather daunting, it does get easier with time.


Customers will try (or will grope you against your will) the most if you are in a contact club. There are also non-contact clubs where the no-touching rule is strictly enforced. By law in pretty much every state, customers are not allowed to touch you, but that doesn't always prevent it from happening. You have to have a strong backbone, stand up for yourself, and enforce the rules for the club at times.
 Though the entire world seems to revolve around looks and sex appeal, this is one industry when it takes the throne and runs laps around the competition. If you're not in shape, you'll probably make less money, point blank. You by no means have to be perfect! No girl is. But it's a good idea to start toning up your body -- you'll feel more confident on stage, too, and confidence is the closest thing to having a miracle worker in your tool belt. Start eating healthy and exercising, if you're not already conscious of these lifestyle habits.


Strippers come in all shapes and sizes; there is no prerequisite when it comes to dancing. Like noted earlier, if you can't sell yourself (regardless of how beautiful you are), you won't be able to make a career out of this. Toning up is just one (albeit an important one) of many steps needed to be competent and successful in this industry.

