 The shape needs to be just a little bit larger than your head. Don't cut anything out yet.Use poster paper, construction paper, or cardstock for this.
 You will be cutting the eyes out, so figure out where your eyes will be when you put the mask on, and place them accordingly. Keep the nose and moth simple; you will be filling them in with tiles. A triangle for the nose and a rectangle or sausage shape for the mouth would be perfect!

, You can use construction paper, scrapbook paper, or paint chips for this. The shapes can be squares, rectangles, triangles, or even a combination of all three. They can be different sizes, but try to make them no larger than your thumbnail.


You will need at least two different colors for this: one color for the mask and a contrasting color for the nose and mouth.
For a different look, paint your own paper, let it dry, then cut it out.Sort your shapes by color. This will make it easier to find the color you need.
 Leave a small gap between each tile, and make sure that it doesn't go past the edges of the paper shape. You can use a glue stick or white school glue. If you are using white school glue, apply it using a paint brush. This will make things less messy.
 This way, your nose and mouth won't be too big. Remember to leave a slight gap between each tile. For a cleaner finish, align any straight edges with the outline, and keep pointy edges on the inside of the shape.


Use your contrasting color(s) for this. It will help them stand out better.
 Don't fill the eyes in. You will be cutting them out later. You can use the same color you will use for the inside of the mask, or you can use a contrasting color.
 You can glue them down randomly, or you can follow the curves of the outlines as you work your way towards the center. Remember to leave slight gaps between each tile.


Use your contrasting color for the nose and mouth.
 If you'd like to make your mask last longer, you can seal it with a clear, acrylic sealer or a brush-on decoupage glue, such as Mod Podge. Remember to let the mask dry after sealing it.
 If you are a child, ask an adult to help you cut the eyes out. You can cut the mask itself out using a pair of scissors, but you will need a shape craft knife (such as an Xacto knife) to cut the eyes out.
 The holes should be at about ear level, or just where the eyes are on your mask. This will make the mask more comfortable to wear.

