 Ask for a layered haircut at your next salon appointment to achieve less bulk or greater definition of your curls or waves.


Get layers to frame your face and allow the back of your hair to taper gently. Layers can accentuate volume in long and straight or gently wavy hair.
In naturally coarse, kinky, or curly hair, go for layers to reduce bulk or create overall shape. A long layered look can also complement a narrow face shape.If you’re looking to thin out your thick hair, ask a stylist if they can use thinning shears instead of the typical scissors for your haircut., Trim your hair regularly, even if you want it to remain long or keep growing, as this is key to hair health.


Tight, coarse curls and longer styles of any kind should typically get a trim every 12 weeks (3 months). Trim more often if your hairstyle has a lot of layers that you want to keep in place, or you have a lot of damage from heat treatments, chemical relaxers, or other products.Ask for just a quarter of an inch to be taken off each time you get a trim if you are trying to preserve length and grow out your hair further. Or, make sure a stylist takes off enough to remove split ends or other damage each time.
 Go for blunt, straight bangs or a sideswept style for a great contrast to the length of the rest of your hair.


Thick hair is suited very well to cutting bangs, which will appear fuller and more dimensional. Bangs can also help to reduce the bulk of hair overall.
You can get bangs even without naturally or artificially straight hair. Complement an afro or ringlets with a short fringe at your forehead, or allow side swept wavy bangs to transition into your layered curls.
Remember that bangs typically need to be trimmed more often to maintain their shape and length.
 Add some color at the ends or throughout your hair to create dimensionality and lighten up a heavier style.


Ask for ombre hair color at your next appointment with a hair colorist. The ombre technique uses one or more lighter shades at the ends of your hair, which can help balance length and thickness by making the ends look less heavy.When highlighting hair, make sure to use or ask for color that is only one or two shades lighter than your own, and combine several shades for a more natural and dimensional look.