 You need to understand bullying before you can link it to mental illness. Once you learn more about it, you’ll be able to see the effects bullying can have on mental health. Then you can begin to deal with mental illness related to childhood bullying.


Learn about the different types of bullying. Whether it is cyber bullying, physical bullying, or another type, it can have a negative effect on the victim.
Recognize the signs of bullying.For example, loss of sleep, withdrawing, changes in eating habits or mood, or unexplained physical problems may indicate being a victim of bullying.
Understand how bullying can make the victim feel. Bullying victims may feel ashamed, powerless, inadequate, tense, nervous, unfocused, tired, or physical ill.
 There are several different disorders that are included as mental illness including: depression, anxiety, phobias, and more.You may not want or need to research them all, but you should learn more about the mental illness you or someone close to you may be dealing with. Understanding what is going on will help you link the mental illness to childhood bullying.


If you already know what mental illness you’re dealing with, learn as much as you can about that one. For example, if your son has been diagnosed with depression, research more about that mental disorder.
Use websites like Mental Help, National Institute of Mental Health, or the Centers for Disease Control to get an overview of mental illnesses including common symptoms.
 Once you understand bullying and learn more about mental illness, you will be able to understand the link between them. Examining this link will help you deal with mental illness related to childhood bullying. You will be able to see how being a victim of bullying is affecting you or someone you care about and work on healing from it.


Recognize that bullying can make the victim feel embarrassed, isolated, and humiliated. It can lower self-esteem and lead to depression.
Victims of childhood bullying may experience anxiety over time because of the uncertainty and stress of being bullied.
Bullying may lead some victims to self-harm because they feel helpless to stop the bullying and need to control something in their lives.
The stress of being a victim of childhood bullying may lead some people to develop Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.
Remember that you are not defined by your mental illness. Don't let it limit what you can achieve.

