 Model sailboats often operate with the same sophistication of design as any full-sized yacht. The more sophisticated ones are designed for racing, and the R/C sailors call them "model yachts", to distinguish their more sophisticated models from the "toy" sailboats often sold at toy stores or online.;
, The "model yachts" sailed in competition are generally better-quality, more rugged, and more costly than "toy" sailboats. They use readily-available parts (from hobby shops), so you can repair the yachts when something goes wrong. Often, "toy" sailboats require an overseas order to get replacement parts.
 As with any hobby-sport, the cost of the model yacht reflects its degree of sophistication. The "model yacht" market is supplied by a number of highly qualified one-man companies as well as by a handful of larger companies. The "toy" market is generally served by larger toy companies.


The long-term cost of model yachting is far less than the cost of sports fishing and golf. The start-up cost depends on the model sailors willingness and ability to build his/her own boat (from a kit or scratch), as well as the sophistication of the yacht itself. You can expect to invest as little as $450 and as much as $5,000 for a true "model yacht". After obtaining the boat and related gear, the actual cost of sailing is very low.
 One of the important considerations in selecting a model is its size. If you cannot see the boat well enough to distinguish wind changes on the sails and reaction to the controls, you will be unable to operate it among a fleet of models sailing offshore.


The uninitiated spectator who has been watching a model out sailing and then sees it being brought ashore will express great surprise at how big it is. That little model you see out on the pond can be eight feet long and weigh up to eighty pounds.
From a practical standpoint, the minimum overall length for a sailing model is 24 inches (61.0 cm) when sailed among other larger models.
 The generally accepted minimum radio control system has two channels. Each pair of units, radio transmitter and radio receiving system, operates on a discrete frequency so that several radio control units can be operated at the same time and location without conflicting with one another., The number of channels refers to the number of functions the set will control directly. The basic two-channel system allows discrete control of the steering on one channel. The second channel operates the sail control which sets the position of the sails.
 The actual operation of the model is by manipulating the controls of the radio transmitter unit on the shore. The skipper controls the steering and the sails on the model. The model can be sailed as if it were a full-size yacht.
 The distance to which we can sail our model yacht is limited by the range of the radio transmitter and receiver in the control system and by the capability of the human eye. Visibility is crucial for setting sail trim and course - and also for avoiding collisions.
 The oldest and most prominent AMYA classes are the "formula" classes. Rather than try to handicap differing models, a set of ground rules was established with a wide range of individual variation still possible between models.


The largest fleet of racing models is to be found in the 50/800 or International Marblehead Class






This formula is quite simple and requires the model to have a mono-hull which is 50 inches (127.0 cm) long and to carry not more than 800 square inches of sail.






The Star45 Class is a one-design class with specifications resulting in significant performance differences between models.
Within the hull space are: a radio-controlled receiver, batteries for the receiver, a sail winch for trimming the sails, batteries for the sail winch, and the two or more servomechanisms which steer the boat and control the winch.
 It can be an expensive proposition if the rig is complicated.


Masts run the gamut from simple wood spars to slotted aluminum through carbon fiber shafts. From a time-of-assembly standpoint, an aluminum mast is excellent. For salt-water sailing, however, you will need the anodized aluminum.
 Professionally made sails are a fact of life if you plan to race seriously.


Sail Control Units, aka Sail winches, are required for sheeting sails.
Two popular winch configurations. The drum or loop configuration trims the sail by winding the sheet or a loop about a drum mounted on the shaft of a gear motor. The swing-arm configuration attaches the sheets from the sails are attached to an arm mounted on the shaft of a gear motor.
 One great difference between radio-controlled model boats and radio-controlled aircraft is that it's very difficult for even a rank novice to do harm to a sailing model while sailing it. Therefore, the prospective purchaser will be sure to find a number of local R/C skippers who will let him have a try at sailing their boats when asked.

Ask about at your local shops, park departments, and newspapers, and you will be able to locate the local yachtsman sailing his R/C craft at some nearby spot. Stop by and watch him, ask advice, and get to sail a model or two.
Find a club. If there is more than one club locally, visit all and choose the one that makes you feel most comfortable and sails a class that you think you would like to start with. Speak to the club members and seek advice from all on an appropriate starting class. Test sail as many member's boats as you can. Most club members are quite willing to give test sails.
 R/C models require a launching area with water deep enough to allow for the depth of the model keel. The typical 50/800 Marblehead draws 15 to 18 inches (38.1 to 45.7 cm). You may need to wade out into the water to launch and recover your model.
, Set aside space to stow away a ten-foot mast with sails attached.
 A quality model can be an investment lasting for many years. Some modelers have models that have been passed along for a couple of generations.
 How will you transport it to the water's edge? What is involved in your launching it (depth of water required, the weight of the model, bulk of model, etc.? The same considerations must be given to the spars for your model.
 They may have left answers in Internet resources or model club newsletters.

