 You want to use a standard business format for your letter, addressing it to the individual or business that owes you money. Choose the date carefully to match the date you plan to send it – in other words, if you can't mail the letter until tomorrow, use tomorrow's date.If you're addressing the letter to a business, typically you want to address the letter to your key contact with the company.
When in doubt, call the company and ask to whom you should send a letter for debt collection.
Keep in mind that in some larger companies, a different person may handle past-due accounts than the person who was responsible for making the on-time payment.
Make sure you're addressing your letter to a specific person, not a department or job title.;
, The purpose of these details is not to indicate that you assume the person is not aware that they owe you money, but to make sure you're both on the same page regarding the amount owed and when the last payment was made.At a minimum, you want to include the amount of the date, the date it was incurred, and the date it was due. You also may want to describe the items or services the money covers.
You may want to attach any invoices, shipping notifications, or other documents that prove the validity of the debt. Make sure you send copies and not your originals.
If you are including additional documents in the envelope, mention in the letter that those documents are attached, and describe specifically what they are.
You also want to mention if the debt is owed because a previous payment attempt was cancelled, rejected, or returned for any reason. These situations make it more likely that your client has simply overlooked the payment.
 Since this is your first letter demanding payment of the debt, remember the old saying that you catch more flies with honey. Give the person the benefit of the doubt that they simply overlooked the payment or made an honest mistake, and have every intention of paying what they owe.Avoid making accusations or any statements that would insult your client's responsibility or integrity.
You may want to close your letter with a statement that you're certain the situation was just an honest mistake, and that you look forward to receiving payment in full.
 For your initial letter, it's acceptable to use regular mail. While having the ability to track the letter and know when it was received can be helpful, keeping tabs on that sends a message at odds with your letter's friendly tone.Make a copy of the letter before you send it, and create a file for all correspondence related to the debt. Include the originals of any documents you enclosed with the letter.
Attach a spreadsheet to the file so you can record the dates when each letter was sent and the date of response, if any.
 Your initial letter typically won't include a hard deadline, so give the letter a few days to reach the client and then give them another few days to respond. After a week or two, you may want to consider giving them a call to check in.If you've sent the letter to another business and you're on good terms with a particular person who works there, such as a manager, you may want to give them a call.
Let them know what's happening and that you've sent the letter, and see how they respond.
On the other hand, it's entirely possible that the client will get in touch with you first. If they dispute the debt, you'll have to review your files and records to confirm its validity before you go any further.
If the client says they cannot pay in full, but they want to make payment arrangements, you may be able to work something out.
Make sure you put any agreement in writing before you accept any money in partial payment from them.
 If you received an unsatisfactory response to your first letter – or no response at all – it's possible you had the address or contact information wrong, or that it was directed to the wrong department.You always want to make sure you're sending your letter to a particular, named individual. It may take a few phone calls to find out who that individual should be.
If you're dealing with a larger company, the department where that individual works may have a different mailing address, meaning your initial letter was sent to the wrong place.
 Each state has a deadline, called a statute of limitations, for commercial debt collection. If you intend to file a lawsuit to collect the debt if it remains unpaid, you need to know what deadline applies to your situation.The deadline will differ depending on whether you have a written or oral contract. The statute of limitations for lawsuits on written contracts may be as long as 10 years, but the deadline for oral contracts is only a couple of years in most states.
An invoice or similar notice marked "payable on delivery" is not considered a written contract unless your client has signed it.
Keep in mind that under state and federal commercial law, a contract for the sale of goods for more than $500 must be in writing or it is not enforceable in a court of law.
 Given that this is your second attempt to collect the debt, you want to be more firm than you were with the initial letter. At the same time, keep your tone professional and considerate so as not to ruin any possibility of a future business relationship.State up front that this is the second time you've attempted to collect on the debt, and note the date the initial letter was sent.
Recount any conversations or other exchange that has happened since the initial letter. If a partial payment was received, you'll want to make note of that.
Restate the total balance owed and describe the goods or services for which that amount is meant as payment.
You might want to include a statement that you appreciate the client's business and look forward to working with them again, however, that will not be possible if this debt is not paid.
 If you're open to discussing alternative arrangements for the client to pay what they owe you, your follow-up letter is the best place to extend that offer.At the same time, you still want to make a specific demand for exactly the amount of money that you want.
If you are open to negotiations, set that up as an alternative if your client is unable to pay the amount in full immediately.
For example, you might write "We expect payment in full of the $5,000 owed upon receipt of this letter. If that isn't possible, please contact Suzy Sunshine to discuss payment arrangements."
State the specific name of a person the client should contact, along with preferred methods of communication. If you want a phone call, only provide the phone number. If email also is acceptable, include the person's direct email address.
 For a second notice, you want to give the person a specific date by which you expect a response. At this point, the debt is already well past due, and your letter should convey a sense of urgency in resolving the matter.A week to 10 days from the date of receipt typically is a reasonable period of time to set the deadline.
Close your letter cordially, but professionally, with a statement that you look forward to having the situation resolved.
 While you sent your first letter using regular mail, sending the letter by certified mail with returned receipt requested means the individual to whom the letter is addressed must sign for it, and you'll get notice of the date when the letter was received.Be sure to make a copy of your letter for your records before you send it. Keep it in the file with your other letter and documents related to the debt, and write the date you sent the letter on your spreadsheet.
When the client receives your letter, you'll get a green card back in the mail with their signature and the date of receipt.
Use the date on the receipt to calendar the deadline you set in your letter, and put the receipt in the file with your other records.
If the deadline passes and you don't hear anything from the client, you may want to consider making a phone call just to follow up.
 If the matter has not been resolved after two collection attempts, you may need an attorney to help navigate the system and advise you on your legal options to make sure you're paid in full.If you don't already have a relationship with a business attorney, look for a business attorney with experience in commercial transactions and debt collection. You may be able to get recommendations from your colleagues or from a local business organization.
You also can find experienced, licensed local attorneys by visiting the website of your state or local bar association and searching their directory.
Depending on your relationship with the client from whom you're seeking payment, you may want an attorney to write your final letter rather than it coming from you.
Keep in mind that if you end up suing your client to collect the money you're owed, this final letter will be key evidence.
Some courts, particularly small claims court, require you to send a demand letter that includes notice of your intent to file a lawsuit before you can seek relief in court.
 There are state and federal laws that govern the methods by which you can collect a debt. While the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act only applies to collection agencies, there may be state laws that govern your attempts.When you're researching the law, keep in mind that in this context you're considered the "creditor," even if you didn't necessarily lend money to the client.
For the purposes of debt collection, the creditor is the person or business to which the money is owed directly. A collector would be a debt collection agency.
While federal law applies to debt collectors only, state law also may apply to creditors such as yourself.
Typically you can file a lawsuit and get a court order for the money owed yourself. However, keep in mind that once you get a judgment in your favor, you still have to take action to enforce that order – the court will not collect the money for you.
Given the amount of time and money involved in filing a lawsuit, many small businesses prefer to sell the debt obligation to a third-party debt collection agency.
Although you won't get the full amount you're owed this way, it gives you the ability to have a portion of it immediately without any outlay of legal fees and court costs. You can write off the rest as a loss and move on.
At the same time, it's worth noting that in most states you're entitled to collect reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, and the expenses incurred in enforcing the judgment, as well as interest, if you win the lawsuit.
 Based on your own research or your consultation with an attorney, figure out what paths you intend to pursue if the client still fails to pay the debt. Your choice will determine how you write your letter and what you include.If you've decided you want to sue, you probably should look into the court procedures before you sit down to write your letter. Find out what information you'll need for your complaint and what the filing fees will be.
Look at debt collection agencies or law firms in your area to get an idea of what services they offer and how they are willing to work with you. Armed with this information you can make a decision on how best to proceed.
 As this is your final attempt to collect the debt before you turn the matter over to someone else (or to the courts), make sure the tone you uses conveys the urgency of the situation and sends the message that you are serious about taking further steps to collect the debt if it isn't paid immediately.If your research or your consultation with an attorney indicated that state law requires specific language to be included in your letter, make sure those statements are present.
Be firm, but avoid making accusations or insults against the client. Remember that your letter could end up in court, being read by clerks, judges, and attorneys. Don't include language that could later come back to haunt you.
Stick to the facts, and keep your letter as brief as possible. You've already asked them twice to pay you the money. They already know that they owe you the money. The only thing left is for them to pay.
Do remind the client of anything significant that has happened between your initial letter and the writing of your final letter.
For example, if the client called you and promised to send a check for half the amount owed immediately and another check for the rest the following month, but you've only received one check, mention that exchange.
 As you did with your second notice, you want to give the client a specific date by which to respond. However, whereas in your second notice you simply wanted a response and indicated you were willing to make payment arrangements, with your final notice you will demand payment in full by your deadline.As with your second letter, a week to 10 days is a reasonable amount of time. They already know about the debt, so it's not as though you're giving them a relatively brief period to come up with the money.
Avoid leaving the option of negotiations open in your final letter. This is the point of no return. Even if you may be willing to negotiate a settlement with them, don't tell them that in the letter. Let them come to you with an offer.
 Let the client know in no uncertain terms what you plan to do if the debt is not paid in full by the date you specified. However, don't threaten to do anything that you cannot do or don't intend to do.If you've decided to file a lawsuit, you may want to attach a draft of the complaint you intend to file.
If you have an attorney write your final letter for you, they likely will attach a complaint, but you can also do this on your own. Attaching a complaint can be an especially effective form of intimidation.
If you don't intend to file a lawsuit yourself, but have decided to turn the matter over to a third-party collection agency, state this clearly. You may get a better response to that, as having a collection account on your credit report can do serious damage to your credit score.
 Your final letter also should be sent using certified mail with returned receipt requested so you know when your client received the letter. From that date, you can calendar the date you set as a deadline for payment.Be sure to make a copy of the letter before you mail it, along with any attachments.
When you get the green card back letting you know the letter has been received, begin making plans so that if payment is not received by the deadline you stated in your letter you can make your next move immediately.
Delaying more than a day or two after the stated deadline to either file a lawsuit or turn the matter over to a collections agency may send the message to your client that you aren't serious.

