 One of the best parts of falling in love is envisioning the future you’ll share with your loved one. Do not let yourself spend even a moment imagining your shared future. Live only in the present and the moment you find yourself unable to do this, pull the plug.Avoid scheduling out your time together. Try to plan your meet-ups day of so they’re more impromptu and less routine.
If you find yourself fantasizing about your friend with benefits, you may not be in the correct emotional space to pursue a relationship like this.;
, Telling your friend with benefits your biggest secrets and making yourself vulnerable to them can only result in you feeling closer to them. This will make it that much harder for you to maintain the distance and separation you need to make this relationship work.

Talk about fun things, like books, movies, music and work.
Treat your friend with benefits like a co-worker or acquaintance that you don’t know very well.
 You and your partner are both human, so it might be inevitable that some jealousy emerges during your relationship. It’s very important to communicate about the feelings you’re having, otherwise, your friendship will fail.When you or your partner start getting jealous, have a conversation about whether this relationship is still working for you.
Recognize that your jealous feelings may mean you have fallen in love, and if so, get out of the relationship as soon as possible.
 It's easy to fall in love with someone when you see them every day, so a good way to keep from falling in love is to limit the amount of time you spend with a sexual partner. The longer you go without seeing a person, the easier it becomes to stop obsessing about them.

Giving yourself space also includes other forms of communication. Don't call them or reach out to them online.
To get yourself through the separation, trying exercising or giving hugs. Exercise increases your dopamine levels and touch increases the oxytocin in your system, which will make you feel happier and calmer.
 A great way to keep from falling in love is to become too busy to even think about it. Throw your energy into your work, or your hobbies. Concentrate on getting into shape or learning a new skill. Do whatever it takes to keep your mind occupied on yourself and not on the person you're obsessing over.Dating a new person is also a great way to get your mind off of someone else.
When you feel yourself starting to go down the love rabbit hole, force your mind to think of something else.

