 If possible, select members of your group who are hardworking and have excellent speaking skills. Do not choose to work with people who are lazy or who will probably not do their part. Remember, your group is only as strong as its weakest member, and you will be evaluated as a group, not as individuals.
 For instance, if you and your fellow group members know nothing about bats, each of you should take a day or two to look broadly at the subject of bats. Use the time to think about what a logical structure for your presentation might be. Maybe you’ll conclude that your presentation sections consist of an intro, a section on life cycle, a section on feeding habits, a section on their sonar abilities, and a section on habitat, then a conclusion.
 A standard presentation model involves crafting a presentation with an introduction, one or two middle sections, and a conclusion.This structure is highly flexible. For instance, if you have four group members, you can divide the middle section into two equal parts. If you have five people in your group, you can divide the middle section of the presentation into three parts.
 When everyone works on a section which they chose willingly, you will all feel good about researching and writing your selected section.


If you and another person both want to research and present on a given section of the presentation, try to come to a compromise. Flip a coin or try rock-paper-scissors to decide who gets to do it.
 When you’re working with a group, everyone needs to speak for an equal amount of time. To figure out how long each person should speak, divide the total time you have by the number of members in your group. Try to keep your presentation within the allotted time.For instance, if you have twenty minutes to present and you have four people in your group, you will each speak for five minutes.
 Together, brainstorm what each part should be about and how it contributes to the overall structure of the presentation. Each group member should explain what they envision their part will consist of.


If you or another group member has doubts about the focus of a particular part, express them openly to your fellow group member. For instance, you could say, “I think your ideas are basically on target, but have you considered adding ____ into your section of the presentation?”
To stay on target, your group should draft a statement of purpose along the lines of, “Out presentation is about the importance of bats to the local ecosystem.”Each part of the presentation should then be oriented toward developing on that statement. This way, you avoid several mini-presentations on individual aspects of bats such as their life cycle, habitats, and so on.
 If you come across info which could aid another member of your group, share it with them. Follow up on suggestions you receive and gather the information you’ll need to draft your presentation.


Magazines, newspapers, encyclopedias, and the internet are all useful sources of information. Ensure your sources are credible, however, before using them.
 You should touch base with your fellow group members at least once each week to ensure everyone is still on track. Use email, phone calls, text messaging, and face-to-face meeting to keep the group in regular contact. If anyone needs help or if your group thinks a certain part needs to be refocused, work closely with each member of your team so that everyone knows what is being changed.

