 One of the best ways you can decide on a good destination is by reviewing the hobbies you enjoy in your everyday life, as these can provide valuable insight into what kind of a place you would enjoy visiting. For example, if you do karate or capoeira in your spare time, you might want to consider going to Japan or Brazil, respectively, where you can explore the history and current manifestations of these ancient folk practices. Or, if you play an instrument in your local orchestra, you could consider going on a tour of European capitals with historic orchestral groups and theaters.Even if your hobby doesn’t have a particular geographical or cultural origin, you can still use it to guide your travel destination decision-making. For example, if you’re a big film buff, you could look for domestic and international film festivals taking place around the time you want to travel.;
, When thinking about what places you might want to visit, think about your historical interests. If you’re still in school, flip back through your textbooks and see if you remember any units which interested you in particular. If you’re out of school, take a look at your home library or internet search history to see what kinds of historical topics, cultures, and events have interested you in the past. You’ll be amazed how actually visiting the historic sites you’ve read about can change your perspective and enhance your understanding.For example, if you’ve got tons of books on the Gold Rush or ancient Chinese dynasties, you might consider a road trip through the American West or a sight-seeing tour of Beijing as potential points of destination.
Don’t limit yourself to the bookshelf! Check out your Netflix and Amazon cues to see what kind of historical documentaries—if any—you tend to watch, or flip through your favorite channels for any clues.
 You might not be a fan of non-fiction or history, but this doesn’t mean you don’t have certain cultural or historical interests. Think about your favorite movies, novels, and music and ask if you'd be interested in visiting any of the places depicted in them. For example, If you’ve read the complete canon of Fyodor Dostoevsky or William Butler Yeats, you might want to experience the cities—St. Petersburg and Dublin, respectively—which influenced these literary giants.


Just because your favorite movie is Ben-Hur, doesn’t mean you have to go to Jerusalem or Rome for your first destination. Filming locations often differ from their fictional setting, so you could make your objective to visit particular filming locations rather than the places in the story.
Don’t write off this option just because your favorite fiction takes place in fantasy worlds. Game of Thrones, for example, films on several locations in Northern Ireland, and you can tour the elaborate sets and locations of Lord of the Rings in New Zealand., If you live in a big city with the world’s cuisine at your fingertips, you might think that traveling across country borders to taste some authentic Thai, Indian, or French food seems a bit pointless or extravagant. In fact, though, many restaurants adapt their authentic dishes to meet the pricing expectations and taste preferences of the country in which they operate.It’s fairly safe to say, then, that you'll learn loads more about your favorite cuisine if you visit its birthplace.


With the growing popularity of culinary and baking shows, there are many organized tours across the world devoted specifically to culinary history and tasting.Or, if you’re more of a lone wolf when it comes to lifestyle and traveling, you might want to plan your own itinerary using a favorite cookbook or the recommendations of a travel journalist, such as Anthony Bourdain or Rick Steves.