 There is a listing of outreach centers for veterans at the SBA’s website at https://www.sba.gov/tools/local-assistance/vboc. You should bookmark the page if you want to revisit it.;
, At the SBA website, you can either scroll down the list or refine by state by clicking on the “Select State” button. There are Veterans Business Outreach Centers in the following states:Arizona
California
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Illinois
Michigan
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
New Mexico
North Carolina
Rhode Island
Texas
Virginia
Washington

, Because there are only 20 offices around the country, there might not be an office in your state.Accordingly, you need to check which region you are part of and then find the office that serves that region. You can check regions by visiting https://www.sba.gov/offices/headquarters/ovbd/resources/362341.


For example, those in Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island will need to visit the office in Providence, Rhode Island.
People in Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio will need to visit the Flint, Michigan office.
 A link is also provided for a Google Map for each office.If you plan on stopping into one of the offices, then you might want to print out the Google Map so that you can find the office easily.


Also write down the contact information. On the SBA website, you can find the address as well as the telephone number for each VBOC. You should write down this information in preparation of calling the office.
 Not anyone can use the Veterans Business Outreach Programs at these centers. Instead, you will need to meet the following requirements:Reside in the state which is serviced by the center.
Demonstrate a strong interest in small business ownership or management.
Have been honorably discharged or are within one year of separation.
 Before you can begin, SBA requires that applicants complete Form 641, which is a request for counseling.You can complete this form online. It will ask for the following information:name
email address and password
the center you want to work with
details about yourself
company details
areas of assistance requested

, To double check that you can use the VBOC’s services, you should send an email or call your nearest VBOC. There should be an email address and telephone number on each VBOC website., The VBOC will receive your request for counseling and then contact you within a few days to tell you whether you qualify. If you are approved, then you will receive additional information and instructions., VBOC's around the country offer a “Boots to Business” education and training program specifically designed for those service members who are transitioning from active duty service to being business owners. This program will cover the following:Tips on how to evaluate business ideas and concepts
Basic foundational knowledge necessary to starting a business
Information on SBA resources available

, VBOCs offer clients the chance to work one-on-one with a business counselor. This person can help you understand how to effectively plan for a business. One area of focus is how you can use the Internet to develop and grow your business., A business plan is a key document for any business. In this plan, you analyze your business needs as well as your course of action for the next five years or so. VBOC staff won’t draft your business plan for you. However, they can help you begin drafting yours. A solid business plan should address the following:legal form of your business, such as limited liability company, partnership, sole proprietorship, etc.
organizational structure
business equipment needs and costs
strategic plan
analysis of the market for your business
financial projections
budget projections
funding requirements

, VBOC staff can also analyze an existing business plan. They can identify the strengths and weaknesses by considering your probability of success.After analyzing the plan, you will be able to revise it, if necessary.
 VBOCs offer a wide array of seminars and online courses you can attend. They cover a variety of topics to help you plan and grow your business, such as the following:international trade
Internet marketing
franchising
accounting

, VBOCs also focus on the needs of service members who were disabled while in service. For example, some VBOCs offer a “boot camp” especially for disabled veterans. Other VBOCs will provide special trainings and educational opportunities., VBOC staff also try to make sure that you are following your business plan. Staff can also help you analyze your financial results to check whether you are meeting your goals or whether you should change your business plan.