 You'll need money to make money, so save up $10-$20 to buy some soda for resale.;
, Try to figure out what your students prefer drinking. You can always buy multiple sodas, but you are better off sticking to one brand for such an operation.
 You might buy a bulk 32-pack of soda at a discount warehouse store (e.g. Sam's Club, BJ's,Zellers), or you might look for sales at your grocery store or supermarket. Remember that you will be reselling the soda. In general, buying in bulk is better.I also suggest you buy the half cans of soda. sell them each for 1 dollar. they're easier to carry around and they're much cheaper than the regular sized sodas.
 If there's a vending machine at your school selling soda for $1.25, selling soda for $1.00 or $.75 is the best idea.


Figure out your fixed cost. If you buy a 12-pack of soda for $6, then your fixed cost would be $0.50 per can. Therefore, you will need to sell your soda at a minimum of fifty cents to cover the cost of buying the soda at $6. Depending on how much profit you want, $.75 or $1.00 would probably be the best price.
Avoid giving change. Obviously one of the most commonly used selling techniques is to sell something for $.99 instead of $1.00. If you sell in, for example, dollar increments, more people are bound to buy, if they coincidentally have a dollar bill or something in their pocket. Opposing, selling for cheaper prices will get those people that still have some lunch change left in their pocket.
 If it costs you $0.50 per soda, then you will want to sell above that amount so that you make some money. If you sell a can of soda for $1.00, then you will make $0.50 per can. Thus, you can earn a profit of $6 total for selling all 12 soda cans.

Remember: If your school sells soda already, then don't charge for more than that amount, or no one will buy from you.
 Your friends/customers are only going to get annoyed to find you selling soda at $0.75 one day and $1.25 the next. Figure out your price before you start selling, and work on cutting your costs later by buying soda at the cheapest possible price.

