 Planning a trip can be hectic and you don’t want to forget anything that will ruin your travels.


Prepare extra supplies for unexpected problems like flight delays, unplanned stopovers, and automobile breakdowns.
This includes insulin and other medications, syringes, glucose testing supplies, and snacks or other treatments you can use when your child's blood sugar gets low.;
, This is particularly important when flying since changes of pressure and temperature in the airplane baggage department can damage or freeze the insulin.


You can prepare for warm conditions in the plane and hot weather at your destination by storing insulin (and other supplies) in a specially designed cool pack.
This will keep the insulin and any food supplies at a safe temperature for up to 12 hours., Before you travel, arrange for your child's healthcare provider to write a letter which briefly describes their diabetes treatment.


This letter should include information about your child's insulin type and syringe size, any additional other medications they need, and any allergies or other important medical conditions.
This letter may come in handy when going through airport security, or if you need to seek medical assistance for your child over the course of your trip.
 An extra prescription will come in handy if you happen to lose the bag containing your child's medications, or if you end up staying at your destination for longer than intended.If possible, check to see what equivalent insulin products are available in your destination country. Remember that the strength of the insulin may be different in another country. This will require you to use a different syringe.
If you expect to be significantly more or less active during the trip, make a plan with your medical provider about how to adjust your insulin dose and schedule.
 If your child is old enough, it's a good idea to teach them how to say "I have diabetes" in the language of your destination country. That way, if they get lost while abroad, your child can communicate their need to someone else.


Other useful phrases to learn include “I need juice or sugar, please”, and “I need a doctor”.
If your child is too young to learn how to say the phrase, write the phrase on piece of paper and instruct your child to keep it in their pocket at all times, so they can show it to someone if necessary.
If possible, your child should also wear some form of medical alert ID and carry their provider’s emergency contact information, in case you get separated.
 Having travel insurance for your child may come in very useful in the event that hospitalization or equipment replacement is required. Receiving medical treatment in a foreign country can be expensive, so it's best to be prepared.

