 Figure out how wide you want your hem to be. Then, use a water soluble fabric pencil to mark each fold you'll need to make for your hem.


Keep the material right-side out as you work.
Measure your desired hem width from the bottom of the fabric. Mark this distance on your material, then draw a line parallel to the bottom of the material all around the perimeter of the fabric at this width. This line will end up being your middle line, and it will also serve as your final hemline.
Draw two more lines. One should be below your first line and the second should be above it. Both lines should also be an equal distance away from center line. The distance between your lines will be the thickness of your hem. Usually, 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) is a good thickness.
Trim away the raw edge, if necessary. You should only have 1 inch (2.5 cm) of material or less below the bottom line.
 Fold the raw edge to the underside of the fabric, bringing the edge to the imaginary backside of your bottom line. Use an iron to press this fold in place.


If you have 1 inch (2.5 cm) of material below your bottom line, you will turn the raw edge under by 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).
 Pinch along the top and bottom of your center line, folding the fabric directly on the line itself. Fold the bottom portion of material under all the way around the perimeter of the hem.


The imaginary backside of the bottom line should match the imaginary backside of the top line as you fold.
The original center line should rest at the bottom of the hem when finished.
Pin the hem in place.
 Fold the material along the top line so that this top line now lies in your new crease. Bring the bottom of your material up and over the front of the fabric as you fold.


Remove your previous set of pins and re-insert them into the fabric to hold the newest fold in place.
Lightly press the folds with an iron to help secure them further. You can remove the pins when finished or leave them in for extra security.
 Note that a standard presser foot will not work for this hem.


Follow the instructions provided with your sewing machine to figure out how to attach the blind hem presser foot.
 This setting is usually indicated graphically by a set of alternating peaks and straight lines.


Check your sewing machine's instructions to learn how to set the stitch and to verify which stitch is the correct choice.
You may need to readjust the stitch width, as well. A setting of 3.5 or so is usually a good option for medium-weight fabric.
 Fold the material inside-out and transfer it to your sewing machine. Stitch slowly across the hem, continuing until you make your way around the entire perimeter.


The vertical plate of the presser foot should sit along the fold
As the machine runs, it will stitch across the plate every few stitches, taking a small amount of material from the fold as it works.
Keep the fold directly against the plate the entire time.
 Look at the hem carefully to make sure that machine snagged the fold with each stitch. When everything looks good, remove the pins and turn your project right-side out again.


If you machine missed a few stitches, you may need to go back in and re-stitch that part.
Press the hem again to crease it further.
This step completes the process.

