 Antioxidants are natural substances that protect your body from free radicals, which are "rogue" (bad) molecules which damage cells. As a result, antioxidants can help reduce inflammation.It is recommended to eat a moderate amount of vegetables and fruits, many of which are high in antioxidants.
There are many online calculators that can calculate the amount of fruit and vegetables you require, based on your age, height, weight, and gender.;
, Specifically, trans fats.


Read nutrition labels to assure you are these types of fats..
Trans fats are found in partially hydrogenated fats most often found in snack foods, fried foods and baked goods.
Saturated fats are found most commonly in oils and red meats, but evidence shows that they are not harmful.
Avoid excessive consumption of omega-6 fatty acids.



You can also take fish oil supplements.
Fish oil supplements, usually made from seal blubber, salmon, halibut, whale blubber, tuna, mackerel, cod liver and herring, may be combined with vitamin A, B1, B2, B3, C, D and/or E.
Research shows that omega 3-fatty acids reduce inflammation and may lower the risk of diseases such as cancer and heart disease.
Fish oil supplement daily intake should be based on the amount of EPA and DHA; a common amount of omega-3 fatty acids in a fish oil capsule is .18 g (170-560 mg) of Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and .072 g (72-310 mg) of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA).
The American Heart Association recommends healthy adults with no history of heart disease eat fish at least two times per week. It's recommended that adults with coronary heart disease take 1 gram daily of EPA and DHA omega-3 fatty acid supplement (fish oil). Adults with high cholesterol should take 2 to 4 grams daily of EPA and DHA.
 Carbohydrates are not necessarily bad for you if consumed in moderate amounts.


Carbs such as white rice or white bread should be avoided because they spike blood sugar, which then cause inflammatory chemicals to be released. Inflammation may impair blood sugar regulation, which is worsened when refined carbohydrates are consumed. The same chain reaction also happens when carbs are overeaten.
Instead, eat less, but higher quality whole grains.
Read packaging on your breads and pastas to find which items are made of whole grains, rather than refined grains.



Consumption of processed foods that have additives may increase certain health risks, and in processing the foods, some of the nutritional value is often lost.
These foods are usually high in sugar, salt, trans-fats, and calories.

