 A classic and simple way to use accent lighting in a staircase is to install a few wall sconces. Sconces can be placed at regular intervals along the wall, with their heights graduated to follow the slope of the stairs. This type of lighting scheme will cast a gentle wash of light upwards onto your wall, which often helps to make a cramped staircase feel more open.;
, You can both light a stairwell and feature some of your favorite photographs or paintings by using spotlight fixtures. Hang artwork along the walls of your staircase, keeping the height of each frame above the steps constant. Then, install small LED or fluorescent spotlights above each painting; these lights will both accentuate the art and provide some elegant down lighting on the steps.
 A unique way to light a staircase is to provide gentle lighting at the level of the steps themselves. You can install recessed lighting fixtures along the wall to achieve this effect, or even install very small LED string lights underneath the overhanging tread of each step. This type of lighting is excellent for providing safe visibility at night without illuminating too much of the space.
 If your stairwell has a very high ceiling, you can create a dramatic accent lighting setup by using pendant lamps. Use a single pendant lamp for every 4 or 5 steps, keeping each fixture's height above the steps constant. Matching pendant lamps will create a cohesive look, while contrasting fixtures could be used for a bold, eclectic statement.
 If you're looking for a temporary solution or one that doesn't require hardwiring, battery-powered touch lights may be ideal. These small, lightweight fixtures can often be affixed to walls using only adhesive backing. Used in multiples, they can create an elegant accent lighting scheme that belies their low cost.
 If you are hoping to add some drama and interest to the stairwell through accent lighting, try a single, large hanging fixture. A chandelier or multiple-bulb pendant lamp can create visual interest and light the space adequately as well.

