 A great indoor activity is tug-of-war. Buy a rope toy with knotted ends. Throw the rope and have your dog bring it back. While the rope is in its mouth, tug at the rope until your dog lets go. Then, throw it again. Play this game in a long hallway or in the garage.If you have stairs, throw the rope up the stairs for added intensity.
Rotate toys to keep your dog interested.
Do not play this game with toys that have ribbon, string, or parts that can be chewed off and ingested.;
, Food puzzles, such as Kong-type toys or “busy boxes,” are a great way for your dog to release pent up energy indoors. They provide not only physical exercise, but mental exercise, as well.For example, place peanut butter or dog treats inside the Kong. Give your dog the Kong and let it retrieve the food from the Kong.
Busy boxes are large cubes that have small spaces to hide treats in. Only by moving the box around with its nose, mouth, and paws can your dog get to the treats.
 Indoor obstacle courses are great indoor activities for dogs that require more mental and physical exercise. Create obstacles for your dog to navigate or jump over. Use treats to teach your dog to propel through the obstacle course.For example, use chairs as weave poles for your dog to navigate through. Or, line four chairs up and toss a blanket over the chairs to create a tunnel for your dog to run under. Place the treat at the end of the tunnel for your dog to retrieve.
A broomstick fixed atop two buckets, or a hula hoop, are great for making hurdles for your dog to jump over or through.
 Use a treadmill to exercise your dog indoors when outside weather does not permit exercise. Acclimate your dog to the treadmill by letting it sniff the treadmill. Give your dog a treat for good behavior. Once your dog is comfortable with the treadmill, help your dog get on the treadmill. Start with a very low setting, and work your way up to the desired setting.You can buy treadmills that are specifically made for dogs online or at your local pet store. They also come in different sizes depending on the size of your dog.
 Teaching your dog new tricks is a great way to exercise and promote mental health. Tricks are a great way to improve your dog's focus and mental acuity. Teach your dog to shake hands, roll over, play fetch, play dead, spin, or stand on its hind legs.
 The amount of exercise your dog needs depends on its breed, its size, age, and health. Therefore, consult your vet about your dog’s exercise needs. Your vet will tell you how much exercise your dog needs per day or week based on these factors.For example, German shepherds require daily, rigorous exercise, while sight hounds need short bursts of exercise daily.

