 Your focus shouldn’t have to be on balancing or maintaining a good form on the piece of equipment, it should simply be on doing the exercise. By choosing a simpler machine, your focus can be on maintaining a high level of intensity required for fat loss, and not on surviving the session!;
, Yet... You want to choose a machine that keeps joints and tissues healthy and strong, promoting fitness; not one that puts you at risk of injury. No matter how much you want to get fit, you’ll hit a major obstacle if you get injured. Keeping those things in mind, these are your best bets to start:


Upright stationary bike: You can easily focus your energy on maximizing intensity because this machine is so easy to use. The machine is low impact, too, so it’s easier on your joints. For fat loss purposes, the "uphill/downhill" interval program will definitely work you over!
Recumbent bike: This machine is just as easy at the upright bike, low-impact and simple. The recumbent bike is actually better to use than the upright stationary bike if you have lower back problems.
Treadmill: If you like running, but you’re worried about injuring your knees, the treadmill is a good alternative. The treadmill was designed to have a less-intense impact on your joints compared to concrete or other outdoor options. To increase the intensity, increase the incline on the machine, and/or the speed of it. Be careful with that, though; it's only funny when other people fall off!
Stairclimber: This low-impact machine provides an intense workout without putting your joints at risk. Avoid leaning on the handles because it lessens the amount of effort you have to put into it.
Rowing: This is a somewhat more complicated machine, as you have to coordinate your upper and lower body movements to do it right. While you can do an interval workout on it, you might not be as focused as you concentrate on form. You should also avoid it if you have lower back problems. They offer cardio and resistance training benefits in the one routine.
Elliptical: This is a great machine if you have knee issues. If your knees are OK, then choose another machine that will work you harder.


Whatever machine you choose, program it with the aforementioned interval principle in mind. If you’re not able to use one of the above exercises, there are some other ones to choose from.
 In fact, 'wind sprints' are probably the inspiration for interval training in cardio. If you consider the different physiques of sprinters and marathoners you'll have an idea of the benefits of intervals vs steady-state training. Outdoor sprinting can provide fantastic fat loss and muscle building results, but it’s very easy to get injured doing so. Because it’s a high-impact workout, it causes a lot of stress on your joints so be careful in using this method. Invest in good running shoes, too, if you plan on doing this.
, Do different workouts during the week – one on the treadmill, one on the bike and one on the rowing machine, perhaps. Or try something new from one week to the next. Doing this will stop you from getting bored and will help you work all your muscle groups as well. The more muscle you build throughout your body, the faster your metabolism is likely to be and the better your body will lose fat and maintain muscle.