 All good quality modern corsets are made with steel boning of some kind, which serves the purpose of holding the fabric taut and stopping it from going into folds at your waist and bunching at the back where it laces up. The boning in tops and bodices is usually just thin plastic, so don't make the mistake of imagining you will be able to wear a normal boned top as a corset.


To test if the boning is good enough, bend it quite sharply and it should spring back. If it kinks, it's a sure sign that it will dig in to your waist and be very uncomfortable.
It doesn't matter if the boning around the corset is slightly more flexible, so long as the bones at the front and back are fairly rigid.;
, Even if you're looking for more of a bodice than a corset, you'll still need a strong fabric like coutil, drill, heavyweight, or canvas. Corsets usually have a fashion fabric and a lining, so you might not be able to see the strong layer but you will be able to feel that it is quite tough.


Take the corset in both hands and tug on the fabric. It should feel very sturdy with no give whatsoever. If the fabric is thin enough to scrunch in your hand, it won't be sturdy enough.
Incidentally, if the shop assistant thinks you're damaging it, it definitely won't be strong enough to last!

, Remember that a steel busk is the usual fastening for the front of a corset, and with very few exceptions it's the only type of fastener that is strong enough.


Hooks and eyes will not last long, and likewise zips are best avoided.
A busk looks like a piece of fairly solid steel boning with loops and studs (a bit like hooks and eyes) attached. If a corset doesn't have a busk, it will need to have some other kind of solid boning down the front.
 These are usually made of flat cotton, like shoelaces. Some types of ribbon can be used, but they have to be very strong material. Eyelets should be very well attached, otherwise they can pop off easily.


Check that the laces have washers on the back, rather than just gripping into the fabric. There should also be solid boning either side of the eyelets to distribute the tension.
 Corsets are always sized by waist measurement, not dress size. The number on the label will be something like "22" "24" "26" etc., which is the actual measurement in inches of the waistline of the corset. You will need one about 4 inches (10.2 cm) smaller than your own waist, so you can lace in a bit and have a gap in the laces.


Corsets are designed to give a curvy figure to an average-shaped person, so if you are already quite curvy, you might need to get a "tight lacing" corset which has bigger hips (or even better yet, get one made-to-measure).

