 Then measure the top and sides of your cake with a piece of string. Lay a long piece of string over the top of the cake and fold the ends down against the sides of the cake. Trim of any excess string that touches the plate. Take the string off and set it aside. You will be using it to measure the size of your fondant.If you are doing a multi-tiered cake, measure one tier at a time.
For any other cake, measure the greatest width across the top (this would be diagonally, from corner to corner on a square or rectangle cake) and then add twice the height.;
, The buttercream will help the fondant stick to the cake, so make sure to get the top and sides of the cake. Try to get the surface as smooth as possible, as any bumps will show. If there are any cracks or holes in the cake, be sure to fill them in using buttercream and then smoothing it down.








Consider using a cake decorating turn table to make this step easier and quicker.
You can also use light or dark ganache or apricot jam instead of buttercream., This will give the buttercream enough time to harden. If the buttercream is too soft, the fondant will slide right off.
 The surface must be smooth, as any imperfections will get imprinted in the fondant. Lightly dusting the surface with powdered sugar will prevent the fondant from sticking to your work surface.









If it is humid where you live, use a mixture of one part cornstarch and one part powdered sugar. If it is very dry, then consider using a thin layer of vegetable shortening., This will make it easier to work with. You can knead it for about five minutes to make it softer and easier to work with; do not let it get too soft and sticky, however.









Consider kneading in some gel or paste icing color. You can also add in some flavoring as well. Do not use a liquid food coloring., Do not make it too thin yet. If you are covering a square or rectangular cake, then flatten the fondant into a square or rectangular shape.
 Make sure to turn the fondant 180° every so often while you are rolling it out. This will help keep it circular and even. Do not lift and flip the fondant over, as this may cause it to rip.
 Take the string you cut earlier and lay it across the fondant. The fondant should be the same size as the string or a little bit bigger; you can always trim any excess fondant off later.
 Place the rolling pin at one end of the fondant, and roll it towards the opposite end, picking the fondant as you go. This will help you transfer the fondant to the cake and lessen the chances of it ripping.









Lightly the rolling pin with powdered sugar before attempting this.
 Place the rolling pin down on top of the cake, close to one of the edges, and roll it towards the other end, unwinding the fondant.
 Start at the top first, then smooth down the sides, using your fingers. Make sure that there are no folds, wrinkles, or air bubbles.Trim off any excess fondant. You can use a knife or even a pizza cutter. Try to cut as close to the bottom of the cake as possible.
 You can give your cake a smooth, professional finish by "ironing" the surface of the fondant with a flat-sided glass or a fondant smoothing tool.









Add shine by spraying it lightly with cooking oil mist and smoothing it over again.
 You can leave the cake as it is, or you can add decorations to it using buttercream frosting, such as lettering, swirls, or flowers. You can also use embossed silicon gel mats to give your fondant a pattern.
