 If your date is continuously talking about topics you aren’t interested in or that bore you, try changing the subject. Make a general comment about the topic your date is talking about or making a joke, and then introduce a new topic.Say something like, “Wow, that’s neat that you’re so passionate about cats! One of my big passions is soccer. I play every weekend, and I always have a huge party to watch the World Cup. Have you ever played soccer?”
Make a joke like, “Oh Mr. Accountant, don’t bore me with financials! I want to hear about what you do for fun!”

, Curfews don’t have to be just for high school. Even as an adult, you can claim you have to be home by a certain time because you have a busy day the next day or you need to get home to your pet. Claiming a curfew will relieve you from the possibility of the date lasting too long.You can tell your date about your curfew early in the night and then if it starts going bad, remind your date you have to get home. However, if the date is going really well, you can also say you’re willing to stay out late tonight because you’re having such a great time.
 It’s a good idea to have a friend call you during a date so you can use it as an excuse to leave. Make plans to have a friend call you 30 or 40 minutes after the date begins and make sure your phone’s ringer is turned on so you hear the call. If the date’s going bad, answer the call and say something like,“Oh no! I’ll be right there!” and then hang up. Be prepared to tell your date why you have to leave, and politely excuse yourself from the date.Tell you date that you forgot to pick up your friend’s child from school.
Let your date know that your dog got out and you have to go pick him up from a neighbor.
 A fake sickness is a good reason to have to leave a date. Excuse yourself to the bathroom and spend about 10 minutes in there. Wipe your face and hairline with a wet paper towel and come out holding your stomach. Inform your date that you aren’t feeling well and that you’re going to go home.


You can leave some cash to help pay for the date if you want to be nice.
Leave quickly so your date doesn’t offer to help you home.

