 Pour 8 cups (1.89 liters) of water into a large pot and stir in 2 (6-ounce or 82 g) meaty smoked ham hocks, 1/2 cup (144 g) of salt, 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar, and 2 bay leaves. Heat the mixture over high heat and stir it for 4 to 5 minutes. Turn off the heat.The sugar should dissolve once the brine has cooked enough.;
, Wash and peel 2 bunches of small carrots, 2 large fennel bulbs, and 2 large parsnips. Trim the ends from all of the vegetables. Place the carrots in a big bowl or pot. Core the fennel bulbs and cut each of them into 6 wedges. You'll also need to cut the parsnips diagonally into 1 1/2-inch (3.8-cm) pieces. Put the fennel and parsnips in the pot with the carrots. Peel 1 head of garlic and place all of the cloves in the pot., Carefully pour the pot of hot brine and ham into the pot with all of the vegetables. Put a lid on the pot and put it in the refrigerator. Chill the vegetables in brine overnight., Turn the oven on to 400 degrees F (200 C). Get out a rimmed baking sheet and tear off a sheet of aluminum foil. Lay the foil on the pan and set it aside while you finish preparing the ham vegetables., Place a large colander in a sink and pour the chilled vegetables in brine through it. Pick out and discard the bay leaves. You'll also need to take out the two ham hocks and tear the meat off of the hocks, so they're in large chunks.You don't need to save the brine from the ham and vegetables.
 Transfer the drained vegetables and ham chunks to the foil-lined sheet. Pour 3 tablespoons of olive oil over the mixture and stir it together. Sprinkle the ham vegetables with 1/2 teaspoon of freshly ground black pepper., Put the sheet in the preheated oven and roast the ham vegetables for 30 to 35 minutes. The vegetables should become soft and will look slightly caramelized (golden brown). Transfer the ham roasted root vegetables to a dish and garnish it with fresh thyme sprigs before you serve it.You can store leftovers in the refrigerator for a few days. Keep in mind that the vegetables will become even softer the longer they are stored.

