 Spread this chalky powder both outside and inside, focusing on entryways like windows and doors along with other areas where stink bugs seem to gather.


Diatomaceous Earth is a natural sedimentary rock. It contains silica, alumina, and iron oxide.
The powder is used as a pesticide against a variety of insects, including stink bugs. It works by breaking down the waxy protective layer on an insect's exoskeleton, essentially causing the insect to dehydrate.
Look for Diatomaceous Earth that has not been heat-treated, since it tends to lose effectiveness as a pesticide when it is treated.
You can also dust any stink bugs you see with the powder directly, in addition to spreading the powder out in areas where stink bugs gather.;
, Mix 2 cups (500 ml) water with 4 tsp (20 ml) garlic powder in a spray bottle. Spray this solution onto plant leaves, windowsills, and other areas stink bugs frequent.


Stink bugs do not like the potent odor of garlic and generally stay away when garlic is nearby. It only repels the insects instead of killing them.
You can also chops several cloves of garlic and spread the pieces around stink bug hide-outs.
 Mix 2 cups (500 ml) of water with 10 drops of mint oil in a spray bottle. Spray the solution around possible entryways and hide-outs.


Like garlic, mint only acts as a repellent rather than a poison. The strong odor is often successful in keeping stink bugs away, though.
Instead of mint oil, you could use 2 tsp (10 ml) ground mint leaves.
 Sprinkle catnip powder around your garden and home, focusing on areas that are prone to stink bug infestation.


Catnip is another repellent that scares stink bugs away rather than killing them.
Catnip is an herbal plant, and you can grow it in your garden instead of buying it if you have the time and are interested in having a long-term defense against stink bugs.
 Spray this solution directly onto stink bugs or in areas where stink bugs gather.


Soap kills stink bugs by breaking down their protective exterior and dehydrating them.
Antibacterial soap can be used, but it contains more chemicals than non-antibacterial soap. Mild dish detergent is generally considered the safest, most natural option.
 Combine 32 oz (1000 ml) warm water with 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 ml) neem oil in a spray bottle. Coat leaves, windowsills, and other potential entryways or hiding spots with this solution.


You may need apply a week's worth of neem oil before you notice any changes. Neem oil works by disrupting the eating and mating instinct of insects. As a result, adult stink bugs that are exposed to it will gradually starve themselves and will not lay any eggs.

