 Spend extra time washing out the "business end" of the PWC - the jet nozzle, the reverse gate, the impeller, the ride plate.
 Flushing a hot engine can cause small stress cracks in the cylinder due to the differential expansion between the aluminum cylinder and iron liner., Open your PWC's hood - wash the engine bay down with fresh water - be sure not to hit the electrics with direct spray., Do not turn on the water. (IF you force water into the motor without it running, water can and will backtrack up into the carb and cylinders causing hydro-lock.) Start the engine; let it idle for a few seconds. Then, with engine running, turn on the water. Ensure that water is flowing out of the exhaust, the impeller grate, and the cooling port(s). Let the motor run at idle for approximately 8-9 minutes. After this time has passed, remove the hose. Let the engine run another 5-6 seconds, then stop the engine., Tilt the PWC back on its trailer. This allows all the gathered water inside to run out. Hold the trailer at an angle for approximately 3-5 minutes. Once it is back level, use shop towels or rags to dry off the entire engine bay/battery compartment/exterior., Start the engine, and let it run for 1-2 seconds. With the engine idling, shoot a little bit of "FOGGING OIL" into the port. (The engine will bog down for a second, and then resume its normal idle). Spray another little shot of fogging oil in, the engine bogs down, and then it picks back up. Once the engine is idling again, stop it., (Many people use WD-40 for this, or CorrosionPro Lube.) Any light oil that displaces moisture will work - this is just to seal the metal off from any corrosion causing moisture.,, Leaving these tanks with empty space is just asking water and condensation to form. Be safe, keep them stored full!, While it is almost imperative to treat your gas if you are not planning to use your PWC during the off-season, etc., it is a good practice to always treat your gas since the stabilizer significantly slows the absorption of water vapor from the air. You are done - cover your PWC with a tarp or a provided cover and call it another great day on the water.