 You can do this by searching for "Instagram" in your device's app marketplace (e.g., the App Store on iOS or the Google Play Store on Android) and then selecting the pertinent search result for download.;
, To do so, tap the Instagram icon (it resembles a multicolored camera) on one of your device’s home screens.
 From here, you'll need to enter your email address, preferred username, password, and phone number (optional but recommended). You'll also have the opportunity to upload a profile photo before continuing.


You can choose to add a bit of personal information in the “About” section as well, including a first and last name or a personal website.
If you already have an Instagram account, you can tap Sign In at the bottom of the Instagram login page and enter your account login information instead.
 After finishing your account creation, you'll have an option to choose to find friends from your contact list, Facebook account, Twitter account, or by manual search. Note that you will need to provide Instagram with your Facebook or Twitter account information (your email address and relevant password) before you'll be able to select friends from either of these platforms.


You can choose to follow suggested Instagram users by tapping the “Follow” button next to their name.
Following people allows you to see their posts in your "Home" page.
You will be able to add friends at any time from within your account, even after you create your account.
 Doing this will take you directly to your Instagram account's Home page, which is where you will see posts from the people you've chosen to follow.
 This is the default tab on which you begin--it's also where the media from the people you're following will appear. From here, you can do the following:


Tap the + icon in the top left corner of your screen to record and post an Instagram Story for all of your followers to see. You'll need to allow Instagram access to your microphone and camera for this to work.
Tap the delta symbol in the top right corner of your screen to view your Inbox. Direct messages will appear here.
 It's to the immediate right of the Home tab at the bottom of the screen. From here, you can search for accounts and keywords by typing in the "Search" bar at the top of the screen.


Celebrity Instagram Stories will also appear on this page directly beneath the Search bar.
 It's two icons over from the magnifying glass icon. This is where all of your in-app notifications will appear (e.g., photo likes and comments, friend requests, etc.).
 This is the person-shaped icon in the bottom right corner. From here, you can do the following:


Tap the + icon in the top left corner of your screen to add friends from Facebook and your contacts list.
Tap the gear or ⋮ in the top right corner of your screen to view the Instagram options. You can adjust your account settings and add friends or social media accounts from here.
Tap Edit Profile to the right of your profile picture to change your name or username, add a bio and/or website, and adjust your private information (e.g., your phone number and email address).
 It's in the bottom left corner of your screen. If any people whom you follow have posted since you've last visited this page, their new content will appear here automatically.
 It's the "+" sign at the bottom center of your page. From here, you can add pre-existing photos from your camera roll or take an original photo.
 You have three upload possibilities listed at the bottom of this page:



Library - This option lets you upload a photo already in your library.

Photo - You can take a photo using Instagram's in-app camera here. You'll need to allow Instagram to access your camera before taking a photo.

Video - You can record a video using Instagram's camera here. You'll need to allow Instagram to access your microphone first.
 If you're taking a photo or video, you'll need to tap the circular button toward the bottom of your screen to do so.


If you're selecting a pre-existing photo, you'll need to tap Next in the top right corner of the screen to proceed.
 You can do this from the bottom of the screen. Today on an average 11 filters are available in your instagram account. The main intention of it is to make boring images interesting. You can even download Instagram filters. Filters change the color palette and composition of your photo--for example, applying the "Moon" filter changes your photo to a washed-out black-and-white color.


You can also tap Edit in the bottom right corner of the screen to adjust aspects of your photo such as Brightness, Contrast, and Structure.
 This is in the top right corner of your screen.
 You'll do this in the "Write a caption" box at the top of the screen.


If you want to add tags to your photo, you'll do that here as well.
 Before sharing your photo, you can do the following things:


Tap Tag People to tag followers in your photo.
Tap Add Location to add your current location to your photo's description. You'll need to allow Instagram to access your location services to do this.
Post your photo to your Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, or Flickr account by sliding the pertinent switch right to the "On" position. You will need to link your Instagram account to the external account in question before you can do this.
 You have successfully posted your first Instagram photo!

