 Be specific and strategic about your friend choices. You want to pick people who are friendly, loyal, understanding, and caring. It is important that you seek positive company during this time instead of people who may bring you down, as toxic friends are detrimental to health and could definitely worsen the suicidal thoughts. Remember that the quality of friends is much more important than quantity. It's better to have one to three good friends that you can talk to and trust, rather than 20 acquaintances that you don't know too well or even 30 toxic friends.
 If you have found someone you’d like to be friends with, simply start talking to that person.


Approach the person when she is alone, not in a large group, if you can. This ensures that you can have a one-on-one conversation.
If you have never met this person before, you can introduce yourself with a smile. Say, “Hi there! I’m ____. What’s your name?”
You can try using an icebreaker by asking questions about current events, movies, television shows, or books. You could say, “Have you seen that new movie?”
Try to find something in common that you can talk about. Some example are classes or duties you share,
If you feel nervous, take deep breaths. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. Think positive thoughts like, “I can do this. It may seem scary but it’s just talking to another person.”

, Sometimes when we try to be friends with others it doesn’t quite turn out how we wanted it to. Know that this is a normal occurrence. Everyone deals with rejection often in their lives. The person you initiated a conversation with might not be a good match for you, so it's best just to move onto the next person until you do find a person that will be a good match for you.


Remember that you're not going to get along with everyone you meet. For reasons out of your control, people that you try to befriend may not reciprocate, and that’s okay! Try to learn from the experience and move on. Know that it is probably better this way and that it wasn’t meant to be. You want friends that are going to be friendly and accepting of you.
 Now that you have introduced yourself and established a conversation with the person you want to be friends with you will need to continue these interactions. Start to build a relationship with your new friend.


Be nice to your new friend, talk to him or her, and keep the secrets that he or she shares with you. If he or she is having problems, listen to him or her without judgment.
Invite your new friend to hang out. Some ideas are playing video games, going to the mall, or going to a sports game.
 If the person knows that you've attempted suicide, you can be honest about the situation if you feel comfortable.Make sure first that you have developed enough trust with this person.


If anyone asks you, "Why did you do it?" you can tell them that you were depressed (or however you were feeling), and you felt that there was no other way out, but you're okay now. You could say something like, "I tried it because I was very sad and hopeless at the time. But, I am better now and I'm learning how to cope with those feelings. I learned a lesson and I do not want to try to harm myself again." This will let them know you are trying to live positively again, and are not currently thinking about harming yourself.

