 Many people choose to donate their totaled vehicle rather than trying to sell it or claim insurance for it. Not only do you contribute to a worthy cause, but in many places, you also receive a tax deduction for your donation. Just be sure that the charity qualifies for a tax refund: in the U.S., for example, donations to certain non-profits cannot be counted toward any tax benefits.Some charities which accept car donations are the Make-A-Wish foundation, Kars4kids, and Vehicles For Veterans.If you’re not sure if the charity you’re considering has ‘exempt-status,’ contact your federal tax governing body to ascertain whether or not it qualifies.
 Once you’ve decided where you want to donate your car, you can follow a simple process to hand it over to the charity. Call and arrange a pick-up time and location, or fill out a form on the charity’s website that designates an appointment.


If your car still runs, see if you can take the car to a drop-off location for the charity. This will maximize the proceeds your charity earns from your salvage vehicle, as otherwise they’ll have to pay for the towing service., In order to claim a tax deduction for your donation, you’ll need to figure out what the fair market value of your car is. Use the Kelley Blue Book or Edmunds.com to come up with a figure. Just be sure to accurately reflect the condition, model, and mileage of your vehicle at the time of donation, as fibbing on this question will earn you a penalty if you get audited.Just because you’ve arrived at a fair market value for your car, you can’t deduct this figure yet. You can only do so if or when the charity sells your car for its fair market value and notifies you of this sale.
 Once the charity takes your car away, you’ll need to wait until they send you the proper documentation. This written acknowledgement from the charity states whether or not the charity sold the vehicle, what improvements—if any—were made, and for how much the vehicle was sold.


If you don’t receive notification prior to the tax deadline, you can file for an extension. Alternatively, you can file your taxes without the car donation and then amend the return once you receive notification.
 In the U.S., you can claim fair market value or $500 for your donated car, whichever figure is less. This is a good option if you want to use a standard 1040EZ, or if your car’s fair market value is fairly low in any case.


The charity should send you a tax receipt in the mail to help you when filling out your tax return., If you want to claim more than $500 for your donated car, you’ll need to file an itemized tax return rather than using a 1040EZ. While you will get a higher tax deduction for the car itself, though, you might ultimately get less than the standard income deduction that you’d receive if you filed the 1040EZ.For example, if you’re in the 20% tax bracket and you itemize your car donation for $2,000, you’ll get a benefit of $200. But, if you don’t have a bunch of other itemized donations to add on top of that $200, you’ll end up saving well below the standard income deduction.
This guideline holds loosely for residents of the U.S., but you should check for local and federal policies no matter where you live.
 Once you receive a tax receipt or bill of sale from the charity, you can fill out your tax return using this documentation. In the U.S., you’ll need to fill out Section A of IRS Form 8283 and attach it to your return, along with the written acknowledgement you received in the mail.If your car is worth more than $5,000, you’ll need to fill out Section B of IRS Form 8283, as well as get an independent appraisal of the car to verify its worth. Attach this appraisal to your return, as well as any other pictures or records which attest to its value, such as receipts for new tires or pictures of other upgrades.
 Non-cash donations are one of the biggest causes for tax agency investigations, so be prepared for an audit! This is especially important if you itemized your return and claimed more than $500 for the donation. Keep copies of any documents the charity gives you, appraisals, tax receipts, and written acknowledgments from the charity.Remember that any discrepancy between what you claimed for the car and what it was actually worth or sold for will result in a penalty for you, the donor, rather than the charity.
 Depending on where you live, you might need to send the relevant government agency a report of sale or other documentation. In Alaska and Hawaii, for example, you need to fill out a transfer form attached to the bottom of your vehicle title. You list the new owner as the charity and write ‘donation’ in the purchase price field.In many places, you’ll also need to remove the license plates and return them to the motor vehicle agency. In other places, such as Alaska, California, Hawaii, and Minnesota, you can leave the plates on the car.

