 A simple, yet elegant way to decorate your home for the Easter holiday is with flowers and plants. Try placing one or more vases of seasonal flowers on tables around your home. You can also create a centerpiece of your favorite seasonal plants and flowers for the dining table.Try decorating with fresh tulips, which are usually blooming around Easter.
If your rose bushes are blooming around Easter, use them to decorate your table.
 Easter eggs can signify spring and new beginnings, and are perfect for holiday decoration. While you can dye eggs and place them in baskets or bowls around your home, they will spoil quickly if not refrigerated. Instead, use plastic or wooden eggs as decorations.Try placing a basket of Easter eggs on your kitchen counter or in your entryway.
 Animal figurines are a great way to add some Easter flair to your home’s interior. Try placing one on a table in the entryway of your home. You can also place a larger figurine near your door., It’s fun to send and receive greeting cards during the Easter season. Instead of throwing them away or recycling them, try hanging several Easter cards on your refrigerator. They can help up the ante on your home’s Easter vibe., You can also add some Easter-themed flair to your home with Easter bunnies. Try placing a plush pastel Easter bunny on the couch. You could also place a plastic Easter bunny on the back of the toilet, or on a chair in a kitchen corner., A great way to maximize the return on your chocolate bunnies is to use them as decorations in the days or weeks before Easter. Try placing several wrapped chocolate bunnies in a basket. Then place the basket on the kitchen counter, and entryway table, or a side table in the living room.You can also arrange unwrapped chocolate bunnies on a cake stand.
Do not decorate with chocolate bunnies if you have small children or pets.
 A wonderful way to decorate for Easter is by setting a festive table. Try using brightly colored dishes and a simple centerpiece of seasonal flowers. You can also use white dishes and spice up the table with bunnies, ducks, and Easter eggs.