 Licorice root naturally contains an extremely sweet component called glycyrrhizin. While glycyrrhizin is completely safe in small, infrequent amounts, it can leads to health complications if consumed long-term. As such, if you are considering taking licorice root supplements habitually, make sure to choose a deglycyrrhizinated (DGL) supplement.The bottle should report the amounts of glycyrrhizin the DGL supplements contain. It should be no more than 2% of the supplement for safe long-term use.
Licorice root supplements that still contain glycyrrhizin, and thus glycyrrhetinic acid, are recommended only for fighting stress-induced fatigue.;
, Conditions such as heartburn, ulcers, and gastritis can lead to significant discomfort associated with digestion. DGL supplements can diminish this discomfort significantly.Take anywhere from 380 – 1200 milligrams of DGL about thirty minutes before you eat.
Since tablets are usually 380 – 400 mg, start with one tablet and see if your symptoms are reduced.
 Licorice root that still contains glycyrrhizin, sometimes called "whole" licorice, can temporarily help you fight fatigue. Your adrenal gland can become overworked when constantly producing cortisol, which occurs when you experience stress. Whole licorice root supplements, however, can postpone the body’s destruction of cortisol and lessen the adrenal gland’s need to produce more.Note that licorice root that has not had the glycyrrhizin removed should not be taken regularly.
To help keep cortisol levels normal, take the supplement with breakfast and lunch, but not with dinner.
Reduce your use of "whole" licorice root supplements as your energy levels return to normal.
 There are several other health benefits accredited to licorice root that have yet to be fully substantiated by rigorous scientific study. For instance, licorice root may help reduce blood sugar and insulin resistance, and can potentially help those at risk for diabetes.Furthermore, licorice root may help protect you against cavities.
Finally, licorice root has been shown to have anti-inflammatory effects, and it is used in some countries to treat conditions ranging from allergies to infections.
 This is especially important if you’re using “whole” licorice root supplements. Even with the glycyrrhizin removed, a daily DGL supplement may affect your blood pressure. As such, check your blood pressure daily for the few weeks of supplementation. If your blood pressure shifts outside of your normal range, notify your doctor.If your blood pressure remains stable for the first few weeks of treatment, you can begin checking it less often, such as once or twice a week.

