 The name of the game comes from its ranking system. Since there are so many variants, there are many options. Before you start playing, establish the ranks you'll be using. You'll need enough for each person (and at least 3 players).


President or King - The winner of the previous round
Vice President ("VP") or Minister - Second place
Vice Scum or Asshole - Second to last place
Scum or Asshole - Last place in the previous roundYou can use as many titles as you like, depending on the number of players you have. If you have a whole mess of players, consider including titles like Secretary (one below VP), Citizens, Peasants, or Average Joes. Some people choose to use the presidential line of succession, ending with a Clerk (right before the Scum).

;
, As you begin playing, you'll see that each time a player lays a card, there's an accompanying term. Familiarize yourself with the terms for efficient play.


Single - when only one card is laid down
Double (Dub) - a pair of cards of the same value
Triple (Trip) - three cards of the same value
Quadruple (Quads) - four cards of the same value
Kicker - a single card played with a four-of-a-kind to make it a bomb (in some variants)
Clear/Table - If someone plays a hand and every other player passes, the table is cleared. The cards then get removed and the same player starts again, laying whatever card they choose. And if that player gets rid of all their cards, the next person who can beat the hand gets the next turn. If no one can beat the hand, it clears to the next player in line., Not only will you have the basics of the game, but the rules to drink need to be established as well. The following are known examples--you can get as creative as you are able.


The card that matches the number of players present is usually referred to as the "social." When laid, all players must drink twice. It can be played on any card and two socials (or even three) can be laid back to back. The next player then plays on the card that was laid before the "social."
If a player passes, he or she must drink. Sometimes this is limited so it only applies if anyone else can play before the pile is cleared.
If a player lays a card of the same rank as the previous card, the next player loses their turn and subsequently drinks. For example, if player 1 lays down a 4 and player 2 lays down a 4, player 3 loses their turn and must drink. If a 4 is played again by player 4, player 5 is skipped and drinks., While it's not imperative, you can choose cards that have specific functions. This can add an element of chance to a game with players of different ability levels.


Some players like to choose a card that automatically clears the board. If laid down, the trick starts over and that person begins with whatever card they please. This is usually a 2.
In addition, designate a wild card (usually a 3) that can take the place of any other number (except the clear card).
Instead of having the person left of the dealer start, have the person holding a specific card (4 of clubs, for example) begin.

