 If your stretch marks aren’t fading with home remedies or are causing you a significant amount of distress, talk to your doctor. She can discuss medical treatments to help reduce your stretch marks.You can either see your pediatrician or a dermatologist, which is a doctor who specifically treats the skin.
Make sure to speak openly and honestly with your doctor about your stretch marks and the distress they cause you. She won’t judge you and you don’t have anything about which to be ashamed. Changes in your body are normal during puberty.
 There is some research that tretinoin cream, which is a form of Vitamin A, may improve the appearance of stretch marks by rebuilding collagen.Ask your doctor to prescribe a tretinoin cream to help get rid of your stretch marks.


Tretinoin works best on newer stretch marks. These appear pink or red in color.The treatment doesn’t work on older stretch marks, which may appear purple or pale.Be aware that tretinoin can irritate your skin., Laser therapy can improve stretch marks by using intense wavelengths of light to stimulate collagen, elastin, or melanin growth.Some lasers also reduce the redness of the stretch marks. Your doctor or a dermatologist must administer the treatments and you should discuss the treatment before undergoing this procedure.


It can take several treatments to improve the appearance of your stretch marks.
Your doctor can help you determine if this is the right treatment for you and which type of laser therapy will most effectively reduce your stretch marks.Some doctors may be reluctant or unwilling to do laser therapy on a teen.
 Microdermabrasion is a procedure that “polishes” the surface of the skin with crystals. This stimulates the growth of more elastic skin and may get rid of your stretch marks.Several treatments may be necessary to produce the desired results.


Some doctors may not want to perform microdermabrasion on teens because their skin is very young and sensitive and may still be forming stretch marks.

