 The heroic couplet, like those used in old British Poetry and Shakespeare, are carefully constructed so that each line has only ten syllables. They are written in iambic pentameter, and the last syllable of the line must be stressed. If you're new to poetic meter, iambic sounds a bit like a heartbeat (daDUM, daDUM, daDUM), where the syllables alternate between unstressed and unstressed when you say them (for example, words like "exIST," "aWAY," or "preDICT," where your voice goes up at the end). Iambic pentameter is all about rhythm, and while it is rarely used today, you should be aware of it for school.


Pentameter means five "feet" per line, since penta = "five." A foot is a specific combination of stressed and unstressed syllables.
Every sonnet Shakespeare wrote was written in iambic pentameter.
Eminem's "Lose Yourself" is modern example of iambic pentameter at high speed., Shakespeare might be known primarily as a playwright, but his sonnet's have become so famous their form is still mimicked to this day. A sonnet is made up of alternating couplets (line one rhymes with line three, line two with line four, etc.), but the ending is a classic couplet. The switch from alternating rhyme to a couplet highlights a change in perspective, tone, or theme as well as a change in form. Very often, this couplet surprises the reader, provides the moral or point of the poem, or otherwise makes the poem turn on its head.
 This ancient poetic form is usually concerned with loss and longing, but it can be built out of any subject material. However, ghazals aren't made up of your typical couplets. For starters, the first two lines must end in the same word, with the rhyme coming before this word, known as the refrain. From then on out, the second line of every couplet ends with this refrain word, but with a different rhyming word before it. The first line of each couplet does not have to rhyme, and the second to last line usually contains your own name. While it seems complicated, the ghazal is easiest learned through this example by Patricia Smith:
Gotta love us brown girls, munching on fat, swinging blue hips,
decked out in shells and splashes, Lawdie, bringing them woo hips.
As the jukebox teases, watch my sister's throat the heartbreak,
inhaling bassline, cracking backbone and singing thru hips.
Like something boneless, we glide silent, seeping ‘tween floorboards,
wrapping around the hims, and ooh wee, clinging like glue hips.
Engines grinding, rotating, smokin’, gotta pull back some.
Natural minds are lost at the mere sight of ringing true hips.
Gotta love us girls, just struttin’ down Manhattan streets
killing the menfolk with a dose of that stinging view. Hips.
Crying ’bout getting old—Patricia, you need to get up off
what God gave you. Say a prayer and start slinging. Cue hips., The blues, America's signature genre of music and the foundation of rock and roll, jazz, hip-hop, and much modern pop, was originally just a collection of rhyming couplets. In general, the first line is repeated twice ("Woke up this morning, to a knock upon my door.... I woke up this morning, with a knock upon my door), and then the second line comes in with a chord change ("And I said "hello Satan, I believe it's time to go" -- Robert Johnson).In general, the second line contains a turn. That is, after the first line is repeated, the second line surprises the listener by changing expectations or swiveling the focus.
Couplets are also common in many modern forms of music, and form the basis of many rock, rap, and pop lyrics.

