 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to roast the potatoes, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 425°F (220°C) and allow it to fully heat., Add 3 pounds (1.4 kg) of waxy potatoes that have been cubed to a large pot. Cover the potatoes with cold water and mix in some kosher salt to taste. Heat the potatoes over medium-high until they come to a boil, which should take approximately 7 to 10 minutes.








Yukon gold, red, and new potatoes are good options to use for this dish.
If you prefer, you can omit the salt.
The potatoes should only be slightly tender when you take them off the heat.
 Once the water comes to a boil, immediately pour the potatoes into a colander to drain them. Allow the potatoes to sit in the colander for 2 to 3 minutes so the steam helps them dry out.
 For the roasted potatoes, you’ll need 2 sprigs of fresh rosemary. Pull the leaves off the stems, and use a mortar and pestle to bash them up slightly to release their flavor and aroma.








If you don’t have a mortar and pestle, you can use the back of a spoon to bash up the rosemary leaves.
 Place a large roasting pan on your stove, and add ¼ cup (59 ml) of olive oil. Allow the oil to heat over medium high heat until it begins to shimmer, which should take 3 to 5 minutes.








You can substitute butter for the olive oil if you prefer.
 Once the oil is hot, remove the roasting pan from the heat. Stir in potatoes, rosemary leaves, 5 cloves of minced garlic, and salt and pepper to taste. Toss well until the potatoes are well coated with the mixture.








Feel free to add whatever other herbs or seasonings that you’d like. Thyme, oregano, parsley, dill, and/or crushed red pepper flakes are tasty options.
 When the potatoes are coated with the oil mixture, place the roasting pan in the preheated oven. Allow the potatoes to cook for 30 to 35 minutes, or until they are golden and crispy., When the potatoes are finished roasting, remove the pan from the oven. Transfer them to a serving bowl or platter, and serve them as a side while they’re still warm.The roasted potatoes are an ideal side for roast chicken, pork tenderloin, or your favorite steak.

