 More and more people in the world are becoming addicted to the internet. You are not the only one with this problem, it is becoming more and more common and more and more well known. Do not be embarrassed; find others with the same problem and help each other beat it.;
, Make sure not to turn it on too many times a week. If you have a laptop, make sure to put it somewhere that you can remember but not somewhere that you see every day. Try keeping the lid closed when you are not using it; when the computer is not looking at you, you are less likely to use it. If you have a desktop PC, try not to go near it or put something over it like a sheet.
 Call a friend and ask them to go outside for at least 3 hours a day. This will distract you from the computer. If you're in school, try doing your homework together over the phone or in person.
 Before using your computer decide on a time limit such as 30 minutes. Set the clock or timer and make sure that you get off the computer when the time is up. Alternatively create a shutdown timer shortcut on your desktop (google search "shutdown timer" for tutorials). This can be programmed to shutdown your computer after a predesignated time after it has been activated.


Every time you log on to different sites, set yourself a timer, and a small list of what you want to do within that time, and then try to make yourself log off when the time is up. Do this constantly, but try to reduce the amount of time you are on the page by 5 minutes each time.
 If there are pages which you look at constantly for information, simply copy all the text and save it in a file, or even print it off. This will stop you from using the Internet so often, and it will stop you from drifting to another page.
 You won't be as tempted to look at certain websites and they do have a limit on how long you can stay online. Also, the library is a good place to get some good books and magazines to read, so you won't be as tempted to be on the Internet at home.
 Get involved with teams, clubs, sports, church, music, dancing, singing, etc. Go for a run with a friend or get exercise some other way. Go to bed on time and get a good night's rest. Keep up with the local events in your community. There may be talks, film screenings, concerts, local sporting events, and book signings etc. Find some, as long as it is not on the internet, and get involved.
 If you are a student then do your homework and study. If you're in the working world, prioritize what you actually need to get done, rather than procrastinating with internet activities. Make a to-do list for each day and stick to it, only allowing yourself fun-focused internet time or distractions after you're through with your other obligations

, Anything that gets you off the computer for a while will help and increase your confidence that you can stay off even longer. Cook or bake something one night for the family.


Don't eat meals at your computer! Eating at a separate place will help you to not go online.
 Plan a trip to the bowling alley, mall, or ice rink. Get a friend to walk a dog with you for the afternoon. Avoid places that have free internet access such as coffee shops.
 Instead of watching TV or doing individual things during dinner time, eat dinner as a family on the table and plan games afterward.

