 There are a lot of reasons why you mighty cheat on your partner, from unhappiness with your relationship to the thrill of romantic conquest. What is clear is that your current infidelity will severely cloud your judgment, and getting to the root of your wandering lust is essential for eliminating it. Your first step is always to put an end to whatever affair you're currently in, even if it is only temporary.


Remind yourself that this won't be easy, and that is okay. Just because stopping cheating is difficult doesn't mean it isn't worth doing.
The only way to stop cheating is to actually stop. Take things one day or date at a time and keep yourself busy.
Give yourself a manageable time limit, such as no cheating for two weeks. When it is over, ask yourself if the temptation passed with time or if it is still as alive as ever.;
, Take a vacation, or plan more dates and events with your partner and/or family. Pick up a new hobby all by yourself, giving yourself a safe outlet for alone time that doesn't involve infidelity. Whatever you do, don't replace your cheating time with more stress or work. Cheating, in some way, is a way to relieve stress and tension, so find a new way to relax. Fill the hours with something else you enjoy and the temptation to go cheat will get that much smaller.
 People rarely cheat for nothing, and one of the most common causes is unhappiness with their current partner. Are they failing to fulfill your emotional or sexual needs? Do you feel like your cheating is a response to some form of their behavior? If so, taking a break from cheating is twice as important. When you don't have this outlet of the other partner, note if your perceived issues get worse or better. Are their fundamental problems between you two that only cheating seems to make feel better?


Cheating does not, in itself, mean you should leave or divorce your partner -- many couples actually come out of their affairs stronger than before. Cheating, however, always demands that you step back and re-examine the relationship.
 While unhappiness with a partner is a big reason for cheating, some people cheat even when they're with "perfect" partners. Perhaps you miss the thrill of chasing new dates or feel like you're missing the youthful feeling in a romantic life. Some people, feeling trapped at work or at home, like the feeling of control they get in their romantic life. The important thing to remember is that your partner doesn't have to be at fault for you to commit infidelity, and you need to know honestly if this is the case.


Know that well over half of all Americans have been to some form of counseling, and talking through these fears and worries with a professional is a good way to explore ways to fix them.
Are there things you can do in your personal life to become happier overall, such as reducing stress or your workload? This can help cut the desire to sleep around greatly., A good way to stop cheating is to stop making it about you and thinking more about your partner. It is much easier to let ourselves down, arguing to ourselves that our actions only hurt us and are thus deserved. But if you think about how your beloved is going to feel, assuming they will always find out (even if they don't), then you suddenly have something worth striving for.


If your partner found out you were cheating, then you should ask (constantly), what things you can do to regain their trust. It won't be easy, but it is possible., If you know there are issues in your relationship and are committed to fixing them, then it may be time tell your spouse that you have a problem. Marriage counseling, or just personal counseling, is a good way to get an objective, outside look at your issues. It can also be the best way to find solutions together.


If you've already been caught, but don't want the relationship to end, you have to show you're willing to work on the problems together. Don't just say "I'm done cheating." Find ways to show you're actively working on it., Cheating often exposes core issues in a relationship, but this is the first step to fixing them. It may be difficult in the short term, but cheating usually tells you where you need to work on your relationship together. Maybe your sex life has gone stale and needs an infusion of energy. Maybe you feel like you're carrying too much weight around the house, and this is the wake-up call that you need more help. Whatever the issue is, try to see infidelity as a chance to improve things instead of a sign that the partnership is already over., Is the short terms satisfaction worth the long-term consequences? Can a moment of passion make up for a month of guilt? You must honestly appraise the worst-case scenario of your actions. Ninety-nine times out of one-hundred a quick fling isn't worth your partner finding out and leaving you.


In the event of a divorce or separation, any infidelity can (and likely will) be used against you when allocating funds and child-raising obligations.