 Think of a story that will have an impact on the audience. Some super story plot, A story that may change the way that people think about a certain subject. The story must contain twists and turns and unexpected endings. Build up on that creative story of yours. Head start by thinking about what happened to you yesterday or maybe what will happen in the future. Any subject will do.;
, Arrange the series of events in the order that you favour most. Which one will happen first? What is the ending? Know that your story need not start from something conventional, like brushing your teeth, or going to work. Start from something very sudden and tragic, such as somebody slapped you in the face or something. Write down all ideas of what will happen on a piece of paper.
 Think of the fates of your characters, in relation to the story, of course. Will they suffer from a terrible disease? Or will they live a normal life after a tragic incident? Pen down all the characteristics of the characters on that sheet of paper. Remember, you have power over the characters because they are created by you, not others. And also, there are no general rules for creating a good character.
 Write a rough draft of your story. Put all the ideas together to form a story. Never mind about minor mistakes like punctuation or grammar. Focus on your plot instead.
 During run through just underline all minor mistakes so that you will not overlook it later. Also take note and edit of the parts that you don't like or feel not worthy or just plain confusing. After checking, start on the real thing.
 Yes, your masterpiece. Next, after writing it, just confirm once again because, as you all know, people make mistakes.
 Bring it to your friends to read and ask what they think about it. Or you could bring it to your newspaper publisher so that the whole country can have a good read on your fantastic story - you might only want to do a bit if you're going to sell it because otherwise everyone will know the story.

