 Daily brushing will help reduce the amount of hair your guinea pig sheds. Be sure to brush gently and never scrape the brush over bald patches of skin. Guinea pigs have very sensitive skin and this can hurt them.Use a soft baby brush or a metal greyhound comb to remove loose hair and keep your guinea pig’s coat shiny and healthy.;
, De-shedding tools are typically metal combs designed to catch loose fur when you brush it over your pet’s fur. Any de-shedder will work for your guinea pig. Ones designed for small cats and kittens work especially well.


Be sure to avoid damaging your guinea pig’s sensitive skin. De-shedding brushes and combs can be sharp and abrasive, so take care to be gentle when using a de-shedder.
 Cleaning your guinea pig’s cage daily or at least several times a week is vital to their health. Since your guinea pig doesn’t get immunizations at the vet like dogs and cats do, they are more susceptible to illness if left in a dirty cage. This can cause a variety of health problems, including infections that can trigger hair loss.Avoid using harsh chemical cleaners when you clean your guinea pig’s cage. Instead, opt for mild soap and water or a solution of vinegar and water. Make sure the cage has time to dry before you put your pet back in it., It’s important to keep in mind that you won’t be able to completely stop your pet from shedding. Guinea pigs, especially long-haired ones, shed seasonally, so you can expect to find more hair than usual when they lose their winter coats in the spring and early summer., Baby guinea pigs’ fur thins out to make room for their thicker, slightly coarser adult fur to grow in. This is a natural process and cause of shedding and is nothing to be concerned about.For this stage, there are no preventative steps to take because it’s a necessary part of your guinea pig growing into a healthy adult. To minimize the mess from this shedding process, keep their cages cleaned out and sweep or vacuum your home to pick up extra hair.

