 A boom vang is a rope and pulley system that holds the boom against the side of your boat so that it doesn't jibe or tack on its own. Before you jibe, move the boom vang from the side rail to middle position, near the mast of the boat. This secures the main sail to the center of the boat so that you can jibe., Once people know that you're jibing the boat, they should duck their heads under the boom and mainsail and move to the other side of the boat. This prevents them from getting hit by the boom as it comes across the boat., You have to release the rope on the jibe sheet for the jibe sail to fully transition to the other side of the boat. Unwind the rope that's attached to the jibe sheet so that the jibe sail is free to move side to side., The mainsheet is the rigging that attaches to the mainsail and is what is used to control the position of your sail. Wrap the rope of the mainsheet around the cleat that can be found inside of the boat and use the wench or push it manually with your hands to bring it in, towards the center of the boat.Doing this before you turn the boat wheel will prevent the mainsail and boom from swinging across the boat.
 As you turn the boat downwind, the jibe sail should start to automatically transition to the other side of your boat as it catches the wind, so you won't have to manually move the jib sail. You'll also get resistance on the mainsail lead as the wind starts to push the sail to the other side of the boat., Once the jibe sail on the opposite side of the boat, wrap the other rope on the jibe sheet to the cleat on the side of the boat.This should secure the jibe sail onto the boat's new heading., The jibe sail should already be on the other side of the boat. Hold the mainsheet to prevent it from quickly flipping to the other side and destabilizing the boat. Slowly start to release the rope until the mainsail settles on the other side of the boat., Once the sails have caught the wind, stop turning the boat. Bring the wheel or tiller back to the center position so that your boat continues down the new heading. Continue going down this heading until you need to tack or jib the boat again., Reattaching the boom vang to the other side of the boat ensures that the boat won't automatically tack or jibe if the wind changes courses. Unclip the boom vang from the center of your boat and reclip it to the side of the boat where the mainsail is now flying.