 In order to avoid owning too many cats, you need to think about the responsibility and time it takes to care for a cat. The care and responsibility required for multiple cats can be overwhelming and no longer fun. With this in mind, consider not taking on too much responsibility and only having as many cats as you can easily care for.

For some people, caring for one cat is their limit. For others, having multiple cats is not too much responsibility. It all depends on the individual.
It is a sign of animal hoarding when you can no longer care for the health and safety of your cats because of their sheer number. When you get too many cats, it is just too overwhelming and time consuming to take care of all of them properly.;
, If you want to avoid owning too many cats, you need to think about how much each may cost you. On average, one cat can cost you between $300 and $1200 a year, depending on the cost of veterinary bills, food, and care items. With this in mind, assess whether you can afford having more cats than you already do.Part of avoiding having too many cats is knowing your limits. It may be that you can't afford more than one cat and getting a second cat would cost you too much. Other people can easily afford to have multiple cats.
 If you want to avoid getting too many cats, you need to understand how many cats will fit comfortably in your specific home. The number of cats you can have depends greatly on your space because you want to assure that your cats can get alone time, that they can run and bounce around, and that you have space for their beds, litter boxes, and toys.Some people say that you should never have more cats than you have bedrooms in your home. This idea allows cats that don't get along to easily stay away from each other and prevents your home from feeling too crowded.
Some argue that for each cat you should have 200 square feet. This would typically allow for more cats than the number of bedrooms scheme but would still give each cat a bit of its own space.
 Having a cat can greatly improve your life and your happiness. However, having too many cats can negatively impact your life and your happiness. If your cats already take up a lot of your time and you avoid social engagements, having people over, or other things that would make you happy because of your cats, consider avoiding getting any more of them.If you are considering getting another cat but you are hesitant, try erring on the side of caution and not getting it. Instead, spend the time you would have spent on a new cat with your existing cats or with friends and family.

