 You can make up the types of dragons, but here are a few to get you started:



Water dragon - Instead of breathing fire, they squirt water

Shadow dragon - Dark colored dragons that can become invisible at will

Fire dragon - The most common type of dragon

Earth (rock) dragon - Another common type, very good battle dragons

Lightning dragon - Instead of breathing fire, they breathe lightning bolts

Feathered dragon - Instead of having sturdy wings, these dragons have feathered, bird-like wings

Moody Dragon - He is moody but you accept it because he drove you home one time and his brother is like super cool.

Suni-dragon - A dragon with a unicorn's horn

Rainbow dragon - A rainbow colored dragon that's spews rainbows
"Plant dragon" - Instead of breathing fire, they have saplings on their back and bloom flowers when adults.
"Dwarf dragon" - A dragon that, instead of being bigger than a cat as a baby and as big as a dinosaur when fully grown, is as big as a medium-sized dog's puppy as a baby and as big as a full grown medium-sized dog at adulthood, or even smaller

Horse dragon - A Dragon that eats grass and has a Horse's mane

Moon Dragon - A dragon who, when tired, flies to the moon. Can also shoot moonbeams from their tail

Tsunami Dragon - Like a Water Dragon, but shoots seawater instead of freshwater

Ghost Dragon - Most likely the soul of a dead Dragon, the Ghost Dragon is often looking for something

Kalahari Sun Dragon - A rare breed, can shoot sunbeams from tail. Enemies with Moon Dragons

Poison Dragon - Is rare, can be found in power plants

Large Dragon - It can be any breed as long as it is large
You can also crossbreed! Use your imagination!;
, The breeder will probably be a wizard or a witch. Ask them for the type of dragon you want, specify the gender and age. Once you've decided on a dragon, organize a day they can bring it to you.
 The next time you go shopping to a pet store, pretend there is a dragon aisle. Buy food, drink and other supplies for your new pet.
 If it is a baby, it will still be larger than a cat (unless it's a dwarf dragon), so make sure the room is quite big. It is also a good idea if it is a main room that you will visit often, so the dragon gets used to humans. Dragons aren't evil, but they can be very aggressive to humans if you don't go near them within a few weeks of getting them. Dragons will see you as a bite sized snack.
 After you've had your dragon for a week or so, let it go onto all of the levels in that part of the house. Make sure it doesn't go up/down stairs, because it may cause trouble.


After a few weeks, let your dragon roam freely around the house.
 Before taking your dragon outside for the first time, teach it to sit, stay and come when it's name is called. Remember, dragons can be dangerous, even if they're babies. Persevere, dragons can be very hard to train.
 Go to the pet store and 'buy' a dog lead if your dragon is a baby. If it is a grown up, call the breeder and ask them to deliver a dragon lead. If you will be travelling in a car, keep an eye on your dragon. When it seems all right, unleash your dragon. Don't let it go where no dogs are allowed, as it will be the same for dragons.
 You can become one too, and provide pets to your friends.

