 Approach the ball as you would normally, except prepare to hit the ball with the inside of your striking foot.


Generally, your body alignment will not be facing the goal. If you're kicking the ball with your inside right foot, your body will be faced slightly to the right of the target. If you're kicking the ball with your inside left foot, your body will be faced slightly to the left of the target.;
, Your planting foot is the foot that you aren't kicking with, the foot that will be the anchor to your kicking foot. Plant your non-kicking foot facing slightly towards the direction of the initial bend, so that when you strike the ball with the inside of your foot, both feet are almost parallel(~.3 m) away. Place it far enough away so that you can easily hit the ball with the inside of your foot, but close enough so that you don't have to strain to get there, taking power away from your shot.
 You're moving through the ball, and your body is curving slightly as it kicks the ball. Keeping your planting-side handout and up while you kick will help add power to your shot and give you balance on the follow-through.
 The ball will roll back along the inside of your foot. You should be striking the ball in the bottom left corner if you're shooting the ball with your right foot.









Look at the ball straight on as if it were a circle and imagine a cross (+) across the center of it. For a right-footed strike, hit the bottom right quadrant of the ball. For a left-footed strike, hit the bottom left quadrant of the ball.
 This foot should still be pointing down the original red line. Keep it balanced and firm with the help of your arms.
 Try to bring your kicking leg across your body, so that you exaggerate the outside-inside swinging motion and are sure to follow through with your kick.
 There should be sufficient lift to take the ball up and over the wall. As your foot comes across and around, you create ball spin, which will make the ball bend and dip! You can increase the height at which the ball rises by leaning your shoulders back during contact. Remember to put enough spin and dip on it to bring it goal-wards again.


Lean back if you want the ball to go up or lean forwards if you want to curl the ball downwards. This technique can be performed using any kick with the same results.

