 Recovery is a long, but rewarding road. Work on continuing to use any resources you have available to make sure you are staying on the path to sobriety. Resources will be able to help you with cravings or any difficulties as they come up. Determine what resources work best for you in your recovery. Not all resources will work for every person.


Avoid slipping back into bad habits. You will never be completely cured of your alcoholism. Be aware of the desire to slip back into social or casual drinking, as that can easily lead you down the road to a relapse. If you are having these urges, speak to your sponsor.
 Make sure you continue to attend counseling or meetings regularly, making your attendance a priority in your life.It is not uncommon for people to stop going to meetings if they feel like they have beaten their alcoholism. Even if you feel like you are doing well, it is still important to continue to go to meetings. It is okay to scale back on the number of meetings, but keep that resource open for yourself.


It is also important to stick with your sponsor or someone who is in successful recovery to help maintain your own success., In the current age of technology, you have many resources available to you to help maintain your recovery. Consider using cell phone applications to help you keep track of your recovery, maintain your sobriety, and help you fight urges as they come up. If you find that stress is a trigger for you to begin drinking, there are also application which can help you cope with stress. Consider some of the following applications.


The Addiction-Comprehensive Health Enhancement Support System (A-CHESS) app. A-CHESS will send daily messages of support, alert you if you are close to a bar, and has a panic button linked to distractions or a friend.The Sober Grid app. If during your recovery you have had to change the people in your friend circle, Sober Grid can help you find, chat and meet with other people in recovery. It also has GPS capabilities to find others near you, or you can remain anonymous.
The Quit That app. Quit That helps you track the progress you make when you are trying to quit anything. It can track the amount of time that has passes as well as the money you have saved., During your recovery you may relapse. It is not uncommon to relapse due to stressful events or circumstances, or just because.Relapsing does not mean failure. Make your sobriety your number one priority and don't give up because of a slip.Get back on track utilizing your resources and continue forward.


Contact your AA sponsor or addiction counselor for help.
Call any friends or family members that are supportive and can help you get back on track.
As soon as you can, recommit to your recovery just as you did in the beginning.
 Your body will likely respond well to the healthier lifestyle you have adopted. When you are in recovery however, it may be a good time to focus on making sure you are as healthy as can be. Your doctor will be able to give you a physical and work with you to address any issues. Visit your doctor to assess any of the following.


Assess if there is any damage to your liver from the drinking.
Determine if your heart is functioning well especially if you had a severe withdrawal.
Address any sleeping or appetite issues you may be experiencing due to your changes in lifestyle.
 Making it into recovery is a huge accomplishment. It is hard work and others may benefit from seeing that someone can make it. Share your story with others, spread the word of the dangers of alcoholism and how it affects the lives of those addicted to drinking as well as their friends and family.If AA or another support group format was helpful for you, you may consider becoming a sponsor or a group leader yourself.

