 While most coughs go away after a few weeks, some may be warning signs of an underlying condition or infection. Smokers may cough more frequently and should go see the doctor if the cough lasts longer than 3–4 weeks. You should go see your doctor with the first development of a cough if you experience:Sore throat
High fever
Whooping cough
Postnasal drip, which feels like mucus running down your throat
Coughing up blood - get emergency medical care immediately
Coughing that interferes with your work and daily activities - get emergency medical care immediately
You should especially go see your doctor if you have previously been diagnosed with allergies, asthma, bronchitis, heartburn, gastroesophageal reflux disease or are taking prescription medication, such as ACE inhibitors, for a heart condition. Coughing can aggravate these conditions.
 Your doctor may refer you to an ENT specialist, who can check your throat for signs of viral or bacterial infection, or if other underlying causes. An ENT specialist can also perform a nasal endoscopy using a fiber optic scope to look at your sinuses. The ENT specialist will look for nasal polyps and vocal cord polyps. The ENT specialist will also identify structural problems if you have nasal infection, and may suggest an endoscopic sinus surgery.You should tell your doctor about any other respiratory conditions you may have.
 Your doctor may recommend getting a 15-minute chest x-ray exam if you have symptoms like shortness of breath, chest pain, chronic cough, or fever. A chest x-ray is a painless, non-invasive test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. Although a routine chest X-ray won't reveal the most common reasons for a cough, like postnasal drip, acid reflux or asthma, it may be used to check for lung cancer and pneumonia and other lung diseases. An X-ray of your sinuses may reveal evidence of a sinus infection.Let your doctor know if you're pregnant or may be pregnant. In general, women should avoid all x-ray tests during pregnancy.
 Whooping cough starts like the common cold with a runny nose or congestion, sneezing, a mild cough, fever and sleep apnea. After 1–2 weeks, severe coughing can begin. Whooping cough can cause violent and rapid coughing, over and over, until the air is gone from the lungs and you are forced to inhale with a loud "whooping" sound. You may even vomit. See your doctor immediately if you have a whooping cough.Many babies with whooping cough don't cough at all. Instead, it can cause them to stop breathing. Infants and children under 6 years get emergency medical care immediately.
 If your doctor suspects chronic sinusitis, a nasal infection, or bronchitis, you may need imaging tests including an x-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Other common symptoms of nasal infection include:Fever and headache. If you have a high fever or severe headache, you should seek medical care immediately.
Pressure in the forehead, temples, cheeks, nose, jaw, teeth, behind the eyes or at the top of the head.
Facial tenderness or swelling, usually around the eyes or cheeks.
Shortness of breath or wheezing breath
Squeezing or tightness in the chest that causes pain
Nasal stuffiness, loss of smell, nasal discharge (usually yellowish green), or post-nasal drip, the sensation of fluid dripping down the back of the throat, particularly at night or when lying down.
Rare complications associated with chronic sinusitis can include blood clots, abscesses, meningitis, orbital cellulitis which causes inflammation around the eyes, and osteomyelitis, an infection that spreads to the bones in the face.
 If you have severe symptoms of a cold or flu or have been previously diagnosed with any respiratory disease, you should get professional care immediately. These symptoms include:Cough with green or yellowish phlegm
A fever of 104ºF or more.
Ear or nasal infection
Nasal discharge
Skin rashes
Breathlessness due to asthma or another respiratory problem.

