 Is there anything you want to change? If you have really nice eyes, you can enhance them, or leave it at a natural effect.;
,


With a braid, you can have 2 strands of hair and use ribbon as a 3rd strand; a barrette with red or green ribbon attached.
With 2 strands of hair around the middle of your head, attach a clip with a bow glued on it. For a bun, first gather 5 bobby pins and put Christmas stickers or small, colored cardboard shapes on them. Stick the bobby pins in place.
 You could use a mirror for accuracy, as well as tweezers.


Placing a warm flannel over the eyebrows after plucking may ease the pain.
, You can also put on concealer, if you suffer from pimples. Personal hygiene is also very important! Make sure you wash your face every day with a mild soap.
 If you want a cheaper way to get pink cheeks, though, pinch them!

, Sparkles are also recommended. (Make sure you use make-up sparkles, as normal glitter can irritate if it ends up near the eye.
, The colours should match your accessories.
, The traditional Christmas colors are red and green, so there are many different styles. You can also paint them gold and silver, though.:


A bright red background with a bright green tip.
A bright red or green background with a glitter after-coat, alternating between bright red and bright green, as well as many others.
After painting them, let them dry and put on a protective coat.
 You can also buy wax pads to use at home.
 You can buy a foot scrub, or easily make your own:


Mix thoroughly together 1/2 cup olive oil, 1/2 cup fine sea salt, and 3 drops peppermint essential oil.
Soak your feet for 3 to 5 minutes.
Pat your feet dry and stand on a towel while you rub the mixture all over each foot in a circular motion.
Wash off the mixture and dry off. Finally, paint those toes and clip those nails (file if necessary).
 Jeans are a must-have (rhinestones on jeans are popular), and a couple cute cartoon shirts wouldn't be a pain; faded is cool! Just make sure the cartoon shirts are Christmas-themed. Remember, the main colors are red and green, though light blue, gold, and silver is nice, too.

