 This is the charging port at the bottom of the phone. You'll need a Pentalobe P2 screwdriver to remove these screws.
 Press the suction cup onto the screen, just a bit above the "Home" button. Apply enough pressure to form a tight seal.


A tight seal is necessary to hold this front half up as you try to disconnect it from the bottom.
 Lift the suction cup upward with one hand while pulling down on the rear case with your other hand. Once enough of a gap forms, slide a plastic opening tool in between the two halves and pry the rear case away more firmly.
 If you have a 5s, you'll notice a cable leading from your Home button to the bottom of the iPhone. If you separate the two halves too quickly, you'll break this cable, which will make your Home button useless. You'll need to disconnect this cable before proceeding:

Pop the metal bracket holding the cable to your iPhone off with a spudger.
Pry the cable out of the connector, making sure not to remove the socket as well.
 Use the top as a hinge, and rest the screen against a book or a box at a 90° angle so that you can work on the insides without holding it. Don't let it open further, or you may damage the cables connecting it.
 This bracket can be found about an inch up from the bottom of the phone, directly to the right of the battery. Use your screwdriver to remove the screws surrounding the cable bracket. Then, use your fingers to lift the front panel assembly cable bracket from the logic board inside the rear case.
 Use a spudger or your fingernail to pry the connector out of the socket. This connector was protected by the bracket you just removed. Be careful not to pull the socket out with it.
 To make things easier, you can remove the display so that you don't have to keep it propped up. This can help prevent damage to the cables, but is not strictly required to remove the battery:

Remove the four screws (three for the iPhone 5) holding the connector bracket plate in the upper-right corner. Make sure to note which screws go in which holes, because it is vitally important that they return to the same ones.
Disconnect each of the cables that were housed underneath the bracket. Make sure to not pry the sockets off of the logic board. The 5 has three cables, the 5C has two, and the 5S has three.
Once all of the cables are removed, you can separate the display from the rest of the iPhone.
 You'll see a black tap stuck to the bottom of the battery. Peel this back to reveal two strips connected by the black tab., You'll see that the two strips have space in between them. use scissors to cut the black tab in half, making two different strips., Grip and pull one of the strips out and then to the side. Pull at a slight angle out from behind the battery. Continue pulling while running up the side of the battery, until the entire strip is free. Repeat with the other strip on the other side., There's a good chance that the battery is still stuck to adhesive residue. Heat the back of the iPhone with a hairdryer for about 60 seconds., Use a credit card, or similar strong plastic card, to pry the battery out after heating it. Make sure to not bend the battery itself when prying it out.
 Once your battery has been removed, you can replace it with a new one and reassemble all of the pieces. Make sure that all of your connectors are securely fastened, and that all of the screws went back in their original holes.After reassembly, perform a hard reset by pressing and holding the Power and Home buttons until the Apple logo appears.
New batteries should be drained to below 10% and then charged to 100% before using them for the first time for maximum efficiency.

