 Assume that your crush is making a weird, not funny joke. Give them a chuckle and then move on. Smile at the person and laugh a little bit in a natural way.


This strategy works especially well for questions that seem to be teasing and/or not really serious. If your crush asks you if you have ten kittens in your backpack, they’re probably not being serious. Questions like this seem strange but might just be bad jokes.
 Take a second and ask yourself if your crush could have been joking. Could they want you to say something strange back? Have they done this before? Try to find a way that their statement could be a joke and then respond accordingly.


If your crush asks you, “Have you ever been to the Moon?”, say, “Yes, I have. Just got back this morning!”

, If your crush asks you something too personal, tell them that you don’t want to answer that.


Say, “I don’t really want to answer that question.” You could also try, “I’m not going to answer that.” Be firm but not mean.
 If it’s a personal question, saying “I don’t know” indicates that you don’t want to answer it. If it’s not a personal question about you, just say you don’t know the answer. It’s truthful and ends the conversation quickly.


For example, if your crush asks you, “How loudly do you snore at night?”, tell them that you don’t know because you are asleep.Or, if your crush asks you what the capital of a faraway country is, say you don’t know (if you actually don’t know).
 If your crush asks you something really rude or disrespectful, you should tell them that their question made you uncomfortable. If the person is worth dating, they will respect you and try to understand your point of view.


You can say, “That question makes me uncomfortable, and I don’t want to answer it. Please don’t ask me questions like this again.”

, Change the subject quickly. Do not feel the need to continue having this strange conversation. Ask your crush about a common interest of yours, their school or workplace, the weather, current events, or anything else that interests either you or your crush.You can also say that you have to go. Make up an excuse to get out of the situation. You do not have to stay if you feel disrespected or uncomfortable.

