 In applicable situations, the first thing you should do for fires involving flammable liquids is to turn the fuel supply off.For instance, if a static discharge ignites gasoline around a fuel pump, the first thing you should do is hit the emergency shutoff valve located nearby at all pumping stations. This act severs the small fire from the very large fuel sources around it.


In many instances where the flammable liquid is the only fuel source, the fire may extinguish itself as soon as you cut the fuel supply.
 You can also use a fire blanket on small Class B fires. If a fire blanket is readily available, this can be the easiest, least damaging method to extinguish it.


To use a fire blanket, remove from its packing, grip the unfolded blanket in front of you with your hands and body protected by it, and drape the blanket over the small fire. Do NOT throw the blanket at the fire.
Ensure the fire is not too large for the blanket to smother it. Vegetable oil igniting in a frying pan, for instance, is a small enough fire for a fire blanket.
 As with electrical fires, water-based (Class A) fire extinguishers should not be used on liquid or oil fires. Carbon dioxide (CO2) and dry chemical fire extinguishers will have a Class B rating.Check the label on the extinguisher and ensure that it says Class B before using it on a flammable liquid fire.


To use the extinguisher, pull any pin stopping you from depressing the handle, point the horn at the base of the fire, and hold down the handle.As you see the flames shrinking, approach the source and continue spraying until the fire is fully extinguished.If you cannot extinguish the fire within five seconds of using the extinguisher, then it’s too large.Evacuate to a safe place and call 911.
The only exception to this rule when the liquid fire stems from vegetable oil or animal fats in commercial-size deep fryers and other restaurant equipment. The large size and extreme heat and fuel source of these devices get their own classification for fire extinguishers—Class K extinguishers.Restaurants with this type of equipment are legally required to keep a Class K extinguisher present.Do NOT throw water on liquid or oil fires. Water does not mix with the oil. When they are together, the oil stays on top of the water. The water will then boil and become steam 'very quickly.’ This quick boil is dangerous. Since the water is on the bottom of the oil, it sprays hot, burning oil in every direction as it boils off and evaporates. This then spreads the fire very quickly.
 Even if the fire is out, you should still call 911.Smoldering objects can reignite, and proper firefighters will be able to isolate and remove any risks completely.

