 Retailers and hardware stores typically sell plywood for framing and home use, in 8x4 foot (2.43x1.22 meter) sized pieces.You can also use leftover plywood that you have from a housing project, or you can contact a lumber or hardware store to see if they have extra scraps they are willing to give away for free.


If the plywood is cut to a slightly different size like 9x3 feet (2.74x0.91 meters), it's still suitable to use for your beer pong table.
The average cost of a cheap, 8x4 foot (2.43x1.22 meter) piece of plywood can be anywhere from $13 to $20.If the sales associate tries to get you to buy a more expensive type of plywood say, "I'm only using this as a beer pong table. Give me your cheapest stuff because I don't need a high-quality plywood.";
, Place your plywood over a table or countertop. Longer tables work best because the plywood has something to rest on, rather than floating in the air. If you have a thicker or heavier plywood, there will be less of a chance of it tipping over and falling.


Advise people not to lean or stand on the beer pong table because it can quickly collapse.
Fold up tables or dining room table tops are usually the most commonly used beer pong tables.
 You must make sure that your plywood is steady on top of the table or it may topple over. Use duct tape to attach the plywood to the table by wrapping it around the table and your piece of plywood. Use as many pieces of tape that you need until your table feels secure to the table.


You can also place heavy objects in the center of the table to hold it down.
Do not use an expensive table when doing this because the duct tape could pull away some of the table's finish.
To test the security of your table, softly push down on either end of the table to see if it tips over.
 Waterproofing your table will prevent the plywood from becoming damaged if beer or other liquids get spilled on your table. Go to the hardware store or look online for waterproofing sealants, stains, or paints that you can purchase. Once you get them, apply a thin coat of the sealant to the surface of your beer pong using a wide painters brush. Allow the stain or sealant to dry fully before using the table.Sealing your table will make cleaning it much easier and reduce the bad scent that often comes with spilled beer.
Not sealing your pong table could result in mold growth if you don't clean up spills well.
When using a waterproof sealant or paint, do it outside or make sure that the windows are open.

