 If you think someone is laughing at you behind your back, take a step back to assess the situation. Look at what you know to see if this person or these people are really mocking you.


Ask yourself if you have done anything new or noteworthy recently. Good news or performance may inspire people to laugh with you, rather than at you.
Look at the situation. If you hear actual laughter around you, know that it may have nothing to do with you. A person may be watching an entertaining video on their phone, or they may have seen something funny happening behind you. Check out your surroundings to see if there are other possible sources for laughter.
Think about any predisposition you may have to believe that people are mocking you. Do you deal with social anxiety? Have others in your past treated you this way? Evaluate your concerns and make sure they are coming from fact and observation, rather than internally-generated suspicion.;
, Take a look at the person or people you think are laughing behind your back. Decide if they are the type of people that you want in your life.


If you think a friend or peer is laughing at you, ask yourself, “Do I really want to keep a close relationship with this type of person?” If the answer is no, then you can end the friendship.
If you find a rival or bully is the one mocking you, pay them no attention. Remove them from your life simply by not feeding their desire to upset you. If they believe their words have lost impact, they will eventually move on.
 Often, people mock that which they don’t understand or because of an insecurity. Find out why a person or group of people laugh at you in order to reassure yourself.Someone may mock you because they don’t understand something in your life. Perhaps you are more focused on work or school than they are, or perhaps you have different interests.
If someone is mocking you because of something they don’t understand, tell yourself that your choices are valid and they don’t need other’s approval. Say to yourself, “I study to ensure a better future for myself,” or, “This hobby brings me joy and doesn’t harm anyone else. This person simply does not understand why this hobby is meaningful to me.”
Someone may also mock you because they are insecure about something that you are not insecure about. They may not have the guts to wear clothing that is very different from what is trendy, for instance, but you do. Tell yourself, “This person has no power to make me feel bad about something in my life simply because they are insecure.”

, Don't be modest. Every time you hear about someone laughing at you, pause and think to yourself, "They're wrong and I'm a wonderful person." Do this until you're convinced.Make it more real in your mind by backing it up with reasons why you genuinely like yourself. Tell yourself something like, “I am intelligent, resourceful, and I can make amazing cookies, and that makes me wonderful.”
Keep repeating this to yourself, no matter how hard or silly it may seem. It may be hard to believe while you are hurting, but the more you say it to yourself the more likely you are to start believing it.
Even on days when you don’t hear about someone laughing at you, remind yourself that you are wonderful and others don’t determine how you view yourself.

