 Nasal washes are good for relieving nasal symptoms if you have chronic nasal issues or sinus problems. Washing the inside of your nose with a salt solution will reduce swelling, improve airflow, and open up your sinus passages. It will also remove mucus from your nose and help to relieve any stuffiness or congestion. Look for nasal wash kits at your local pharmacy or make your own salt solution using household products.To make your own saline solution, combine 1 quart distilled water, 1 teaspoon Kosher salt and ½ teaspoon baking soda in a clean glass jar. Stir the solution and store at room temperature. Replace the solution after a week with fresh water, salt, and baking soda.
Do not use tap water. If you don't have distilled water you can sterilize tap water by boiling it for at least one minute, then allowing it to cool back down to room temperature. This will kill harmful contaminates.;
, In order to rinse your nose effectively with the salt solution, you will need a bulb syringe or a neti pot, which is a tea pot with a long spout made for your nose.You can find bulb syringes and neti pots at your local drugstore or pharmacy.


Wash your hands well before you do a nasal rinse to prevent the spread of bacteria and germs. Then, fill the bulb syringe or neti pot with the saline solution.
 When you are using the nasal wash, you will need to stand over an area that can collect any water or mucus that drips from your nose or from the bulb syringe.Place the bulb syringe in your left nostril and gently squirt the mixture into your left nostril. Aim the stream toward the back of your head, not the top of your head. Do not inhale through your nose as you squirt. The bulb syringe should be able to get the solution into your nose without any inhalation on your part.
If you are using a neti pot, place the spout in your left nostril and tip the pot up so the solution enters your nose. If the solution does not flow out of the neti pot, lift the pot so it is positioned a bit higher than your head but do not turn your head over your shoulder. Try to keep your forehead above your chin., This will allow excess solution to drain out of your nose into the sink or bath tub. You can hold a wash cloth under your chin to help collect any excess solution. Do not swallow the solution if it gets in your mouth. Spit it out into the sink or tub.After you have cleared out your left nostril, you may should rotate your head so you are facing the sink or tub and exhale sharply through both nostrils. This will help to remove any excess mucus or water. You can also use a tissue to wipe off any excess mucus or water. However, do not press down on one nostril while blowing through the other nostril, this can put pressure on your inner ear canal.
Repeat the same process with your right nostril using the bulb syringe or the neti pot and the salt solution.
 There may be a mild burning sensation in your nose when you use the nasal wash for the first several times. This is a normal reaction to the salt in the solution and should become less noticeable with repeated use of the nasal wash.If the solution continues to irritate your nose, it may not be salty enough or too salty. Taste the salt solution to determine if it too salty (you taste too much salt) or not salty enough (you can barely taste the salt). Adjust the solution so you can taste the salt but it is not an overpowering taste.If you develop a headache after using a nasal wash, your forehead may have been lower than your chin, leading to some water draining into your frontal sinus. After some time, the water should drain out on its own.
 If your symptoms become more severe or you develop a severe infection, increase the dose to twice a day.It can be difficult for your children to use a nasal wash. Assist your child when they are using the nasal wash and make sure they do not lie down when using the nasal wash. The nasal wash is more effective when done while sitting or standing.

