 First you’ve got to get the Framework installer, which you can find in the Xposed Module Repository site.;
, Before you can install the Framework, you have to make sure that “Unknown Sources” is checked in Settings>Security>Device Administration. This enables installing third-party application not found at the Google Play Store, and then you can directly install it if you downloaded it on your device.


If you got it from your PC or Mac, you’ll have to transfer it somewhere on your phone, and then install it. It should look like the typical Android application installation procedure.
 Locate the app icon, and press it. Once it has loaded, go to Framework. Here you can install or update the framework in case yours is somehow outdated. Once that’s done, reboot your device. There is a “Soft Reboot” button below which will reboot the device more quickly.
 You can do so once the Framework is installed.
 This should be the one you installed, and not the .apk. Go to “Download” where you will find a list of all the modules you’ve installed, those you’ve installed and need updating, and those you haven’t installed yet as well as the version of the Framework itself.
 These may not be apparent at first glance, but you’ll get used to them as you sift through the many modules. For modules made specifically for a particular device, the device type will usually be present in the module name so be wary of installing a module not meant for your device.
 When you find a module you want (Gravity Box is a good one which is a pack of universal mods rolled into one module), tap on it, and that will take you to a screen which shows the features, description and comments left by the developer. Read these carefully so you’ll get a better understanding of what the module does and a bit of how it does it as this will help with configuration in the later portion. Tap on the “Download” button, and the installer will start downloading the module. After downloading is finished, install it like a typical application.
 After you’ve sifted through all the modules you can use and have downloaded them, go to the Modules menu and tick off the boxes of the modules you’ve downloaded and installed. (Modules do not appear in your App Drawer without enabling them first in this menu and rebooting).
 Once you’ve ticked off those boxes, reboot your device using the “Soft Reboot” button in the Framework menu. After that, you’re ready to customize your device!

, Once you’ve rebooted, you’ll notice that there are new icons in the App Drawer corresponding to each module you’ve downloaded and enabled. Go to each of these, and play around with the various settings. Most do not require a reboot to become effective, so there are lots of options to play around with.
 There are plenty of useful and awesome modules being added and updated often, so make sure to keep an eye out for installed modules on the Download menu which need updating. Modules like the all-in-one packages (like Gravity Box) are also common, so make sure you do not download too many modules with overlapping features.

