 A good place has a lot of monsters that are at least 3 - 5 levels below you. If your level is below 10, there will not be any monsters with low enough levels, so just train on snails and mushrooms on Maple Island, Rien, Edelstein, or Ereve.;
, It will take some trial and error to discover you character's attack range, jumping height, etc. Once you become familiar with the basics, try to learn more advanced tricks, such as how to dodge a monster that is chasing you by turning around and jumping at the same time.
 You use the mouse and keyboard to navigate MapleStory. While the default keys may be acceptable, you might be able to improve your game by changing them.
 To start a guild you will need a lot of money, and you can go to the nearest . If you create a guild, you become the guild master or leader. Then you may invite others, etc. You can also pick a logo of sorts, and distribute different titles to members. Membership in a guild helps you make friends, who you can then easily find and contact. Friends can help you with questions you may have or can go on quests with you. Plus, hey, it's good to have friends.
 Even though quests often give you little experience, they are a good break from training all day long.



For Explorers, If you're becoming a Magician, you can do it at level 8. Go to Ellinia and travel to the very top to talk to Grendel the Really Old. He will turn you into a Magician. If you're becoming a Thief, you can do it at level 10. Go to Kerning City and find a door with "Fusion Jazz Bar" above it. Go inside there and go down the drain in the toilet on the left. You'll find the Dark Lord there. He will turn you into a Rogue. If you're becoming a Warrior, you can do it at level 10. Go to Perion and go to the Shrine of Warriors which is located at the very top. Talk to "Dances with Balrog" . If you're becoming a Bowman, you can do it at level 10. Go to Henesys and go to Mushroom Park. Then travel to the very right until you come to a house next to Game Park. Go inside and talk to Athena Pierce. She will make you a Bowman. If you want to be a Pirate, go to the Nautilus. Go into the building that looks like a whale, go up the stairs, then go to the far left room. Go inside and talk to Kyrin. #*If you're a Cygnus Knight, depending on which type of Knight you would like to be, talk to either Mihile (Dawn Warrior), Oz (Blaze Wizard), Irena (Wind Archer), Eckhart (Night Walker), or Hawkeye (Thunder Breaker)
If you're an Aran, go to Snow Island: Rien, and click on the giant polearm.
If you're an Evan, just finish the Evan Quests.
If you're part of the Resistance, talk to Belle (Wild Hunter), Brighton (Battle Mage), or Cheeky (Mechanic).
 Go to Kerning City and ask to join a party. If it is your first time, tell them so they can brief you and give you tips. Party questing is a great way to gain experience fast and is also very fun. When you get to level 35, you can do the Ludi PQ(LPQ). Find a guide online and get exp fast. You can LPQ when you're level 35. Then, you can Orbis PQ. Although you will find no one who does it legit. Rush pq is much better anyway. Once again, find a guide.(google.com)!

, Each class is different in the advancement, so do some research to find out how to go about it.
 You'll benefit from a good place to train until you reach levels 36 - 38.
 When you reach Orbis, check www.hidden-street.net for the location of Jr. Cellions, Jr. Lioners, and Jr. Grupins. They give you a good amount of experience and drop Solid Horns, which are used in the "Exchange Quest," in which you can get 500 experience and some items for every 100 Solid Horns you acquire.
 Level 35 is very low for that Party Quest, but if you feel up to it, why not? Don't tell the others it is your first time or you won't get in. Simply read a guide, and complete the quest up to the 8th stage. If you feel comfortable fighting the boss and you have Magic Guard upwards of 700hp, tell your cleric.
 If you don't know how, tell your PQ members to brief you.
 Once again, each class is different, so do some research in advance.
 Maplestory has more than one hundred different monsters.
 Each class is different, so do some research.

