


If someone has a designated space that's easy to find you can drop off your food and then park or park and haul your food. Many people bring luggage carts or wagons for ease of transport.;
,


These may be highly sought after spaces.
You may need to build seniority, be affiliated with a company or buy from an established parker to get a really good one.
People often sell their parking privileges and passes when moving. Check the school paper, craigslist, alumni organization, etc.
 Certain foods and beverages may be tradition in certain areas. Some foods can be prepared on site and others prepared in advance and brought in on platters.
 You'll need time to set up, prepare foods, enjoy your time together, pack up, clean up and get inside.
 With others tailgating it may be hard for your friends to find you in a sea of people.
 In most US stadium parking lots people can bring coolers with alcoholic beverages, gas or charcoal grills, catering tables, and everything from beer cans to fine china.


If you have doubts you can ask other tailgaters. Since there isn't a fee to enter the parking area on foot you can do a walk through and talk to other tailgaters about the dos and don't s as well as helpful tips. Most are very friendly and will gladly offer advice.
So long as you stay in the parking area you are pretty much free to party as you please so long as you aren't a troublemaker.
 Set your grill up behind the SUV or truck, put your canopy up next to your grill and the T.V. under the canopy on a table or in the back of your SUV or truck.


Set up plenty of chairs for your group or extras if you're expecting friends. Have friends bring their own. Keep a few chairs around for those guest that may stop in for a while to socialize.
If you get bored of watching the other sports games on TV then you can pull out a football, baseball, or other ball that you might have brought along with you to pass around with some one.
Consider bringing a TV and attaching a game system with sports games or other fun games for the group attending.
Many tailgaters listen to pre-game shows on the radio. Make sure you have the battery strength or pack a separate radio. You don't want to kill your vehicle battery.
If your car isn't equipped you can have an A/C plug kit and inverter installed to operate electric equipment.
 Your arriving friends may need direction if they can't find you.
, Warm foods can be packed with hot packs in coolers to stay warm but avoid foods that haven't been packed safely.
 People will be hungry and the post game tailgate is a great way to relax and discuss the game while traffic clears out.
 The use of these may also depend on local drought conditions.
, Add your own special touches. Modify it to offer more cool treats on warm days and bring plenty of hot comfort foods for cold days.

