 If your visual impairment is preexisting, and you have recently hired a new employee, you may wonder when the best time is to discuss this disability. The longer you wait, the more you open the door for potential confusion or run the risk of your other employees disclosing your disability for you. Get ahead of this by telling your employee as soon as possible.Tell them on their first day of work when you begin meeting with them to assign them tasks and acclimate them to the office.
They may have already noticed or picked up on it anyway, but telling them will ensure that they are not confused or left wondering.
Tell them in private. Though you may be comfortable with your impairment, this may be new for them. Allow them time to process away from others.;
, Though talking about your disability may be a sore spot for you, try to be as at ease as possible with your employee. It is your job to make sure that they feel as comfortable as possible in this working environment and having an awkward conversation with you will not aid in that.Take a few breaths beforehand. Review and rehearse what you will say. Stick to the facts and answer any questions they might have.
 When speaking about your impairment, avoid injecting emotion into the discussion. Speak to them as factually and practically as possible. Describe the nature of your impairment and the impact that it has.For instance you might say “Though I am not legally blind, my vision is severely impaired. I am able to discern light and dark as well as colors, but I do have to do all of my readings via braille or electronics.”

, During this conversation, it is important that you inform your employee of any accommodations that you might need them to abide by. For instance, perhaps you need them to send you any information prior to meetings electronically rather than giving you a hard copy.You might need other accommodations like larger print.
 In addition to certain professional needs, don’t forget the other niceties that make or break an office. Ask them to be mindful of your disability in returning items to their proper places so that you don’t have difficulty locating them. Remind them to never leave items in walkways. Think of any other requests that you could make to this employee to ensure that you can do your job without limitations or difficulties.


You might say something like “It’s really important for me that all office supplies stay in the same location. So if you use the stapler in the back, just be sure to put it back exactly where you found it.”

, Though your disability is certainly a part of who you are, it does not define you exclusively. You might want to discuss the ways that it has helped you so that they can understand the strengths of it.For instance, perhaps you have noticed that you are more detail oriented because of it or more knowledgeable about technology.
Perhaps your office has a culture of inclusion and acceptance.
 After you have spoken to your employee about your visual impairment, now is the time to see what questions they might have. It is likely that they have not had a boss before who this disability, but bear with them. Allow them to learn more about you by asking questions.


Encourage your employee to be open with you. They may feel uncomfortable asking you questions about your visual impairment. If they do ask you questions, be honest so that they are not afraid to approach you with questions in the future.
Tell them that even if they don’t have questions now, they can ask you later in person or via email.
Remind them that you are there for them and want to develop them professionally.
 Many companies offer workshops to employees on working with those from backgrounds different from them. Others offer workshops on how to be compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Inform your new employees about any such trainings and tell them that they can attend if they would like so that they can learn more.Do not make this required. If they do attend, count it as hours worked.

