 In general, you can deduct charitable contributions that you make. These contributions may consist of direct monetary donations or donations of property. For most individuals, your deduction is limited to 50% of your adjusted gross income for the year.For a more thorough discussion of all the regulations surrounding charitable deductions, see the IRS Publication 526, “Charitable Contributions,” or IRS Publication 561, “Determining the Value of Donated Property.” These can both be found at the “Forms & Pubs” tab at www.irs.gov.
You may also want to check out Claim a Church Deduction for Federal Taxes or Figure Fair Market Value Donations.
For 2016, you are entitled to make gifts of up to $14,000 to any individual without paying a gift tax. This does not create a tax deduction for you, but by remaining under the $14,000 limit, you will avoid incurring an additional gift tax. You may make as many of these gifts as you wish, to separate individuals.
 You may deduct unreimbursed or uncompensated losses due to disaster, casualty or theft at your home. You must reduce the amount of the deduction that you claim by any recovery that you get, either from insurance, salvage, or any other source. For additional information and more detail, see IRS Publication 547, “Casualties, Disasters and Thefts,” which is available online at the “Forms & Pubs” tab at www.irs.gov. To claim your deductions, you need to fall within the following general definitions:Casualty losses. This category will include any partial or total loss to your home or property caused by a sudden and unexpected event, such as a flood, hurricane, tornado, fire, earthquake, or volcanic eruption. A casualty does not include normal wear and tear or progressive deterioration.
Disaster. This applies to losses that occur when you live within a federally declared disaster area. You can find out if you are within such an area by visiting the website of the Federal Emergency Management Agency at www.fema.gov/disasters.
Theft. A loss from theft must be an illegal act, whether or not the thief is ever caught or convicted. Theft can include blackmail, burglary, embezzlement, extortion, kidnapping, larceny or robbery.
If you are claiming deductions for any losses by casualty, disaster or theft, you will need to complete IRS Form 4684, “Casualties and Thefts.” After using that form to calculate your allowable deductions, you will report the deductions on Schedule A. Both of these forms are available at the “Forms & Pubs” tab at www.irs.gov.
 If you are a teacher, instructor, counselor, aide or principal of an elementary or secondary school, you may be eligible to claim a deduction each year. The deduction applies to any unreimbursed expenses that you incur for books, supplies, computer equipment or other educational materials. Your deduction is limited to $250 for the year for each individual. Therefore, if a married couple are filing jointly, they may each deduct up to $250, for a total of $500. To qualify, you must have worked at least 900 hours in an elementary or secondary school during the year.For more information, you can see IRS Publication 529, “Miscellaneous Deductions.”
Educator expense deductions can be claimed on Schedule A of your tax return.
 If you spend up to $3,000 for qualified child care, or up to $6,000 for two or more children or dependents, then you will be eligible to claim this tax credit. The actual credit that you receive is a portion of your expenses, based on your adjusted gross income. You will need to use IRS Form 2441 to calculate the amount of the credit and then report the credit on Line 49 of your Form 1040 tax return.