 Getting your clothes tailored can change the same clothes from drab and lifeless to flattering and chic. Make sure your pants are the proper length and fit snugly at the waist. Tailor your skirt so the hem hits right where you want it to, but be careful that it isn’t too short for your school’s policy. Check if the store where you purchase your uniform does tailoring.


If you don't want to spend money on tailoring, especially if you're still growing, there are several DIY tailoring tricks to check out. Try using hem tape, fabric glue, and even bobby pins to adjust your clothing!Make sure that you wash all your pieces before you get them tailored. They may shrink, and you don’t want them to become too short or small!;
, These are simple and quick ways to adjust and style your uniform without spending lots of money on tailoring or accessorizing. Roll up your shirt sleeves to the elbows to make it a bit more casual. If your school allows it, try rolling your skirt at the top waistband to make it a bit shorter. This has the added benefit of making your legs look longer! Knee socks are the ultimate preppy addition to a uniform, so keep a couple pairs of those on hand., If your school is strict and allows you to only wear specific pieces, purchase all of your options. If your school provides a list of acceptable pieces or colors, make sure you get a range of appropriate items. The more variety or selection you have of school-approved uniform clothing, the more combinations you can create and you don’t have to dread wearing the exact same style of pants day in and day out.


For example, if your school allows you to wear navy or khaki pants or skirts, buy one of everything, if you can. You’ll be able to change up accessories and footwear along with your uniform, and feel less restrained.
If you’re short on cash, check secondhand shops for uniform pieces. Many students will donate their old uniforms after they graduate, so there are options even if you don’t have a lot of spending money.
 Adding a cozy cardigan or a tailored blazer over your uniform shirt can change the entire look of the outfit. Slipping on fun knee socks with your uniform skirt will really make the outfit your own. If your school is more flexible, you can keep your base uniform the same while adding different pieces over top!, It’s easy to pop on your shirt or sweater and head out the door, but you can go beyond the basics. Layering your uniform pieces in unique ways can make you stand out as well. Your basic uniform clothing is just your starting point. Try out different ways to wear it to find the most comfortable, the most flattering, and the most you!


Tucking in your tops can accentuate your waist and make the entire uniform more flattering.
Consider tying a uniform sweater around your shoulders for a preppy, sophisticated look. Layer it over a long sleeve button down with the collar exposed, cuffing the sleeves for a casual, sweet look.
 This is only possible if your school allows it, but many schools do as long as the jewelry isn’t too flashy. A simple strand of pearls or diamond stud earrings can add a little feminine sparkle to your outfit. Alternatively, a studded bracelet or a chain necklace can add some edginess.Find simple jewelry that really encompasses your individual style, and use those to express your personality in ways that you can’t with your clothing.
It can be fun to have a “trademark” piece of jewelry that you’re known for.
 You need something to carry your books in, so why not have some fun with it? Whether it’s a pink floral backpack or a leather tote bag, use this necessary school supply as a way to have a little bit of fashionable fun.


Make sure you know how many books you'll be carrying around on a daily basis before you purchase a cute new bag. It won't be very useful if you can only fit half of your belongings in it.
Alternate your bags throughout the seasons. Not only will this keep you from getting bored with your book bag, but it'll keep your style evolving.
 Depending on your school regulations, you may be able to really set yourself apart with your shoes. From Converse sneakers to delicate ballet flats to combat boots, add some personality to your uniform by picking shoes that show off your individuality.Make sure that whatever shoes you choose, they are comfortable. No one will be admiring your adorable shoes if you're limping or wincing as you walk!

, Adding something simple, like a scarf, a belt, or a headband, can transform the whole outfit. Additionally, these little accessories can be found pretty cheaply, so you can gather an entire assortment. By adding something different to your outfit daily, you'll have more freedom with your look despite wearing the standard uniform pieces., If you can’t get away with changing much about your actual clothing, focus on making your hair look cute and unique instead. Use a curling iron to add some voluminous curls, or create a sleek look with a flat iron. If you don’t have time to use hot tools on your hair, alternate throwing your hair up in buns, ponytails, pigtails, and braids. Mix it up! You can even get highlights or lowlights to enhance your hair color.


Tying your hair up with a ribbon can add a little bit of color, or popping on a studded headband can really make you stand out.
 The power of a great pink lipstick or a shimmery bronzer should not be underestimated. When everyone is wearing the exact same thing, a beautiful face will really stand out. If you have no idea where to start when it comes to makeup, check out YouTube for some excellent and simple makeup tutorials.Make sure you're putting your makeup on a great canvas! Wash and moisturize your skin daily to keep your skin looking healthy and glowing., Try a funky purple or a classic pink, or even doing all different colors on your nails. This is another way you can add some color and personality to an otherwise pretty basic outfit, so use it to your advantage.


You don't have to spend money at a nail salon to get an adorable manicure. There are some great drugstore brands that you can buy for cheap, and they come in every color you could want!