 There are some requirements that you should meet before you apply for Medicaid. These qualifications will vary from state to state; however, there are some commonalities that you can expect. Review the following list of qualifications to get an overview of what might be required of you.Be at a certain income level. For example, a family of 4 can earn no more than $29,700 annually by federal requirements.
The size of your family will determine required income level minimums. Larger families will have higher requirements for income.
Either be disabled yourself or be the beneficiary of someone who is disabled. You may also be required to submit medical proof of any disabilities.
State specific requirements. Some states have higher allowances for their minimum income requirements.
Other criteria may be required such as residency, immigration status, as well as providing documents proving your U.S. citizenship.;
, Even if you are not a citizen of the United States of America, you may still qualify to receive Medicaid. Review the following points to see if you fit in this category of non-citizens who may still receive Medicaid:If you have claimed asylum or are a refugee.
If you are a lawful permanent resident or hold a green card.
If you were a victim of human trafficking.
If you are a veteran or currently active member of the military.
If you are entering from Cuba or Haiti.
If you were under parole for more than 1 year.
If you are a non-citizen woman or child who was a victim of battery.
 If you live below or near the federal poverty level, you may be eligible for Medicaid. Each state will have their own requirements for income level. Compare your income to these federal and state income levels to learn if you are eligible for Medicare.As of 2011, the Federal poverty level for a family of four is $29,700 annually.
The Affordable Care Act of 2010 allows income levels to be 133% of the federal poverty level.
Income level requirements will vary from state to state. For example, income levels in New York can be 149% of the federal poverty level while Maryland allows up to 317%.A detailed list of state income requirements can be found at "www.medicaid.gov"

Income levels are usually judged in consideration with the size of your family.
Not all states have expanded their coverage under the Affordable Care Act. 19 states are currently not expanding coverage including Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, South Carolina, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Virginia, and Wisconsin., If you don't find yourself fitting into one of the main groups served by Medicaid, you may want to see if you fit into the three additional eligible groups. Keep in mind that it is up to the state to cover these optional groups. Review the following list to learn more about these groups:Those deemed “medically needy” may be considered eligible for Medicaid. People in this group are generally above the federal poverty level, but are allowed to pay a portion of medical bills while Medicaid covers what their payment did not.
Women who were found to have breast or cervical cancer may be eligible for Medicaid if they were otherwise found ineligible.
People who have tuberculosis, but were otherwise ineligible, may be covered by Medicaid.
 If you believe that you may qualify for Medicaid then you should apply. There are a few methods that you can use to apply; however, they will all involve you applying at a state level.


You can check to see if you are qualified on-line at healthcare.gov

Each state will have its own methods of application.
You can apply on-line at Medicaid.gov


