 Swaddling is believed to create a tight, warm environment similar to the womb. Even snugly wrapping your little tyke in a blanket and holding him close to your chest should help quickly calm him down. Get him warm and snug and start rocking.Lay the baby on its side after swaddling. It better mimics the feeling of the womb and calms them faster.
 A pacifier or your finger is perfect. Sucking actually steadies a baby's heart rate, relaxes his stomach, and calms flailing limbs. This might be the ticket to a quiet, contented infant., A gentle voice and simple rhythm are calming no matter what age you are. The gentle rhythm, combined with soft rocking and holding your child, should work. Any soft music will do.


Try simple, gently "shhh" sounds if you don't have a song in mind.
Even white noise can have a calming effect on a baby -- running water and vacuums can save even the most tone-deaf parent., Walk at a slow steady speed. Babies love rhythmic motion, and the lack of light will slowly make them sleepy. If you can, go outdoors-- the change to fresh air may help them calm down.
 Gentle, calming movements are all that matters. Babies love to be touched, so slow, consistent massaging might slow them down and quiet their lungs., Play some peek-a-boo. Lie them on their back and rotate their feet like they were riding a bike. Make silly faces and talk to the child. Just being a distracting, stimulating influence may be enough to get them to stop crying. Babies need to be entertained-- entertain them!, If you're out of options, it is time to look for help. The following numbers will help you calm down and provide potential solutions for your exact situation:


24-Hour Parent Helpline: 1-888-435-7553
Crying Baby Hotline: 1-866-243-2229
Fussy Baby Hotline: 1-888-431-BABY, If your baby won't stop screaming despite a clean diaper, full belly, and general comfort, you should call your pediatrician for advice. There is no reason to fear anything -- but you should verify your specific situation with a professional.


If the crying is high-pitched, random, and the baby seems tense, he/she may have colic, a crying disorder. Luckily, colic tends to go away by the time your baby is 12-14 weeks old.
Note when a baby cries to find patterns -- right before a nap, after waking up, after eating certain foods, etc. Pay attention to your baby's signals to prevent future outbursts.
Baby's crying usually peaks around 6 weeks, but it eases off afterward.