 A wider vocabulary is a great way to show you are intelligent. Expand the number and type of words you know, and look for more creative ways to express yourself.


Read more to find new words to use, and start writing more to make use of them. Signing up for a word of the day email from dictionaries like Merriam-Webster are also ways to build your vocabulary slowly, and in interesting ways.Avoid swearing. Littering your language with inappropriate words will make you appear less intelligent. In the wrong circumstances, you can even get yourself in trouble with rules surrounding office or classroom conduct.;
, When you talk, avoid a monotone. Change your pitch and tone slightly as you talk, and add emphasis to important words. It will help create energy, and make people think you are interested in what you are saying.Be sure to make eye contact when you talk to people. It will help you appear more focused and confident. If you are speaking to a group of people, try to make momentary eye contact with as many of them as possible.
Keep an eye on your talking speed too. In general, it is better to speak slowly and clearly, which will help you look confident and make it easier to understand you. The other option is to speak more quickly than usual. Cramming more words into a small space of time will make you appear intelligent for knowing all that information., You learned your information from somewhere, so when you talk to someone, go ahead and mention your sources. This will let others know that you are well read, and like to consider different ideas.A simple introduction to a point or question like “I read a newspaper article the other day that said...” should be enough to suggest that you picked up the idea from somewhere else.
 It may seem counterintuitive, but intelligent people ask more questions. They like learning about how or why things work. Asking questions shows that you are curious and want to learn more about something.If you don’t think you have something intelligent to ask, something vague like “What do you think about this?” is a good place to start. This lets the other person know that you recognize his intelligence and ability. Plus, by giving him the opportunity to talk about subjects he knows, you will probably learn something as well.
Asking questions is also a good way to remind yourself that you don’t always have all the answers. It suggests you are confident in your intelligence level without having to be right all the time., Don’t be afraid to provide a well-reasoned counter to someone’s idea. You don’t have to disagree with everything others suggest, but pointing out flaws in an argument, or being able to provide a contrary opinion will show you as someone willing to think differently.When you disagree, remember to keep your focus on the other person’s argument or position. Avoid personal attacks, which will only make people angry at you, and doesn’t make you look very intelligent.
 Let other people open the conversation with their ideas and thoughts. This will give you time to collect your thoughts, and build on what other people have said. Even if you can’t come up with your own idea, you can help to summarize other people’s thoughts.One good idea is to repeat someone else’s thoughts as a way to agree with it. Make sure you give credit too, so you’ll want to say something like “I agree with Jerry, that’s a great idea to increase productivity.”

