 A delusion is a fixed belief that does not change even with conflicting evidence. This means that, even if you try reason through a delusion with the person who has one, his belief will not change. When you present a variety of evidence to contradict the delusion, this person will still affirm the belief.Peers with the same societal and cultural backgrounds would find the belief unlikely or not even understandable.
An example of a delusion considered bizarre would be the belief that one’s internal organs have been replaced with another’s internal organs without visible scars or other signs of surgery. An example of a less bizarre delusion is the belief that one is being watched or videoed by police or government officials.;
, Actual delusional disorder is a specific disorder that involves having delusions for one month or longer. It is definitely not during the course of another psychotic disorder such as schizophrenia. The following are criteria for a delusional disorder: Having delusions for a month or longer.
The delusions do not meet the criteria of schizophrenia, which requires that the presence of delusions is accompanied by other markers of schizophrenia such as hallucinations, disorganized speech, disorganized behavior, catatonic behavior, or diminished emotional expression.
Other than the delusions and aspects of life affected by the delusion, functioning are not impacted. The individual is still able to take care of daily needs. His behavior is not considered odd or bizarre.
Delusions are more prominent in duration than mood symptoms or hallucinations associated with the delusion. This means that mood changes or hallucinations are not the main focus or most prominent symptom.
The delusion is not caused by a substance, medication, or medical condition.
 There are several official disorders that can have hallucinations or delusions or both, some of these include schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, delirium, and dementia.,, Hallucinations are experiences that involve perception and do not have an external stimulus. They also usually involve one or more of the five senses, most frequently auditory. Hallucinations can also be visual, olfactory, or tactile.
 Delusional disorders do not meet the criteria of schizophrenia. Schizophrenia requires other markers as well, such as hallucinations, disorganized speech, disorganized behavior, catatonic behavior, or diminished emotional expression. , Delusional disorder affects about 0.2% of the population as any given time. Because delusional disorder often does not affect functioning, it may be hard to tell that a person does have a delusional disorder, because they do not appear odd or strange. , There is extensive research and theory regarding the cause and course of delusions, however researchers have yet to pin point one specific and definite cause.