 You don't want to pick a time when your parents are super busy. You want to pick a time when they both have the time to talk and are in a good frame of mind. If you can't seem to find a time, ask them when a good time would be., You don't want to talk to your parents in some place where they can't really focus on you or what's going on. For instance, you may not want to pick the grocery store because your parents will be distracted.
 When you're ready, it's time to broach the subject. First ask your parents if they have time to talk, then broach the subject.For instance, you could say, "Do you two have time to talk? I'd like to talk to you about something important. I want to talk to you about my privacy."

, Your parents may think you're just trying to hide something wrong that you're doing. Help them to see that you just want space to be your own person.As an example, you could say, "I'm growing up, and I really am trying to learn how to be my own person. That means that I would like some privacy when it comes to my possessions. I understand that you are just trying to keep me safe. I also understand that you may feel like I'm trying to hide something from you that I'm doing wrong. I'm not. I really just want my space to do my own thing."

,

Even though you're a teenager, your parents may still be thinking about you as a little kid. It's hard for parents to see their kids grow up and become independent. As you grow up, you need and deserve more space to assert your independence, and you can help your parents see that you're becoming your own person.Bring up examples of how you've become more mature. For instance, maybe you've taken on more responsibility at home, or maybe you've decided to volunteer in the community. Maybe you've taken control of your grades, and they've gotten better over time.
 Make sure you bring up exactly what you would like your parents to do or not do. In this case, you'd prefer they not go through your bag. Make sure you state that in the conversation.

For instance, you could say, "The point of this whole conversation is I'd really appreciate if you wouldn't go through my schoolbag. I don't have anything bad or illegal in it. I just feel violated when you go through it, especially when you don't ask."

, Your parents probably have good reason to do what they are doing. It's okay to ask them why they feel like they need to go through your bag. It may help you come to a compromise that you both can live with.

As an example, you could say, "I know you want to keep me safe, but can I ask why you want to go through my bag? Have I given you a reason not to trust me? If I have, how can I win your trust back?"

, Your parents just want you to be safe. With that reasoning, help your parents out by making a compromise.

That is, maybe you don't want them to go through your backpack when you get home. However, maybe they wouldn't feel they had to do so if you told them what was going on at school. For instance, maybe you can agree to spend 10 to 15 minutes telling them what happened at school that day, including the bad stuff, so that they feel like they know what's going on in your life.It's also important to let your parents know that you feel safe coming to them when you do have a problem, so they don't need to go searching for one.
 When it comes to families, you must give respect to earn it. That is, if you expect your parents to not go through your bag, you have to show them the same respect. You have to be willing to ask before going through their private things, such as purses, briefcases, or drawers.

