 Use separate fragrance-free and allergy-tested cleansers to wash your face and body. Select cleansers that retain moisture and keep your skin free of dirt and bacteria. Some moisturizing preparations and soap-free moisture cleansers include:Dove
Olay
Basis
Cetaphil
Oilatum-AD
Aquanil;
, Gently blot at your skin to dry it. This can prevent you from stripping natural oils that moisturize your skin. It can also minimize the risk of irritation., Every individual’s skin is different and requires care specific to its type. Examine and feel your skin to determine what type it is. This can ensure you use the right product for your skin type. Look for the following characteristics of each skin type:Normal skin feels even and balanced. It is not too dry, oily, or sensitive. Your pores are generally unnoticeable.
Sensitive skin feels itchy, patchy, dry, and may sting. Your pores may be normal to large.
Oily feels oily and greasy all over and has large pores that may be clogged.
Dry skin feels tight and dry. It may even be cracked and flaky. Your pores are and feel tight.
Combination skin feels oily in the T-zone but dry everywhere else. You may have large pores around nose.
 Get optimal amounts of moisture without oversaturating your skin by determining the best product for your face and body. Although you may need a specific product due to age or conditions such as acne, follow these general guidelines for what type of moisturizer you need:Normal skin needs a water-based moisturizer with a light, non-greasy feel.
Dry skin needs heavier, oil- or petrolatum-based products that retain moisture.
Oily skin needs water-based, non-comedogenic products.
Sensitive skin needs water-based products with soothing ingredients such as aloe, chamomile, or calendula.
Mature skin needs oil- or petrolatum-based products.
 Gently massage your skin-specific moisturizers on your face and body. Do this within 10 minutes of stepping out of the shower or bath. This can seal in moisture so you don’t need to reapply often.Use moisturizers with a broad-spectrum sunscreen to protect your skin from the drying rays of the sun.