 Domestic travel is often more affordable since you do not have to worry about international taxes and fees. Look at destinations within your home nation to save on international flight prices and taxes.If you are in the US, for example, you could consider destinations like Hawaii or the Florida Keys for a tropical escape, or cities like New York or Chicago for an urban adventure.
Look at territories, as well. Flights from major US cities to Puerto Rico, for example, are often affordable because no international taxes are involved.
If you have airlines rewards miles, cash them in to see where they can get you. Don't sign up for a rewards card, though, just to get miles for your honeymoon, as this can promote debt elsewhere.;
, Popular destinations such as Jamaica, Costa Rica, and Western Europe are routinely more expensive because of the constant influx of tourist traffic. Research alternative destinations with the features or climate you want to find lower prices.Check travel guides online and in print to review activities, climate, and costs of different destinations.
If you want a honeymoon in a city like Paris with old world charm, for example, look at Canada’s Quebec city, which has a wealth of charming French food, architecture, language, and customs for a fraction of the cost.
If you want a tropical island vacation, instead of planning a trip to sovereign island nations in the Caribbean, look at coastal islands in Brazil and Colombia, which are often much more affordable., Instead of traveling a great distance for your honeymoon, stay nearby and save substantially on the cost of travel. You may choose to get a hotel in the city for a few days, or a cabin out in the country. Just pick a nearby place to unwind and relax after your wedding.By eliminating the cost of travel, you can put more of your budget toward accommodations and activities.
Think about your favorite places and activities in the areas near you. Are there beaches, hiking trails, museums, restaurants, or other activities that you want to share with your new spouse?
Alternatively, you can opt to find nice, well-appointed accommodations such as a hotel and spa or mountain lodge and spend your time relaxing and unwinding on property.
 Camping is an affordable way to connect with your new spouse and take on an adventure together. Look at national parks, nature preserves, and areas like forests, lakes, and beaches to find campgrounds that are affordable and easily accessible for you.Camping offers you and your spouse the chance to spend some time alone talking and bonding, as well as exploring nature and taking on adventurous activities such as hiking and kayaking together.
If tents and communal showers aren’t your idea of a honeymoon, you can also look at “glamping” properties. These often cost a bit more, but offer more luxury accommodations such as beds, electricity, and private hot-water showers.

