 Identify the grade level, subjects taught, and cultural context of the students. The classroom décor needs to be visually stimulating and age appropriate.


A cartoon alphabet might be perfect for 5-6 year olds, but won't impress a class full of teenagers.
What are your student's interests? What are they studying? The classroom décor shouldn't just look nice, it should be functional too. Maps, posters of division tables or examples of letter-writing formats can be visually appealing while also reinforcing what the students are learning.;
, Take a blank sheet of paper and do a rough sketch of what your classroom would ideally look like. Think about the layout, the furniture, the color scheme and the theme.


Be realistic. Take into account the amount of space available, the existing furniture and how much artistic freedom your school is willing to give you.
Get the kid's ideas too. Ask them to draw what they'd like their classroom to look like - you don't know what ideas they might come up with!
If you're really stuck, ask local artists to come in and brainstorm with you!

, Sometimes your redecorating plans might be restricted by what the principal or school board will allow you to do. You might have complete freedom or you may be limited by a number of rules. If in doubt, it's always wiser to ask for permission first.


Will your school allow you and your students to paint a mural on the wall?
Are certain areas of the classroom reserved for things like announcements and school notices?
Can you use the outside walls of the classroom?(Some teachers use the hallways outside their classrooms for large art projects.)

, See what materials are at your disposal before you go shopping for supplies. If you already have paint, colored paper, glue or any other art supplies you can save yourself time and money.


Things like vases, floor cushions and file folders can also go a long way in making your classroom feel comfortable and organized.
Ask other teachers if they have art supplies or room furnishings that they are not using or planning on getting rid of.
 There is a huge variation in how much money teachers spend on decorating their classrooms. You don't need to spend a fortune to make your classroom look good, but if you're completely overhauling your classroom, you'll probably need to drop some cash - how much is up to you.


Figure out if your school provides an allowance for teachers to decorate their classroom or if you'll have to fund the decorating project out of your own pocket.
Art materials can usually be found pretty cheaply but if you need to get rugs, lamps and wall hangings everything can start to add up.
If money isn't an object and you're not creatively inclined, there are plenty of classroom supply websites where you'll find beautiful, pre-made classroom decorations.

