 Almost any canned or packaged foods you purchase contain salt. Even sweet items, like jams, cookies, and bread have added salt for taste. Make a habit of checking the sodium content of everything you buy. Always choose the items with the lowest sodium option.Canned foods, like canned beans and soups, often contain high amounts of sodium. See if a store carries low sodium options.
Bread items, such as breads and bagels, can also be high in sodium. Look for breads with little added salt.
Canned sauces often have high sodium contents, so be on the lookout for low sodium choices.;
, Pre-packaged meats tend to contain high amounts of sodium. Instead of purchasing pre-packaged cuts of meat the store, purchase fresh meats, cook them without salt, and then slice off pieces for sandwiches.For example, you can purchase a chicken and roast it, or purchase a lean cut of beef and fry it in a pan.
Keep in mind deli meats still contain sodium, even if the content is lower. If your doctor wants you to track or limit your overall sodium intake, do not forget to count sodium from fresh cut meats.
 If you buy frozen or packaged vegetables, you may be surprised to find they contain high amounts of sodium. Check labels when purchasing packaged vegetables and make sure to go for low sodium options.Look for frozen vegetables that were frozen fresh rather than being processed prior to freezing.
Select low sodium canned vegetables.
Go for fresh vegetables most of the time, as these are healthier than canned or frozen vegetables.
 Processed foods in general contain high amounts of salt. A good way to cut back on your overall salt intake is to steer clear of processed foods most of the time. Make your own meals at home rather than buying things like frozen dinners from the store., Snack foods like potato chips are often loaded with salt. If you're looking to cut back on your salt intake, select healthy snacks to keep you full. Fresh fruits and vegetables and nuts, such as almonds or walnuts, are a better snack option than things like chips and crackers.If you snack on nuts, make sure to only take a small amount as nuts are high in calories. You should also be sure to opt for unsalted nuts.

