 Believe it or not, Gmail also allows voice chat — just like Skype or a telephone. Clicking this button (right next to the video chat button) will open a box with phone dial pad.
 Before you can use the Gmail phone feature, you'll need to install this plugin, which should only take a few moments. The plugin is completely free. Use the following steps to install it:


Click the "download the voice plugin" link in the phone box.
On the next page, click the blue "try it now" button. You'll be taken back to your inbox.
When the "allow Google to run Google talk?" message appears in your browser, click "Allow." If you don't see it, look for a thin bar that pops down from the top of the screen. The plugin will install automatically.
 Now, the message about downloading the plugin should have disappeared from the phone box. Click the buttons or use the numbers on your keyboard to type in the phone number you want to call. You can also search for people in your contacts by typing their name in instead.


Domestic calls in the U.S. are free. International calls cost money based on their length. However, this can be as low as one cent per minute depending on the country. Click here for information on Google Voice's calling rates., This will dial the number you have given. If the person on the other end picks up, you'll be connected within a few moments and you can start talking just like on a phone.


If you are making an international call, the price of your call will display in the top right corner of the phone box.
 Just like with video chat, you can also call someone that you're currently text chatting with just a few clicks. To do this, first click the phone icon at the top of the text box (it's right next to the movie camera icon). This will create a link in the chat box that says "Invite (your friend's username) to voice/video chat. Click here." Click the link to send the invitation to voice chat!


Note that your recipient will need to choose to accept the call before it can begin.

