 It does make it easier to complete the game's campaign, but putting yourself in danger and constantly looking out for them can be tiresome. In some cases, you might just want to finish a level by yourself, so consider just letting them die.;
, This may sound obvious, but they're trained to fight and very eager to get stuck in, so it's a harder prospect than it looks. Whether it's grabbing the faster vehicle, clearing the area before they arrive or simply blocking their way, the best way to save your allies is to avoid letting them get into combat.
 Although it may be easier to let your allies simply go out and be cannon fodder first, it will almost always end in their demise. Go out and draw fire away from them - after all, your health regenerates and theirs does not.
 Let's face it, you're going to need Marines when using vehicles, but if you want them to see another day, then you have to use vehicles wisely. Never let them drive - not only will you end up dead, but so will they - marines are far better gunners and passengers than drivers.
 Sure, it might help a little dragging them along to take out a Wraith, but it will probably damage them irreparably. Leave them behind and take it out yourself - it may take time but it will save the loss of your allies.
 Remember, they have unlimited ammunition, so swapping your rocket launcher if it only has one rocket left may be advisable. You can swap your weapons with an ally by walking up to one and holding the Right Bumper when prompted. You will get their weapon and they'll get your currently selected weapon.
 A well-placed bubble shield, deployable cover or regenerator could save countless allied lives, so be sure to recognize when there's a bad situation and when to deploy your equipment. Generally, equipment can be salvaged from anywhere, but dead Brutes usually have defensive equipment.
 Grenade throwing grunts and brutes are deadly to allies, Wraiths and turrets are too. But above all, hunters are by far the most deadly to your allies. Sooner or later an ally is going to find itself in a Hunter's path and die, so be careful and act quickly.
 You may not think it, but far more Marines and Elite allies die from your fire than from hostiles. Be aware of your tank-fire, your grenades and general weapon fire. If possible, take a less explosive weapon or shoot from a separate area to where they are positioned.
 They may be dumb and rush in when you don't want them to, or fail to shoot properly, or even drive off with your parked vehicle, but remain calm and remember who's side you they are on and that they are only powered by minimal artificial intelligence. It's not their fault.

