 Ask them about the services they provide for blocking unknown numbers. Many of these phone plans cost a few dollars a month and are billed on a monthly basis, but the options and availability vary from provider to provider.


Not all services allow you to block unknown callers, and can only block calls from numbers that you can see.;
, If you are using an iPhone or Android phone, you can install apps that will allow you to automatically block calls from hidden numbers. The most popular apps are Call Control (Android) and Call Bliss (iPhone).Call Control is an Android app that allows you to automatically block spam callers and telemarketers. These numbers are reported by other users across the country. You can also use the Privacy Mode to only allow calls from your Contacts list.
Call Bliss is an iPhone app that can automatically silence all unwanted calls, letting you easily ignore calls from unknown numbers.
 Do Not Disturb allows you to silence all calls except for those that you allow. This can be useful for ignoring unknown callers, but you will also not receive notification of any important calls from numbers you don’t recognize.


Tap Settings and then tap Do Not Disturb.
Tap “Allow Calls From” and select “All Contacts”.
Either turn Do Not Disturb on manually, or set the schedule to 24 hours. Do Not Disturb will now always only allow phone calls from your contacts. Be aware that any other phone number will be silence.
 These are paid services that will force the caller to reveal the number that they are calling from. The most popular service for iPhone and Android is TrapCall.
 Anonymous Call Rejection will block calls that do not show a number when they call. This service is typically free when you have Caller ID enabled on your line. Anonymous callers will be instructed to call back with an unmasked number when calling.


If you have Anonymous Call Rejection for your line, you can enable it by dialing *77. It can be disabled by dialing *87.If you cannot enable Anonymous Call Rejection, contact your service provider. You may need to pay a fee to add Caller ID to your service.
 While it originally only worked with cell phones, TrapCall has expanded their services to cover landlines. You can add your home or office landline to your TrapCall service from the TrapCall Control Panel.


Click the My Phones button to add your landline number.
You may be able to set up a call trap by calling your service provider. They may only do this if you can prove that you are being harassed, and it usually costs a fee.

