 Put on that encouraging voice - "Why don't you draw something for me?" and give them paper and pencils. They should be able to do this without too much assistance needed on your part, so you can while away a bit of time on your phone or reading until they tire of this. 

Pick the supplies carefully. It is probably best to avoid giving them glitter or paint, unless you want a massive tidy-up on your hands.;
, You do not need to join in with them if you think that this will be too tedious. "I bet you can't build a tower as big as me with LEGO," you could say with a smile. If there is more than one kid, you could challenge them to a race or competition, something that will allow them to compete with each other and leave you be., If they are interested, you could put on a film, assuming the parents of the children allow this. Alternatively, you could settle them down for quiet reading before bed, or if you can cope, offer to read them a short story. You could even make one up, if you have the patience to do so., This step is for if you really want to go the extra mile. If you enjoy baking in your spare time, then this might be something you can tolerate doing with the kids, and they will love you because they get to eat it afterwards., Kids often love playing dress-up, and because their clothes are tiny, you already have an excuse out of joining in. Let them parade in princess or pirate costumes, take photos, do their makeup for them. This will likely buy you popularity points with them, but you don't have to do a thing!, You might hate school as much as they do, but their work will be easy compared to yours, so your mind won't be all that strained, but for them a large part of their evening is gone, which means that bedtime will come sooner. There's no downside., This should keep them quiet and happy, which is a first. And you might even get nostalgic over what they're watching. Make sure that everything they watch is age appropriate., No matter how much you hate children, you must give them something to eat. You should ensure that this is prepared safely and is something that they will enjoy so that they don't leave anything on their plates. Some good meal ideas are shown below. This is not necessary if they have already eaten. If they ask for a snack, give them something remotely healthy. Offer them a mini-cookie if they eat an apple, for example.

Sausages and beans. You could serve on a piece of toast, or even make a face with the ingredients if you want to impress them.
Fish fingers, chips, and peas. It is important to include a form of vegetable, and you must ensure they eat them all. Offer a extra five minutes before bed if they eat it all.
Salad. A viable healthy option, though it probably won't make you too popular in their books. Try a fruit salad for a relatively healthy but tastier approach.
 Kids are sometimes too little to reach the countertops and make themselves drinks, so you have to be on alert for signs of thirst. Don't give them soda, as this will not only make them more thirsty, but will also send them up the walls for the rest of the evening. You could ask them to help you make them a milkshake, or warm them up some milk and a banana before bedtime., Many young people take regular medicine each evening, and you should not neglect this if you are caring for them. Offer them a drink to swallow any tablets with, ask when they last took their tablet, ensure their inhalers are used., Ask their parents' preferences on baths or showers, ask that they wash their hands before eating, and oversee their brushing and flossing. Make sure that there are always spare changes of clothes to hand, and that their pyjamas are fresh., This can be done in many ways, but make sure you follow the parents' norms for how they handle misbehaviour. The options may include:

Sending them to bed early. This is the ultimate gem. You can't force them to sleep, but sending a kid to their room is the equivalent of putting an adult in jail. Well, not really, but their evening will be compromised, and this is a great way of putting them in their place.
Don't let them have any pudding. Pudding is a great way of bribing kids, and so can also be taken away to condition their behaviour.
Threaten to call their parents. This should shut them up - they may well keep pushing their luck, so only threaten this if you'd be willing to see it through. There's nothing worse as a young person than the thought of getting in trouble with their mum and dad, so use this to your advantage.
Confiscate screens. Oh, the horror - no iPad or phone for the naughty little girls and boys. Be warned that this will seriously lessen their opinion of you.
Put them on the naughty step for a while. While they are there, make special fuss of the other children if there is more than one.
 No responsible babysitter would have the children awake past the bedtime specified by their parents. Follow their bedtime routines as accurately as possible, even if this means having to read them a story or help them get into their PJs. And think: the sooner they are snoozing, the sooner you get peace at last!