 The roof is a major part of your house and is often neglected when it comes to home improvement. Make sure that there are no missing tiles and that the roof is sealed everywhere. A fresh coat of roof paint is never a bad idea. Also check the gutters making sure there are no blockages or cracks.;
, If there are wooden gates a fresh coat of varnish will make them look as good as new. If you have electrical gates make sure they are operating properly. Check the rails of the gates and keep them free of obstruction such as grass or plants that are on the way. Iron or steel gates also need a fresh coat of paint every now and again.
 Make sure there are no cracks or chips. Wooden frames should be varnished or painted to make sure the wood does not rot or chip. You may consider adding shutters above window frames to protect the wood from the damaging effects of the sun.
 Use the correct paint for your outside walls as this will last a good couple of years. All you need is a good roller brush and paint. With some patience this chore can be done by yourself.
 Varnish or paint them as required. The hinges may need to be oiled or greased if they are creaky and movement of the doors become restricted.
 Make sure they are all in a good working condition and there is no drip after closing them. Brass or silver taps can be washed with soap and water to remove dust and grime that accumulates from harsh weather conditions. fixing a leaking tap will also help cut down on your utility bills.
 Anything that is not being used should be sold or discarded. Outside clutter creates a poor impression of your home and makes your property look untidy and unkempt.
 This can be done by using water and domestic vinegar if other cleaning agents are not available. Sparkling and clean windows improves the overall appearance of your home. Pay particular attention to the windows especially if are living in a sandy or dusty environment., Wilting leaves needs to be removed and thrown away. Flowering plants need to be adequately nourished and cared for.

