 Look online for boxing gyms in your area and find one near you. Once you find a location that you can travel to regularly, visit them or call them on the phone to see what times they offer classes and how much they cost. Many gyms offer a per-session rate as low as $10-$50, so you can try out the gym before committing to a monthly plan.Go to the gym before committing to classes to see how comfortable you feel with the trainers there. The best gyms will have trainers who are understanding and respectful to all skill levels.
Read reviews online to get a better idea of how past students felt about the training there.;
, One of the most important aspects of being a good boxer is having an efficient cardiovascular system. Boxing is one of the most physically demanding sports and requires a lot of endurance to fight multiple rounds. Conventional boxing exercises include running, jumping rope, hitting the heavy bag, shadow boxing, sparring, or doing circuit exercises and light weight lifting.Before sparring or doing any technique training, you should do a cardio work out for at least 30 minutes to an hour each day.


If you are out of shape, you may need to concentrate more on your stamina than the average person.
Don't let bad cardio stand in the way of your boxing dreams. Joining a gym will help you improve cardio drastically if you stay committed.
 Technique in boxing is far more valuable than brute strength. Speed plus technique equals power, so bodybuilding or having big muscles with no practical strength will not help you. In boxing, you must learn how to stand correctly and how to throw a variety of punches.


The standard boxing stance has your back leg slightly bent with your weight on it and your toe at an angle. Your non-dominant foot should be pointed forward. Both hands should cover your chin and face.
You will need to master all the basic punching techniques which include jabs, straights, uppercuts, and hooks., A trainer can show you how to move forward, back, and side to side while staying guarded, as well as how to block and slip punches. It's important to have good chemistry with the trainer you are working with. Make sure to communicate with them and tell them what your goals are.


If you are a little more experienced with boxing, let your trainer know that you know the basic form and technique, so you don't waste time.
Always listen to what your trainer has to say. Trainers can see things from a more objective view and will help you improve your skills.
 The speed bag helps a boxer with timing and accuracy. Use one hand and punch the speed bag slowly at first. See how the bag acts when it bounces off the backboard and try to hit it when it is swinging back. Once you manage to control it, increase your pace and start using both of your hands.Mastering the speed bag is not easy and will likely require hours of practice before you can get the correct rhythm.
 The heavy bag helps a fighter work on his technique and power. Remember always to wrap your hands and wear gloves before practicing on the heavy bag. Start by throwing light jabs, straights, and hooks to the heavy bag. Your punches should be quick and crisp. Also remember that a punch's full range of motion includes bringing your hand back to protect your face.


A common misconception is that the heavy bag should sway back and forth. This indicates "pushing" punches, which don't utilize proper technique.
Even though a heavy bag can't hit back, it's essential you maintain good form while using it so you don't hurt yourself.
 Boxing is one of the most grueling sports to train in and requires dedication and pushing yourself past your limits. In boxing you'll need to build up an incredible amount of stamina, toughness, power, and speed to defeat your opponents in the ring.If you are a competing boxer, you should workout five days a week for three to five hours to stay in fighting shape.If you feel like giving up, push yourself to keep going. You will not see improvement until you push yourself past what you thought you couldn't accomplish.
 Once you have the basics down, and your cardio and stamina are good enough, you should begin sparring with other people that train at your gym. Talk to your trainer to see if you're ready, then choose a sparring partner with a similar skill level. Sparring will show you to how it feels to deliver and receive punches in the ring.


Do not try to hurt your sparring partner. The aim is not to win, but improve both of your skills and get practical experience in the ring.If you have to spar with a more experienced fighter, they will likely go easy on you. You should do the same if you are sparring someone with less experience.

