 You can still look great while budgeting your money the next time you go shopping. Stop shopping at the most expensive stores and watch the money in your bank account rise.


Find an affordable store where you can still find great outfits. Don't think you'll only look good if you shop at the fanciest stores.
Wait for items to go on sale. You don't have to buy that amazing dress the second you see it -- come back to the store in a few weeks, and buy it when it's 50% off.
Some major department stores will give you back the difference on an item you purchased that went on sale, so keep all of your receipts.
Learn to love the thrift store. You can find some funky and exciting clothes at your local thrift store instead of at the local mall.
 You can save a lot of money if you don't spend a hundred dollars a month to belong to your local gym or shell out twenty dollars every time you take a yoga class. Here's how you can save money when you work out:


Run outside. If the weather allows for it, running is the one of the best workouts you can do and it's absolutely free.
If you're taking yoga or dance classes, buy a monthly pass to save money, go to donation-based classes where you can pay only what you can afford, or use a Library book and create your own yoga routine.
Buy online videos or DVDs that will give you a great workout from the comfort of your own home.
Work out at home. You don't need a home gym to do push-ups, sit-ups, and serious abdominal exercises. Invest in some weights and do a full-body workout right at home. , You don't have to spend all of your social time at home to save money. There will be times when you do go out to have some fun with friends, and you can still be smart and save money no matter what.


If you're going out to eat, eat a little something at home first so you aren't so hungry that you order everything on the menu.
If you're eating dinner with a bigger group, see if you can get a separate check. This will be a small pain, but it will save you the hassle of figuring how much you owe to a big group and inevitably overpaying.
If you're hitting up the bars with a group of friends and you're not the one driving, have a drink or two at home first so you don't end up spending so much money at the bar.
If a friend asks you out for drinks, pick a place with a happy hour so you can save some money.

