 Fiber adds bulk, softens stool, and contributes to peristalsis (gentle, rhythmic contractions of the colon), which encourages elimination.More fiber in your body means your colon can move waste out of your body more quickly and efficiently. Aim for about 20 to 35 grams (0.7 to 1 oz) of fiber a day. Make sure you have five servings a day of fruits and vegetables as well as lots of whole grains in your diet.Have 100% whole grains in your diet, such as brown rice, quinoa, oatmeal, millet, and corn.
Flax seeds, wheat bran, and oats are super-sources of fiber. You can prepare flax seed at home, have it in smoothies, or add it to other foods.
Fruits like strawberries, apples, and blueberries are high in fiber. Beans, seeds, and nuts are also good sources of fiber.;
, In addition to providing fiber, leafy greens provide nutrients that help repair your intestines. Try to have at least one leafy green vegetable in each of your meals or as a snack.Alfalfa, wheatgrass, Brussels sprouts, collard greens, kale, spinach, peas, and barley grass are all good leafy greens.
You can also try snacking on vegetables by dipping them in hummus, tzatziki, or baba ganoush.
 Your colon needs water to function properly and clean out any bacteria or waste in your gut. Try to have at least 13 cups of water a day if you are an adult male and nine cups of water a day if you are an adult female. You may increase your water intake if you are doing strenuous exercise or are in a hot, dry environment.You may get in the habit of carrying around a full water bottle with you wherever you go so you can hydrate throughout the day. You may also set a reminder on your phone so you can remember to have at least nine cups of water a day.
Try adding sliced lemons, limes, and cucumber to your water to make it taste more exciting. You can also add herbs like mint to your water.
 Try to avoid alcoholic beverages, such as beer, wine and hard liquor. They can dehydrate you and lead to constipation. Constipation can clog up the colon with large, impacted, hard-to-pass stool. Also, alcohol can suppress intestinal peristalsis and the urge to go, which makes constipation more likely., Milk and dairy products may worsen the symptoms of constipation, especially if you consume a lot of dairy.If you are suffering from constipation, yet are active and drink plenty of fluids, try to limit the amount of dairy products you consume or temporarily take them out of your diet completely.
 Caffeine can help to stimulate your bowels, which may help to produce a bowel movement.Having a hot beverage may also stimulate your bowels. Try drinking a cup of hot coffee or some black or green tea to get things moving.
 Fermented foods contain probiotics, which are bacteria that are beneficial for your colon. These foods populate your gut with good bacteria, allowing your colon to function properly. Yogurt, miso, kimchi, and sauerkraut are four examples of fermented foods. Kefir, apple cider vinegar, and kombucha tea provide drinkable probiotics.You can also take a probiotic supplement. Make sure you buy a probiotic supplement from a reputable supplier online or in a health food store.

