 Read and follow the instructions on your ice cream maker. Depending on the type of ice cream maker you have, you will need to prepare it in different ways, and some of these ways will require more time than others. Preparing your ice cream maker early will ensure that everything is ready for when the time comes to churn your ice cream. For example:


Some ice cream makers will require you to add salt and ice into the drum, while others will require you to freeze the mixing bowl in the freezer for several hours.
Some ice cream makers are hand-cranked, while others are electric and need to be plugged into an outlet.;
, In a large bowl, combine 2 cups of heavy cream and 1 cup of milk. Stir slightly to combine the two liquids.
 Add ¾ cups of sugar and ¼ teaspoon of salt to the milk and cream mixture. Stir with a spoon or whisk until the sugar is dissolved. You should not see any grains of salt or sugar. This may take several minutes.At the very end, add 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of vanilla extract and stir until you achieve an even color.
 Once your ingredients are all combined, place the bowl into the fridge to keep it cool while you prepare the cookies and ice cream maker.
 In order to have Oreo ice cream, you will need to add some Oreo cookie chunks. You will need to crush enough Oreos to fill about 1 cup. You can crush or crumble your cookies in various ways:


Put some cookies into a blender or food processor and blend them for a few seconds. If you want finer pieces, keep blending the cookies for a few more seconds.
Chop up whole cookies into smaller pieces with a knife.
Place the cookies into a large, resealable bag, and smash them by hitting them with a mallet, or going over them with a rolling pin.
Crumble the cookies with your fingers.
 Locate the mixer bowl of your ice cream maker and fill it with your mixture. Do not fill the bowl all the way with your mixture, as the ice cream will expand as it freezes. Instead, fill the mixer bowl about half-way.If necessary, store the left-over ice cream mixture in the fridge.
 Follow the instructions on your ice cream maker, as each ice cream maker is different. Some require you to turn the crank manually by hand, while others will mix the ice cream for you. This can take anywhere from 20 minutes to several hours.


If you do not have an ice cream maker, simply pour your mixture into a shallow, freezer-safe container and place it into the freezer. Stir your mixture every 30 minutes, and place it back into the freezer. Repeat this 4-5 times or until the ice cream is frozen., Just before the ice cream is finished, add the Oreo cookies, and continue mixing the ice cream.
 Once the ice cream is mixed and frozen, you can place it into a freezer-safe container. If you have any left-over ice cream mixture, you can add it to the mixer bowl and make more ice cream.

