 Everything must be documented by a receipt starting at the onset. Keep envelopes for receipts in each category of expense – housing, temporary living expenses, contents replacement, and reconstruction. As you submit receipts, keep a typed copy of each submittal and a copy of the receipts for your own files. Keep a notebook of the categories separated by tabs that holds the paperwork for the submittal –receipts and listing. Provide submissions in accordance with your needs for reimbursement – this may vary by month or frequency of outlays. Initially, a monthly expense statement may be submitted. Once temporary living expenses settle down, then the submittals may become more infrequent and be based on dollar volume. You are eligible to receive some portion of your contents allowance. Some companies provide this upfront; others make you wait six months for it.
 Does your company offer a flat allowance/limit for all expenses or an unlimited allowance for two years? Your expenses will be deducted for the normal living expenses that you would incur without a fire, such as typical food expenses for both eating at home and eating out, and utility expenses. The utility companies (electric, oil, gas) can provide you with the last 12 months of invoices for your home that can create an average expense.
 You are free to find suitable temporary hotel accommodations for you and your family members such that you are not situated in a flea bag hotel or four persons sharing one room. You are free to dine where you normally would dine. You are free to shop where you normally would shop. Do not abuse the circumstances by dining at a four star restaurant every night nor feel intimidated in purchasing a safe and adequate level of requisites for your needs in terms of housing and food.
 This is the whole waiting game of the insurance industry and its Achilles heel. If the insurance company wants to have the necessary appliances repurchased by you, then submit to them the bill and state that they can directly pay for it or provide you the check in advance. This same argument may be made for all types of things including pre-purchase of utility rates/contracts, hotel expenses and major temporary living expenses, and larger repurchases relative to items needed to replace or reconstruct your home/contents. Unless you have an extra $50,000 to $100,000 in liquid assets that does not require your usage for a year or two, this will be necessary.
 For any repurchases such as electrical appliances (hairdryers, coffee pots, etc.) remember to buy the quality that you will need when you are placed back into the house. There is not an allowance for any temporary appliances.
 Get a copy of your local fire report. Ask your agent how it is “marked” on the file. This may affect your ability to be covered in the future.

