 Your target heart rate is a number that can be easily calculated based on your age. Using this number can help guide you on whether or not you're working too hard when you're exercising.If you need to avoid stressing your heart, it's typically recommended to aim for 60% of your maximum heart rate.
To determine your maximum heart rate, subtract your age from 220. You can also use heart rate charts found online to determine the recommended maximum heart rate for your age.Multiplying your maximum heart rate by 60% or 0.60 will give you an estimated heart rate that you can aim for while exercising.
Make sure you clear this level of exertion with your physician before attempting this during an exercise session.;
, If you're concerned about stressing your heart during exercise consider purchasing and wearing a heart rate monitor. These little gadgets can tell you what your heart rate is while you exercise. This may be able to help give you additional control while you exercise.


Heart rate monitors are devices you wear that will tell you your heart rate continuously. These are great if you need to strictly monitor and avoid raising your heart rate too high.
One of the best and most accurate types of heart rate monitors are chest straps. You wear a thin plastic strap around your chest, with the actual monitor sitting directly over your heart. A corresponding watch or phone app is where you see the calculated heart rate.
Another option is to wear a heart rate monitor wrist watch, also known as a fitness monitor. Many of the pedometer watches and other fitness watches measure heart rate. Though these are fairly accurate they are not as accurate as the chest strap.
 If you're trying to avoid over stressing your heart during exercise, you need to be familiar with the signs and symptoms of "over-doing it." Make sure you pay attention to your body so you can prevent further issues.If you over stress your heart by doing too much exercise, you will probably notice some side effects. Keep an eye out for these and if you experience them, stop exercising immediately.
Some side effects to take note of are: chest pain, shortness of breath, dizziness, heart palpitations or feeling faint.
If you notice any of these signs while you're exercising, discontinue immediately. Sit down and relax until you are able to lower your heart rate. Talk to your doctor as well to let them know about this incident.
 Whenever you're trying to avoid stressing your heart during exercise, it's essential that you include a warm-up and a cool-down to your exercise routine. This helps get your heart ready for exercise and allows it to slow down afterwards.Your warm-up should be at least 5 minutes long. This is essential to avoid stressing out your heart. The purpose of a warm-up is to help slowly bring your heart rate higher instead of a rapid and uncontrolled rise.
The best type of warm-up should include light stretching, range of motion exercises and a lower intensity of your planned exercise (like walking).
A cool-down is equally important. This should also last about 5 minutes as well. It helps your heart rate and blood pressure slowly return to normal. Do not just stop activity, as this can cause lightheadedness and heart palpitations.
A cool-down is very similar to a warm-up. You want to slow down the intensity of whatever exercise you're doing. You may also include some light stretching if you'd like.
 Whenever you're trying to exercise and avoid exacerbating a current health condition, it's important to speak frequently with your doctor. Your physician will tell you exactly what you can and cannot do as far as physical activity.


Ask your doctor for specifics. You want to make sure you're 100% clear on what types of exercise you can do and for how long.
Questions you can ask include: How much exercise can I do each day? How often can I exercise each week? What type of exercise should I do? What type of exercises should I avoid? Do I have to take my heart rate while exercising?
You may want to consider having your doctor help design a workout or exercise plan with you.
 If you've experienced a heart attack or have a serious cardiac condition, it might be wise to start exercising in a cardiac rehab program. These are safe and medically supervised programs which is a great alternative to doing it alone.


Cardiac rehab programs are designed for those with cardiac related health problems or those who have experienced a cardiac event. They provide education and one-on-one counseling for exercise.Talk to your doctor about possibly joining a cardiac rehab program. Ask if there is somewhere local you can go to start.
 Going for a walk is a great form of low intensity exercise. It's one of the oldest forms of exercise and is one of the best activities if you cannot stress your heart during exercise.

Studies have shown that low intensity walking not only is easy on your heart, but also has many health benefits. You may notice improved insulin resistance and lower blood lipid levels.
Depending on your fitness level, aim to start with about 20 to 30 minutes of walking per session. You can do a more leisurely walk or pump your arms for a more brisk and fast paced walk.
If you're unable to walk far or do brisk walking, that's OK. Even a short, slowly paced walk still has great benefits. Over time, you'll be able to work up to longer times.
 Another type of exercise that you can incorporate into your weekly routine is using the elliptical machine. These machines may take a little coordination to get the hang of, but they're great for low intensity exercise.


The elliptical machine allows for a variety of fitness levels. You can increase your pace or the resistance on the machine as you get more physically fit or are cleared for more intense activity.
The other great benefit to the elliptical machine is that it's also low impact. This is great for those that also need to go easy on their knees or other joints.
Start with a 20 to 30 minute session on the elliptical. Choose a resistance that keeps you within your target heart rate range. Go for lower resistance levels until you figure out your heart rate.
 Recumbent bikes are popular in cardiac rehab programs because they're great for low intensity exercise needs. In addition, like the elliptical, recumbent bikes are really easy on the knees.


Recumbent bikes are great for low intensity exercise because you'll be in a reclined and seated position. It's especially great for those with significant exercise restrictions or are just getting back into exercise.
Recumbent bikes do allow you to control the resistance. The higher the resistance, the more difficult it is to pedal. This will elevate your heart rate if desired.
Aim for a 20 to 30 minute session at an appropriate resistance level. Again, make sure to start with a low resistance until you get used to this exercise.
 Swimming or water aerobics can raise your heart rate significantly. However, if you take it easy, these water exercises are great for those with exercise restrictions.Whether you are doing water aerobics, water walking or even water yoga, these exercises keep your heart rate on the low side and do not cause spikes in your heart rate either.
Any type of water exercise is low impact and low weight bearing. It's perfect for those that have joint issues and have pain when doing more traditional forms of exercise.
Start with water walking for about 20 to 30 minutes. If you enjoy this, look into taking a water aerobics class.
 An exercise journal is a great way to monitor progress and how well your body is responding to some of those lower intensity exercises. You can share this with your doctor and use it to track your exercise.Your exercise journal can be kept in a paper and pen journal or even through a smart phone app.
Ideally, you should track what type of activity you're doing, for how long and at what intensity. If you have a heart rate monitor, also track what you average and maximum heart rate is during your exercise sessions.
This is also a great place to track any symptoms you experience during exercise. For example, you get short of breath and slightly dizzy after 20 minutes of low intensity exercise.
An exercise journal is as great way to keep you motivated as you can see your progress over time.
 Even with chronic heart problems or in cardiac recovery, you can still do aerobic activities a few times a week. Health professionals consider appropriate aerobic activities to be safe and beneficial.In general, health professionals want you to aim for about 150 minutes of aerobic activity a week. Low intensity activities like walking count towards this goal.
If you are not physically fit enough to reach 150 minutes per week, set another goal that is more appropriate for your fitness level. Keep track of your progress in your exercise journal.Make sure to stick to lower intensity exercises like walking, light swimming, using the elliptical machine without resistance and the recumbent bike. You can do some moderate intensity activities (like brisk walking or jogging) only if you've been cleared by your physician.
Your doctor should give you specific instructions for total time per week and per exercise session.
 Strength training is another important component of your overall health. It doesn't have the same health benefits as aerobic activity, but can be incorporated safely into a restricted exercise routine.


Strength training activities help your body build and maintain lean muscle mass. In addition, it helps protect your bones and makes them more resistant to breaks and fractures.Include 1 or 2 days of strength training each week. To make sure you do not stress your heart during strength training exercises, make sure to use a low weight or little resistance and do more reps.
Include strength training exercises like light weight lifting, using weight machines, yoga or pilates.
 When you need to avoid stressing your heart during exercise, it's important that you take adequate breaks from activity during the week. They give your body a rest and time to recover.Most health and fitness professionals recommend including about one or two days of rest during the week. Try to schedule them at different times during the week to avoid having two days of rest in a row.
Rest days shouldn't be completely inactive (like watching TV all day), however you want to avoid your typical activities or do less of them.
Days of rest are important for your body's overall health. It's during rest that you see the gains in muscle mass or aerobic fitness levels.

