 Both historical and contemporary issues are up for grabs. Just remember that not every woman will share the same opinion, especially concerning contemporary, political issues. Keep an open mind and use the experience to learn from each other rather than arguing.
 Women are generally more avid readers than men, so plenty of modern books follow the lives of savvy businesswomen or strong mothers. Fill your book roster with these books to inspire and encourage your members.
 You can choose historically significant writers, like Jane Austen or the Brontë sisters, or contemporary authors like P. D. James or Nora Roberts. You can also mix and match, and spend time comparing the ways that female writers of the past wrote versus female writers of the present.
 While your book club is just starting up, you may need to take the initiative and decide the first few books. If there are any you have in mind that might be a good fit for your women’s book club, add them to the list. Otherwise, you can look up a few bestseller lists to get ideas.
 After your club establishes itself, the other member will probably appreciate having the chance to offer their own input about the book selection. You can have each woman take turns choosing a book.


Alternatively, you could also have each member bring up a possible title whenever she thinks of one and have the book voted on as a group before adding it to the roster.
 As the founder of the group, you may need to kick off each meeting by getting the discussion going. Ask questions that invite the other members to analyze themes, characters, or implications. Stay away from questions that can be answered by sharing one’s unfounded opinion or by stating a simple “yes” or “no.”

, If each member comes to the meeting with a question or unique insight, a broader range of perspectives can be covered. The conversation will last longer and be twice as thought-provoking.
 If your members stray too far away from discussing the book and start talking about other matters, politely step in and ask a question to get the conversation back to the book.

