 Many real-life princesses don't wear a whole lot of short ballgowns and headbands (except for around the village). People these days are learning to associate princesses with elegance. Think of princesses like Grace Kelly, Princess Diana, and Kate Middleton.Keep your assets covered. Princesses tend to leave a little to the imagination, so don't go for the the mini-skirt and super low-cut neckline because they are just not that casual
Some great choices are lace, wrap dresses, sailor necklines. All of these cultivate an air of elegance.
Create balance in your outfits. For example, you might do lose on top, tighter on the bottom like a free flowing skirt with a fitted bodice. This is a particular favorite of Kate Middleton.
Knee-length skirts rather than miniskirts are the way to go for an aspiring princess. Skirts that hit a little above your knee are okay, especially when it comes to skirts that are less for formal occasions.;
, Patterns and insignia go in and out of fashion. You want to make sure that you look put together and in style at all times. The occasional pattern is fine, but make sure that it isn’t something that is trendy and will go out of fashion within months.If you do choose some patterns, go for ones that are slightly unusual. For example, think of Kate Middleton's patterned blue dress. It looked like it was patterned with white dots, but up close it turned out that they were little birds.
While you want to stick to neutral and pastel colors (they create the appearance of elegance) the occasional jewel-toned outfit can be a great asset. Think royal blue, or bright crimson.
 This is common fashion advice, but it's something that a person wanting to dress like a princess should take to heart. A princess doesn't try to be the center of attention. Instead, she lets her outfits subtly enhance her and that in itself draws attention.Try enhancing an unusual feature, like your back. Princess Diana had a famous formal dress that was conservative in front, but open in back.
 A princess doesn't look to have the attention focused on her at all times. Often, attention is focused on a princess whether she wants it or not. Pick clothes that are understated and elegant.Tailored clothing is the way to go. You want your clothing to fit you just right, which is why you should take it to a tailor to have it altered to fit you perfectly. This shouldn't cost you too much especially if you only do it with a few select pieces of clothing.
Kate Middleton has worn some gorgeous grey, tailored dresses and it's a good look for any aspiring princesses. While you might not be able to afford the designer versions she often wears, you can find good quality dresses in department stores and secondhand shops.
One of Princess Diana's famous dresses was a subtly gorgeous off-the-shoulder sleek blue gown. Consider dresses like that when you're on the hunt for princess-like clothing.
 Again, tailoring is incredibly important! You want your clothes to fit you as perfectly as possible. Dress suits are an important part of any modern princess's wardrobe. They make you look powerful, professional, and elegant. They were a big part of Princess Diana's wardrobe, as well as Kate Middleton's.Suits in brown or grey are a good choice. Again, you're looking for understated and well-cut.
 Because a princess is always in the spotlight, they have to look put together and classy at all times, even when they're only dressed casually. If you want to to look like a princess you're going to have to emulate their classy casual clothes, as well.A good look is jeans, boots (always a good fashion choice) and a nice sweater (in a neutral or jewel-toned color). Always make sure that your jeans fit you correctly (there's nothing less elegant than jeans that are too loose or too tight).
Another good look, based on Kate Middleton's wardrobe, is a long-sleeved turtle-neck dress with a wide belt to emphasize your waist.
 Use the natural make-up. Princesses tend to stick towards make-up that doesn't overwhelm their face, that enhances the features they've got rather than going overboard. If you want to look like a princess, the natural look is the way to go.


Keep your nails well-manicured. Don't fall into the latest nail trends. Avoid jagged nails, or dirty nails.
Wash your hair and keep it well styled. You might not have Kate Middleton's luscious, Disney-princess hair, but you can get it cut and styled in a way that's best for your face and hair type.
 Accessories are a great way to get in a bit of individuality without going overboard and stealing the spotlight. Princess Diana was particularly famous for it.Wear a necklace as a crown. You might not have the crown jewels to use, as Princess Diana did, but you can still use a pretty necklace as a crown (further showing that you are a princess at heart).
You could also do something like wear a pearl necklace backwards so it accentuates your back rather than your front, especially if you're wearing a backless dress.
 Lots of princess like to hearken back to older times for inspiration for their modern wardrobes. You can do this, too.


Edwardian fashions have a lot to offer in terms of fashion.
Try a high-collar look inspired by Elizabethan fashion
Kate Middleton wears a lot of dresses that seem to be inspired by ‘40s clothing, so look to the ‘40s for your elegant princess attire.
 Princesses and royalty seem particularly keen on wearing hats. Try out hats that flatter your face. You can find ones that are good for tea parties, for formal occasions, and for strolling around town.


The traditional English wedding hat is particularly appropriate for formal occasions.

