 Every day, make sure you get in at least three meals. Introduce larger portions at your meals to help increase your calories. You may have a tendency to skip breakfast, only eating 2 main meals, but making sure you actually eat three meals can help you gain weight.If you can't eat huge meals because it upsets your stomach, eat smaller meals throughout the day. Don't skip meals.
 Eating often throughout your day can provide you a steady flow of calories. Try to eat at least every 4 hours, whether it is one of your meals or a small snack. If you're not up to a meal, have a snack that includes protein and three different types of food. If you prefer, you can create 4-6 smaller meals throughout the day, rather than adding snacks between larger meals.For instance, try a piece of whole grain bread with banana and peanut butter or some celery with hummus and feta cheese., Prepare snacks ahead of time that are easy to grab and eat. If you have them on hand, you're more likely to eat when you should.For instance, you can mix dried fruit, chocolate chips (dark is best), rolled oats, and a nut butter. Make them into golf-ball size portions, and store them wrapped individually in parchment paper or wax paper.For quick snacks, keep trail mixes on hand, as the mix of nuts and dried fruit is calorie-dense., Sometimes, eating all day long can fill you up, and you don't get enough calories to gain weight. However, if you get some of your calories in liquid form, you won't feel as full.You want to skip sodas, which don't offer much nutrition. Instead, drink smoothies, liquid yogurt, and even fruit juice, all of which have calories and nutrients., Drinking water or any beverage before eating can fill you up. You want to leave room for the calories you need to consume.Instead of drinking water before you eat, try drinking a calorie-rich drink while eating, such as fruit juice or a smoothie., While chips and cookies look like an easy way to put on weight, you want to put on weight healthily. Eating these empty calories isn't healthy. Keep your foods rich in nutrients, such as vegetables, fruits, and meat, as you increase your calories. Avoid foods such as sodas and overly sugary foods.One reason you want to skip these calories is they won't help you build muscle or bone, which help support your added weight., Lifting and weight training help your body gain muscle weight, which is the best kind of weight for your body to put on. Start off slowly if you aren't used to doing this kind of training. Increase weight and decrease reps as you go alongIn addition, exercise increases your appetite, making you want to eat more.A simple exercise to start with is bicep curls. Hold a weight in each hand. Your arms should be bent at the elbows so the weights are out in front of you. Lift the arms together to your shoulders, then slowly bring them back down. Repeat 6 to 8 times. Rest, and do it again.You can also try exercises such as swimming, biking, or doing push-ups.

