 Your horse will need different bandages for riding and for standing in the barn. Make sure your bandage is at least 2”. If your horse is very large, you may need a wider bandage. Stretchy bandaging makes wrapping the bandage easier and allows your horse some flexibility.Have a variety of bandages available. Fleece, flannel, cotton, and self-adhesive bandages are all available. Your horse may prefer certain bandages over others.
Your vet may also recommend when to use what type of bandage.;
, It’s crucial that you not skip this step! Improperly applied bandages can cause serious injury to your horse.Wrapping a horse's leg isn't difficult if you know how to do it, but it can be dangerous if not done properlyAsk a veterinarian or experienced equine professional to supervise your first attempts at bandaging.,


Consider practicing on the leg of a willing human volunteer instead.
 Wrapping a bandage can sometimes be a two-person job even for professionals. Make sure you have someone to help you your first few times.


Having another person will also help keep your horse calm.
Never wrap a horse’s leg without knowing how to do it properly!

, If the leg is particularly dirty, you can use a mild shampoo (like baby shampoo) with water.Make sure to remove the following to help prevent skin irritation and dermatitis:Dirt
Excess Iodine
Sweat
Grass
Manure
Debris

, Ask a veterinarian to demonstrate the proper technique. Always make sure a wound is cleaned, rinsed, dried, and dressed before bandaging.You can usually use “tamed iodine” (betadine) or chlorhexidine scrub to clean wounds. Consult with your vet to see what solution is best for your horse.Ask a veterinarian for help with deep wounds.
Don’t wrap your horse’s leg if s/he has a leg injury that has not been properly treated.
 Leaving the skin damp can cause irritation. If your horse has a wound, a damp leg will also prevent healing. Use a soft, clean cloth to dry the leg.Brush the horse’s leg. Smooth down the hair on the horse’s leg until it lies flat.
 If you’re bandaging a wound, apply a topical antibiotic ointment, such as silver sulfadiazine or triple antibiotic cream.Consult with your vet before applying ointment. Your vet may have specific recommendations depending on the situation.
Apply a non-stick sterile pad over the wound.

