 What is it that you are passionate about? How do you want to benefit (or benefit from) other people?;
, What do you find comes easiest to you, or that you enjoy doing the most? Do you have an innate talent in mathematics? Do you find it easy to express emotions to other people? Are you comfortable speaking with other people? Do you have a passion for educating others on the topics with which you are most familiar? Are you a one-of-a-kind athlete? These are only a handful of potential questions that you could ask yourself.


If you're uncertain about what your strengths are, don't worry — you're not alone. There are a number of actions that you can take to help recognize what you do best. Everyone has a talent or skill in some particular field.
 There are a multitude of careers out there, but they will ultimately narrow down to that which you enjoy doing the most. Think about what actually is in you — the real you, and your real wish. It may help to consider what you would be willing to be paid to do, or to do even if you weren't being paid.
 What personal characteristics and talents do you reflect to them? What do they think would be good for you, in terms of a career, that highlight these characteristics? Although you should not rely completely on what they suggest, there is great value in their observations of what they see in you as a person.
 Become your own person. Don't follow anyone else's style — create your own. Make decisions based on your own aspirations and goals for yourself. Don't base your standards or values on the standards of others.
 You can become more familiar with your determined area of expertise, further strengthening your talents. Also, it's a good opportunity to meet others with the same talent/goal.
 Be certain that you want to follow through with a particular area for the foreseeable future. Don't make a decision and change your mind in a matter of months. Write down your goals and revisit the list often, so you remember your goal.
 Don't follow your dreams. Chase them.

