 To truly be the best parent you can be with this disorder, you must make a commitment to your treatment. The most effective treatment strategy for bipolar disorder involves a combination of medication and psychotherapy. Therefore, it’s imperative that you take your meds as prescribed, show up and participate in individual or group therapy sessions, and track your moods to alert your doctors of any changes.In addition to medications and therapy, it may also be helpful to you and your family to join support groups for bipolar-sufferers and their loved ones. These groups offer you a chance to connect with others who are going through the same experiences and receive encouragement and advice.;
, Social support is fundamental for being a great parent with bipolar disorder. No matter how much you may aspire to be a superhero, the truth is, you will need to lean on family and friends. It’s best to accept this as your reality and embrace the support they offer.You can use social support in various ways. Contact a close friend when you are feeling stressed and need to vent. Have your parents take the kids when you need a break. Or, connect with moms in the community when you need help getting your kids to school some mornings.
 It can be upsetting to fall back into mania or depression after a long period of being in remission from your symptoms. However, rather than getting down on yourself, it's essential that you take proactive and reactive steps to protect your kids from any residual behavior that occurs due to your symptoms.


Firstly, strive to anticipate relapse by regularly tracking your moods.When you spend a few minutes each day documenting your medications, emotional state, behaviors and other factors like sleep and exercise, it can be easier to spot a change that may cause relapse. Plus, keeping track of these factors will also provide valuable insight to your doctor in delivering treatment.Secondly, make a doctor's appointment as soon as you notice a slight change in your mood. Then, alert your spouse, parents, or any older children so that they can be on guard to implement a crisis plan if needed. You may also want for any younger children to stay with relatives or stay with someone else yourself who can get you to a hospital in an emergency.
 Your idea of what parenting should be like may never be realized when you are living with bipolar disorder. That’s okay. One of the best things you can do for you and your children is to not get down on yourself about your disorder. Cherish the good days and try your best to anticipate and take action on the not-so-good days. Don’t keep a scorecard of what you’ve done right or wrong. Simply be there as much as you can for your children, and have others in place to fill your shoes when you can’t be there because of bipolar disorder.
 If you already have children and you have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, you might struggle with how to inform your children about your condition without adding undue worry or fear. Talk to your doctor for suggestions on how to break the news to your kids. Or, schedule a family therapy session to discuss the matter in a safe place facilitated by a pro.


In general, you will want to explain it in a way that is geared towards their age. You might say “Mommy has a brain sickness called bipolar disorder. This sickness makes me think, feel, and act differently than how I would when I’m well. I am seeing a doctor who is working with me to get better.”, Children will generally have lots of questions when introduced to something new. Reassure them that you want them to ask whatever they need to gain a better understanding. If children aren’t encouraged to ask questions and have them answered, they tend to create far worse versions of reality in their heads. Having an open dialogue about your condition can help put their minds at ease.Say something like “I know you guys must have lots of questions for me. I will do my best to answer them as well as I can. So…what do you want to know?”

, At some point, your children may witness some of the more frightening aspects of your disorder, if there’s a relapse. You can lessen your own guilt and help them prepare by coming up with a way to signal to them that you are not at your best.


If you live with a spouse or partner, they can forewarn your children of a mood switch with a code phrase like “Daddy’s having an episode.”
Or, you can use a household system to alert them of a mood change like taping a red sheet of paper to your bedroom door. If your kids see the paper, they know to give you space or instigate a crisis plan.
 Involving the whole family in an action plan gives your children a sense of power and control during the unpredictable highs and lows associated with bipolar disorder. When you are feeling well, sit down with them and come up with several steps they can take when you are in a relapse situation.Your plan may include having them go to a neighbor’s house, calling for another family member, or alerting your mental health provider. Include other family members and close friends in your crisis plan who will act as support during times of emergency.
 All women have unique concerns during pregnancy. If you have a diagnosis of bipolar, however, you have special needs that must be addressed in addition to those common to all women. You will need to work closely with your obstetrician and a mental health provider such as a psychologist.Also, encourage collaboration among your providers by sharing concerns with all your health care providers. That way, everyone is on board and can work together to ensure the health of you and your baby.
Early detection and intervention of bipolar disorder greatly reduces your chances of experiencing full-blow relapse. That’s why it’s extremely important to stay under the medical supervision of a doctor while pregnant with bipolar.
 Bipolar is a brain disorder that features distinct highs and lows. When you are high, or in mania, you may have a lot of energy, talk fast, have trouble sleeping, feel irritable, and make risky decisions. On the other hand, when you are low, or depressed, you have little energy, feel sad, eat or sleep too much or too little, and even consider suicide.The mood fluctuations inherent with bipolar present challenges for a pregnant mother. Your health and well-being are vital during this time, and both mania and depression complicate your ability to maintain good mental and physical health.
 Pharmacological treatment is a staple in the treatment of bipolar. Mood stabilizers are a special class of drugs known to be effective in helping those with bipolar disorder manage their symptoms. However, use of these drugs during pregnancy increases the risk of birth defects. If you are pregnant and taking mood stabilizers, be sure to check with your doctor to determine if these medications are safe. There are additional drug options with reduced incidence of birth defects available.Some mothers may believe that not taking meds is better than putting their baby’s health at danger. This assessment must be weighed carefully as untreated depression has been linked to low birth weight and abnormal brain development in babies. Plus, symptoms of bipolar can lead to behaviors that pose a risk to baby, such as poor nutrition, poor prenatal care, stress, and substance abuse., While a woman may have to make changes to her medication regimen during pregnancy, psychotherapeutic treatments pose no risk. Approaches such as bipolar-specific cognitive-behavioral therapy, family therapy, interpersonal and social rhythm therapy and group psychoeducation offer practical skills that help pregnant mothers learn about their illness, manage increasing household and family responsibilities, improve sleep, and cope with stress.Talk to your mental health provider about starting psychotherapy, if you are not already participating. It may also be helpful to attend sessions with your partner, other children, or other family members who can learn needed skills to help you better manage your illness while pregnant and once the baby arrives.
 In addition to getting treatment from medical and mental health providers, your obstetrician or family doctor will also instruct you to modify your lifestyle. All pregnant women require a balanced lifestyle to support the development and health of their babies. With bipolar disorder, a woman must be careful to support her own health in order to minimize symptom relapse.Get adequate rest. Aim for 7 to 9 (or more) hours per night. Wake and lie down at the same times every day to get your body adjusted to the sleep routine. Turn off electronics and avoid caffeine. People with bipolar disorder naturally have disrupted sleep cycles, so talk to your doctor if you consistently have trouble sleeping.
Consume a nutritious diet. Your doctor will likely outline a ideal diet for managing bipolar disorder and pregnancy. In general, eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, lean protein and whole grains. Cut back on processed, fatty, sugary foods.
Get plenty of physical activity. Ask your doctor what type and intensity of exercise is appropriate for you. Staying active will help improve your mood and sleep quality.
Manage stress. Worry about the baby can worsen your mood and jeopardize your health. Practice relaxation techniques such as deep breathing and meditation. Engage in regular self-care whether it be reading a book or doing yoga.

