 If a person is being physically abused, it is highly unlikely that they will come out and say this. There may be shame, self-blame, or fear that causes them to stay silent.Identify if the person appears to have frequent injuries or bruises due to "accidents."
Investigate the reasons why a person is missing work, school, or social occasions frequently. Do they seem to provide an explanation, or dodge the subject of why they are frequently absent?
Does the person's choice of clothing seem to indicate that they are covering up bruises or scars? Notice if they after wearing long sleeves on hot days or sunglasses when indoors.;
, Does the person appear more quiet, shy, or withdrawn? If this person had an outgoing and positive demeanor before, consider if their partner or abuser has had an negative impact.Whether the abused is a man, woman, or child, notice any changes in their self-esteem. Do they seem to have less self-esteem overall, or when talking about their relationship with a possible abuser?
The person may seem to act like they're "walking on egg shells" due to a systematic attempt by the abuser to control and blame them. This may be only when the abuser is present, or just in regular social situations.
 Does the person appear to have limitations on how they spend their money, where they go, what they wear, and what medicines they take? Listen to them talk about the limitations they are experiencing due to the possible abuser's preferences.Abusers tend to make themselves the center of an abused person's universe. This way the abused feels like there is no "out" or alternative except to remain with the abuser. There may be a form of psychological manipulation to makes the abused feel responsible for the situation.
Reduced or restricted access to friends, family, and community support is a classic sign of domestic violence and abuse.
 An emotional abused person may be manipulated into believing that whatever bad is happening is their own fault. This may be due to threats or emotional manipulation by the abuser to make them feel less-than. This will create often a sense of heightened fear and anxiety.Notice if a child is acting out with increased fear and anxiety at school, or appears to be noticeably withdrawn. Maybe the child talks about not wanting to go home, or appears to have genuine fear when a possible abuser's name is mentioned.
Take note if the person appears highly anxious, depressed, or possibly suicidal. Often people who are abused feel powerless and helpless. They also may feel shame about what has happened.
 Notice if the person appears to be restricted access to do activities when the abuser is not present or involved. It may appear that the person will cancel plans or change plans last minute, but for reasons that seem to involve their abuser.Cancellation of plans may be due to caring for children or the abuser even if the plans had been set for many weeks. It may seem like this becomes a frequent excuse that the person feels unable to control.
You may see the person drop activities that they once enjoyed, and appear to withdrawn from their previous social circle. They may spend less and less time with their family and friends.
 Pay close attention to the ways in which the person talks about their partner or the possible abuser. Notice if they describe the possible abuser as jealous, possessive, or highly temperamental. For example, the abused person says, "I can't go out tonight. He gets upset with me if I'm out after 8pm, and will want to know what I've been doing. I can be jealous when I go out."
Notice any recurrent themes or patterns in the abused person's descriptions. If you have met the possible abuser, see if those descriptions appear to match with what the person has said.
 Does the person appear to be constantly monitored by the abuser via phone calls or texts? Does the person worry about being out or away from the abuser for any length of time due to possible fears of retribution when back home?Notice if the monitor seems less related to fun or loving messages, and instead appear to be silent threats of control.
If it seems like the person has limited opportunities to be out in public without their partner or possible abuser, then this may be sign of domestic abuse. The person may feel like they don't have an opportunity to be independent, and must follow the directions of their abuser.
 Does the person appear to shift their behavior as soon as their abuser is present? This may be due to underlying fear or anxiety. You may see them act in a more subordinate manner when the abuser is present.An abuser will normalize their behavior, while the abused feel more and more trapped in the situation.
The abused will feel the need to protect the abuser as the abuser makes them feel guilty, and may use threats to prevent them from leaving the relationship. Thus the abused becomes a constant caregiver, seemingly bending to their long list of unreal expectations.
 Open up the lines of communication about what you see. Help to provide them with reassurance that you care about their well-being and safety. Avoid talking with judgment about the person's relationship with their abuser. They may not yet be ready to admit the abuse, or feel embarrassed that it has happened.
Make sure that you express your love for them. Provide words of encouragement that they are worthwhile. Many people who have been abused may feel like there is no support and no one who cares. Be that support.
 While the person may not be ready to leave the abuser or report a recent incident, offer them information about how to plan ahead for their safety. Depending on the circumstances, discuss about where to go or what to do if the person is in imminent danger or needs to leave the home suddenly.The safety plan should involve ways that the abused can get access to money, their identification, medications, keys, and other important documents quickly.
Provide a list of people or places where the person can call or go to feel safe.
Help the person to identify ways to keep their own residence safe from an abuser, or one that has been abusive in the past.
 Make sure that person doesn't feel alone. Many people who have been abused have been isolated, and made to feel insignificant. Make sure that they know that they matter and that there are resources to help.Find local and nationwide resources related to domestic violence by contacting the National Domestic Violence Hotline: 1-800-799-7233 or http://www.thehotline.org/

Find more information and support through the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence: http://ncadv.org/learn-more/resources

Help them to understand that many cities and counties have shelters and crisis centers for those who have been abused. There is often free crisis support and counseling through these centers.
 If the person being abused is a child under the age of 18, contact the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline for resources and support. A trained professional can help you to understand signs of abuse and provide local resources in your community.


Contact the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline: 1-800-4-A-Child or https://www.childhelp.org/hotline/. Discuss whether to report or any concerns about child abuse. All calls are confidential.
If you are medical professional, counselor, social worker, child care worker, educator, clergy member, or law enforcement officer, suspicions of abuse must be reported.
But regardless of your profession or relationship to the abused, you are not obligated to investigate or show proof of abuse. That is the job of those who investigate such incidents.

