 An HDMI port resembles a thin, wide slot with a slightly tapered base. If you have a receiver with enough HDMI input ports, and your TV has at least one HDMI input, you should be able to connect all of your devices to get the best possible quality from your home theater.


Most new receivers will have multiple HDMI inputs that allow you to connect all of your HDMI-capable devices, as well as an HDMI output for connecting to your TV.
You can buy an HDMI splitter for a one-port receiver.
 Check that your TV supports HDMI 1.4 ARC (Audio Return Channel). This allows the TV to send audio back to the receiver, which routes your TV sound through your home theater speakers. Most TVs made after 2009 support HDMI 1.4 and newer.


If your TV does not support HDMI 1.4, you will need to use a separate audio cable to connect the TV to the receiver (e.g., digital optical).
If you are watching TV through a cable box via your receiver, you don't need to worry about ARC since the sound is coming from the cable box into the receiver., These could include DVD/Blu-ray players, game consoles, and more. If you have limited HDMI inputs, use HDMI cables for the most recent devices first, as they will benefit the most.


For example, if your receiver only has two HDMI inputs and you have a Roku, a PlayStation 4, and a DVD changer, plug the Roku and the PS4 in with HDMI, and use a component connection for the DVD player. The Roku and PS4 will benefit much more from the HDMI connections.
HDMI plugs only go in one way, so don't force any connections.
 Plug one end of an HDMI cable into the receiver's HDMI slot, then plug the other end into the TV. This allows the image from all the devices connected to your receiver appear on your TV.
 Since your devices are now routed through the receiver, the TV can be set to the HDMI input that you plugged in from the receiver, allowing you to switch between inputs using your receiver remote.


Since everything has been connected via HDMI, all the sound from your devices should go through your receiver's speaker setup.
Most devices should configure automatically when they detect the HDMI connection, though you may need to tweak some settings for certain devices.
 If you aren't setting up a home theater system, you can still plug your HDMI devices directly into your TV and then control the inputs using your TV remote. Most modern TVs have at least two HDMI inputs.


If you have more HDMI-capable devices than you do input ports on your TV, you can purchase an HDMI switch that will expand the number of available HDMI ports.
 HDMI-CEC allows you to use your TV remote to control your other HDMI devices. To enable HDMI-CEC, you'll have to access each device's settings menu.


HDMI-CEC is called different things by different companies, including Anynet+ (Samsung), Aquo Link (Sharp), Regza Link (Toshiba), SimpLink (LG), and more. Refer to your TV's manual for more information.

