 This method is one of the most common ones for styling a bob, and it starts with your hair being wet. Spray or wet your hair if it is dry, or leave it wet after your shower before doing anything else to it.;
, The styling agent will help to hold your hair in place once you style and blow dry it.Put a quarter-sized amount of styling agent in the palm of your hand. Rub your hands together to spread it onto both palms, and then run your fingers through your hair to massage it in.
 You will work through this style in layers, so have a hair clip or hair tie to hold sections of your hair out of the way while you work.


Part your hair horizontally just above your ears. Lay your thumbs on either side of your head just above your ears, and run them back along your scalp to create the part. Lift all of the hair above your thumbs and clip or tie it up out of the way. Leave the rest of your hair hanging straight down.
 Take about a 2-inch section of the loose hair and set it on top of your round brush.


Feel free to run the brush down the length of your hair, turning slightly as you go, to work out any tangles.
 The blow dryer should always point down the length of your hair, because pointing it at or up the length of your hair will result in frizz.
 Because you have a bob hair cut, you likely do not have a lot of length to your hair. You may not need to move the round brush at all if it is short enough, but in most cases, you will have to pull the brush down through your hair a bit.


Continuously turn the round brush gently to help train your hair into the inward curl. This involves a quick wrist movement to flick the round brush back up to your roots, once you get to the ends.
Completely blow dry one section of hair before moving onto the next. Moving on before a section is completely dry will cause it to lose its shape.
 Working in 2-inch sections, you will probably have 3-4 sections of hair to work through with the round brush and blow dryer.


When you are done, the bottom layer of your hair should have a nice, rounded curve inward toward your neck and chin, setting a foundation for the upper layers.
 You will now prepare to work on the middle layer of your hair, styling it to match the bottom layer that you just completed.


Set your thumbs at your hairline at slight angle upward from the arches of your eyebrows. Slide your thumbs back along your scalp until they meet at the crown of your head. Clip or tie the top third of your hair up on top of your head.
 Just as you did for the bottom layer, you will now style the middle layer of hair over the round brush.


Remember to place the round brush and the blow dryer at your roots. Aim the blow dryer down the length of your hair.
Also remember to continuously turn the round brush gently as you blow dry. This layer of hair will be longer than the bottom layer, so you will have to repeatedly pull the brush down the length of your hair and then start back over at the roots.
 The inward curl at your ends should fall right over top of the gentle curl in the bottom layer.


Now that you are styling hair at the sides of your head, more hair should curl inward slightly toward your chin.
 You can part your hair in the center or off to one side. Create your part where you would like it to be, using a comb. Allow your loose hair to fall freely.
 Gently lift 2-inch sections of hair and place them over the round brush, getting a good handle on it, to blow dry.


Aim the blow dryer down the length of your hair, from your roots, so that you do not make your hair frizzy.
Continuously turn the round brush in your hand, under the section of hair, so that a slight curl is created at the ends of your hair. This will be the longest layer of hair, so you will have to pull the brush down through your hair and then start back up at the roots repeatedly until the section is dry.
 Move from section to section, drying each section over the round brush. Again, this layer should sit on top of the middle layer, with the curl inward at the ends matching that of the layers beneath.
 If you are concerned that the mousse or styling gel applied to your hair at the start of this process will not hold it in place, you can gently spray your hair with hairspray to ensure that it will hold the style.

