 If you don't have much experience with roasts, take some time to do research. Watch roasts of other people and figure out the techniques people use to get the most laughs. You can find roasts of celebrities on comedy channels or on the internet.Keep in mind that professional roasts may go a bit farther than you should, depending on your situation. For instance, if you're roasting your boss, you may need to tone it down a lot.;
, Write down anything the person does that's a bit crazy or silly. Maybe the person has a habit of only eating food on separate plates or only getting in the elevator if there are fewer than five people on it. These little habits can be great for filling out a roast.For example, if the person you're roasting loves peanut butter and bologna sandwiches, that's a little outside of the norm and people may find it funny. However, if the person likes to send mean messages to people, that's not as fun. It goes against the norm, but it also causes emotional harm to people., Another good source for a roast is interesting interactions you've had with the person. Everyone has days where they're a little off, and how that person acted on an "off" day could be a source for a roast. Alternatively, if you have any memories where the person did something truly goofy, that could be a great story for a roast.For instance, maybe a person jumped into the pool (fully clothed) at an office party to save a box of donuts. You could use that to tease the person a bit.
 Often, the roast jokes that get the most laughs have an element of truth in them, but don't cross the line into being outright mean.


For instance, you might turn a mention of the one pair of pants that Joe wears to work that are just a bit too short into a riff on his Steve Urkel-esque fashion sense. But don't just attack the person's sense of style without any context, or berate them for wearing clothes that make them look fat.
 If you're having trouble coming up with enough material on your own, feel free to ask other people if they have anything they'd like to add. You may find they contribute something you'd never have thought of, making the roast that much richer.You could also use stories that have gone around in your social group over the years. For instance, maybe the person is notorious for always burning dinner when guests come over, and so it's joked about in your group:

"Everyone knows Joe’s misadventures around the grill. So when he invites me over for a cookout, I skip a step and bring the fire department with me. OK, honestly I just make up an excuse and get take-out instead. There’s really no punchline here. Joe’s just a terrible, terrible cook.”



, Don’t drive yourself crazy looking for obscure joke topics. Focus first on things that everyone who even barely knows the person being roasted will quickly recognize. Is the person really tall? Do they have a shockingly deep voice? Are they bald? As long as it’s something you know they can laugh about, aim several of your jokes at this kind of easy target.Is the person getting old?: “Larry doesn’t need to go to the theater to see ‘The Mummy’. He was there when they wrapped and buried it.”
Is the person bad with technology?: “Larry is a decent nurse, but terrible with computers. He’s introduced more viruses into the office than the patients have.”
Is the person a spendthrift?: “Larry’s so cheap, the shops in town all had to change the notes on the change dishes by their cash registers to read ‘take a penny, LEAVE A PENNY LARRY!’

