 If you do not already have the app installed you can download it from the Play Store or App Store.






;
, Tap “Sign in”, enter your username and password, then tap “Login”.
 This button is in the middle of the bottom menu bar and will launch your camera.









The menu bar will not appear if you are in the settings or direct message menus.
 This button is on the right of the bottom menu bar and will switch your camera to video mode. If prompted, tap “Allow” to grant Instagram to access your camera.









You can also select “Gallery” on the bottom left to upload a video already recorded on your device.
 This is the large circle at the bottom of the screen. The camera will stop recording when you lift your finger from the button.









You can record multiple clips in a single video by recording again after lifting your finger. Unwanted clips can be removed by tapping “Delete” below the record button (the most recently recorded will be deleted first).Videos must be a minimum of 3 seconds and maximum of 60 seconds in length.You can tap the circular arrow icon in the lower left of the recording area to swap between back and front cameras.
You can toggle the camera flash by tapping the thunder bolt icon in the lower right of the recording area.
 This button is in the upper right corner and will take you to the editing page., Tap the speaker icon at the top of the screen to turn video sound on or off (the “x” next to the icon indicated sound is disabled). Tap "Next" when you're content.
 On iOS, there is a button next to the sound toggle that will zoom in slightly when tapped. Tap "Next" when you're content., Tap “Filters” on the bottom left of the screen (Android) or the overlapping circles icon at the top of the screen (iOS). Swipe left or right on the list at the bottom to browse the different color/lighting filters available. Tap "Next" when you're content.









Tap the “Play” button in the video area to preview your video with a selected filter.
 Tap “Cover” in the bottom right of the screen (Android) or the square icon at the top-middle of the screen (iOS). Tap a frame in the video timeline that appears to set this frame as the image that displays in the Instagram feed before the video is played. Tap "Next" when you're content.
 This will take you to the video info page.
 Tap the caption field and to enter a comment or caption to the video. Tap "Next" when you're satisfied.









You can tag friends or add hashtags to your video caption by typing the “@username” and “#tag” formats.
 You can select from a list of nearby spots or enter a location tag to your video.
 You can select which other social media sites to share the video to by tapping the icon and entering the your login information for that service when prompted.
 The “Followers” tab appears on the top left and the “New Post” button is in the top Middle. Both are selected by default.









The alternative is “Direct Message” which will share the video privately, and not post the video. You can select from your list of followers and send the video to them without posting it publicly.
 This button is in the upper right corner and will complete the video upload to your Instagram profile.








