 This sounds like a basic concept, but the best way to make your ex jealous is to live your life. More importantly, enjoy your life. Be happy with where you are in life. Being happy tells your ex that you are happy even though you are alone and he is no longer in your life.Mean it. Don't just pretend to be happy, but actually feel it. You may be sad you are broken up, but focus on other things. Don't stop working, exercising, going out with your friends, or doing things that you enjoy. Instead, do all that and more. Take up a new hobby or do something you've never done before.
Post pictures on social media of your life. Take a selfie while on a hike, post a picture while out with friends, and get someone to take a picture of you doing something you've never done before. When your ex sees these pictures, he will know you are living your life without him, and be jealous that you are still happy and doing awesome things.;
, Since you are single now, focus on yourself. Don't mope around the house, waiting for your ex to call. Don't try to win him back. Don't try to contact him. Instead, make this time about you. Do things that make you happy. In the process of making yourself happy, you will make your ex jealous by doing things other than being sad you broke up. Plus, whether you are moping or going on your next adventure, word will get back to your ex. There's no better way to make him jealous than by not dwelling on him.Call up friends you haven't seen for awhile. Arrange fun outings that will take your mind off your breakup.
Take a trip. Don't let being single keep you from a weekend getaway or a day trip somewhere new. Get out of the house and explore the area.
 Sitting around eating ice cream and chocolate is not going to accomplish anything, except maybe an extra 5-10 pounds. Instead of letting yourself go as you get over the breakup, get moving. Drop a few pounds and tone your body to make your ex jealous when he sees your improved physical shape.Join a gym. You can lift weights, go to classes, and get out of the house. You might even meet someone. If you don't want to join a gym, then get outside. Go running, take a hike, ride a bicycle, or go kayaking. Try any kind of physical activity.
Exercise helps boost your confidence. When you accomplish even small goals, like running a mile or hiking a trail, it helps make you more confident. Confidence is definitely something you want to have to make your ex jealous. Being a strong, confident individual is a cause for jealousy.Exercise not only will make you look better, but it will help you feel better. Engaging in activities gets your mind off of the breakup, and exercise releases endorphins into your brain that help lift your mood.
 Breakups hit everyone's self-esteem hard. To help yourself feel attractive and confident, do something to pamper yourself. Get a haircut. Grow a beard. Buy a new pair of shoes. Buy a new outfit.Do something nice for yourself to make yourself feel better.


Go for simple changes instead of drastic. Don't go shave your head, pierce your tongue, or dye your hair blue because you are emotional. Instead, keep it small.
 Wherever you go, look your best. Even if you only go to the grocery store or to the gym, make sure you are putting forward your best face. That doesn't mean you have to wear your best, but look presentable and attractive. Ask yourself before leaving the house, "Would I want my ex to see me in this?"Looking great when you are around your ex is a great way to make him jealous. Show your ex what he is missing., Just because you're not over your breakup doesn't mean you can't date other people, especially if you keep it casual. You don't have to be looking for the perfect person. Instead, go out and have fun. When it gets back to your ex that you are dating someone, he will more than likely be jealous.Don't use the person. Remember, the person you are dating has feelings, too. Instead, make sure he knows it's casual. Don't kiss him, and don't give him any reason to think it's more than it is.

