 In order to divorce in Virginia, one of the parties must have been a resident of Virginia for at least the prior six months and currently be residing in Virginia. If you are member of the armed forces and have been stationed outside of Virginia, but resided in Virginia for at least six months before being stationed elsewhere, you are considered to have been a resident for the prior six months, for the purposes of obtaining a divorce in the state of Virginia. , Virginia offers both divorces from bed and board and divorce from the bond of matrimony.


Divorce from bed and board. A divorce from bed and board is a partial divorce, where the couple lives separately, however neither is permitted to marry anyone else.
Divorce from the bond of matrimony. A divorce from the bond of matrimony is a complete divorce.
 Grounds for divorce in Virginia include :


Willful desertion or abandonment. Abandonment, or willful desertion, may be found if one party has voluntarily left the other, without cause, and without the intention of returning. A party may file for divorce from bed and board immediately, and if the other does not return for more than one year, the desertion will constitute grounds for divorce from the bond of matrimony.
Cruelty and reasonable apprehension of bodily harm. If a party is found to have committed an act which is cruel and could result in bodily harm, a divorce from bed and board may be granted immediately, and if the parties are still separated after one year, a divorce from the bonds of matrimony may be granted on the these grounds. Generally, the act must physical, and mental or emotional cruelty is not enough to establish grounds for a divorce.
Separation divorce. A separation divorce is a no-fault divorce, where neither party is faulted, or blamed, for the divorce. In order to obtain a divorce on the grounds of separation, the parties must reside apart, with no cohabitation, for a period of one (1) year. If the parties have a separation agreement, they may only have to wait six (6) months.
Adultery, sodomy, or buggery. Sodomy includes sex acts other than intercourse, such as oral and anal sex. Buggery means having sexual intercourse with an animal, or committing a sexual act against nature.
Conviction of a felony. A party may obtain a divorce on the grounds that the other was convicted of a felony after the date of marriage.
 If you have minor children you will need to calculate the noncustodial parent’s child support obligation. forms and calculations provided by the Virginia Courts to calculate basic child support as well a shared and split custody support.
 A divorce where both parties agree on all issues, or a collaborative divorce, can be obtained without going to Court. Try to reach an agreement with your spouse on all issues, including:


Division of property. Not only will you need to decide how to divide up your household goods and furnishings, but your investments, bank accounts, real estate, and any other personal property either of you own.
Distribution of debt. Generally a party who will keep a piece of property, which is securing a loan, such as a car or house, will also keep the debt that goes along with such property. Other debt should be distributed based on each party’s contribution to the debt, ability to pay, and the amount of property he or she will receive in the divorce.
Child custody and visitation. If you have minor children, you should try to come to an agreement on both physical and legal custody, as well as visitation for the noncustodial parent. Physical custody refers to where the child(ren) lives and legal custody to the parent(s) who can make certain decisions for the child(ren) such as where he or she will go to school, church, or what doctors he or she will see.
Child support. In the state of Virginia, there is a presumption that one or both parties should pay child support, even in shared custody cases. To be sure that the Court accepts any agreement you reach on the payment of child support, use the forms and calculations provided by the Virginia Courts.
 The state of Virginia does not provide standard divorce forms, so you will need to locate the correct forms. To do this, you may want to:


Check with your local clerk’s office. The Clerk of the Court may have standard forms for divorce in your county, just call or stop in and ask.
Visit the Fairfax County Court’s website. Fairfax County provides its resident’s with a pro-se divorce packet, which contains all of the forms you need to obtain a divorce, as well as detailed instructions for completing and filing the form.
Use an online forms service. A few reputable online services, such as US Legal Forms, sell divorce forms for under $100.
 Wherever you choose to obtain your forms, they should come with some basic directions to help you determine which of the forms you will need for your specific situation. Some forms everyone will need to complete are:


Complaint. This is the main document needed for a divorce in Virginia; it gives the Court the statutorily required information, such as the grounds for divorce, the date of the marriage, and the state in which the parties were married, whether there are children, and that at least one of the parties meets the residency requirements.
Form VS-4. This is a health department form that collects statistical data about divorcing couples.
Domestic Case Coversheet. This document simply provides the Court with the date of separation and both parties full names and addresses.
 Fill out all of the forms by typing or printing the information neatly in black ink. Be sure to complete every form, answering all of the questions, and providing any information requested, otherwise, your forms may be sent back to you, unfiled, or your case could even be dismissed.
 Call the Clerk’s Office in the county where you live and ask how many copies of each form you will need, how much the filing fee will be, and what forms of payment are accepted.
 You may take your original forms, copies, and filing fee to the Civil Division of the County Clerk’s office personally or you can mail in the forms and fee for filing.
 After filing your Complaint, you must provide your spouse with a copy, in one of four ways:


By Sheriff. If your spouse lives inside the state of Virginia, you may serve him or her by Sheriff for a twelve dollar ($12) fee. If you choose service by Sheriff, you will need to pay the fee at the time of filing.
Using a private process server. You may choose to hire a private process server to serve your spouse inside or outside of the state.
In person. If you and your spouse get along, you may wish to provide him or her with a copy of the Complaint in person, and have them fill out and file an acceptance/waiver of service and file it with the Court.
By publication. If you are unable to locate your spouse, you will need to serve him or her by publication. For this, you can find applicable forms and instructions on the Fairfax County Court’s website.
 If you and your spouse are not in agreement on all issues, the Court will set one hearing for property division issues and another for child custody, visitation, and support issues.
 Complete the Final Decree of Divorce, following all instructions provided with the form and file it with the Clerk’s Office along with a stamped self-addressed envelope.
 Once the Judge signs the Final Decree of Divorce, the Court will mail you a certified copy in the self-addressed envelope you provided at the time of filing.

