 Mix together ¼ cup (60 milliliters) aloe vera gel, ¼ cup (90 grams) honey, and 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of extra virgin olive oil or jojoba oil. This will give you a moisturizing, hydrating, and antibacterial cleanser.Pour the cleanser into a jar. Store any leftovers in the fridge.


You can use simple rose water, or a store-bought cleanser.You can also make a simple cleanser using 2 teaspoons of aloe vera gel and 1 teaspoon of glycerin instead.;
, Gently massage the cleanser into you skin for 1 to 2 minutes.Don't forget about your next! Rinse the cleanser off when you are done, then gently pat your face dry with a soft, clean towel.


Store any leftover cleanser in a sealed jar in the fridge.
 Mix together ¼ cup (50 grams) of brown sugar, 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of extra virgin olive oil, and 1 tablespoon of aloe vera gel.If you have sensitive or dry skin, try ground oatmeal instead of brown sugar.For a more complex, skin brightening scrub, mix together: 4 teaspoons milk, 1 teaspoon rice flour, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, and 1 teaspoon aloe vera gel.Avoid using white or granulated sugar. The granules are larger than brown sugar and much too harsh for the delicate skin on the face.
 Dampen your face first with water. Massage the scrub onto your face using gentle, circular motions. Keep massaging for 1 to 2 minutes. Take care to avoid the sensitive skin around the eyes., Gently pat your face dry with a soft, clean towel. You are now ready for the next step in your facial!

, If you want to, you can add some essential oil or dried herbs, such as chamomile, rose petals, or lavender to the water. Not only will this make it smell nicer, but some oils and herbs can prove beneficial to your skin!, Keep your face 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) above the water, and drape a towel over your head so that it traps the steam. During this time, the steam will help open up your pores and loosen dirt, making it easier to clean. You can steam for your longer, for up to 3 minutes, but remember to take a break and breath deeply after each minute.Splash your face afterwards with cool water. This will help tighten and seal your pores, and prepare your skin for the next step.
 Mix together 2 teaspoons aloe vera gel and 1 teaspoon honey. Break open 2 vitamin E capsules, and stir them into the cream as well.For a lightening cream, mix together 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) aloe vera gel, ½ tablespoon (11 grams) honey, and 2 to 3 pinches of tumeric instead., Gently massage your forehead, chin, temples, and cheeks with your fingers. Take care to avoid the area around your eyes, and be gentle around your nose., If there is any residue, use a damp cloth to wipe it away. Gently pat your face dry with a soft, clean towel.
 Mix together 2 teaspoons aloe vera gel, 2 teaspoons rose water, and 1 teaspoon of sandalwood powder or fullers earth.Sandalwood powder is great for treating acne and clarifying skin.Fullers earth is great for absorbing excess oils, making it ideal for those with oily skin.You can also use a different aloe vera-based mask recipe if you have one that you prefer.
 For a more luxurious treatment, use a clean foundation brush to apply the mask instead. Spread it across your cheeks and forehead, and down your nose. Guide it along your jaw line and across your chin. Take care to avoid your lips and eyes.This mask can get messy. Tie your hair back and drape a towel over your shoulders.
 During this time, you can lay down on your bed or lean back in a comfortable chair. Close your eyes and relax. Consider practicing some deep breathing exercises., If there is any residue left over, use a damp cloth to gently wipe it away. Pat your face dry with a soft, clean towel afterward.
 You can use your favorite facial toner or rose water. You can also mix together some rosewater and aloe vera gel, and apply that to your face; it will act as both a toner and moisturizer.Rose water is a great, natural toner. It helps balance your skin's pH and is suitable for skin conditions, such as dermatitis and eczema., You can apply your own moisturizer, or your can make you own by mixing together 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) aloe vera gel, 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) rose water, and ½ tablespoon (7.5 milliliters) glycerin. If you have dry skin, add ½ tablespoon olive oil. If you have oily skin or acne, add ½ tablespoon lemon juice. Stir everything together.Rose water is a natural antiseptic while glycerin is great for moisturizing your skin without making it oily.