 You can't have fun if you're all stressed out. Take a breather, let your hair down, paint your nails, or do whatever else eases your mind.;
, Try making a list of things you would like to do during the summer. Things you can do include visiting a carnival or fair, and hanging out with your friends.
 Try doing something you haven't done since you were a kid.
 Take a class in something you would like to learn (such as a CPR class and painting lessons). It's always good to learn something new, and learning a new skill is also amusing.
 You can bring some friends along with you. Visiting a carnival is very entertaining and allows you to do various things, such as riding on rides and playing carnival games.
 Water balloon fights are always very amazing, and they give you an opportunity to 'fight' your friends while having fun at the same time. They are also very good because you can get wet, cooling you off while the weather's hot and might get over 100 degrees.
 Sleepovers keep you entertained because you get to do enjoyable activities. Do anything that entertains you, such as playing Truth-or-Dare, painting your nails, and watching a movie.
 Movies keep you entertained if you pick a movie that interests you. Rent or buy movies, or watch ones you already have.


If you don't want to watch a movie at home, try going to a movie theater.
 If it's hot during summer and you want to cool off, swimming is a very good choice. You can swim alone, or with your friends and family. It's also good to try playing pool games.
 It's always amusing to go to the beach and sit in the warm sand. You could also try walking or swimming in the ocean, as people feel comfortable when feeling the ocean waves.
 They look very cool, and are fun to make and play with.
 Pictures are very pretty, especially for your photo album. You can photograph whatever you want, including yourself, a friend, family member, or an object.
 Going camping gives you the opportunity to see the outdoors and take a break from being inside. Try having a campfire, as it is very entertaining.
 Barbecues are always fun and allow you the chance to eat delicious food. Invite your friends, family members, or whoever else you want to invite.
 Celebrating the Fourth of July is an amazing activity. Watch the fireworks as they're being shot; it's very amusing as well. You could even try shooting some yourself!

