 The topics of these posts may be part of the reason you attracted readers and an audience in the first place. By expanding on the blog topics that have generated lots of comments, you can potentially draw more traffic to your blog.


Review your blog dashboard to locate all your blog posts that have generated the highest amount of user comments.;
, If you can identify a specific theme across blog posts that generate the most comments, you can write additional blog posts on that particular theme. For example, if you discover that multiple comments were left for blog posts that featured "top ten" lists, write more posts that feature "top ten" lists.


For help with determining common themes or hot topics in the blog posts with the most comments, review the names of the tags or categories you have assigned to your blog posts, if applicable.
 Sometimes, your blog posts may be generating comments if your audience enjoys the layout and format of your blog post. For example, if multiple comments are left on posts that are easily scannable and feature bullet points, write more blog posts using this format.
 In some cases, users will post rhetorical questions or interesting thoughts in the comments section that can be used to create new blog posts. For example, if you write a blog about politics, review questions posted by users in the comments section that mention or discuss political controversies and arguments, then generate new posts on these topics.
 Any ongoing arguments or hot discussions can be used to expand on a particular topic in a new blog post. For example, if the comments section contains arguments among users about the legalization of birth control, create new blog posts that discuss the pros and cons of legalizing birth control.
 A guest post is a blog post written by a user other than yourself. For example, if you run a book review blog and an author commented on the difference between "good" and "bad" book reviews, ask the author if they would like to write a blog post about the topic that you can feature on your blog.
 Sometimes, commenting or replying to other users on your own blog can provoke additional discussion. For example, if users mention their favorite types of meals on your food or cooking blog, post a comment that asks your audience to share their favorite recipes, then create a blog post that discusses favorite recipes.
 Sometimes, writing one blog post about a hot or controversial topic can generate multiple ideas for future topics based on the comments your readers leave. Examples of topics that are likely to generate comments are politics, religion, death, fears, and failures.

