 This is a utility that monitors and reports on all of the processes and programs currently running on your computer.;
, This will display all of the processes currently running on your computer.
 This will sort the processes based on their current CPU usage.
 Usually there will be only one that is nearly maxed out at 99-100%, though you may have a couple of different programs taking up 50% each.


Many games and media editing programs will take 100% of your CPU while running. This is normal behavior, as these programs are designed to be the only thing you're using while it's running.
 This will allow you to look them up later to determine how to keep the high usage from happening.


In Windows 8, you will be able to see the full program name instead of the process's system name. This will make determining what it is much easier.
 You will be asked to confirm that you want to force the process to quit.


In Windows 8, the button is End task.
Force-quitting a program will cause any unsaved work in the program to be lost. Force quitting a system process may cause your computer to not work until it is rebooted.
There is no need to force-quit "System Idle Process". If this is the process taking up your CPU, it is not actually using it. When System Idle Process is using a lot of CPU, it actually means that your computer has a lot of processing power available.
If you are having difficulty force-quitting a program, click here for more advanced methods.
 Perform an internet search on the image name that you force-quit. This will help you figure out what the process is used for, as well as what steps to take to keep it from running at 100%. There are typically a few different ways that you might combat high CPU usage from a certain program:Uninstall - If the program isn't a necessary one, uninstalling it may be the easiest way to keep it from bogging down your system.
Reinstall or update - Sometimes a bug in the program is causing it to take up all of your CPU. Reinstalling the program or applying an update from the developer may fix the problems you are experiencing.
Remove the program from your startup sequence - If the program is causing your computer to boot slowly, but you need it installed, you can prevent it from starting when your computer does.
Run virus and malware scans - If your research shows that the program is malicious, you may need to remove it using an antivirus or antimalware program. This can be a complicated process and you may not be able to remove the virus without reinstalling Windows. Click here for instructions on removing viruses, and click here for instructions on removing malware and adware., If you're using a laptop and aren't plugged into a power source, your computer may be automatically running slower to save your battery. Adjusting your power settings can help increase your processor's capabilities, but will also lead to shorter times between charges.


Open the Control Panel and select "Power Options". If you don't see this option, click "Hardware and Sound" and then select "Power Options".
Click the "Show additional plans" option to expand the list.
Select "High performance". Your processor's entire capability will be unlocked if it wasn't already.
 If you are constantly running into 100% CPU usage, and none of your programs are to blame, you may need to consider upgrading your hardware.



Click here for instructions on using a spare USB drive to increase your available system memory.

Click here for instructions on upgrading your RAM. Adding RAM can take some of the stress off of your processor.

Click here for instructions on upgrading your processor.

