 Head to the chicken farm, located northwest of Al-Kharid. Equip your dagger only, and set your attack style to Accurate. Kill the chickens. Be sure to bury all bones whenever you are raising any combat level, as this accrues to valuable prayer experience.Grand Exchange. Go to the GE and sell the feathers you've collected, and buy a black scimitar(2.5k) if you can afford it. If not, buy a black sword.;
, Be sure to keep collecting feathers to sell at GE and bones to bury.
 Black metal is the best thing you can wield right now, and can be purchased for only five thousand gold, at the very most. Scimitars are the preferred model of weapons, as they are a combination of speed and strength. .
, Some evil trees might attack you- just keep walking. You will reach a gated in area. Follow along the fence south, then east, till you reach the gate.
 Unlike chickens, cows can injure you. Eat anytime your hp lvl falls below 10.
, If you have to eat the food you brought, click on a tree to cut it down, then use the tinderbox with the logs in your inventory to make a fire. Cook the beef on the fire. Keep killing cows until you get 20 attack, strength, and defense.
 Sell all your drops and buy adamant armor and scimitar.
 Then buy a rune scimitar. Kill Hobgoblins in the Edgeville Dungeon until you get 40 strength and defense.
 After doing Dragon Slayer do this last (Be around level 54 for this quest and remember to get food like lobsters), buy a rune platebody and train on Ice Giants or Moss Giants until your Attack is 60, Strength is 60, and Defense is 50. Ice giants are located in a cave south of Rimmington and the west of the F2P wilderness, and are the fastest experience possible for F2P players. Bring along two strength potions so you can inflict maximum damage on them and get more experience, faster and also bring food.
, The following areas are only available to paying members. (Optional: if you want to double your rates, play the Stealing creation mini-game and buy the scimitar)

, Buy yourself a dragon longsword after completing Lost City and go to Port Sarim, whereby you can take a ship to the Pest Control island. This mini-game is the best experience for members. You get experience points for killing monsters, plus a redeemable-for-experience token to redeem with a Void Knight. Also, if you win, you get a sum of money (amount is Your combat level X 10). Go straight for the portals, and kill as many as possible before the game is over. Play Pest Control until your Attack and defense levels are 70 and your strength is 80. Another really fast way for XP is to complete the Creature Of Frankenstein quest and kill the level 25 experiments, they have 100 HP and that means you get 400 XP per kill.
 Should you be unable to harm the portals, switch back to monsters. If the portal you are attacking is destroyed, clean up all lingering monsters and close the gates before moving on. Use this strategy until your levels are as follows: Attack and Defense are both at level 90 and Strength is 99. But remember the Whip cannot train Strength so the Dragon Scimitar/Longsword are both good alternatives.
,