 Some horses dislike being left alone. Or, your horse might have a special friend; if the friend is caught, she will let herself be caught, too., Do not try to hide the halter; your goal is to calmly bring the horse under control, not attempt to trick the horse. You also don’t want to have to make a sudden move once you’re close and need the halter out.
 Always approach at an angle, never from directly behind or in front. Horses have blind spots in front of their noses, under their heads, and directly behind them. You want to avoid frightening them with sudden sounds, movements, or touch from those directions.Never lunge toward a horse or slap it on the rear.
 Don’t express any anxiety or nervousness.Walk casually, without looking the horse in the eye. Stop every so often to pick some grass: the idea is to get the horse curious and interested in you, rather than frightened.Speak to your horse.Keeping a soft, gentle tone, use your voice to let your horse know that you’re approaching, especially if she can’t see you the whole time.Rub your horse’s shoulder when you are close enough. This will give reassurance.Let her smell your hand and get used to your scent.
 Slow down if she starts to move away.If your horse’s ears are pinned back or rapidly swiveling, he may be frightened or overwhelmed. Move even more slowly and offer gentle reassurance. On the other hand, if his ears are forward and open, he’s interested, and you can keep progressing., Hold it in place with one hand and use your other hand to halter the horse, moving as slowly as possible. Hold the halter open to get it over the horse’s nose without tickling her or blocking a nostril.Never tie a rope around the horse’s neck., In addition, whether you are in a large field or a small corral, you do not want your horse to panic or bolt. If the horse is snorting or rearing, wait. Stand, talking quietly or rattling a treat to engage the horse’s attention and help him calm down.


If your horse is in a dangerous place, you can herd him by placing yourself so that, in moving away from you, he moves toward a safer place. You might be able to herd him into a corral of some sort, where he can more safely calm down and become approachable.Know your limits. If you can’t catch this horse safely, let a more experienced horse handler lead the way instead.