 The blue badge is what the presenters on the show usually wear, and viewers get this color of badge by sending in an interesting letter, poem, picture, or story. This is the most common badge given out.;
, The green badge is Blue Peter's environmental award. Any viewer who achieves something extraordinary with an environmental theme get a green badge.
 The orange badge is given to viewers who have been either a winner or runner up in any of Blue Peter's competitions. To win one of these badges, you will have to enter a Blue Peter competition. However, they only have competitions once or twice a year, so you will need to wait for the next scheduled competition.
 The purple badge is awarded to children a month who write a review of an edition of Blue Peter. This can include writing in with an idea for the program or writing your thoughts about an episode.
 The gold badge is Blue Peter's highest award given for exceptional achievement. The achievement is up to the individual and has been given to people who have performed acts of extreme bravery, represent their country in a major event, or demonstrate any other unique and astounding accomplishment. These are very difficult to get.
 This will help you get an idea of what kids and adults appearing on the show have accomplished.


Let your parents know you are trying to get a badge. This way, they will allow you to watch the show every time it comes on, and they may even have an idea for a project.
When you watch, keep your eyes and ears peeled for competitions you can enter.
Take notes on what the other kids have done, especially if they are near your age.
 You could draw or paint a picture to send to Blue Peter. This will be more successful if you like art already and have artistic skills. Badges have been given out for a drawing of a clown, a soldier, and an endangered species, to name a few.If you’re good at drawing or painting, pull out your art supplies and create a picture relevant to the show.
Draw something you really love, like your favorite animal, your favorite sport, or even your parents.
Practice every day. Drawing skills can be easily forgotten, so if you’re not happy with your first picture, keep trying.Draw or paint imaginary creatures, tell a story with your drawings, or use unusual colors in your art.
 This depends on your personal preference because you can write Blue Peter a poem, short story, or even a personal letter. Badges have been given out for a letter about endangered parrots, an Easter-themed poem, and a banana cake recipe.Writing a good poem or story can take many different attempts. If you don’t like the first thing you write, keep trying.
Write from the heart. A poem that rhymes perfectly may not be as good as one that is written sincerely.
Try different styles. Did you know there are poems called haikus?There are also stories called myths.Trying to write a cool haiku or your own myth will set you apart.
Write a personal essay about your favorite memory, a poem to your pet, or a letter to your personal hero.
You can be silly, too. Write a sci-fi story about bugs that talk or make up a funny character.
 Environmental conservation is important nowadays, so think of a project about the environment to get a green badge. Maybe you can start a greywater recycling program at your school or home.You could also track the types of glass recycled in your community, and present your research in a chart.Creativity is key, so think outside the box.
If you have a favorite outdoor activity like hiking or swimming, take interesting pictures outdoors and send them to Blue Peter.If you want to do a conservation project with your school or local community, ask an authority figure for guidance. This can include picking up trash, planting trees, making a neighborhood vegetable garden, or any other environmental activity you come up with.
Reuse trash in a creative way. The bottles your parents usually throw away can be candle holders and old newspaper can be a sculpture.
 An idea may not hit you out of nowhere; it may take months or years to draw, write, or accomplish something extraordinary. The more you watch the show, figure out what you’re good at, and try to be a creative and good person, the more likely you are to win a Blue Peter Badge.
 Here, you see what you have to include in your letter or e-mail. Ask your parent to read the steps to enter, since they can help you fill out any forms and e-mails.
 Include which badge you are trying to get and why you want it. Really show how you accomplished or made something special.
 This could get tricky depending on what your accomplishment is, so ask your parent for help.


If it's a letter, use a first class stamp to mail it to Blue Peter. Make sure to use enough stamps if you are mailing your project from a country outside of the UK.
Paintings will likely be sent in a box. Visit your local post office to mail works of art.
If you can send your project in an email in a picture or word document, do so.
 Keep track of when you are supposed to hear back on a calendar so you don’t forget. Soon, you will have a reply saying if you will receive the badge.


If you didn’t win this time, start on a new project.
Not getting a badge doesn’t mean your accomplishment was bad.
Keep trying different projects, and an outstanding idea is bound to hit you!

