 Although using toothpaste as a quick-fix for pimples is a popular home remedy that's been around for years, there are very few dermatologists, if any, who would recommend it as a treatment. This is because toothpaste can be very drying on the skin, causing redness, irritation and sometimes even burns.


Regular toothpaste also contains none of the anti-bacterial ingredients that make over-the-counter creams more effective in treating and preventing pimples.For this reason, toothpaste should only be used as an emergency treatment for pimples, and you should stop using it immediately if your skin is reacting badly. There are many other spot treatments you can try, as safer, more effective alternatives to toothpaste.
 Benzoyl peroxide is a great topical acne treatment that fights blackheads, whiteheads and larger pimples. It works by killing bacteria in the pores, preventing acne from forming in the first place. Though effective, benzoyl peroxide can cause the skin to become dry and peel, so it should be used sparingly. Benzoyl peroxide is available over-the counter, in creams, lotions, gels, medicated pads and cleansers., Salicylic acid is another effective over-the-counter acne treatment. It works by reducing inflammation and redness, while also exfoliating the skin. Unlike most acne treatments, salicylic acid actually helps to soothe and calm the skin, making it a good choice for sensitive skin-types. Salicylic acid is available in varying strengths and in many different forms, so ask your pharmacist or dermatologist about which type is best for you., Sulfur is an excellent pimple-buster for those with sensitive skin. It is extremely gentle, but also very effective at drying out pimples. It does this by drawing oil out of blocked pores and regulating sebum production. The only downside is that pure sulfur smells like rotten eggs, so you may need to use it in combination with another product in order to mask the smell., Tea tree oil is a pleasant-smelling, natural remedy for acne. It is an effective antiseptic, which helps to reduce the size of existing pimples, while also helping to prevent future breakouts. As it is an oil, tea tree will not strip skin of its natural moisture, making it a good option for those with very dry skin. Tea tree oil should be applied directly onto pimples, using a q-tip. , The official name for aspirin is acetylsalicylic acid, which is closely related to salicylic acid, mentioned above. Aspirin is a powerful anti-inflammatory, making it an effective treatment for reducing the size and redness of pimples. You can either crush one or two aspirin and mix with a little water to form a paste, which you can apply directly to the pimples, or you can dissolve 5-8 tablets in a few drops of water to make a face mask that will reduce redness and leave skin glowing., Baking soda is one of the best and safest home remedies for acne treatment. It contains anti-inflammatory and antiseptic properties, as well as being an effective exfoliant. Simply mix a teaspoon of baking powder with a little water to form a paste. You can then apply the paste to individual pimples as a spot treatment, or apply it all over the face as a mask., Finding an acne treatment that works for you can be a process of trial and error, but if you continue to suffer from breakouts, you should consider seeing a dermatologist who can provide stronger topical and oral acne medications. Getting rid of pimples once and for all will give you a major confidence boost and allow you to feel proud of your skin!

