

Hair: Many girls wear their hair in a messy bun with one of those skinny headbands. If your hair is short or layered, and pieces fall out when you make a ponytail, use colored barrettes instead of a headband (they're cute, and give you that nice,unique look).



 


Nails: If nail polish is allowed, don't be afraid to use different colors like neons or sparkly polishes. Little details like your nails can show people your personality so be creative! If you just want a clean-cut, pretty look, you can try french tips (on your own if they're long enough or fake nails) or clear polish.






Shoes: In private schools, there are usually rules about shoes. Usually, they have to be dress shoes and/or be a certain color. If there are no rules about shoes, wear cute ones like uggs. Ballet flats are always cute. White vans are great as well, even though many people have them. You might be allowed to wear high heels. If you can, don't wear really tall ones and only wear heels in high school, otherwise you're just going to look weird. If you can, wear Toms. They are for a good cause, make you seem nice and giving, and are super cute. Also, Sperrys are cute too. You might think they're just for preppies but they're not. If your school allows it, get the ones with your favorite colors and patterns on the side. Also, try to wear colors that match your uniform. For example, if you wear a navy and green plaid skirt, wear navy or green shoes.






Make up: Do not go overboard on the make up; natural make up looks casual and pretty! Just make sure it looks natural and enhance your natural beauty. A bit of concealer, face powder, light blush or bronzer, thin eyeliner on top eyelash line, mascara and a very light lipstick - if you apply these things lightly, it will make your face look really pretty and not fake or caked on. Less is more.





;
, Attitude is one thing that can make or break you. If you act too confident, people may see you as being full of yourself or stuck up. If you aren't confident enough, people will think you're shy and won't approach you. Just smile, have good posture (back straight, shoulders back, head up, don't slouch), and look people in the eye.
 In many wikiHow articles, people suggest making small talk and using ice-breakers like "It looks like it is going to rain" or "What class do you have next?" Don't do that! Your conversations will run dry in seconds if you start with a topic like that. Turn to a group of girls and ask, "Does anyone have Honors English 1 next hour?". That way, you will give off a confident impression and also find someone to sit next to in the first hour! Talk to the girl that's going to be in your class and ask her what things she likes. Girls come from all over to go to private schools, so if you haven't heard of that thing before, ask her what that is. This will lead to a longer conversation, and maybe even a friendship!

, This will show your teachers that you are eager to learn and want to do your assignments correctly. And if someone asks to borrow a pencil or a piece of paper, don't be objective, lend it to them! It's better to be known as friendly, kind, and sharing than stingy and selfish!

, Eventually you will have a full table and lots of girls to talk to and it will appear to others that you are very friendly and easy to talk to since you are sitting with so many people.
, You want to give a good impression to teachers, too! You can't have any friends if you're in detention all day after all!

, Do this on the second day or on Facebook. If you share the same interest, tell them you wanted to try out too, and ask if they know when try-outs or practices are. Sports and extra-curricular activities are a great way to meet friends with the same hobbies and interests as you.
 They might even try to get back at you so play it safe and if someone is bothering don't avoid it but just tell them how you feel. It shows that you have guts, and people with respect you for that.
 Either way, befriend one of the friendly popular girls and dress your best. That'll be your ticket in to the popular group!

, Tie a hair-tie to the back of your shirt to tighten it.

