 If you want to make a basic dress more formal, layer a little. Cardigans and blazers can give a dress a professional feel, especially a sleeveless dress that may look out of place at work otherwise.For example, say you have a basic black sleeveless dress. To add formality, wear it with a form-fitted black blazer to match.
A short-sleeved t-shirt dress can be made more formal with a conservative cardigan.
 If you want to wear a dress out, but have a plainer two in one dress, there are many ways to tweak it for the occasion. A plain loose-fitting dress can be altered with a woven belt. A local clothing shop or thrift store should sell decorative, woven belts. You can wear these around your waist or just above your hips.Pick a belt that will look fun and carefree. For example, try a colorful woven belt with beads.
In addition to adding a little extra to the dress, a looser dress will flatter your figure more when worn with a belt.
 You can switch up your shoes and wear the dress at work and then to happy hour afterwords. Wear formal flats or dress shoes for your workday. Keep a pair of heels in your purse or bag to wear at night.In addition to changing up your shoe type, do other things to switch your outfit to something more casual at the end of the day. For example, you can let your hair down if you wore it up, remove layers like cardigans, and add some extra makeup.
 If you're going out in an otherwise plain dress, add some jewelry. Add flare to a plainer two in one dress with a clunky, flashy necklace and long, dangly earrings. You can also add bracelets, rings, and hair clips.Go for jewelry that is attention catching. Anything with sparkles or sequins works.
 To change a loose-fitting dress to a new look, use a belt. Pick up a belt that cinches at the waist at a local clothing store. Wear the belt over your middle to give yourself a more flattering figure. This can make a looser two-in-one dress more stylish and flattering.Remember the occasion. Choose a more formal belt, like a plain black belt, for work. Go for something fun and colorful for a night out.

