 To make the jar glow, place it near a black light. The tonic water will glow a bright blue., This will create a starry-night effect. Simply take some glow-in-the-dark puff paint and make little dots all over the jar. Let the paint dry, then close the lid. Place the jar under a bright light for at least 15 minutes, then take it into a dark room. This jar does not need a bright light in order to glow.
 A plain lid can look classic, especially on a mason jar. You can also decorate the lid to make your jar look extra special. Here are some ideas:


Cover the lid with glue, then sprinkle it with glitter. Wait for the glue to dry, then tap the extra glitter off. To prevent the glitter from getting all over the place, spray the lid with a clear, glossy acrylic sealer.
Paint the lid another color using acrylic paint or spray paint.
Glue some ribbon around the edge of the lid using hot glue.
Glue a figurine to the top of the lid using super glue. You can leave the lid and figurine as they are, or you can use spray paint to give it a solid color.Use super glue to stick on some rhinestones onto the lid. Put a drop of super glue onto the lid where you want the rhinestone to go, then press the rhinestone down onto it. Do one rhinestone at a time.
Decorate the lid with some stickers. Try using some star-shaped, glow-in-the-dark stickers.
 You can draw designs and make your jar look like a Jack-o-Lantern or a Day of the Dead sugar skull. You can even draw swirls. This will work best on jars made with glowing sticks or highlighter water., You will need about a teaspoon or so. This will give your jar some extra sparkle. Try to match the color of the glitter to your paint color for the best results.
 Cover the jar with some star-shaped stickers, then paint the jar a solid color using spray paint or acrylic paint. Wait for the paint to dry, then peel off the stickers. The jar will glow through the star-shaped holes., Squirt some white school glue onto a paper plate. Use a foam brush to apply the glue to the outside of the jar. Wait for the glue to dry before using the jar. The matte coating will soften the glow.This would work best for glow stick jars. It is not recommended for glow-in-the-dark paint jars, because they will already have a softer glow.

