 Valerian root is a mild herbal sedative that has been in use for over two thousand years. Sedatives helps you get to sleep quicker and improves the quality of your sleep.It is available in supplements as well as tea, though valerian tea is an acquired taste. When you make this tea, add a bit of honey, cinnamon, cloves, or lemon to improve the taste.


If you take any medications, talk to your doctor first about using valerian root. Children under the age of three should not use it and it can interact with many prescription medicines, including those for anxiety and depression., Passionflower, also known as passiflora, is an herb originally from South America and was historically used by the Aztecs. It works by reducing anxiety. When ingested, it is easy to eat because it is light and tasty.It can lower blood pressure, so if you take blood pressure medications, talk to your physician first.



Do not use passionflower if you are pregnant. It may induce uterine contractions.Passionflower has never been medically tested for use in children. However, it has been used traditionally for children throughout history. Ask your doctor before giving it to your child., Chamomile has a calming effect and lessens anxiety.Chamomile can be German or Roman, and either can be used. This herb has been used for generations to promote sleep, but no current clinical trials are available to prove its effectiveness.


Avoid chamomile if you are pregnant. It may cause a miscarriage.
Children can drink chamomile tea, but dilute it with more water. Make a cup with half water, half tea to dilute it for children.
Ask your doctor about chamomile if you are on any prescription medications. Chamomile may interact with them., Kava kava, sometime called just kava, is a mildly hypnotic herb from Polynesia. It has been used for years and years to help with anxiety.There has been some controversy regarding its safety, but the concerns dealt with the supplements, not the tea. Because of this, only use kava kava as a tea, because there are not the same safety concerns.


If you take prescription medications, ask your doctor before taking kava because it may interact with them.It’s safety has not been studied in women who are pregnant or nursing or for anyone younger than 18 years old. Do not try it without specific care and instruction from your doctor if you fall into these categories.
 Lemon balm helps you sleep and lowers anxiety. Although it can be used by many people, it should not be used by anyone with an overactive thyroid or anyone who is pregnant.Lemon balm carries the Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS) status in the US.
For children three years and older, give them lemon balm in tea, but make sure to dilute it. It should be a 50/50 mix with water., Withania, also known as ashwaganda, is an Indian herb that helps induce sleep, treats anxiety, and is used as a general tonic.It can interact with diabetes and high blood pressure medication, so discuss taking this herb with your doctor if you take these medications.


Traditionally, withania is given to children in milk at half the amount adults usually take.