 They often simply lack the words to express emotion. (A classic example is when children complain of tummy aches when just miserable.) So teaching him to say when he feels angry, frustrated, sad, happy or lonely may appear odd but it is vital that these channels of communication are opened. Your son must know that it's OK and healthy to have and talk about these feelings.;
, Parenting is taking time to listen. Feeling that we have been heard and understood is vital for self esteem. When he tells you something, stop what you are doing and look at him. Acknowledge that you heard him by repeating his words back - tell him what he has told you. It sounds strange, but it shows you listen to him. This way, when he grows up, he'll feel worth listening to.
 Boys with low esteem benefit from you taking the time to appreciate what they enjoy - be it playing football, studying science, collecting models, hiking, music or swimming.
 Let him know that he is appreciated, and don't wait for him to do something special - just take the five seconds it takes to say - thank you darling, you did that really well.
 They don't know that being kind, helpful, sensitive and friendly are strengths, as they are focused on the physical.
 He faces daily pressures to macho, usually a football playing-mountain hiking-rugged-outdoors type, which doesn't suit everyone. Some like drama, music, reading and art. High self esteem comes from knowing who you are and liking that person.
 Boys with low self esteem often regularly experience failure, often because they are smaller, less coordinated, slower to understand or shy. Find something he excels in and encourage him with it. Boys with literacy issues might have great ball skills; one with poor motor skills might be a great communicator.
 Do you run yourself down? Are you shy and nervous? If you don't think highly of yourself, your son might be learning low self esteem from you. Don't put yourself down over it - address it! It's not your fault that no one helped you to see yourself positively, but it is within your power to seek help.
