 To help prevent acne on your forehead and anywhere else on your face, wash your face at least twice a day and after any activity that results in a sweat. Excessive sweat can increase the severity of acne.Do not use an abrasive that is harsh on the skin.
Make sure to wash your face gently. Wash with your fingertips in light circular motions.
Avoid washing your face too often. More than twice a day is not recommended.
 Once or twice a week, use an exfoliating face scrub. This can help by removing the outer layer of your skin and opening pores.It also helps remove dead skin and other pore clogging debris.Be very gentle when exfoliating your face to prevent irritation.
 Some products can irritate your skin and cause acne. If you have a lot of acne on your forehead, use makeup as sparingly as you can. Hair gels, hair mousse, hair spray, and sunscreens can cause forehead acne.The chemicals, oils, and grease in makeup, even “hypoallergenic” makeup, can be irritating and damaging.
Make sure to remove all makeup before going to sleep., Cleanse your face with mild cleansers, like Cetaphil, Olay, Neutrogena, or Aveeno.Look for a cleanser labeled as non-comedogenic. This means that the product doesn’t promote the formation of comedones, blackheads, whiteheads, or pimples. Examples include products from Neutrogena, Cetaphil, and Olay. You can also use bars with benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, or alpha hydroxy acids. There are many store-brand products that are non-comedogenic. Read the label to be certain.Avoid scrubbing your skin. This can cause damage to your skin like scarring, or turn the bumps into sores. It can also cause more acne, because scrubbing can cause the infection to spread., Some moisturizers can clog your pores and make it greasy or oily. Try using non-comedogenic oils to moisturize your skin. They are less likely to clog pores. Try oils such as:Almond Oil
Apricot Kernel Oil
Avocado Oil
Camphor
Castor Oil
Evening Primrose Oil
Grape Seed Oil
Hazelnut Oil
Hemp Seed Oil
Mineral Oil
Olive Oil
Peanut Oil
Safflower Oil
Sandalwood Seed Oil
Sesame Oil

