 Visit a quality stationery store to browse through the wedding invitation selections. Keep in mind the price you are willing to pay for your cards, as well as the wedding color theme, time of year, and particular details important to you.


If you are having the invitations created by a printer, browse their paper selection. Stationery printers will have sample books you can browse through to get ideas;
, There is the outer envelope, invitation card, reply card, and reception card.The outer envelope: This is where the stamp, guest address, and return address go for posting.

The invitation card: The invitation is the centerpiece of the invitation set--it includes all of the most important information about your wedding, including location, time, and date. The invitation will also generally list whether or not attire is formal or casual and gives your guests an idea of the theme and color choices of the wedding.You can choose to place the invitation in its own envelope. While this is not necessary, it is a nice touch.

The reply card: This is a pre-prepared RSVP card that will let you know how many of your invited guests are coming, and if they are bringing dates or plus-ones. The reply card can either be its on separate card with a self-addressed return envelope or it can be printed like a postcard. Generally the couple sending out the invitations will put postage on the return envelope or postcard so that their guests are more likely to quickly send it back.A reception card: A reception card is useful for when the reception will be at a different location than the wedding. Put the address, time, and any other details specific to your reception on this card. Generally the reception card is smaller than the invitation card but printed on the same stationary and written in the same style..This can also be printed on the invitation if you would prefer to save paper.
 Generally the items within the invitation (the invitation itself, reply card, and reception card) are pre-printed, while the outer envelope and names on the invitations are handwritten. Handwriting the addresses and names adds a personal touch. However, there are some factors to keep in mind.


If your handwriting is elegant and legible, you should address the envelopes yourself. Choose a blue or black ink and stick with the same pen for the inner and outer envelopes. Handwriting the names and addresses allows for a more personal effect.
To save on time, particularly if you are planning on having a very large ceremony, you should probably choose to pre-print your envelope addresses. Select a fancy font and have a printer address the labels for you. Make sure that the print is legible for the mail carrier and recipient.
You also have the option to have a printer print address labels, which you will have to attach to the envelopes yourself. You will have the option to choose from clear, colorful, or white labels. You might consider making up some return address labels so that you do not have to write your own address on each envelope.

