 You will be spending lots of money and lots of time on the expedition, up to 60 days in Nepal total, from arrival to the climb and then the return home, so you should try to find an experienced mountain climbing company who have a high track record of successful climbs. Call several mountain climbing companies who specialize in Everest climbs and ask them how their season went. Look for companies that have a high success rate of climbers who made the summit and over 80% of climbers reaching the summit, if not scaling it completely.Recent expeditions to Everest have not occurred or been postponed due to natural disasters and poor weather. You should confirm the companies have expeditions for the year you would like to book and the time frame. Most companies arrange expeditions between April and May when the wind is less severe on the mountain.;
, Usually the more services and one-on-one guidance you would like, the more expensive the expedition will be. Most companies will provide mountain professional guides, expedition permits, accommodation in the Kathmandu, all transportation to Nepal, yaks, porters, and guides to and from Base Camp, tents, showers, and toilet tents, weather reports, and oxygen for the altitude change on the mountain.However, not all companies provide one on one guides throughout the trip. Ask the company how many sherpas and guides they provide for each climb. Some companies provide one guide and one sherpa per a climber and other companies may offer one sherpa and one guide per two climbers.
 The cost of hiring a mountain climbing guide for Everest can vary depending on your budget. The total cost of climbing Everest can run into the tens of thousands, around $70,000, when you factor in the climbing permit, the gear, the airline tickets to Nepal, and the mountain guide fee. You should determine how much you are willing to spend on the expedition before you start to compare the prices of different guiding companies, as you may be able to find a guiding company that still offers you what you require but does not break your budget., Before you hire a climbing company for the Everest expedition, you should compare rates and services between several companies. If you are looking for one on one guides, you may end up paying more for this service through a specific company. However, if you are looking for a less guided experience, you may pay less through another company.


Keep in mind Everest can be a fatal situation if you do not have the right training, the right gear, and a good guide. Avoid cheaping out on guiding services if it means you may be risking your life, as it will be worth it if you can make it to the summit alive and well.
 Once you have chosen the mountain guiding company for you, you should pay for the expedition and book your spot. Determine your expedition date and book your flights to Nepal. Then, focus on training properly at least six months before your expedition date so you are prepared and ready to take on Everest.
 Climbing Everest is a serious endeavor that requires peak physical and mental fitness. When you are on your expedition, you will need to be able to hike steep outdoor trails with a pack that can weigh 22-30 kilograms for two to three hour periods. You will also need to be comfortable hiking in thick winter gear and heavy boots. To prepare for the expedition, you should commit to a strict training program at least six months before your expedition date so you are physically and mentally prepared for the climb.Begin your training program by starting out with a moderate level of exercise, four to five times a week. You can then progress over the period of six months until you are at peak fitness. The idea is to work your way up to peak fitness and not overwork or over stress your body.
 It is essential that you do cardiovascular training and conditioning at least one year to six months before your planned expedition to build up strength and endurance. Start your training by committing to a regular workout routine where you are training at least four to five times a week. You should get to the point where you can do your workout and not ache the next day.You should do some form of cardiovascular activity for at least 45-60 minutes, four to five times a week. Biking, running, swimming, and using the steppe machine at the gym are all good options. Rest for one to two days or do a fun physical activity on one of your rest days, like climbing, skiing or skating. Enlist the support of friends and do cardio activities together.
You should aim to get your heart rate to between thirty and forty beats faster per minute over a thirty-minute workout, also known as “conversation pace”, where you can talk to someone comfortably during the workout. As the months go on, you should try to improve your heart rate, increasing the duration of your cardio activities.
 You can do free weight exercises and follow an interval training program at home using free weights and an exercise mat. Start with free weight training three times a week and then work your way to four to five times a week. You should combine free weight training with cardio training to get the most out of your workouts. A typical workout week could look like:Monday: Cardio activity for thirty minutes (running, biking, rowing), strength training with sit ups, pull ups (15 reps, three sets), and push ups (40 reps, three sets). You can also incorporate weight training with free weights, such as bicep curls and military presses.
Tuesday: Different cardio activity for thirty minutes (running, biking, rowing) or longer. No strength workout.
Wednesday: Strength workout incorporating sit ups, pull ups, push ups, and free weights. Do more exercises than you did on Monday. Rest from cardio activity.
Thursday: Cardio activity for thirty minutes (running, biking, rowing) or longer. You can also go for an hour long hike or run on a trail outdoors instead. . No strength workout.
Friday: Cardio activity for thirty minutes or longer. Repeat Monday’s strength workout.
Saturday: Rest day or a fun recreational cardio activity like a hike or a climb.
Sunday: Rest day. No activity.
Always stretch before you do any exercise and drink lots of water before and after your workouts, about three to four quarts a day. Hydration is important for dealing with altitude affects when you are on Everest.
 It is recommended that you try to do at least one to two big climbs on mountains before you commit to climbing Everest. Many people who climb Everest will work their way up to bigger peaks over a period of one to two years before they commit to Everest.Having experience climbing high peaks will also allow you to develop the mental strength needed on a climb, as you may be faced with physical exhaustion and need to stay strong mentally to continue to climb. You should ask climbing friends for recommendations on big climbs you can do to prepare for the high altitude environment of Everest or talk to the mountain climbing company about climbs that may be useful as preparation for Everest.
 If the notion of training for Everest on your own seems too daunting, you can enroll in a training camp that focuses on preparing you mentally and physically for the expedition. Some of these training camps can be done through the mountain climbing company that you hire to take you on the Mt. Everest expedition. Ask the companies for rates on training programs and what will be covered in their training programs.


Most training camps can be done at a mountain climbing company in your area. These programs may simulate the experience of climbing Everest indoors or take you on climbs that are similar to Everest to prepare you for the expedition.
 Most climbing companies will expect climbers to have their own climbing gear and their own climbing packs. You should have enough supplies for two months on the mountain, with the goal of packing smart rather than packing light. The climbing companies may be able to provide a list of necessary gear and supplies for the climb. You should have:


Plastic, frost-proof clubbing boots
Two sets of thermal base layers
Down parka with a hood and down pants
At least six pairs of warm socks
Bandanas, a face mask and a balaclava, wool hats, a sun visor
Synthetic gloves and Gore-Tex mitts
Glacier glasses
A sleeping bag
A day pack and a backpack
A harness
An ice axe, a headlamp, and rappel gear
Food to last the duration of the expedition

