 If you will ever play online with your friends (or with various other people on the internet), it will always be fun to do some fun stuff for the laughs or some serious stuff for the win.


The Impact Jump. This jump will not only provide fun but it might actually help you in serious matches, e.g. Capture the Flag runs, Assault runs and so on. This jump could be done by equipping the Impact Hammer (the melee weapon you get at the start of the match, default hotkey is 1), powering it up (hold down the primary fire key), aiming it at the ground and releasing the mouse button/key as soon as you click the "jump" button. This trick might be quite difficult at start, but it should be quickly mastered. If you're still not succeeding at it, make sure you are firing and jumping at the same time and aiming directly at the ground. Be aware, however, that this jump does take up some health, so don't perform it in critical situations.







The Shock Rifle Combo. This particular trick is actually more helpful in combat than to amaze others. In fact, the Shock Combo is used by almost every professional Unreal Tournament player. More importantly, it is amazingly simple. Equip the ASMD Shock Rifle, aim at a particular point (not too close), fire the secondary projectile (the slow plasma ball, shot with the right mouse button in default) and as soon as you do that, fire the primary projectile (the long, fast plasma) at the same point. If done right and fast enough, the two shots should collide and thus creating a small explosion which will deal high splash damage to surrounding enemies. This combo consumes a lot of ammo, however it is truly a great maneuver if you suddenly see three enemies in front of you, with your shock rifle equipped.







The Translocator. Alright, this is not actually a clever trick or a combo, but the Translocator is indeed a great device which you can access (if the "translocator" option is set) by clicking the (default) 1 button when you are holding the Impact Hammer (or pressing the 1 button twice when holding any other weapon). Basically, when shot, the Translocator will fire a beacon at a particular spot. When the beacon lands (or is still in the air, if you wish) you will click the secondary fire button, which will result you teleporting to the location the beacon just was. The Translocator will help you get hard-to-reach power-ups, armor kits, health kegs and other various spots the beacon will reach. But, sadly, the Translocator does not help very much in Capture the Flag matches, for using the device when carrying the flag will result in you dropping the flag. However, this could turn out as a plus in situations where you would like to "pass" a flag to your friend. The Translocator device is not present in most of the single player Tournament maps, but it is sure to help out in multiplayer games and/or practice sessions. And if that's not enough, the Translocator can be actually used as a weapon. Even though it is difficult, you can fire the beacon at an enemy and teleport to it as soon as the beacon hits him/her, or set it up as a trap - fire the beacon and teleport to it as soon as somebody steps on it. This is called telefragging. But be aware, the beacon can be destroyed by enemies when it is fired, and if you will try to teleport to a beacon that doesn't exist, you will, in fact, die.
 Each Weapon in Unreal Tournament is a very delicate and complex device, and each one holds it's own unique secrets. Here are the most important ones.


With the Rocket Launcher - aim at the feet. Unless the enemy is right in front of you (and even in that situation, you shouldn't fire the Rocket Launcher at all), you should usually fire the Rocket Launcher at the enemy's legs. It is a high likelihood that you will miss your target when firing a rocket at it's head, so either load up some ammo or shoot at the lower part.







Don't go berserk. It might seem that, in various situations, firing everything everywhere is the best option. That is rarely true. Spamming shots will not only waste ammo, it might also seriously hurt you. Do not get this wrong, sometimes, when facing a high number of enemies, a little rapid fire of Mini gun will help, but it is very dangerous to go berserk in a closed area with such weapons as the Ripper, the Rocket Launcher, the Flak Cannon and the GES BioRifle.







With the Redeemer - aim for high numbers. The Redeemer is a rare and extremely destructive weapon which must be used well. If you did not yet discover it, shooting the Redeemer with the secondary fire button well take you into a first person view from the fired rocket and will allow you to control it's flying. You should always use this firing mode, for the primary mode will just fire the rocket in a straight line and will usually be easy to dodge. Never fire the Redeemer at a closed area or at someone close to you. The explosion will deal high splash damage at a big distance. That is why you should fire the Redeemer at somebody far away from you and you should make sure that this somebody has a lot of friends running along him.







