 This is typically where dangerous activity is most likely to happen. Always bring along someone else, or make sure plenty of others are around.;
, If someone begins to approach you strangely and picks you up/begins to push you, scream as loud as you can, and cry for help. In such dire situations, it is publicly acceptable to do anything to gain attention. Screaming "FIRE!" is likely to get others to notice than just "Help!" Bite, spit on, kick, or do anything else to defend yourself on the person attempting to hurt you. While this may seem like a joke, it is what people are advised to do if approached by an attacker and not at all a joke. This may help repel the attacker.
 For example, if the ship has several decks and you happen to pass by other decks as you drop, grab hold of the railings or other bearings.
 DO NOT take your time - it is a matter of life and death. Scream, "HELP! I'M DROWNING! RESCUE ME! I'M DYING!", or anything else you can think of.
 Don't panic. Move your arms and legs back and forth, doing free-stroke. Hang onto anything that may have fallen off the ship as a result of your descent, such as a plank of wood, or anything else that floats.
 You need as much attention as possible.
 Wave your arms up in the air to signal help. If you see any ships near, continue to do so. Hang onto a branch if you can see it.
 This is a last-ditch effort. If shore is nowhere nearby but there is an island, and you happen to make it successfully, be prepared to survive in the wild until rescue comes.
 Chances are, you will be injured and in some kind of trauma. Report the case to authorities in the ship immediately. If you are in trauma, or are scared, remind yourself that you have survived falling off a ship, and tell yourself that you will recover in the end.
 If you have been stranded for more than about three or four hours and no ships have happened to pass by, your chances of survival are extremely low. While it may be depressing, console yourself with memories of good times..

