 Some decisions are too complicated or difficult to be made using the rational approach. Sometimes, neither option can be said to be "objectively" the best.In such cases, a more abstract and intuitive approach is required. A good first step in such cases is try to envision each outcome in your mind, picturing as many of the details as you can conjure up, to see which one feels right. Think about whether or not you really want or want to do one or the other, if your wants are acceptable in the situation.When doing this, try to focus more on the positive potential outcomes of each choice than the negative. Most people are better at envisioning worst-case scenarios than their more appealing alternatives.For example, if you are trying to decide between going to a concert with one group of friends or a movie with another group, try to envision yourself in both situations, and with both groups of people. If one of them feels better, that may well be the best choice.
 Oftentimes, when decisions are too complicated or difficult to make in an entirely rational way, the best outcome may come from trusting your intuition. Don't confuse this with being impulsive. What your intuition tells you is often important to take note of.In fact, some research suggests that while having information is important to avoiding bad outcomes, in complex situations, trusting your feelings can lead to better decisions.If you are having a hard time sorting out what your gut is telling you (perhaps because you've already confused yourself with too much thinking), try flipping a coin to decide. If you toss a coin and feel satisfied with the outcome, that may be your intuition telling you that's the right decision. On the other hand, if your first reaction is "let's flip again... best two out of three," then chances are you should choose the other option.
Sleeping on it for a night can help, too. But don't use this as an excuse to delay the definition indefinitely., In some cases, it may be that you are having a hard time choosing because neither option is right for you. In such situations, it's worth contemplating whether there really are only two choices.For example, maybe the two choices can be combined in some way. If you are trying to decide which friends to spend an evening with, maybe you could opt to see one group of friends earlier and another group later, or perhaps there's some activity they could all enjoy together.
Alternatively, perhaps neither choice is right for you. If you love living in the country and only have job offers in New York City and Los Angeles, maybe the best choice is to reject both offers and keep looking for a job that suits your lifestyle better. If that's a possibility you can afford, it's at least worth considering.
 If there is no choice that is objectively best, your best option may be to make the choice that is most true to yourself, or that helps you become the person you want to be.If you are trying to choose between a career as a banker or teacher, for example, it is easy to examine the two options and see that the banking job will probably pay better. But more important to your long-term happiness is the question of which of these careers fits with your values.
Following this example, if you find the world of banking and finance exciting, then this, in combination with the higher pay, should make the choice of banking obvious. On the other hand, if you love children and have a passion for sharing knowledge, then the teaching job is probably right for you, even if the pay is not nearly as good.

