 To ensure that the oven is warm enough to bake the cookie bowls, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to heat fully. Next, invert two muffin tins and spray the underside with nonstick cooking spray to keep the bowls from sticking.If you prefer, you can use softened butter to grease the bottom of the muffin tins.;
, Add 2 cups (220 g) of all-purpose flour, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of baking soda, and ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt to a medium bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are well combined, and set the bowl aside.It’s a good idea to sift the dry ingredients into the bowl so you’ll have an easier time mixing them together.
 Add ¾ cup (170 g) of melted unsalted butter, 1 cup (200 g) of packed brown sugar, and ½ cup (100 g) of white sugar to a separate large bowl. Use an electric mixer to cream the ingredients together on medium until they are well blended.You can mix the chocolate chip cookie dough in a stand mixer if you prefer.
You can also mix the dough together by hand. It will just take a little longer.
 After the butter and sugars are well blended, add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of vanilla extract, 1 egg, and 1 egg yolk to the bowl. Beat the mixture on medium until it is light and creamy, which should take 1 to 2 minutes.To separate the egg yolk from the white, break the egg against a flat surface, such as a tabletop or countertop. Separate it into two halves over a bowl, and allow the yolk to fall into the lower portion. Move the yolk back and forth between the halves, letting the white drip into the bowl below. Continue moving the yolk back and forth until all of the white is removed.
 Once the egg, egg yolk, and vanilla are blended into the butter mixture, stir the flour mixture into the wet ingredients by hand with a wooden spoon. Mix until the ingredients are just combined and a dough forms.Be careful not to overmix the dough. That can lead to cookie bowls with a tough texture.
 When the dough has come together, add 1 ½ cups (265 ml) of mini chocolate chips and stir until they are fully incorporated. Next, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate the dough for at least an hour or overnight.You can use your favorite chocolate chips in the cookie bowls. Milk, semisweet, and bittersweet are all delicious options.
If you don’t have time to chill the dough in the refrigerator for at least an hour, you can place it in the freezer for 20 minutes.
 After the dough is properly chilled, use clean hands to gather up approximately 3 tablespoons (62 g) or enough of the cookie dough to fit around the bottom of the inverted muffin cups. Press the dough around the muffin cups to form a bowl shape.You may find it easier to press the dough onto the inverted muffin cups in separate pieces. Roll part of the dough into a ball and press it to the bottom of the cups. Next, roll another piece into a log and wrap it around the sides of the cups to press it in place. Just make sure to seal the seam between the pieces by pressing them together.
 Once you’ve pressed the dough onto the inverted muffin tin, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the bowls to bake for 18 to 20 minutes, or until the edges become brown., When the cookies are finished baking, remove the muffin tin from the oven. Allow the cookie bowls to cool on the tin for 10 minutes, and then carefully remove them so you can flip them over and fill them.If you’re having trouble removing the bowls from the muffin tin, use a butter knife to gently pry under an edge to loosen them.

