 If one of your bridesmaids has selected a dress that you don't like, you should clearly but respectfully voice your opinion. For instance, maybe one of your bridesmaids chose a dress that you feel is too tight for their body type. Rather than saying "The dress looks too tight on you," try saying "I was hoping for a more loose and flowing look." This way you are not attacking the dress, but providing an alternative style.


In a similar way, if the bride wants you to wear a colour that doesn't look good on you, try saying "Is it possible to find a darker shade? I look washed out.";
, If you don't want to wear a certain dress because you don't like the colour, cost, or cut, be honest with the bride. Avoid saying that you don't like the style if the real issue is that you can't afford the dress. The bride will likely continue to look at dresses in that price range and you will not actually solve the problem.


Instead, pull the bride aside and have a private conversation about your budget. This way you do not need to reveal your financial situation to the entire wedding party.
You could say "I am on a tight budget and can only spend about $200-$250 on a dress. I am a little embarrassed about the situation, so can we just keep that between us."
The bride is likely a close friend or relative and should honour your request.
Be sure to express your concerns early in the process because delaying the conversation can cause problems for everyone.
 These types of conversations can be very difficult and emotions can often run high during the wedding planning process. Stay calm while you are objecting to a dress. Avoid raising your voice or yelling at the bride, bridesmaid, or mother-of-the-bride. Remember that everyone is slightly stressed and that you all want the wedding to be beautiful. By staying calm throughout the conversation, it is more likely that you will come to a resolution rather than start a fight.


For example, take a deep breath before you have a serious conversation about objecting to a dress. Use a level tone of voice and try and vocalize your opinion in a rational and mature manner.
Say something like "I know you feel that a nude coloured dress is too light on your skin tone, but this is the colour I want for my wedding. I am thinking we could add colourful jewelry and shoes to help brighten the outfit."
This approach demonstrates that you understand the concerns and have come up with some form of compromise.

