 But no, seriously. If you can, do it. The skinnier the better. You want grip from groin to toe. And don't worry about "not pulling it off." That's part of the idea. In not pulling it off, you will be pulling it off. It's like opposite day back in sixth grade.
 In other words, tighty whities it is!, Anything that reminds you of when you were 5 should be part of your closet. Or anything that reminds your dad of when he was 5, too. If it's vintage, it meets the cut. The only, only logos in your closet should be ones of brands or industries that no longer exist. Excluding American Apparel, of course.


It doesn't have to fit well. More on this later, but if it's too tight or too loose, cool. Size should be just about the last thing on your mind.
 If you want everyone's hipster-dar (hipsdar?) to go off, wear thick, black-rimmed glasses. If you want everyone's hipster to reach decibels only dogs can hear, wear thick, black-rimmed glasses with the lenses popped out. Hey, you just like the added comfort of knowing your ears are still there. Nothing wrong with that.


This style of glasses is reaching levels of overkill, so to be a bit more unique, opt for a different vintage-y style or a pair of outrageously colored Ray Bans. You can hardly go wrong with Ray Bans.
 If you read the girl section above, you'll know that mismatching trends is part of the hipster look. In the same manner that you would mix up decades and styles, mix up levels of, for lack of a better word, swag. Under that Armani blazer of yours, throw on a TMNT tee (that makes the Armani okay somehow) with a knitted, plaid scarf, skinny jeans, and a pair of old, worn out penny loafers. Is he going to an interview? Is he going on a Pabst beer run on his bicycle right now? No one will know.


Don't shy away from outrageously loud prints. Plaids, gingham, checkered, paisley -- anything that would make a girl reading Cosmo scream is a solid decision. You have a plaid tweed jacket and a striped cowboy shirt? Obviously those two go together.
 If the weather allows it, layers are a good way to work in combinations, as discussed above. Cardigans can go on top of anything, for the record. Sweaters, long sleeves, it all gives more options to be ironic. A scarf on top of a tee under a trench coat? Sure, why not?

, Alright, folks, let's get real here: Everyone and their brother wears converse. It's not ironic, hipster, or making any statement anymore. All it says is, "Hey, I went to the Converse store and spent $40 on my shoes all while not caring about my image." So unless they're 15 years old and have molded to the shape of your foot, consider branching out into different realms of footwear.


Doc Martens are a good place to start. Cowboy boots, old school Reeboks, Keds, and vintage-y loafers are decent, too. Just say no to flip flops.
 Do a quick Google search for "Hipster messenger bags" and you'll be amazed. The freakin' things are CALLED hipster bags.That's just society not being creative (as usual), but take it for what it's worth: To carry around your gear, you need a messenger bag.


You might run into a few people that ask you about your "murse." That's a man-purse, by the way. That's fine. Let them. Your hands are free thanks to your bag to poke them in the eye. They deserve it for being so close-minded and ignorant.

