 Take time to think through everything you'd like to get done around the house, whether that's cleaning, organizing, or other household tasks. Then, go down the list and check off things as you do them. It can feel great to check things off a list that have been piling up for days or weeks.
 Cleaning often gets neglected when busyness takes over, so it's possible that your home could use a really good, deep cleaning. Start by straightening up your home, putting things into their places, and then bring out the heavy duty cleaning supplies. Give your bathroom and kitchen a heavy scrub down, vacuum and dust the living room and bedrooms, and sweep and mop your floors.Depending on how dirty your home is, these tasks could take an entire day! If your place is really dirty, don't overwhelm yourself by trying to get it done all at once. Spend a few hours cleaning, and then reward yourself with a break while doing something fun.
 Another way to pass your time is to clean out your closet and organize its contents. Rearrange your clothes in order of season and color, and arrange your shoes by style and color. This is also a good time to clean out any junk or random items that you have stored in your closet that don't belong there or could have a better place to stay.


As you are organizing your closet, this could be a good time to get rid of clothes you don't wear anymore or that don't fit anymore. A good way to figure out how often you wear something is to turn the hangers of all of your clothes backwards, and then when you wear that piece of clothing turn it the right direction. Then, after a few months you should see which clothes you haven't worn.
 If you have a large collection of books, and it's difficult to find the book you are looking for, take time on this day to organize your books. You can organize them by author, title, or genre. This is also a good time to get rid of old books you won't read again or copies of books, as well as to dust your bookshelves, as you'll be moving books off the shelves to rearrange them.
 As you are cleaning and reorganizing things, create a pile with things that you don't use or want anymore to give to Goodwill, donate to a friend, or have a garage sale. Along with clothes and books, go through any furniture, supplies, or other items around your house and donate or sell the things that you think could benefit someone else.
 Laundry often piles up, just like dirt around the house, and a day where you have nothing to do is a great time to knock out a few loads. Separate your laundry by colors if you like, and afterwards you can even take time to iron items if necessary.
 As you go through each room to clean it, why not organize it as well? Clean out your fridge and throw away old leftovers, organize the pots and pans in your kitchen, rearrange the items under your bathroom sink, etc. There's bound to be many areas in your home that could use some reorganization, so take some time on this day to organize and restructure your life. It will likely help remove any stress that you are feeling too!

