 We are constantly reminded by other people and the media how we are supposed to look. It can be difficult to ignore, especially if we feel any discomfort with our outward appearance. Try to respect yourself and your body in your day-to-day life to combat feelings of shame or insecurity.


Speak about your body in positive terms. When thinking about your body, try to think in terms of the positives. Avoid using words like "bony" or "frail" to describe your frame. Reach for more positive words like "lean" and "thin."Wear comfortable clothing that you feel confident in. If you're feeling particularly down about your body, adding a few items to your wardrobe can help combat negativity.Cuddle with your significant other, make an appointment with a masseuse, or engage in other sensual activities. Allowing your body to feel pleasure can help you appreciate it more., In order to feel better about your body, you need to focus on the positives. Spend time each day praising your body for what it does right.


What is something you like about your body? Do you love your hair, your hips, your shoulders, your teeth? Try to focus on those areas each day.What is something your body does well? Do you feel like you're good at a particular sport? Are you flexible? Do you have high stamina? Learn to appreciate what your body can do rather than focusing on what it cannot do.How does your body give you pleasure? What are things you enjoy on a sensual level? Focus on and appreciate your body's capacity for pleasure and joy., For some, regular exercise can help build confidence. Engaging in an enjoyable physical activity a few times a week can help you appreciate your body and its capacity for strength, stamina, and fitness.


Talk to a doctor before beginning any new workout routine. You want to make sure you don't overdo exercising.
Some exercises, like yoga, focus on a connection with the body and the present moment. These can be particularly helpful when it comes to body acceptance., Do not get too hung up on your physical appearance. Focus on your positive personality traits. Others may think you're too skinny, but remember you're also funny, kind, generous, hardworking, etc. Try to look at yourself as loved ones would look at you. If someone else was in your shoes, wouldn't you tell them to focus on what's inside? You deserve that same courtesy.