 As you apply for a position or during an interview, you will always want to be totally honest with your new potential employer. If you have anything on your record that might be considered an issue, you should bring it up and explain that issue. Being honest and direct about past issues can overpower the issues themselves.Always be honest about past issues that might show up on your background check.
Being direct and honest can demonstrate your character and cause your employer to overlook the issues on your background check.
Try to convey that you have learned from any past issues and have moved on from them.
 If you suspect that there will be an issue with your background check, you should be ready to discuss this issue with your potential employer or interviewer. Ideally, you should bring this issue up as soon as you can, either during your first phone or in person interview to demonstrate a willingness to be honest and direct.


Having a single, minor offense might be overlooked entirely.Multiple offenses of a similar type will likely not be ignored.
The nature of your offense may be directly relevant to your position. For instance, being convicted for embezzling will likely exclude you from future financial positions.
 If you are refused a position due to something that was present during a background check, your employer will have to disclose the specific reason you were denied the position. If you suspect this information to be wrong or incorrect, you are allowed time to dispute this claim and resubmit to the background check.Your employer must disclose any reasons they denied your application due to a background check.
You have sixty days to challenge any erroneous information found during your background check.
You are able to resubmit to the background check after you have successfully challenged incorrect information.
 Not all companies or firms have the time or funding to do a detailed background check. By looking for the right company or firm you can apply for a position without much concern for your background check affecting the process.Smaller companies and firms are less likely to run detailed background checks.
Some temp agencies won't have detailed background checks. If hired, you can still work towards a full time position and avoid a background check causing trouble.
 Even if you have a bad background check, having impressive references can help you to still obtain the position you are applying for. A good reference can vouch for your character and argue why you are a good fit for the position despite any issues regarding your background check.Make sure your references are aware that you are listing them as such.
Find references that you are sure will speak highly of you.

