 During the first 2 weeks of pertussis you will likely think you have a cold or the flu. Therefore it can be hard to determine if you should see your doctor at this point.However, if you know for a fact that you’ve been in contact with someone else who has been diagnosed with pertussis, see a doctor immediately when symptoms begin. Otherwise the timing of a doctor’s appointment will need to be based on how you feel. If the cough gets worse, and turns into coughing fits, that may be a good time to consider seeing your doctor.;
, Pertussis is extremely contagious, and can be fatal to infants. To be safe, not just for yourself but for everyone around you, expose yourself to as few people as possible.This means you should stay home from work and school, you should not attend events outside of your home, you should not have friends over just for socializing, etc. If you have children at home, make sure you stay away from them as much as possible, and that they’re washing their hands often.
 Pertussis is caused by a bacteria called Bordetella pertussis. This bacteria can be spread from person to person via liquid droplets in the air caused by coughing or sneezing. People who have not been vaccinated, and infants, are more susceptible to the disease. In the case of infants the disease could be fatal. The bacteria is normally in your system for the first 3 weeks after you’ve been infected, and it is during this time that you can also be contagious. Your doctor may decide that an oral antibiotic may help prevent you from passing the disease onto someone else. It will also help clear up the infection faster., In general, over-the-counter cough suppressants don’t help the cough caused by pertussis, but there are alternatives your doctor may consider. Both corticosteroids and albuterol have been known to reduce coughing fits, but must be prescribed by a doctor., Vaccines in and of themselves do not offer a cure, but they help your body build the proper immunities to very serious diseases. This then helps to prevent you from getting those diseases in the future. Whether you got vaccinations as a child or not, it is still important to stay up-to-date with vaccinations as an adult. Consult your doctor to determine which vaccinations you may require.