 Black widows enjoy cool areas and enjoy hanging in their web. Try to avoid looking under rocks or in woodpiles. If you ever see a black widow in its web, don't break or bother the spider. This will make the black widow feel threatened. As the saying goes, "Don't hurt me and I won't hurt you.";
, If you will be working or digging outside, wear gloves to protect your hands from getting bitten. You might be going in areas wear black widows are trespassing and that won't be good. Insure you have good, quality leather gloves so your hands are protected enough.
 If you're outside, camping, or doing any other activity where black widows live it may be hard to avoid being bitten. Don't kill a black widow unless it is attacking you. Leave them alone if they are in their webs or are a few inches away. If you are sleeping outside, shake blankets, sleeping bags, pillows, clothes, and other products well.
 This can seem threatening to them and may cause them to attack. It may seem fun to you, but imagine someone destroying your house. Leave the spider's web alone, even if you don't see a black widow there.
 If you ever do see a black widow, don't hold, play, or feed it your food. Leave it alone and let it crawl away. If you have friends or family with you, tell them the same instructions.
 Spiders and bugs (including black widows) enjoy places that are dirty, thinking they're outside. This may give you a higher chance of getting bitten by a black widow. Clean your room every week, do the laundry, vacuum crumbs, mop the floor, and wash the dishes. This may make your house a safer atmosphere for you, your family, your friends, and your pets.
 Any black widow spiders may have landed in there without you noticing. Give them a good shake outside (a few inches away to avoid them coming back) and then bring them back inside.
 If you have old blankets, stuffed animals, quilts, clothes, pillows, and other soft items that have been sitting in a closet or attic for more than three weeks, wash them thoroughly with hot water and detergent. Plastic, hard items should be rinsed in the bathtub with hot water and (if safe) bleach.
 Food leads trails of dirt which may be attractive to black widows. After you eat, scrub the table with a soapy sponge or rag. Vacuum crumbs on the carpet or sweep them up.
 While it won't totally guarantee you're safe, washing your hands can be helpful to avoid poisoning from black widows or other bugs. Wash your hands after you eat, use the bathroom, visit a sick person, touch a pet, or take out the trash. Don't forget to use plenty of soup, warm water from the faucet isn't enough to kill germs.
 Black widows are found to move around and go to dark areas such as underneath the mattress, in the basement, or in the attic. Do not just let the spider live, black widows are dangerous and may even bite or kill you.
 If you're too afraid to kill the spider yourself, have someone else do it. Freaking out has no use and may cause everything to jumble up and be complicated. Ease yourself and try taking a deep breath to control yourself if you're getting really scared. Know that black widows rarely kill people if you're careful, and are more interested in eating other bugs for dinner.
 Hit the black widow with a spoon, broom, shoe, or anything else that can be hit with. Swap the spider harder and keep doing that till it's dead. However, be careful as it can run away fast like all spiders do. You can miss your swing, no matter how fast you are. If hitting doesn't work, try spraying aerosol pesticide at it the next time you see one.

