 Focusing on the intricacies of making origami may also take your mind off of the time. There are endless varieties of origami creations that you can make, and if you get really into it, you can make an entire origami zoo, or bouquet.

Try making a paper football and play with it.
Or, make an origami jumping frog with a friend and have a race to see whose frog leaps the furthest.
 Do a self-portrait, a caricature of someone nearby, or create a cartoon. If you don’t like the way you draw, close your eyes and try to draw something simple without lifting the pencil or pen once. The results may be interesting and unexpected, plus there’ll be no pressure to produce a masterpiece (though you might surprise yourself).

You can also look into a mirror and draw a self-portrait.
 Edit people's voices to sound like a chipmunk or a gorilla, or make a singer sound like a child. You could also go further and try to create a cool song to share with your friends. You can also post the result on Facebook.
 Get some old magazines and cut up any cool-looking pictures. Then, make a random collage out of letters, people's heads, cute kitties, commercials for Bud Light, or whatever. You can write your sister a fake ransom note or create a sexy superhero out of the body parts of different celebrities. Or put the face of a celebrity on a fat, hairy body.

When you're done, hang up your masterpiece or give it to a friend.
 It doesn't have to rhyme or sound like Robert Frost. It can be funny, quirky, sad and serious, or whatever you want it to be. Describe the hamburger you had for lunch in overly-poetic language, or write a serious poem about your relationship with your mom. Who knows, maybe you'll find that you were a poet and didn't even know it!

If you're happy with your creation, post it on Poetry.com.
 Sure, you've pinned those cute polka dot sock puppets, the Jack-o'-lantern that looks like Jennifer Aniston, and the DIY tinfoil wedding dress, but when will you ever get around to completing these innovative projects? Now, obviously. Go through your list of projects, or find a new one on Pinterest, and see which one you can do in just a few hours. And then have at it!

If this sounds like too much of an effort, the simple act of browsing Pinterest can kill hours of your time.
 Grab your old camera or your phone and go around your house and back yard taking photos with interesting lighting and eye-catching furniture or objects. You may find that you have a passion for photography and can use this skill all the time.

You can even walk around your neighborhood or office building to take pictures and get some exercise in the process.

