 Try to think of it in terms of numbers, such as "7 Things to Do Before You Leave the House" or "97 Ways to Leave Your Boss" as a way of inspiring you or think more broadly about topics you like and want to give a snapshot of, such as gardening, career advice, cooking or politics.
 Don't worry to begin with whether or not they make sense or fit the topic perfectly. When you have amassed a list of many things, then you can work through it and discard what doesn't look great but keep all the super things you have found. You might find you'd originally intended to make a list of 10 things but found 100 brilliant things to share instead, so stay open-minded.


Be sure to choose a few really unique, curious and interesting elements that your readers are either not likely to know yet or may only have an inkling about and appreciate you clarifying for them.
 There are three main approaches, namely:


Ranking the list: You might make a judgment about the value of the items being listed, from worst to best, or deadliest, or most interesting, or least creepy, etc.
Giving the list a theme: You might simply write about a theme of interest to you without specifying an exact order. For example, writing about growing large trees in a small garden or visiting relatives who live overseas.
Making a random list: Lacking in both theme or ranking, this one just throws around ideas and leaves the reader to draw their own conclusions. Probably best left to a good writer or this one will tend to leave the reader irritated by the lack of conclusions.
 Some things to consider include:


Use an odd amount of items in the list. These apparently perform better than evenly numbered lists.Go for prime numbers. Namely, "Three secrets to keep" or "Five things to get excited about".Prime numbers likely to be useful for a listicle's purpose include: 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19 and 23. You can look up others if you're list is really long.
Consider making lists that claim to be the "ultimate", "best", "top", "major", etc., Add the meat to the list's bones by writing something interesting about each item in the list. It's up to you what writing style you adopt, such as witty, joking, informative, disparaging, bored, etc.


Are photos going to be part of your list? If so, tell a story with them and ensure that they're good quality and interesting. Photos are an absolutely perfect way to match the message to the image, and may of themselves suggest to you what the list should consist of.For example, a bunch of photos of grumpy camels might be turned into a listicle about dealing with co-workers or fellow club members ranging across the negative spectrum, while a bunch of happy bunnies might suggest a listicle about carefree things to do during spring.
 Listicles are considered to appeal to the younger audience.This may mean that if your readership tends to be mostly older persons, the listicle should be used sparingly. On the other hand, if you're attracting the younger readers, listicles are it!

, It's titled: 7 Reasons Why wikiHow Rocks:


1. wikiHow offers a great and caring community to be a part of.
2. It's a place where you can add your expertise and have it built on by others with the same interests and knowledge.
3. Whenever you spend time at wikiHow, you'll feel energized, appreciated and part of a network of super people.
4. There are lots of opportunities to improve your editing and communications skills, all with the potential for feedback should you wish it.
5. It's not just about writing and editing. You'll also learn skills in communicating with others online and how to respond to questions and requests for feedback. You'll also build your abilities in assertiveness and self-efficacy.
6. You can innovate by making bold edits or spearheading new projects or group work. The forum is a great place to gather converts to your next brilliant project to improve wikiHow!
7. wikiHow is a fantastic place to make lifelong friends. Join the community now and find people who care, just like you.;
