 If you have decided that this relationship is over for good, make sure that he knows it too. Speak to him in person (not over the phone) and be as clear as you can. Don't make him think you are just taking a break, or that he should wait for you.


You may say, "We are not working out. I am moving on."
You may say, "This relationship has run its course. I am ready to try something new."

, If you are trying to get over a guy (even if you still have feelings for him), you simply must ignore him. Begin by deleting him from your phone. If you cannot call or text him with the push of a button, you are less likely to reach out.If you want to write his number down somewhere, then go ahead.
But if you reach for your phone and want to call or text him, you will have to find the number and enter it in manually.
This extra step should be enough to stop the cycle and get you to set the phone down.
 If you want to get over a guy, you need to avoid seeing him, and this includes seeing him through the internet. You will need to completely ignore him on social media. If you do not want to "unfriend" him, then at the very least, you must "hide" or "unfollow" him. This will allow you the space you need to heal.
 When you are heartbroken, you are likely to imagine all the ways you could have done things differently. Chances are, you’ll be tempted to phone your ex and sort everything out. But if you’ve already decided to ignore this guy, don’t worry about fixing what has been done. Remember that it is not your job to fix things or make him feel better. Your only job is to take care of you.If you really need to sort things out, do it by writing things down.
You may also want to talk things over with a close friend.
 On his birthday, Christmas, the New Year, or any other holiday, you may be tempted to text him to wish him well. Don’t do this. You will just be opening a door that is better left shut.Text somebody else to wish them a happy holiday and then set the phone down.
 The best way to ignore your ex is to keep yourself busy. Maybe this means going on a date with somebody else, maybe this means spending quality time with your friends, or maybe this means staying home and watching movies with a pizza. Whatever you do, just stay busy and ignoring your ex will be a snap., If you and your ex shared a lot of mutual friends, you may need to take some time away from the whole group. Perhaps there are some new people at school you could spend some time with instead. By taking time away from your group of friends, you avoid running into your ex and make it easier to ignore him.


This may mean missing out on parties or other fun events, but it is only temporary, and it will be worth it.
This may even open you up to new friendship opportunities.

