 Another option is a secured loan in which some property you own is used as collateral. One such loan is a home equity loan, which is a loan taken out against the value of your house.


The equity in your home is the amount your home is worth minus the amount you still owe on your mortgage.For example if you have a $100,000 home and you still owe $30,000 to the bank for it, your home equity is $70,000.
Rates for these loans tend to be low, because the value of the loan is secured by your home. This means that even if your credit rate is bad, these loans are less risky for the bank. The interest is also often tax deductible.Using the above equity values, and assuming an interest rate of 5%, imagine that you borrowed $20,000 with a five year term using a home equity loan. You would pay $377.42 per month and end up paying $2,645.52 in total interest over the term of your loan. This places this type of loan among the safest and least expensive options for someone with bad credit.
Talk to your banker about a how to apply for one of these loans. However, keep in mind that you may get a better deal at a credit union.
Be careful! If you fail to make your payments, you could lose your home., A car title loan works similarly to a home equity loan, insofar as your vehicle is used as collateral to secure the loan. Before even investigating this possibility, know that automobile title loans can be incredibly expensive as they may charge up to 300% interest!Unlike a home equity loan, a car title loan is usually at a higher rate and for a shorter time period, typically 30 days.To get a car title loan, find a car title lender and bring your car, the title, and your identification. The creditor will take the title to your car and return it to you after you have paid back the loan and interest.Some car title loan agents will also require a copy of your keys, in case they need to repossess the car.
Check your state's regulations for car title loans. Some states, such as Illinois and California, have specific regulations in place for car title loans and other states don't allow them at all. Check your state's Department of Motor Vehicles website for more information.
Make sure to ask about the full dollar amount you'll need to repay and also when the term ends. Don't borrow more than you can repay in 30 days or you will lose your car.A study revealed that the average title loan borrower pays $2,142 in interest on a $951 loan. This is typically a case of rolled-over fees due to an inability to pay on time., If you need a small amount of cash quickly, you can take a valuable item to a pawn shop and use it is collateral for a loan. The typical pawn shop loan about $150 dollars.When you pawn an item, a pawnbroker agrees to pay you a certain amount of money for it. He or she will then hang on to the item for a predetermined amount of time, during which you can retrieve the item by paying back the loan, plus interest. If the term passes and you do not pay back the loan, the broker will sell the item to recoup costs.
Try not to pawn anything you'd be heartbroken to lose. Once the term is up and the pawnbroker sells the item, there is no legal recourse for you to get it back.
Don't expect to receive market rate for the item. The pawnbroker bears the risk of selling the item at market rate down the line, and the profit comes from taking the risk.Keep the item ticket. When you pawn something, the pawnbroker will give you a ticket or receipt, which you can use to purchase the item back later. Keep it in a secure location, and keep track of how long you have to get the item back.
Rates for pawn shop loans will not affect or be affected by your credit score, no matter how bad it may be, because the loan is considered to be already paid for by the object you have pawned.Depending on your state's pawn shop regulations, these loans may charge rates ranging from 12% to 240% per year. For the high end of that spectrum, you would owe back double the actual value of your item in five months!