 Most copyrights can be registered using the U.S. Copyright Office's electronic registration system, known as eCO. Before using eCO, you will need to make sure your computer is optimized to run eCO in order to avoid technical problems during the registration process. Adjust your settings as follows::


Disable your browser's pop-up blocker.
Disable any third-party toolbars.
Set your security and privacy settings to medium.
The U.S. Copyright Office has tested the eCO system using the Firefox browser on the Microsoft Windows 7 Operating System, and advises that other configurations may result in less-than-optimal eCO performance.;
, If you would like an overview of how to use the eCO system to register your copyright, take some time and read through the tutorial presentation offered by the U.S. Copyright Office.The tutorial will walk you through using the eCO system to file your copyright registration.


A number of other sites provide step-by-step instructions on using the eCO system if you don't like the government's presentation., After you have familiarized yourself with the process, open the eCO portal and create an account.After doing so, click on "Register a New Claim" on the left-hand side of the welcome page, and follow the prompts to provide the necessary information for your copyright registration.As you complete the application, the steps on the left-hand side will get checked off. When all sections are checked, your application is ready to send.When you have entered and reviewed all information for accuracy, click "Add to Cart," The amount of your filing fee will be displayed on this window. Review the information, and then click "Checkout" to proceed to the payment step.
 You have several options for payment. First, you can enter your bank-account information and transfer the required funds electronically.Alternatively, you can pay with a debit/credit card. To do this, you will be directed to Pay.gov, a website operated by the U.S. Treasury Department that handles payment to government agencies., The final step in this process is to send in a copy of the work being registered to the U.S. Copyright Office. Generally, you may only deposit a copy through eCO for works that are either (1) unpublished or (2) published only electronically.After paying the fee, click "Continue." You can upload an electronic copy on the following screen.If you have to send in a physical copy of your work, click "Create Shipping Slip" on the bottom of this screen, print the slip, attach it to the parcel, and send it to the address listed on the slip.If you are unsure of the deposit requirements for your particular piece of work, contact the U.S. Copyright Office., The Copyright Office may contact you by phone or e-mail about your application. If any additional documentation or information is required, you will be notified and should update your registration application as soon as possible.


Check your spam folder to make sure you do not miss anything.
 To check the status of your application, log in to eCO and click on the blue case number associated with your claim in the “Open Cases” table at the bottom of the screen.

