 Rattlesnakes are fairly easy to recognize. Not all venomous snakes have a rattle, but rattlesnakes - one of the four most common venomous snakes in North America - do have this distinctive feature. A rattlesnake will typically warn you when you get too close by shaking its tail, producing the distinctive "rattle" sound.There are over a dozen distinct species of rattlesnake across North America alone. Knowing which species inhabit which geographical regions in the country will help you narrow down which species you're dealing with.Rattlesnakes also have a triangle-shaped head, which may make them fairly recognizable.
Depending on the species and its environment, fully-grown rattlesnakes can range from one foot in length to eight feet in length.
Rattlesnakes can live in forests, grasslands, swamps, deserts, and can also swim across bodies of water.
 The cottonmouth snake (also known as a water moccasin) is the only venomous water snake in North America. However, they are semi-aquatic, meaning cottonmouths can inhabit both aquatic and terrestrial habitats as needed. The most distinctive features of the cottonmouth are its head and mouth. The head is blocky and triangular, and the mouth (should you see it open) has white coloration on the inside.Many cottonmouths also have a distinct white, raccoon-like "mask," and an elliptical eye shape.Cottonmouths can range in a number of colors, from copper/brown to black to green. Their coloration may be solid, spotty/blotchy, or in distinct bands.
The native range of cottonmouth snakes is confined to the southeastern United States.
 Copperhead snakes have a similar appearance to cottonmouths, but their colors tend to be brighter. Many copperheads have a burnt copper to bright orange coloration, but some are silvery, pink, or even peach-colored.Copperheads have a triangular head, whereas their look-alike the corn snake has a more oval-shaped head.
 Coral snakes are from the cobra family. They typically have long, slender bodies, and their heads are marked by large scales. There are two species of coral snake commonly found in North America: the eastern coral snake and the western coral snake.The western coral snake has a distinct banded color pattern: red on white on black, running the length of its body.The eastern coral snake has a similar coloration, only its pattern is red on yellow on black.