 Home display is not the same as museum display; usually it is not possible to rope off a room and say "don't touch"! When planning for your display, it is important to think about the possible challenges your teapot collection might face.


You won't want your collection getting in the way of other activities and if you have concerns about the teapots being broken by children, pets, or general activities and traffic in the home, this will also need to be taken into account when planning.
If you live somewhere that is also disturbed by earthquakes, you will need to take this into account when planning their display, in order to minimise possible damage. Also, if you have concerns about theft, you will need to take this into account when displaying and insuring high value items.;
, After realising where it is not ideal to place your teapots, it is time to consider where your teapots might fit best. Placing them high or away from general traffic makes good sense but it is dependent on the furniture and space in your home. Some suggestions that might work for your home display include:


Place the teapots on the top of kitchen cupboards. Where kitchen cupboards do not reach to the ceiling, this unused space can be a valuable display area that is visually interesting. The one drawback of this is that you will need to climb a ladder for cleaning and dusting on a regular basis, unless you don't mind the dust bunny build-up.
Use a cabinet with glass doors. Glass cabinets can be standalone or mounted on a wall like a shelf. These make excellent display units because the glass wards off the dust, and the entire cabinet acts as a barrier to ward off touching and interfering with the collection. This can be an expensive option, especially if you don't already own such a cabinet but it is worthwhile doing and the cost can be reduced by looking for used furniture online or buying through an inexpensive furniture supplier such as IKEA.

Shelves. Have special shelves put up just for the teapots. These can be placed in a single area of the home, or arranged wherever there is suitable space.
Consider shadow boxes. Shadow boxes are another type of shelving that provide depth and a "boxing" frame for the object placed inside of them. If you can get shadow boxes that are tailored to fit the size of your teapots, this could be an excellent display method. If you, or someone in the family, are handy with woodworking skills, shadow boxes can be made very easily and the measurements can be adjusted to suit each individual teapot. Arrange them on the wall or in different parts of the house to fit in with the décor.
Arrange across a mantle over a fireplace. Teapots along a mantle can look very interesting and can serve as a conversation piece.
 You might get some constructive feedback on locating it where it doesn't cause problems for other household activities. You might even inspire someone to build you a nice display cabinet!

