 If you do not have you can download it from the App Store or Play Store.


Mondly also offers separate apps for specific languages if you want to save space on your device.;
, Tap the dropdown menu under “I speak” and select a language.
 Tap the dropdown menu under “I want to learn” and select the language you will be learning.
 You can select start from beginner, intermediate, or advanced.


The topics will not change, but questions will become more complex and have more possible answers as you scale the difficulty upwards.
 Scroll right through the basic information until you reach a topics page.


If you have an account from a previous Mondly session, you can skip the tutorial by tapping “Log in” underneath.
 Selected topics will be highlighted. There are a few pages of topics to choose from.
 When you reach the reminders page you can tap “Allow” to enable push messages with vocabulary or reminders to keep learning.


You can continue scrolling right to ignore enabling reminders.
 When you reach the last page, this button will begin the tutorial. Once the tutorial is complete you will be taken to the Categories page.


You can tap “Skip” in the upper right corner at any time to continue without doing the tutorial.
 From the Categories page, tap the flag icon in the upper left to swap between languages or start a new language.


To change a language’s difficulty, choose “Add a new language” and select the difficulty you want. This will overwrite the old language setting but maintain your progress.
 Tap “Lessons” at the bottom of the page to see an overview of each lesson, including how much time you’ve spent on each and how many stars you’ve earned.
 Tap “Statistics” at the bottom of the page to see a page of your total time spent and words/phrases learned. You can drag the slider near the bottom to see a prediction of how much you can learn in how much time based on your current statistics.


You can tap a the colored nodes on the brain diagram to zoom in and view learned words/phrases. Tap the word or phrase to view it and have it playback.

