 Using a premade template will be a little faster than constructing the mask from scratch. Various sites offer mask templates. With this option, all you have to do is color it in and cut it out.This will also make it easier to get various kinds of monkey masks such as a simple ape or a lemur.
Search for monkey mask templates and pick whichever option you like best.
Check out a good option at http://www.firstpalette.com/tool_box/printables/monkeymask.html.
You could also use the one at http://www.woojr.com/printable-animal-masks-monkey-mask/.;
, You can use regular paper if that’s all you have, but making the mask with cardstock is sturdier so the mask will last longer. White cardstock is probably your best option, but if you’re in a pinch for time you could use tan or brown so you don’t have to color it.
 You may also find a mask template that is already colored in, and if you don’t mind using colored ink to print, you can save time that way too. Check out the dimension that the mask will print to make sure that it is big enough to fit your head. Making it fill most of a standard 8 ½ x 11 piece of paper should do.
 If you want the monkey to be festive or exotic, you can use other colors. This is the part where you can be creative to get the look you find most interesting. Using markers is the quickest way to get a good color.


If you want an even nicer look, you could use craft paint. The majority of the face should be brown, while some areas around the ears, mouth, and nose might be colored tan.
If you find a template that has the mouth open at all, you can color it with red.
 Make sure you use sharp scissors and take your time during this step. Carefully cut just inside the printed outline so that none of the outline is left on the mask. Cut slowly so that you finish with a smooth outline, not a wavy or crooked one., A razor knife can cut circles around the eye holes much more easily than scissors. Set the mask down on a cutting board or a piece of cardboard and carefully cut out the eye holes.Always be sure to use a sharp, clean blade so you can get a smooth cut. Sharp blades are safer than dull blades.
Depending on the template, you most likely have some freedom in regards to how much of the eye you want to cut out. You can cut small pupil holes and leave the rest of the eye colored in, or you can cut the entire circle of the eye out so you’ll see most of the eyes of whoever wears the mask.
 You’ll be cutting holes which you’ll feed some string through to hold the mask. The purpose of this tape is to strengthen the paper so that the holes don’t rip out when the string pulls on the mask.
 With the razor knife, cut a small hole through the tape and paper just under each ear. Feed a piece of yarn, elastic string, or rubber band through each hole.You can either make a small knot which will keep the string from slipping out of the hole, or you can loop the string around the outer edge of the mask tying it in a knot.
You can attach a separate string to each hole, which would tie in the back of the head, or you can tie one string connecting both holes. Make sure the string is long enough to fit around the wearer’s head.
If you use rubber bands, you’ll loop them around your ears when you wear the mask.
 Another option is to skip the strap altogether and simply glue a popsicle stick to the bottom of the mask, which allows you to hold the mask up to your face without it being stuck there.

