 Fraud is not only a crime, it is also a civil wrong which you can sue for. When someone defrauds you, you can sue to get back the money taken. You may also be able to get additional damages. Only a qualified attorney can advise you about your options.


To find a lawyer, you should contact your local or state bar association, which should run a referral program.
As a nonprofit, you may be able to get free legal assistance. For example, an individual lawyer or a law firm may volunteer their services pro bono. You may also get a legal aid organization to provide free legal services. To find a legal aid organization near you, you can visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website., You will start the lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. This legal document identifies you as the “plaintiff” bringing the lawsuit and the person who committed fraud as the “defendant.” The complaint also describes the fraud and makes a request for compensation.Your lawyer can draft the complaint for you and file it with the court.
 You can give the defendant notice by serving a copy of the complaint and a “summons,” which is a legal document you can get from the court clerk.


Generally, you can serve the complaint by hiring a private process server to make hand delivery. You may also have someone 18 or older who is not part of the lawsuit make hand delivery.
Ask whoever makes service fills out a “proof of service” (also called “affidavit of service”) form. You must file this form with the clerk to show that proper service was made on the defendant.
 At a fraud trial, you must prove fraud using documents and witness testimony. As the person bringing the lawsuit, you will present your evidence first. The defendant will also be able to testify and present evidence as well.


Your lawyer should handle the trial for you. Although you won’t have to do anything (other than possibly testify), you should stay engaged throughout the lawsuit and the trial.
 If you win at trial, then you face the challenge of trying to get back the money you were defrauded of. Roughly half of all nonprofits are unable to recover the money they lost.Accordingly, you may have to be creative.


For example, you could garnish the defendant’s wages. However, if the person is unable to get future employment, then you won’t be able to garnish anything. Also, if the person switches jobs, you have to file a new garnishment action each time.
Another option is to put liens on the defendant’s property and foreclose on it. You can then get some of the proceeds and apply them toward the money judgment the court awarded you.
For more information, see Collect a Court Ordered Judgment.

