 Glutathione is considered one of the most important antioxidants in the body. It has been shown to help protect against cancer, aging, heart problems, and brain diseases. Your body produces this powerful natural antioxidant, but several environmental factors can have a negative effect on its levels:Pollution or toxins in the air
Drugs
Bacterial or viral infections
Radiation
Aging

, This antioxidant is built up from several components known as amino acids, namely cysteine, glycine, and glutamine. Amino acids contain sulfur group (SH) in their structure that acts like a sponge to adhere to any toxin on its surface, such as heavy metals, mercury or free radicals that can cause direct damage to different cells in our body.


When these toxins or harmful substances increase in our body, they accumulate in higher levels and can inhibit the release of glutathione. That is the point when we need help to get glutathione in our diet, or to stimulate its natural release again.
 Glutathione is a strong antioxidant that helps us get rid of the toxins and free radicals in our body. It works by adhering to toxins on the surface of the glutathione itself, and then expelling them from our body through stool or bile secretions.Glutathione deficiency can lead to some serious conditions such as cardiac diseases, infections, arthritis, and liver and kidney disorders.
Glutathione boosts and supports the immune system while fighting diseases and infections. It increases cytokine production (part of the immune system), and promotes the killing power of cytotoxic cells. It also maintains other antioxidants such as Vitamins C and E in their active forms.
Glutathione has a major role in maintaining our physical activity and mental health, preventing some critical mental disorders such as dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. Glutathione is very critical to our skin cells health too, preventing aging and maintaining normal cell functions.
 There are some oral, inhalant, and injection glutathione supplements available, but these are most often used as therapy for serious diseases. Doctors use glutathione to treat health conditions including:Anemia
Parkinson’s disease
Atherosclerosis
Diabetes Mellitus
Cancer
AIDS

