 No blemishes and pores; you must look refined. Have a pamper day at least once a week.;
,, White skin scares people, and this is not the image that you want (not all over in-your-face bleached skin).
,,,, grey, green, blue, red). Sweep this across the upper lip in a 4mm thick line close to the natural line, getting bigger towards the outer corner.
 Create a smokey "cats eye" look.
 Don't go overboard on the liner; you want to appear very elegant and regal.
 Go for a dramatic look.
 Pick an elegant color of lipstick. Congealed-blood-red looks good but only goes with so many other colors. Go for something good quality and in the red family. Roses and pinks highlight blonde hair. Deep purplish-reds for brunettes. It all depends on your lip shape really. Shop around and try to find one that suits you. And remember, lipstick lasts forever, but chuck it when it looks past its best.
 Rose-pinks, not deep reds. Highlight the cheek bones. Go for a madame look depending on your age.
 Burgundy is gorgeous. Make sure it suits your face and looks good on your before you dye it; check with a friend or a hairdresser.
 Shoulder length or more is best. A fringe is optional. Keep it loose and natural for everyday, Victorian-styled for special occasions.
 Lacey blouses are always lovely. Greens, reds, burgundies, blues and of course, blacks, are great. Don't go full on all the time. Pants are acceptable, women! But stay in your comfort zone. And don't be afraid to dress up just for a day in the house; you never know who will come by.
 A thin ribbon or lace choker for the shorter necked. Jewelry could be a simple string of pearls, or an intricate brooch. Earrings that dangle look best for a thin face. Elegant hands and long fingers should be covered in lace gloves or finery. Piercings on the nose are acceptable. Large and brutish lip rings are a NO.
 Cultured you should be, but don't take it too far. Manners are nice, but if it's not you, just don't attempt.
 Don't act aloof. Have fun doing the things you enjoy. Listen to music. Paint. Sketch. Cook... For god's sake just don't throw yourself into a spiraling pit of despair for no good reason!

