 Obsessions are one big part of OCD. These are the thoughts, fixed ideas, and fears that drive the ritual behaviors. Children can develop different obsessions, from concerns about germs and orderliness to preoccupations with lucky and unlucky numbers, fears of illness, or religious obsessions.Kids can be skilled at hiding obsessions and rituals from adults. They may be hard to spot. Keep an eye out for signs of anxiety, irritability, depression, and low self-esteem if you suspect your child might have OCD, too. These commonly occur with the disorder.
Watch out for behavior like tantrums, signs of worry, and difficult behavior, as well.
Kids with OCD may also try to get you to participate in their obsessive thoughts and rituals, repeatedly asking something like, “Hey Mom, did I just touch something with germs on it?”;
, Obsessions are one part of OCD. The other part is the ritualistic behavior that grows out of them – these are called compulsions. Compulsions will be easier to observe. If you think your child might have OCD, pay attention to his or her behavior and body.Watch how your child acts around the house. Are there any ritualized behaviors, like going in and out of doors repeatedly or needing to move through spaces in a certain way? Or, does the child repeatedly check appliances, homework, or door locks?
Pay attention to how the child acts around others, too. Does your child show fear for the wellbeing of family members? Does the child keep asking the same questions or ask you to repeat strange phrases? Does the child dislike leaving the house at the same time as others?
Watch for other giveaways. Chapped hands, high utility bills, missing soap, or larger than normal loads of laundry may indicate compulsive cleaning or bathing, for instance. You might also notice a sudden drop in your child’s grades or signs of repeated erasure or holes on homework assignments.
 Speak up if you suspect that something is wrong, especially if rituals seem to be interfering with your child’s social functioning. Try to connect on an emotional level so that your child doesn’t feel put upon, but can respond. Keep in mind: kids might not have the ability to express their feelings without some prompting.Know that early intervention is vital to treating OCD. The sooner you step in, the better.You might say something like, “Sam, you seem to be preoccupied all the time. What’s on your mind?” Or, “I notice that you repeat this a few times every day. Did you know that?”
You can also try, “Can you try to only do that once? What happens then? Is it OK, or does it not feel right?” Or, “Everyone has worries. It’s OK to talk about yours.”

, It’s quite common for children with OCD to feel embarrassed or guilty about their behavior or even to fear that they are “going crazy.” Reassure your child that OCD is no one’s fault and that they are not “bad” because of it. It just happens.Focus on the idea that OCD is a health issue. You child will know that people get ill when their bodies don’t work quite right. Explain that OCD is similar – and that they can get better.
You can also use the image of a computer virus. Like a virus, OCD messes up certain “programs” in the brain and sometimes causes the whole system to crash. When your child feels anxious or acts compulsively, that’s the “virus” at work.