 There are many well established sites that are looking for bloggers and writers to create content for them. Most of these sites will offer pay that is based on the article you provide for them. Take some time and look around online for blogs that you might want to create content for.Try to find a blog or website that publishes content you are interested in.
Some sites may pay you per published article or base your pay on how popular your article was.
Each site or blog will likely have its own requirements in terms of formatting, length, tone and style.
 The method that you use to inquire about writing for another site will vary, depending on that site's own requirements. If you don't use the right method, you may have a tough time getting selected to write for that blog. Take a look at the site or blog that you want to write for and learn how you should submit your proposal:


Make sure you contact the correct email address or use the right submission form.
Some blogs won't require previous contact before you contact them.
You may need to know the author or manager of a blog before contacting them about writing opportunities.
Some sites and blogs may want you to have an example of your past work ready to share.
 Once you find a site that you want to work with, you can begin creating content for that site. Each site will have its own requirements for your article, so make sure you keep these in mind as you write. Have fun creating your own article before submitting it for approval and receiving your payment.
 After your article has been published, you may want to promote it. Sharing your articles can help give you exposure to other potential clients and drive traffic to the site you are working with. After your article has been accepted and posted online, try sharing it with others to help make it a successful one.


Some sites will pay you a share of ad revenue. In this case, it's important that you help drive up traffic to your article.Make sure to add tags and keywords to your article to help people find it more easily.
Share your article on social media to reach a lot of people easily.
Ask your blogger contacts to inform their readers about your new article.
 Getting a successful article published on another website is a great way to earn an income by blogging. However, many sites will vary in regards to their payment criteria and methods. Make sure you understand the payment process that the site you write for uses in order to collect your payment.


Some sites won't pay out until your article earns a minimum amount of money.
Many sites pay through a third party site, such as PayPal, instead of direct payments.
Certain sites may require your article to reach a specific level of views or likes before they will pay.
 Once you've started working with a certain website, you may want to consider reaching out to other sites. Working with multiple sites can help increase your income and protect you financially if one site doesn't need content. Working with many different sites can also help you to make professional contacts, allowing you to get even more out of your blogging career.Use your content as an example when securing work with other blogging sites.
Use your contacts to look for new writing opportunities.

