 Socialism is a complex philosophy, and has inspired many interpretations, courses of action, and related ideas. If you are not familiar with its history and basic ideas, try starting with a book written as an introduction to the topic, such as the following:



Introducing Marxism by Rius, an informative, humorous guide in comic book formatIntroduction to Socialism by Leo Huberman and Paul Sweezy, socialist intellectuals writing in 1968Introducing Marxism by Rupert Woodfin

Marx's Kapital for Beginners by David N. Smith and Phil Evans

Marx: A Very Short Introduction by Peter Singer

Socialism: A Very Short Introduction by Michael Newman

, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, in 19th century Germany, collaborated on texts which are considered fundamental to socialist philosophy, especially Das Kapital. The Communist Manifesto, a much shorter book, is a good summary of their philosophy and social-economic analysis.


Many Marxist and socialist texts can be found online for free, for example at the Marxist Internet Archive.
 There are many socialist factions, often grouped into several umbrellas. Some of the most influential socialist movements follow the writings and actions of Vladimir Lenin and Leon Trotsky. These figures represent a wide range of socialist theory, some directly opposed to each other.
 There are many other socialist authors, writing from many different perspectives, nations, and time periods. Find works by Fidel Castro, Harpal Brar, Ella Rule, Claudia Jones, Angela Davis, Rosa Luxemburg and Bhagat Singh, or read introductory works about them.
 Socialist news sources often have a more international focus than other media, and can be a good opportunity to find out about various socialist perspectives on current effects. Examples include The Proletarian Online, Cuba Solidarity Campaign, Massalijn, Lalkar, Liberation News, The Green Left Weekly, Indymedia, Red Pepper, Socialist Worker, Socialist Review, International Socialist, New Internationalist, New Left Review, New Politics, and Socialist Standard.

