 Make sure that you're using a Wizard or High Wizard with base level 99 and job level 50 or higher. To go to Morroc City, you can either use the Kafra Service in any city or ask a Priest to warp you to the location.


Using Kafra Service will require you to pay from 800 zeny to 1,200 zeny, depending on the distance.
Once you reach Morroc City, go to the center of the map then travel southwest until you see the broken walls caused by Satan Morroc. Follow the walls until a dialogue appears, stating that there's a strange distortion in the ground you're standing.
From the selection, click “Search the Area” then press “OK.” The next dialogue will appear; your character will say that they found nothing but can still feel something around them. This time, choose “Extend arm.”
You will be teleported to a small map with three small NPCs and their Master at the middle. Talk to one of them, and they will start to panic after seeing you. The Master will introduce herself as the leader of Warlocks.
Choose dialogues that you're interested in becoming a Warlock, and she will soon reconsider but will test your ability.
Right after talking to the Master, talk to the small NPC with blond ponytail. She will give you the list of items needed in order to progress. Also, she will give you two Magical Stones. Wear these while hunting for items as this is part of the quest.
It's time to hunt, but first, leave the place by talking to the small blond-haired NPC in a white dress behind the Master.;
, You are now outside Splendide, the home of the Warlocks and fairies. In order for you to progress, you need to gather a Shining Crystal and a Giant Bradium, which can be obtained from hunting Naga and Bradium Golems.


Make sure you have equipped the two Magical Stones as they give the chances of dropping the said items.
From Splendide, head south then follow the road that leads northeast where you can find the exit. This portal will move you to the field where you can find the Naga and Golems.
Kill the monsters until you obtain the quest items.
 Now that you have obtained the items needed, return to Yoop in Splendide City. From the middle of the city, travel northwest until you find a branch that leads to the upper floor.


Climb up then travel northwest until you find a small house with a portal. Enter the portal and there you will find the NPC named Yoop.
Talk to Yoop and tell her that you have brought the materials. She will then ask you to give her the Magical Stones, so make sure you unequip them.
In case you have lost the Magical Stones, you can talk to Yoop, and she will give you another one. After talking to her, she’ll tell you to go back to Master Egnoloria while she makes the Magic Stone.
 There are two ways to return to the Master Warlock:


The first one is to go back to Morroc and then approach the very same spot where you felt the distortions. Choose the same selections, and you will be teleported to the small room.
The second option is to go to the northwestern part of the town, but only on the ground floor. Stick to the corner until a dialogue window appears. Choose the same selection, and you will be teleported to where the Master Warlock resides.
 Once you're inside, talk to the Master Warlock and she will tell you that the Magic Stone being made by Yoop is a powerful magical item. She will then give you your next test. Talk to the blue-haired girl once you're ready.


The girl will explain to you the mechanics of the test; talk to her again to be teleported to the next room.
Once you're in the room, enter the chatroom with the title “The Chamber of Magic” then wait for your turn to take the test. If there are no other players taking the same test, you will be teleported right away to the dungeon.
You will also be given four (4) types of Rainbow Rubies, 5 pieces each. These rubies consist of Warlock skills that you can use for the monster exam, so make sure to put them in your shortcut key before entering the chat room.
 Once it's your turn, you will be teleported into a small room where you get to fight the monsters. They will quickly surround you and prevent your character from casting unless you have a Phen Clip.


For those who cannot afford to purchase a Phen Card, use Storm Gust as soon as you enter the room to control the crowd. Keep in mind that there are aqua elementals that are immune to your Storm Gust; moving away from them before using one of the Rainbow Rubies works, as long as the Nagas, Golems, and other monsters are frozen and unable to attack you.
Remember that after killing the monsters, the next round will start right away. Use Storm Gust again, followed by the Rainbow Rubies.
 After the 3rd spawn of monsters, a final monster will appear named Hollow Stone. It won't attack or do anything, but you must attack it using your skills, or if you have Rainbow Rubies left, use it all to halve its HP. You will only be given 10 minutes to do this until its HP reaches zero.


If you failed the test, you won't be teleported back to the room where the Master Warlock resides. You will have to return to your last save point, travel to Morroc again, and enter the distorted zone.
 After defeating the Hollow Stone, you will be teleported back to the small room with the NPCs. Talk to the blue-haired girl first and she will tell you how impressed she was and will update your Quest Log.


Talking to the Master Warlock before the blue-haired NPC won't do anything.
 After being congratulated by the blue-haired NPC, talk to the Warlock and she will express how surprised she was. She will then turn your class to Warlock as promised and also give you a Magic Stone Hat and Green Apple. You are now a full-fledge warlock.


To leave the place, simply talk to the blond NPC in a white dress. She will teleport you back to Splendide.
If you have your last save point in a different city, use Butterfly Wing instead to teleport out from Splendide.

