 When mixing the egg into the ricotta, you can further customize the cheese to give subtle new flavors to the lasagna. Try adding:


1/2 cup Parmesan cheese, grated.
1 teaspoon salt and black pepper
1/2 cup minced parsley
1/2 tablespoon grated nutmeg., This can be a great substitute for meat, but vegetables can also become fantastic complements to a meat sauce as well. Cook the vegetables in the oil for 5-7 minutes, until tender, along with the onions and garlic, then proceed to make the sauce like usual. If you are using it along with meat, cut the following amounts in half and cook the vegetables separately, then add to the sauce with the meat.


1 large eggplant, diced.
1 large zucchini, sliced.
1 lb small white mushrooms, sliced.
 Cut your eggplant into 1/4-inch slices and fry until soft in 1-2 tablespoons of olive oil. Set aside and pat dry with a paper towel, then add the sliced eggplant after the sauce. Top with mozzarella and continue layering as normal, placing a layer of eggplant after every layer of sauce. You can also try layers of:


Roasted butternut squash.
Blanched spinach.
 Just because you can't enjoy pasta doesn't mean you can't enjoy lasagna. Layer in thin polenta cakes instead, treating the rest of the recipe exactly as normal., This ingenious, low-carb recipe is not layered exactly the same way, but that doesn't make it any less delicious. To make it:


Cut the squash in half and remove the seeds.
Cook the squash in a baking dish, cut-side down, for 45-60 minutes (450℉) or until easily pierced with a fork. Pour roughly an inch of water into the pan to prevent them from drying out.
Fill each squash half with layers, starting with 1-2 dollops of ricotta, then sauce and mozzarella. Repeat until full.
Cook the mini lasagnas for 20 minutes in the oven (450℉), until the cheese is melted on top of the squash.
 You can use grilled or shredded chicken instead of beef, if you'd like, though it is not necessary. The principles are all the same as Italian lasagna, but you can get a totally different dish with some simple swaps:

Tomato Sauce → Taco Sauce
Riccotta/Mozzarella → Queso Fresco/Cheddar
Noodles → Corn Tortillas
Italian seasoning → Ground Cumin, cayenne, red pepper, onion powder
Add 1 can of black beans and 1 can of yellow corn to sauce mixture.

