 It is easy to have bad posture when you are sitting. You should always sit with your back straight, your shoulders back, and with your buttocks touching the back of your chair. If you are always slouching when you sit, your muscles can become weak and your spine may be fixed in an abnormal position. This can make you look appear shorter than you are.If you have to sit for long periods of time, try to stand up or walk around every 30 minutes if you can.
Keep your feet flat on the floor while you are sitting and your knees at a 90 degree angle. You may need to use a footrest or stool to maintain the proper position.;
, Find a mattress that offers good back support. Try out different mattresses before you buy one. If you sleep on your stomach, you will need a firmer mattress than people that sleep on their back or their side. You will spend about 1/3 of your life sleeping, so think of a quality mattress as an investment.Sleeping on your back puts the least amount of pressure on your spine. If you can not sleep on your back, try sleeping on your side. Stomach sleeping should be your last option.
If you sleep on your side, use one pillow for your head and place another pillow between your legs to keep your spine in alignment.
Support your neck with a pillow that fills in the natural curve of your neck.
 The wall test can help you determine your posture and identify any areas that need improvement. Stand with your back of your head and buttocks touching the wall. Your heels should be six inches from the baseboard. Once you are in this position, check the distance between your neck and the wall and your lower back and the wall.Your lower back should be one or two inches from the wall. Your neck should be two inches from the wall.
It may be helpful to have someone else measure for you.
 Stand sideways in front of the mirror. Your head should be straight and not bending forwards or backwards. Your chin should should be parallel to the floor. Your shoulders should be in line with your ears, and your stomach should be flat. Your lower back should have a slight forward curve (i.e. not too flat, not too curved, not a hollow back).It may be easier to evaluate your posture by having someone take a picture of you in this position.
Make sure you do this exercise in a full length mirror so you can see your entire body.
 Your lower back muscles and abdominal muscles make up your core muscles. These muscles connect to your spine and pelvis and help you have good posture. Strengthening these muscles can improve your posture.Exercises you should try include planks, standing abdominal exercises, and lower back exercises.
Stop doing any of these exercise if you experience pain. If you have severe back pain, see a doctor before you begin doing core exercise.While strengthening your core muscles won't make you grow taller overnight, it will help you improve your posture over time so that you will look taller for long term purposes.

