 If this is a family dog, make sure everyone takes responsibility for doing their part to help housebreak it properly. Assign everyone a day or two throughout the week on which they are responsible for following the potty training schedule.


Print out a schedule and hang it on the refrigerator (or wherever it will be seen by everyone). Make sure you are specific about who is taking care of the dog on what days and what this responsibility entails.
Be consistent. Everyone needs to follow the same schedule and ensure they are giving the dog all the same instructions during its housetraining. The more consistent you are in training, the quicker your dog will learn where to go and where not to go to the bathroom., Teenagers are often trying to make some extra money by picking up after-school jobs or working over their summer break. Ask some of the kids in your family, around your neighborhood, or your friends’ children if they would be interested. You can likely find a kid who loves dogs and is willing to help you housebreak yours at a much cheaper rate than a professional.


Make sure you leave very specific directions for your helper and stress the importance of following them. Dogs that are being housebroken need to follow a strict routine to be successful.Ensure you find someone who is responsible and will do what you ask of them. Consistency is key to housetraining your dog so you need someone who will take this job seriously and show up when they are supposed to.
 You may also have a few neighbors or relatives who are retired and enjoy your dog’s company. Ask them to help you housetrain your dog. They will most likely have a flexible schedule and be responsible and trustworthy, following your schedule and directions closely.


Help them out in return. For example, you could offer to help put up or take down their Christmas lights, mow their grass, or clean out their gutters in return for their help.
 Depending on the type of job you have, you may also be able to ask a few of your co-workers for help. If you have any co-workers who work at different times than you, see if they’d be willing to stop by your house on their way to or from work to check on your dog and let it out. This can help cut down the amount of time your dog is alone before you get home and give it a chance to use the bathroom, as well as allow any accidents to be cleaned up more quickly.


If you work somewhere with a very relaxed environment, ask your boss if you can bring your dog to work with you while it is housetraining. Be sure having your dog in the office won’t affect you or your co-workers productivity negatively. If you think it might, this is probably not a good idea.