 Rollers are intended to cover a large area with paint efficiently. To cut down on the time you spend painting, put a moderate amount of paint in your tray. Then:


Place your roller into the trough of your tray until it is half saturated with paint.
Roll it on the groves to remove excess paint.
Do this several times to thoroughly wet the nap of your roller.
Apply enough paint so the roller is wet through but not dripping. Now you're ready to roll!, The panels are the inner shapes carved into the door, and should be focused on first.


Use moderate force when rolling; pressing too hard can cause paint to bead along the outer edge of your roller.
Dip your paintbrush into your paint can and use the tip of it to get any narrow spaces in the paneling your roller cannot reach.
Use your brush to smooth any heavy areas or dribbles. Do this by wiping free excess paint on the inner lip of your paint can, wiping the excess paint off the door, and wiping the excess paint back onto the inner lip.
Be especially vigilant for buildup in corner and edges.
 When painting a vertical bar or brace, use vertical motions with your roller. The opposite should be done for horizontal bars.
 Then, using a left-to-right motion, paint the top and bottom borders.


When painting edges with a roller, extra paint caught in the nap of your roller sometimes squeezes out, causing a run line or thick area.
Keep your eyes peeled and a brush handy to correct run lines or thick areas.
 Your paintbrush will allow you to paint difficult areas of your door with much greater detail and control. Use your brush to clean up edges where paint has collected and smooth out any unevenness in the paint.


If painting a wooden door, paint with the grain, which is the direction the wood appears to flow in., The directions on your paint can should indicate how long you should let your paint dry before adding a second coat, but if you are unsure how long you should wait:


Wait 30 minutes for light coats and thinner paints.
Wait four hours for thicker coats and medium thickness paints.
Wait more than four hours for especially thick paints.