 Even if you joke about it, it makes you appear that you are desperate for any date.This might not only make you look desperate but also make you look like you do not respect your friends who are in relationships. Avoid complaints such as:


”You’re so lucky to have a boyfriend; I wish I could have what you have.”
”I hate being single! I wish I could get a boyfriend.”
”I don’t want to be the third wheel; it sucks being single.”;
, Fishing for compliments means that you are trying to get other people to say good things about you.You fish for compliments by saying something negative about yourself and expect to someone to disagree with you. Don’t fish for compliments from the person you are interested or your friends. This makes you look insecure, insincere, and desperate. Avoid statements like:


”I’m so fat. I will never get a man.”
”I’m so dumb!”
”I look awful today.”
”Do you think this shirt looks good on me?"

, Do not neglect your supportive network to try and make yourself look better. This will breed resentment and make you lose friends. Try and avoid saying or doing things like:


Telling an embarrassing story about your friend to make yourself look better.
Ignoring your friends while you try and attract the attention of a cute boy/girl.
Making negative remarks about your friends to make yourself look better. (I.e. "Oh, Stacy isn't into basketball. Not like me.", The truth will always prevail; embellishing your attributes to catch the attention of another is a desperate maneuver that will most certainly come back to haunt you. Lying is commonplace when dating.Some common lies include:


Lying about occupation.
Lying about salary or money.
Lying about age.
Lying about relationship status.
 You must learn to be happy with yourself in order to be happy with another person. If you are trying too hard to be someone that you are not naturally, you are going to add strain on your own life and the life of your partner.Some ways you may try too hard in a relationship may include:


Over-pleasing -- Trying to make your partner feel good in a relationship is a good thing, but overdoing it may come off as desperate. It may make your partner think that you need him or her too much.
Moving too fast -- It is good to be clear and honest about your expectations in a relationship, but expecting too much too fast can come off as desperate. For example, don’t expect to talk about big life-decisions (like kids or marriage) early in a relationship.

