 Use your measuring material on your own neck or the neck of another man to measure the circumference at the base of the neck.


The measurement should be taken about an inch below the Adam’s Apple.Place a finger underneath your measuring material to accommodate extra room and comfort for a fitted shirt collar., Measure around your own chest or another man’s chest by wrapping your measuring material around the back over the shoulder blades, under the armpits, and across the fullest part of the chest.


The chest should not be flexed or sunken in but rather comfortable and relaxed, with the measuring material held snugly against the skin while exhaling.
Sport coat or suit jacket measurements will also include a letter after the chest size number. A Regular (R) typically fits men 5’7” to 6’, while a Long (L) fits 6’1” to 6’3”., Measure the length from the shoulder joint to the wrist bone to find the right length for a shirt or jacket sleeve.


For a shirt measurement, bend the elbow to accommodate for movement.
For a jacket measurement, measure from the outside edge of the shoulder down a straight arm to where you want a jacket sleeve to end., Take a waist measurement by holding your measuring material around your or another man’s torso, just above the bellybutton.


Make sure that you are in a relaxed posture and breathing out, not flexing or sucking in the abdomen when taking this measurement, or you are instructing the man you are measuring to do so.
Note that you may want to take a measurement at the hip, closer to where a waistband would come to, if you are measuring for trousers.
 Measure from crotch to ankle along the inside of one leg to find the inseam on yourself or another man.


If you cannot receive help taking this measurement on yourself, find the length on a pair of pants that fit you very well.
Typical men’s pants sizes list two numbers: the first is the waist measurement and the second is the inseam., Find any other measurements that a sizing chart or clothing pattern calls for using your measuring material.


Make sure you take measurements from the fullest part of the body where you are measuring.
You may need more measurements like wrist size, shoulder width, seat, and shirt/jacket length to fully fit a custom-made suit.