 If you decide to side with the Legion, head to Solitude located in the northwest part of Skyrim and speak with General Tullius inside Castle Dour. General Tullius will point you towards Legate Rikke, also in Castle Dour, and hand you some work to prove your usefulness. Legate Rikke will give you the task of clearing out bandits from Fort Hraggstad, west of Solitude. Once you have cleared out the fort, head back to Legate Rikke and take the Imperial Legion oath. Tullius will direct you to the castle’s blacksmith, Beirand, to pick up your Imperial armor.

The bandits can be easily killed, but make sure to bring plenty of health potions to heal!;
, After you take the oath, you will be offered another quest to aid the Imperial Legion. Rikke will direct you to the ruins of Korvanjund found northeast of Whiterun to clear it out and recover the Jagged Crown. Once you cleared the ruins, take the crown back to Tullius. This will complete the quest and immediately begin the next quest, “Message to Whiterun.”

Completing the Jagged Crown offers no reward, and moves directly to the next quest instead.
 General Tullius will hand you a note after completing “The Jagged Crown” quest to be delivered to the Jarl of Whiterun. You can find the Jarl within Whiterun in Dragonsreach. Deliver the note to the Jarl and he will give you an axe for you to deliver to Ulfric. Travel to the city of Windhelm (east and marked on your map) and find Ulfric in the Palace of the Kings. The Palace of Kings can be found straight ahead once you enter Windhelm. Ulfric will tell you to take the axe back to the Jarl and to expect a ton of excitement for Whiterun.

Return to the Jarl in Whiterun, who will take back the axe and ask you to speak with Legate Quentin Cipius, who will inform you that the Stormcloaks have arrived at Whiterun and intend to take the city. You can find Quentin within Dragonsreach,

, Upon exiting Whiterun’s main gate, you will find Legate Rikke addressing a speech to the troops. Once the speech is completed, the Stormcloak assault will begin. You will first need to defend the barricades of the city. After this, you will need to defend the drawbridge leading into the city. Once these two defenses are successful, you simply need to kill as many Stormcloak troops you can. Eventually, the remaining troops will run away in fear. After the battle is over, speak with the Jarl, who will offer you the privilege of buying a house in Whiterun.

Using a bow from afar is an effective method in defending against the Stormcloak invasion. The Stormcloak archers will be busy shooting the Whiterun defenders.
You can use melee weapons if you want, but you will be hit by Stormcloak archers and their melee troops as well. You will need to have health potions on you when you are up close taking damage.
 Right after you defend Whiterun, the “Reunification of Skyrim” will begin. You will be tasked to capture the holds in Skyrim, which are controlled by the Stormcloaks. Depending on whether or not you completed the “Season Unending” quest, some holds may or may not be needed to be captured., Locate the courier by asking the innkeepers in Candlehearth and Nightgate. Candlehearth is the first building you see when entering Windhelm, while the Nightgate Inn can be found between Dawnstar and Windhelm. Once located, take the documents back to Legate Rikke. After the documents are modified, deliver them to Frorkmar Banner-Torn at Dawnstar in the White Hall. To complete the quest, return to Rikke., To begin this quest, visit Legate Rikke at the Pale Imperial Camp. Meet the legionnaires southeast of Fort Dunstad (south of Dawnstar). Clear out the entire fort of Stormcloak rebels and, once complete, return to General Tullius in Solitude., Report to Legate Rikke at the Rift Imperial Camp south of Ivarstead. You will be required to find evidence in Anuriel’s room in Mistveil Keep to convince her to help the Imperials take Riften. You can find Anuriel’s room on the right once you enter Mistveil Keep. Once you show the evidence to her, she will mention a trade caravan containing valuables. Inform Rikke of the new information you found. Travel to the marker and proceed to attack the caravan, and then return to Rikke once complete., Visit Rikke at the Rift Imperial Camp. Rikke will inform you to clear out the rebels at the fort. Meet up with the Legion soldiers outside of the fort and attack the fort. Once cleared, the quest will be completed., Speak with Legate Rikke at the Winterhold Imperial Camp northwest of Winterhold. Rikke will command you to meet up with the Imperial scouts near Fort Kastav located north of Windhelm. You can either sneak into the fort using an Invisibility potion or barge your way in. Clear out the guards before releasing the prisoners, and then retake the fort by killing any remaining rebels. Once cleared, return to Hadvar to complete the quest., Report to Legate Rikke at the Hjaalmarch Imperial Camp east of Morthal. You will be given the task to meet up with the Legion soldiers outside of the fort and then clear the fort of any rebels. The quest is completed once all rebels are killed., Speak with Rikke at the Reach Imperial Camp east of Ragnvald. You will be ordered to clear Fort Sungard (west of Whiterun) of any rebel presence. Once you clear the fort, the quest will be completed., Begin this quest by speaking to Legate Rikke at the Falkreath Imperial Camp east of Glenmoril Coven. You will be instructed to clear rebel soldiers at Fort Neugrad, found southeast of Helgen. Once you have cleared the rebels, the quest will be complete., Speak with Rikke at the Eastmarch Imperial Camp south of Windhelm. You will be given the task to attack Fort Amol with some Imperial soldiers. You can find Fort Amol northeast of Ivarstead. Once you cleared the entire fort, the quest will be completed., Once “Battle for Fort Amol” is completed, Rikke will order you to meet just outside of Windhelm. General Tullius will be giving a speech before the assault on the city. You must fight through waves of Stormcloak soldiers and make your way to the Palace of the Kings. There will be a brief speech between Tullius and Ulfric. Ulfric and Galmar will become hostile and force you into a fight. Once you kill Galmar, focus your attacks on Ulfric. Once Ulfric is hurt badly enough, he will give in and ask you to kill him instead of General Tullius. Regardless of what you decide, Ulfric will be killed and his sword will be given to you. You will then exit the palace. Tullius will give a speech, and the Imperials will be victorious.

Before entering this battle, it is recommended that you bring health potions with you. Other useful potions include magicka potions (if you use magic) and agility potions.

