 You may also find it labeled as "grout colorant." It usually contains epoxy, and is very durable. Grout paint is not the same thing as grout stain, which is usually translucent and does not come in white.


Depending on the color of your grout, white grout paint may look a little dark once it cures.
If your tiles are very dark, white grout might look too bright. Consider getting a grout paint that is light grey or an off-white instead.
 Fill in any chipped areas with grout, and let it cure. If you need to seal your tiles, do so now, but take care not to get any sealer on the grout itself. Sealers may prevent the grout paint from sticking. You also want to make sure that the grout is clean, and free of any oil, food, soap, or grime.


If you washed the tiles, make sure that they are completely dry before you move on.
 The brush should be small enough to slide down the grout lines. You can even use an old toothbrush. A cheap paint brush from the hardware store also works great for this. You will also need a paint pan, or any other small container to pour the paint into.


If you are worried about the paintbrush shedding, use a foam brush instead. Make sure that it is the same width as the grout line.Consider trimming the paintbrush bristles down a little so that they are stiffer. This will give you more control over the brush.
 Pour out less paint than you think you might need. You can always pour out more paint later. If you pour out too much paint, it can dry out before you use it all.
 Carefully run the brush along the grout. Be careful not to get any paint onto the tiles. It is possible to remove it, but the less cleanup you have to do, the better.


Grout paint will only stick to grout, and can be easily removed from tile. If you are still concerned about this, mask off the tiles using painter's tape., If the paint has dried on the tile, scrape it off using your fingernail.You can also use a pallet knife or an old spoon to scrape the paint off.
 Depending on the brand, this can take 1 hour or more. Refer to the label for more specific drying times. The paint must be completely dry before you apply a second coat., Depending on the brand you are using, you might need to let the paint cure first before you can use the tiled area. Some paints only need to dry.
 This will help your paintwork last longer. It will also help keep the grout clean longer and make it easier to clean later on.

