 You might be interested in several games, in which case you can ask for a rundown. In football and basketball, the point spread is the main line, so that’s the first thing the clerk will give you after giving you the favorite team. In any other sport you will have to specifically ask for this line (be it the run-line in baseball, the puck-line in hockey or the goal-line in soccer).;
, This is a good idea if you need time to study them, or so you can compare them later on and learn how the lines moved during the day.
 You might have already asked for the lines a minute before or seen them online, in which case you can place your bet immediately. But if you’re just getting started, you might want to take a minute to study them. Thank the clerk and hang up. This is what the clerk said and what it meant:


Sport

a) Football
b) Basketball
c) Baseball
d) Hockey
e) Soccer

What the sportsbook clerk said
a) Packers seven and forty-seven and a half
b) Spurs seven and forty-seven and a half.
c) Mets one and a half dog twenty.
d) Bruins one and a half dog thirty-five.
e) Arsenal two and a half flat.
What he (or she) meant
a) Packers -7 points. The total is 47.5 points.
b) Spurs -7 points. The total is 147.5 points.
c) Mets -1.5 runs and if you bet the dog you must risk $120 for every $100 you wish to win.
d) Bruins -1.5 goals and if you bet the dog you must risk $135 for every $100 you wish to win.
e) Arsenal -2 goals and you will risk the same amount (most probably $110 to win $100—this varies from sportsbook to sportsbook) if you take the favorite or the dog.
What it means: The point spread will take away points from the final score of the favorite team or add them to the underdog to even out your chances of winning.
For example, say the Packers are having an amazing season, but the Jets aren’t. A line for a game between the two might look something like this: Packers -10 on the point spread and 50.5 on the total. Now, you know the Packers are going to win the game, but you’re sure they won’t win by more than five points. This is when you can take the Jets +10. This means that if the Packers win by nine points or less, you would win your bet on the Jets.
For example, if you take the Jets +10 $110/100 (risking $110 to win $100) and the score at the end of the game is Packers win 24 to 18, the score for betting purposes would actually be Jets win 28 to 24, and you would be $100 richer.
 Once you decide what you want: either the favorite minus the points or the dog plus the points you let the clerk know by saying the team you want and the amount. For example: “I want the Jets for eighty.” This lets the clerk know you want the Jets plus the ten points and you’re willing to risk eighty-eight dollars in order to win $80. (You would win this bet if the Jets win the game or lose by nine points or less.)

, The clerk will ask you at this point if you need anything else. You can get more lines, or ask about your balance. If you’re done, say so, and the clerk will proceed to read your play (or plays) back to you. It is very important to listen to the read back carefully. Make sure you’re getting what you asked for (team, line and amount); otherwise you might end up with a play you didn’t want.
 If the readback is correct, confirm your play by giving the sportsbook clerk your account number again. He will thank you and end the call.
