 The goal is to have both pai gow hands beat the dealer's hands. If both of your hands beat the dealer's hands, you win the bet. If neither of your hands beat the dealer's hands, you lose your bet. If only 1 of your hands beat the dealer's hands, you get back what you bet, but you don't win any money from the house.


The dealer uses the fourth die rolled with the other 3 to determine how to build his or her hands according to a set of rules known as Star City's Pai Gow House Way. Players may also build their hands by this set of rules or as they choose according to the rules in the remaining steps of this section.
 These are the 1-2 and 2-4 tiles, which may be played together or with other tiles as wild cards to make a pair. If you play them together, they form the highest possible hand, known as the Supreme Pair. If you play either tile with a different tile as a wild card, the wild tile earns you 3 points.
 Pai gow does not rank tiles in numeric order, but in a special order according to the significance of the numbers. The ranking is given below, with the name given to each matching pair. There are 2 of each tile in the Chinese domino set.


Matching 12s (called "Teens") - "Heaven"
Matching 2s (called "Deys" or "Days") - "Earth"
Matching 8s (called "Yuns") - "Man"
Matching 10s (in 5-5 combination, called "Mooys") - "Flower"
Matching 6s (in 3-3 combinations, called "Chongs") - "Long"
Matching 4s (in 2-2 combination, called "Bons") - "Board"
Matching 11s (called "Foos") - "Hatchet"
Matching 10s (in 4-6 combination, called "Pings") - "Partition"
Matching 7s (in 1-6 combination, called "Tits") - "Long Leg 7"
Matching 6s (in 1-5 combination, called "Looks") - "Big Head 6"

, Unmatched pairs in pai gow are Chinese dominoes whose pips add up to the same value but are divided differently on the 2 halves of the tile. (There is 1 of each tile in the pai gow set.) Listed in rank from highest to lowest, they are:


Mixed 9s (3-6 and 4-5 combinations, each tile called "Chop Gow")
Mixed 8s (2-6 and 3-5 combinations, each tile called "Chop Bot")
Mixed 7s (2-5 and 3-4 combinations, each tile called "Chop Chit")
Mixed 5s (2-3 and 1-4 combinations, each tile called "Chop Ng")

, Wongs, gongs, and high nines are made with either the Teen (12) or Dey (2) tiles. Either of these pai gow tiles can be played with 9s, 8s, or 7s in the ranking order given below. (Note that a Teen or Dey tile can't be used in both a pair and one of these special combinations.)


Wong (with 9s) - "King of Heaven" (12), "King of Earth" (2)
Gong (with 8s) - "Treasure of Heaven" (12), "Treasure of Earth" (2)
High nine (with 7s) - Either a 12 or 2

, You're trying to make a score of 9 or come as close to it as possible. As in baccarat, if you score more than 9, the tens digit is dropped; a 2-2 and a 3-3 tile played together score 0.
 Score the hands for special combinations and points as described above. Ties are broken in the following ways:


If both the dealer and player have hands with the same numeric value, the value of the highest-ranking domino determines which hand wins. If the values of both dominoes in the hands are equal, the player has a "copy" hand and loses.
If both the dealer and the player's hands score 0, the dealer wins even if the player had a higher-ranking domino.

