 Many cats love to lounge on window sills in the warm sunlight. In the winter, when windows are closed, this is a great way for them to stay warm. In the summer, however, when windows are open, it can be hazardous. Cats leaning into screens that are not very secure can easily pop them out, leading to escape from the house or injury. Don't assume that your cat will understand the difference between a solid window and a flimsy screen. If your cat is used to the window being solid, it will probably assume that it is that way all of the time.
 You should always keep your cat's medications and vaccinations up to date but it's especially important in the summer. Fleas and ticks are more active during the summer, so these infections are more likely to occur in the summer.Also, keeping vaccinations up to date in the summer is especially important because your cat is more likely to come into contact with other animals during the summer months. More contact increases the risk of your cat getting a contagious disease, such as feline distemper, if they are not vaccinated., While a cat won't usually go on a run with you or get heatstroke from playing fetch for hours, excessive activity can increase a cat's body temperature. If it is very hot out or in your home, don't play with your cat for long periods of time and exhaust it. This can lead to an increased body temperature.
 If your cat is spending more time outside during the summer it is especially important to make sure it has current identification. You should put tags on it that includes your current phone number and address and have it micro chipped, so that it can be returned to you if found by animal control.


Having both forms of identification on your cat will help to assure it's safe when roaming the neighborhood.
 Many general houseplants are toxic to cats, and they are grown year round. However, many outside blooming plants, such as daisies, dahlias, and lilies, are also toxic for cats. Your cat is more likely to come into contact with these plants in the summer, when they are grown outside. While outdoor cats regularly roam beyond their yards, it's best to limit the hazards to your cat by avoiding growing these plants.Consult a list of plants that are toxic to cats before planning your garden.Signs that your cat has ingested a plant that is toxic to them range from nausea and throwing up to sudden death. Because the signs are general and hard to pinpoint, it's best to keep your cat away from these plants to begin with.
 Bringing your cat inside will protect it from a variety of dangers that increase at night. These include, but aren't limited to, the dangers of cars and wild animals.Even though you don't see wild animals in your neighborhood it doesn't mean they are not there. For example, coyotes largely move around, and hunt, at night.

