 If you work in the same office or can easily travel to see your manager (as you may do for other meetings), requesting a face to face meeting may be simple. If your manager is easily reachable in person, a phone call or video conference will do. It is not necessary to fly or even drive over 4 hours to break the news.


When requesting a meeting, say “I would like to have a short meeting with you to discuss something. When is a good time today?” You do not need to say you are leaving your job at this point.;
, Start off by thanking your manager for taking the time to meet with you. Politely state that you have chosen to leave the company. Then, state your last date of employment.


It is considered customary to give at least 2 weeks notice. However, some positions may require you to give a longer notice (3 weeks to 1 month). Positions that may require a lengthier time are generally those that cannot easily be filled, such as one-person departments or senior and executive management level positions.
 Stay as positive as possible and do not dwell on any negative reasons for leaving.


For example, if you are leaving for a higher salary, do not say, “I am leaving because the pay is too low and I am doing more work than Joe who I know is getting paid more than me”. Instead, you can say, “I am leaving for a more profitable opportunity”.
 Constructive criticism is best suited during an exit interview. However, some companies may not conduct an exit interview; in that case, you can express your thoughts with your manager. To find out if there is an exit interview, ask your manager or Human Resources.


Remember to stay positive while providing suggestions or constructive criticism. The idea is to help the company retain its employees. For example, if the company does not provide additional leadership training you can say, “It would be good for employees if the company allowed more leadership training“.
 If you are leaving on good terms, your manager may be sad, annoyed, or even jealous to see you go. It is okay to tell your manager the name of the new company and your new title. Limit any details such as key duties and projects because you may naturally get excited about the new opportunity and leave a bad last impression.
 Most jobs leave you with valuable knowledge and experience that can lead you to the next steps in your career. Recognizing this fact and thanking your manager is important in order to leave a good lasting impression.
 Your letter should state the basic details of your resignation. Present your resignation letter at the end of your meeting. This letter will be kept in your file and should include:


A statement that you are leaving.
Provide your last date of employment.
Ending on a good note by thanking them for the opportunity.
An example of how to start your resignation letter would be: “This letter is to inform you that I am leaving my position as Sales Manager as of June 23, 2014. I thank the company for providing me the opportunity to learn and grow within my position and wish management and staff luck in the future.”

