 Rather than beginning with just any verse, it may be easiest to begin by memorizing one of your favorite verses. That way you'll already have some familiarity with the verse, and you'll be able to recall the general concept of that verse very easily.Select your favorite verse to begin with.
If you don't already have a favorite, choose a verse that you're familiar with and can easily recognize when you hear/read it.
Re-read the verse you've chosen several times until it is fresh in your memory.
Think about what the verse means as well. What is it saying? Is there a lesson attached to the verse? If so, what is it?

, If you're trying to quote verses from the Bible, it's important to learn the verse's location in conjunction with the verse. Quoting the Bible may take some skill in itself, but without the corresponding location you may not appear to know the Bible as well as others do.Write the verse's location on a scrap of paper - for example, "Peter 2:24" is shorthand for the Book of Peter, chapter 2, verse 24.
Practice writing the verse's location over and over. This is called rote learning (learning by repetition), and it's considered a highly effective memorization technique.Say the verse's location out loud to yourself as you write it. Combining the spoken verse location with its written numerals may help cement it in your memory.
 Once you've committed the verse's location to memory, you'll be ready to incorporate the verse itself. This may be more difficult than the verse's location, due to its length and complexity in comparison to the location.


Write the verse repeatedly on a sheet of paper. This can help drive the verse into your memory the same way writing the verse's location did.Practice saying your chosen verse out loud over and over. Try to repeat the verse in its entirety without looking at the written verse, if possible.
 After learning the verse itself and its location, you'll need to commit the pairing to memory. You can do this by the same written methods you used for the individual components, or you can try using a missing words exercise to test your memory.


Take a dry-erase board or a sufficiently large piece of blank paper.
Write out the verse location, followed by the verse. If you're using a dry-erase board, write in a dry-erase marker; if you're using paper, use a pencil or keep index cards on hand to cover it up.
Erase or cover up various portions of the verse and its location. Wait a few minutes before coming back to the lines, and see if you can recall the words or numbers missing from the board.
Another variation on this exercise is to write parts of the verse on separate, identical slips of paper. Then scramble the slips up and try to return them to their correct order.