 Before you can transform your room into a love oasis, you must make sure it is clean. Make up your bed. Clear off your desk (you will be using it).

Avoid leaving smelly laundry in your room. Nothing ruins the mood more than the fresh smell of gym socks and dirty underwear. Dorm rooms are normally shared with one or two other people the amount of space is limited. Having a clean room alleviates clutter and makes a room look slightly larger.



 

;
, Use your air freshener to freshen up the scent of the room. If there is a scent that your date loves to smell on you, lightly spray the scent on your bed. If your bed smells pleasant it will help create a good experience if your date decides to get in it.
 Take the white sheet and cover your bed with it. Make your bed mimic a massage table. If you do not have a white sheet you may use any sheet with a solid dark color. The dark sheets are also easier to hide spots with.
 Once the petals are removed, sprinkle them across your bed. There are many benefits to using faux rose petals instead of fresh rose petals.

Faux roses are cheaper than fresh roses, saving you money. They don't wilt, so you may reuse them. .
, If it is nighttime, use the darkness to your advantage and break out those flame-less candles. If this is a daytime date, you can buy dark curtains or use a dark colored sheet.

Use thumb tacks to pin the sheet to the window. Since the tacks make such small holes, your R.A. (resident assistant) will never notice the holes when you take the sheet down.
The darker it is, the less likely it is for your date to notice your roommates messy bed, or any areas you didn't clean. The dark is an unorganized person's best friend.
 Now that the lights are out, it's time to spark the mood. Many romantic scenes feature candlelight. However, since many college campuses do not permit flammable candles, use flame-less candles to set the mood. Place the candles in multiple areas such as the desk, dresser, and on top of other furniture. If you have enough you may also place them in safe areas on the floor leading to your bed.
 The mood is almost set; now add the extras. In order to complete the night and have your date melting in your arms, you may consider providing dinner.


Have food available. Here are a few budget friendly ideas for meals:

Order you and your date's favorite takeout. Takeout alleviates the stress of trying to cook the meal yourself. This way you can spend less time cooking and more time romancing.


Cook your date's favorite microwavable food. Such as:

Ramen noodles
Easy mac
Hot pockets
These are fun ideas that your date may get a laugh out of. It is also cost efficient and time efficient. Plus, if you only have access to a microwave, this will be easy to pull off.


Sweets and treats. Have sweet treats available.






What's your date's favorite dessert? You may consider making it.

If you have access to a kitchen, you may bake small cupcakes that you two can feed to each other.
You may also make chocolate strawberries.

They are small enough to feed to each other, they can be made at home, and homemade desserts are often less expensive than store bought desserts.


If you and your date are sexually adventurous you may consider melting chocolate and being each other's dessert.
 Many dorms do not permit the presence of alcohol in dorms. If your dorm does permit alcohol consumption and you are within the legal drinking age or older, you may buy a cheap wine or champagne.

If a non-alcoholic beverage is necessary, you may use a sparkling white or red grape juice to mimic champagne or wine. Sparkling grape juice is also cheaper than alcohol, which will help you save money. Serve your beverage in the wine/ champagne glasses that you bought. Have the glasses cleaned and on display near the food.







