 If you're afraid that some of your boundaries will scare that special someone away, talk to them about it before it becomes an issue.


Be self aware about your needs and express them to the person you are interested in.State your boundaries in a way that is not judgmental, shaming, or accusatory for the best results.If your special someone takes issue with a boundary you feel to be reasonable, then perhaps that someone isn't so special.
 Let the person you are interested in know from the get-go where the lines are drawn when it comes to what you need (and what you won't tolerate).


While you two are getting to know one another, let him or her know which boundaries are the most important to you, such as a monogamous relationship, sexual boundaries, or wearing shoes inside of the house.
You don't have to hand him or her a ten-page notarized booklet, but you shouldn't leave him/her in the dark and let your frustrations build up to an epic battle to the death.
 Decide when you’re ready to take things to the next physical level. Being physical is a form of intimacy that is common in dating relationships. If you’re only okay with physical contact like kissing, hugging, or hand holding, explain that to your partner. Sex is not a relationship requirement. If it is a dealbreaker for your partner, let them go and find someone who respects you enough to not ask you to compromise your beliefs.If sex is something that you want to do with your partner, do so when you are ready. This can mean 30 days, this can mean 90 days, or this can mean a year – decide what “ready” means to you and tell your partner what that boundary is.
 Meeting one another’s friends and families are important milestones in relationships. Set a boundary for when the appropriate time to meet important people in one another’s lives.Allow the quality of the overall relationship to act as your guideline for when to meet family and friends. If the relationship is new or off to a shaky start, it might not be a good idea to introduce more people into your relationship.
Set a boundary that you will follow his or her lead. If your partner invites you on a night out to hang with some of his or her closest friends, it might be an indicator that you can alleviate your boundary and let him or her meet your friends too.
 When you need it, take it. When he/she needs it, give it. Always be mindful that as much time as you need to take for yourself, so will your lover.


Coming home after a hard day's work to your significant other is often very rewarding, but the both of you still need other outlets of focus.
Keeping up with friends and maintaining healthy social activity is vital to a person's well-being. Humans have always been social creatures, and it's meant to be that way.
Cultivating other interests is important, too. Spend time doing things you enjoy apart from your relationship, and let your partner do the same.
Balancing your work life, social life, and love life are essential to success in those aspects.
 Mature communication is the best way to talk to your lover or spouse about boundary issues.


Don't be a hypocrite. When he/she needs to set boundaries with you, be understanding and open.
Respect his/her wishes and be upfront with any questions or qualms. Remember, any qualms do not have to be voiced with criticism or anger.

