 If your fuel runs low,you could put stress on the fuel pump. However, 10 gallons (37.9 L) of gas adds 60 pounds of weight. A half-full tank may increase your mileage.
 This can increase your gas mileage by up to 15% if you follow the manufacturer's instructions and recommended usage. Be aware that the usefulness of this is questionable: it may be unlikely that synthetic-oil "additive" would cause a car to work much less hard; it would not make the oil overall much less viscous, and circulating the oil is only a relatively small task for a car engine.
 No two fuels are the same, and while "discount" brand fuel may save you a few cents per L or Gal, it can contain a higher percentage of ethanol, which burns at a faster rate. Compare the mileage between fuel companies and see what is best for your car.
 However, studies show that at highway speeds cars get somewhat better mileage with the AC on and the windows rolled up. The drag caused by rolled down windows at high speed reduces fuel efficiency more than the AC.
 A/C, acceleration, and speed all, of course, affect work but these are not direct indicators. Try monitoring the R.P.M.s (or revolutions per minute) your engine is running at. It's like monitoring your pulse to find out how hard your heart is working You will find that there are RPM ranges which are ideal for your car and others that are not.


If you find the engine is running at above 3000 R.P.M.s, it's possible you're accelerating at an unnecessarily a low gear. So, ease off the pedal and let the engine build up a higher speed at a lower RPM. he lower average RPM you travel the lower your work and this directly determines your gas mileage.
How do you monitor your RPM? Most cars have a left gauge next to the speedometer called the tachometer. It measures your RPM at x1000 which means if your gauge indicates halfway between 2 & 3, you're running at 2,500 RPM. A comfort/efficient RPM zone is between 2,000 and 3,000 RPM; however, try to stay below 2,000 as much as possible and not much over 2,700 unless necessary, such as when you are moving uphill through a traffic light from a stopped position. This means you won't get above 40 mph (64 km/h) and you'll achieve 50–55 mph (80–89 km/h) in the city and up to 65 mph (105 km/h) on the highway and still be running at 2,500 RPM. Try to find your comfort/efficient zone and perhaps you can get a few more M.P.G.s by watching how hard your engine is working!
Be aware that some vehicles are monitored by x100.

