 While you may be on a diet or watching your food intake, bringing any sense of deprivation into the day may cause you to overeat out of sheer rebelliousness against "missing out". Cut yourself a little slack and let yourself enjoy more food than usual on this special day. After all, the next day things can go back to normal.;
, Don't skip any of the meals during the day – eat breakfast and lunch. The only difference is that you may want to eat more lightly than usual. However, skipping eating normally will just tempt you to overeat at the Thanksgiving meal.


Snacks, if needed, should be raw veggies or fruit.
 Take one small piece or scoop of everything that you enjoy to begin with. Remind yourself that you can always take seconds! This approach is considerate of the need to avoid waste.


Using a smaller plate can also fool your eye into thinking that you have more on the plate. This is a traditional dieter's trick.
 Thanksgiving is a time of giving thanks for the food that is on the table. Think about the contents of your plate and how it was once alive and is now about to provide you with energy and nutrition. Think about all the people whose efforts brought the food to the table, from the farmer to the cook.
 Before you begin to eat, notice everything about the food on your plate. What are its colors, textures, aromas and anything else of note?

, This relates back to the previous step––as you bite, savor the things that you noticed about the food when you took time to assess, such as texture and taste. Also, small bites and slow chewing aids digestion, as enzymes in the mouth begin to break down the food for you.


Rest your eating implements on the plate between each bite.
 You're more likely to realize that you're full before you feel sick if you talk, rather than shovel food into your mouth non-stop! During the meal, make an effort to engage others in conversation in between bites. This shouldn't be too hard if family members you haven't seen for awhile turn up with news of the events in their lives.
 Eat slowly and savor the food you're consuming. If you finish everything on your plate, wait a minute. You can tell a story to everyone else, or just sit back and relax.
 Repeat the eat-wait-take more cycle until you feel satisfied, but not stuffed. Aim for feeling good, not feeling so stuffed that you can't eat another thing or feel ill.


Leave room for the dessert. One piece of pie or one scoop of dessert is sufficient to end the meal. If you feel too full, leave dessert until much later.
 Go for a walk, play football, entertain a child, play with a pet or help clean up! Head out to volunteer for those less fortunate on Thanksgiving. This will keep you from munching just because there's food in sight.


Stay away from snacks arranged away from the dinner table. If they're so tempting, move to another spot where the snacks are not in view.
 And laugh at everyone who feels so full they can't move! In fact, you might take a moment to share the secret of enjoying a Thanksgiving meal mindfully with them––just don't be preachy.

