 There are several species of palm trees that reside in the United States. To name some of them, there is Phoenix roebelenii or the pygmy date palms, Sabal palmetto or the Sabal palms, Phoenix canaries, Phoenix reclinata, and Archontophoenix cunninghamiana. If you are in the process of renovating your garden and you have one of these species, revising them won’t be as easy as removing them.


Compared to broad-leaf trees that palms are similar in size with, palm trees are fairly easy to remove from the garden. Unlike broad-leaf trees that have fewer roots, palm trees have a great deal of stingy roots, which are generated continuously from the base of the trunk. These roots do not spread very far, compared to the roots of broad-leaf trees.;
, Palm Trees have several species, so you need to find out what specie your palm tree belongs to. The root system of a palm tree depends on its specie. Some have larger diameters compared to others. Knowing its specie will give you an idea on what strategy to use when removing it.


If you can’t determine its specie, base it from the height of the tree - the taller the tree, the larger the diameter of the roots.
 This step is needed in case the tree topples and causes damage, especially if it’s large enough. Make sure to tie all ropes at an equivalent distance. Use a strong metal to secure all ends to the ground. Make sure that all ropes are tight enough to hold the tree when it falls.
 Make an estimate of the radius. If you have plans of transferring the tree, or replanting it in another area, create a bigger circle, to ensure that larger roots are removed as well.
 Don’t expect to find the roots immediately as a palm tree’s roots are inverted, not like the usual trees.
 Use a sharp tool like a hoe or a shovel. Make sure to dig deeper to find all roots and cut through it, until you find the root ball.
 Continue digging until you reach the base of the trunk. Dig deeper to loosen it.
 The tree could be lowered at this time. So ask helpers to assist you in holding the ropes. Choose 2 ropes to untie, and then lower down the tree slowly.

