 Stock up on t-shirts, stickers and posters of dogs. You don't have to spend a lot of money or buy anything in particular. If you're out and about and see something funny or cute that features a dog, go ahead and buy it.


If you're on Pinterest, try doing a search for "cute dog stuff." There may be artwork, calendars or other items, which can provide you with inspiration for adding to your dog collection.;
, To become a dog person, you should familiarize yourself with different breeds. There may be some you relate to and like more than others and by studying the different types of dogs, you have a better chance of finding the right match for you.


Start by doing an online search to familiarize yourself with different breeds. Just Google, “dog breeds” and see what comes up.
Start with the “A’s” and work your way through the alphabet. Or, if you have a particular type of dog you think you may like, start there.
It may help to find a dog that fits your personality. People have a tendency to gravitate towards pets that resemble them in some capacity.Think about your favorite characteristics and try including that in your search.
Some sites, such as the American Kennel Club, feature a blurb about the dog’s personality. You may be able to scroll through the list and pick out different qualities you like.
 Observing dogs and their behavior on TV is another great way to familiarize yourself with your new friends. You may even find yourself thinking about how it would feel to own a dog of your own.There are a lot of great shows on TV right now, which are about or pertain to dogs. Tune into Animal Planet or take a look at their website to see what shows they are currently airing.
Some shows are about people who take care of dogs, while others are about training animals. Try to watch a mix of shows before focusing in on what suits your interests.
If you’re just looking for something cute and cuddly, try watching the Puppy Bowl. The event takes place before the Super Bowl and acts as a competition for furry “frienemies.” Another opportunity to familiarize yourself with dogs, is the National Dog Show, which takes place on Thanksgiving. The show features a wide range of dog breeds. While you may learn a little more about each dog’s characteristics, more than anything you’ll be able to observe many different types of breeds.
 Whether it’s a picture book or a heartwarming story; there are plenty of books available, which will transform anyone into a dog person. Oprah’s book list for dog lovers is a great place to start.


If you’re looking for a picture book, narrow in on what type of picture book you’re looking for. There are picture books by breed as well as books that will tug on the heartstrings, such as “Shelter Dogs in a Photo Booth.”
Browse through Oprah’s online list of dog books. There are brief descriptions of each book, so you’re sure to find one book you can relate to or are interested in.

