 The hook comes early in the song, most often in the chorus, and it is repeated several times. Hooks are often plays on common expressions, as in "Friends in Low Places" or seeming contradictions, like "This Life is Me." When you hear a common phrase, twist it around to see if it makes for an interesting book. Tim McGraw's "It's a Business Doing Pleasure With You" is a recent example.;
, Get copies of the lyrics or write them out yourself to help you become familiar with how songs are structured. You'll begin to see patterns emerge and you'll learn how to apply them to your own compositions.
 If you don't play an instrument and have no musical background, you should probably find someone who does and collaborate with them. Words that look good on paper don't always fit neatly into a song structure and need some fine tuning with the music to make the lyrics work with the music and the harmony.
 Don't be afraid of using odd structures; some of the greatest country songs break the rules, but keep in mind that simplicity is the hallmark and the strength of most good country songs. Most songs follow the verse-verse-chorus-verse-bridge-chorus pattern or something similar, but don't be a slave to convention if you think you've got hold of something a little out of the ordinary that works. The great Hank Williams song, "Cold, Cold Heart" ignores the convention of having a chorus and has four verses instead of the usual three. Willie Nelson's "Crazy" is quite atypical in terms of harmonic structure.
 Even if it's just a "slice of life" story, it should paint a picture that describes what the narrator is experiencing.
, Make every word work hard. Lots of songs are fewer than 100 words, so they've got to pack a lot of meaning.
 Vivid images trump the sentimental phrase every time. "My truck's in a ditch, my boss fired me today, my wife left me for my best friend" all conjure up images in the listener's mind. It's your lyric, but it's the listener's mental image, and that's what sticks with them and makes those images memorable. "I love you, I need you, I want you" doesn't do much for the imagination.
 Other people have experiences that make for great song lyrics. Learn the art of empathy, putting yourself in someone else's situation and imagining what it might feel like to have a child, lose a parent or a spouse, or break up with a lover.
 News articles, movies, books or something that someone says in a conversation all can inspire songs. A friend's story about how a rainstorm made him feel homesick inspired this article's sample song. Keep a pen and paper handy to scratch out ideas and squirrel them away.


For example, some songwriters have a system of organizing songs and ideas that files them according to their approximate stage of completion. They'll "star" them according to completion, subject to change as the song evolves. That is, they'll file those that are finished as "Fives" and the rest in descending order. "Ones" will usually be a line or two, and "Fours" will be songs that need a little more work to finish.

