 Most people experience writer's block at some point in their lives. Relax and take some deep breaths. A few easy tips and tricks can help you get through your anxiety.


If you are in college, then consider visiting your university’s writing center. They provide help to students, usually trough one-to-one meetings with a tutor who can teach you strategies to improve your writing process.
Another option is to make an appointment with your professor for help with getting started.
Just make sure that you do not procrastinate because of trouble getting started. This can put you in a worse situation where you have to write an entire paper the night before it is due. Doing this puts unnecessary stress on you and it also often results in mediocre writing.
 If you are stuck on a paragraph, try to turn off your brain for 15 minutes. Simply write down everything you think is important about your topic. What do you care about? What should others care about? Remind yourself of what you find interesting and fun in your paragraph. Simply writing for a few minutes--even if you are writing material that will not enter your final draft--will inspire you to keep going., You do not have to write a story, paper, or paragraph from beginning to end in that order. If you are struggling to write your introduction, choose your most interesting body paragraph to write instead. You might find it to be a more manageable task--and you might get ideas for how to get through the more difficult sections., If you are getting tripped up by a complicated sentence or concept, try to explain it out loud instead of on paper. Talk to your parents or a friend about the concept. How would you explain it to them over the phone? Write it down once you've gotten comfortable speaking it out loud., First drafts are never perfect. You can always fix imperfections or clunky sentences in future drafts. Just focus on getting your ideas on paper for now, and revise later., Your brain sometimes needs breaks in order to function at a high level. If you have been struggling with a paragraph for more than an hour, let yourself take a 20-minute walk and come back to it later. You might find that it looks a lot easier once you have taken a break., You should begin a new paragraph when you move on to a new point or idea. By starting a new paragraph, you signal to your reader that you’re shifting gears in some way.Some cues that you should begin a new paragraph include:


When you begin to discuss a different theme or topic
When you begin to address contrasting ideas or counterarguments
When you address a different type of evidence
When you discuss a different time period, generation, or person
When your current paragraph is becoming unwieldy. If you have too many sentences in your paragraph, you may have too many ideas. Either cut your paragraph into two, or edit down your writing to make it more readable.
 As you move to each new paragraph in what you are writing, each one will serve a specific purpose. Start each new paragraph with a topic sentence that clearly builds upon your previous thought.For example, you might transition from a paragraph describing how e-cigarettes may provide a safe smoking cessation option for smokers, to a paragraph about how using e-cigarettes may improve the health of former smokers. You could do this by beginning your paragraph with a transition like, “Along with the apparent safety of e-cigarettes, former smokers who switch to vaping may enjoy some of the same health improvements as people who quit cold turkey.”

, When your paragraphs are building a sequence (such as discussing three different reasons why a war took place), start each paragraph with a word or phrase that tells the reader where you’re at in the sequence.For example, you might write: “Firstly…” The next paragraph would start with, “Secondly…” The third paragraph could start with either “Thirdly…” or “Finally…”
Other words to signal a sequence are: eventually, ultimately, at first, in the first place, in the second place, or lastly.
 Use your paragraphs to compare or contrast two ideas. The word or phrase that starts your topic sentence will signal to readers that they should keep the previous paragraph in mind as they are reading the next paragraph. Then, they will follow your comparison., For example, use phrases like “in comparison” or “similarly” to compare.
Use phrases such as “in spite of,” “however,” “nevertheless,” or “on the contrary” to signal that the paragraph will contrast or oppose the idea from the previous paragraph.
 If you’ve discussed a particular phenomenon in the previous paragraph, give the reader a solid example in the following paragraph. This will be a concrete example that gives weight to a general phenomenon you've previously discussed.


Use phrases like “for example,” “for instance,” “thus,” or "more specifically."
You might also use an example type of transition when you are putting special emphasis on the example. In this case, use transition words like “particularly” or “notably.” For example, you might write: “Most notably, Sojourner Truth was an outspoken critic of the patriarchal system of the Reconstruction era.”

, When you are describing a circumstance or phenomenon, you can give the reader clues that point to how this phenomenon should be perceived. Use vivid, descriptive words to guide the reader's views and to encourage them to see things from your point of view.Words like “fortunately,” “luckily,” “oddly enough,” and “unfortunately” are useful here.
 The connection between one paragraph and the next may be that something in the first paragraph causes something in the second paragraph. This cause and effect is indicate by transition words such as: “accordingly,” “as a result,” “consequently,” “therefore,” or “for this reason.”, Include proper punctuation in your writing by following the phrase with a comma. Most transition phrases such as "finally," "ultimately," and "notably," are conjunctive adverbs.These phrases need to be separated from the rest of the sentence by a comma.For example, you might write: “Sojourner Truth was, most notably, an outspoken critic…”
"Ultimately, we can see . . ."
"And, finally, the expert witness claimed . . ."

