 Keeping your daily routine predictable can help you build habits.Use healthy routines to feel good and include nutritious foods and meals in this. Include some form of exercise such as going on a walk, participating in sports, or going to the gym. Create a predictable schedule and routine to follow each day.


Prioritize your sleep and keep a regular schedule of going to bed and waking up at the same time each day. Teens need 8-10 hours of sleep each night., If you feel anxious, or have obsessive thoughts at school, it can be hard to stay focused and on task. If you do start to engage in rituals or get lost in obsessive thoughts, use mindfulness to help you get back on track. Notice where your attention is and notice what you are doing. For example, say to yourself, “I am sitting,” “I am breathing,” or, “I am walking.” Notice the sensations in your body such as your heart rate, fidgeting, feeling hot or cold. Then ask yourself, “What’s next? Should I focus on doing or being?”By focusing on mindfulness, which is the meditative goal of keeping your mind focused on present actions rather than the past or future, and being instead doing, you can begin to let go of your obsessions and compulsions and focus more on school.
Do not be afraid to speak with your teachers or professors regarding your OCD. Let them know if there are certain compulsions that may impact how you act in the classroom, and don't be afraid to ask for a break or to excuse yourself momentarily when necessary.
Ask for private testing rooms or to skip reading out loud if you feel these things may trigger obsessive thoughts or compulsive actions., If you’re having a hard time with your OCD rituals at home or school, make a change to your routines. For example, if you always get dressed by putting on your shirt then pants, mix it up by putting on your pants first then your shirt. If you have the urge to perform a ritual, try to prolong it for one minute.Reward yourself when you’ve done something well! Your reward may be watching a television show or eating a small treat.
 You might feel like having OCD makes you weird or different from other people. It’s important not to distance yourself from peers or isolate yourself. Have a broad social circle including friends at school, in other extracurricular activities. You may wish to tell your friends about having OCD or not, it’s up to you.If you don’t have good friends, join a club at school, volunteer, or get involved at a spiritual center in an effort to meet other like-minded people.
 Having OCD doesn’t mean you’re crazy, so don’t think you have less worth or are deserving of less love because you have OCD. You deserve to have a normal life just as much as any other teen does.Have compassion on yourself when you’re feeling low or when you’re struggling with OCD. Don’t be mad or upset with yourself and instead, be kind to yourself.

