 Identify what needs improvement, then brainstorm to target potential additions. Proceed room-by-room and visualize (with your partner or friend) a new face that will pleasantly greet you as you enter, one that will provide happiness and a spark of delight.;
, Think of this as a homeware exclusive Christmas list, however, in this list you should include all measurements; this significantly reduces the chance of your well picked out future purchase looking odd in your home or worse, not fitting at all.
 Ikea stores can be easily located using your national Ikea website and using the store locator.


If you're travelling by car, be sure to clear out as much space in your vehicle to minimize the chance of a second trip.
 Noting down product numbers, sizes and prices of potential purchases will make price comparison and finding your product easier. Be sure to compare measurements with the wish list your created prior to arriving at the store.
 This is your warm up; prep your mind and switch on your home ware thinking cap. Visually skim through your areas of interest and note down items which catch your eye and familiarize yourself with the layout. Once you find yourself at the exit/entrance, prepare for round two.
 At this point, you'll have a rough idea of what items you'll buy and where you need to go to find them. If you wish to buy larger items (or several smaller items) get a shopping cart. Alternatively, if you only need to pick up a few smaller items then just pick up a yellow shopping bag.


Head to your areas of interest and weigh up the pros and cons of each individual purchase. Bear in mind the importance of pre-existing furniture and accessories that will have an impact on how your new product will look in your home.
 When you reach the mid-point of your final trip, you may realize that you have stirred up quite an appetite, if this is the case, it would be brilliant timing to make use of the in-store restaurant which offers unlimited re-fills on drinks, free Wi-Fi and is notoriously cheap.


Shopping on an empty stomach is ill-advised. So, when the debate with your partner about table leg styles is becoming increasingly fierce, take time to sit down and discuss the matter over a beverage of your choice, a coffee, for instance.
 In the event that you did not find what you came to buy, use the what you saw during your visit as a guide and inspiration in the quest for your ideal product.
 Double check the items in your shopping cart/bag to ensure that the product numbers, colours and measurements are all correct.
 For smaller purchases, you can simply take a taxi, train or bus back.
 Build your purchase with the provided instructions and remember to clean any kitchen ware prior to storing it.

