 The physical color of a timber rattlesnake can vary widely depending on its area.For example, they can have many different color variations, called color morphs, including:


Black morph -- background of gray with a rich black pattern.
Yellow morph -- background of tan with a sulfur yellow pattern.
Combination morph - Western and southern populations can have a mixture of a black and yellow morphs.;
, In general, a timber rattlesnake can be identified as having a wide head and narrow necks.


Their eyes are yellow, with elliptical pupils.
They have V or W-shaped crossbar markings, which create a distinct pattern across its back.They have a distinctive rattler on its tail made up of a special scales.
 The record length of a timber rattlesnake is 75.6 inches (189.2 cm)! These are large snakes, generally ranging from 36-60 inches (90-152 cm) in length and between 1.5-3lbs (.68-1.3 kilos).


They are the third largest venomous snake in the United States.
Baby rattlers are generally 1 foot (30cm) at birth. Unlike a lot of other snakes, timber rattlesnakes are born alive and not hatched from eggs., Timber rattlesnakes are a member of the pit viper family and have noticeable facial pits located on the side of its head between the eye and the nostril. Sensitive to radiant heat, these pits help the snake detect prey.
 Timber rattlesnakes have specially adapted scales on their tails, which they shake to make a distinctive rattle sound. This is a warning to predators to stay away!

, They are typically nocturnal and actively hunt at night. You may find them during the day because of thermoregulation, or the warming of its core temperature.Snakes that thermoregulate can often be found sunning themselves on rocks or in direct sunlight. While they are not as active during the day, they can still be found under these conditions.
 A few snakes share similar markings or coloration as the timber rattlesnake. Learn about local snakes that can be easily confused with the timber rattler.


Eastern milk snake -- Harmless to humans, the eastern milkshake shares a similar V or W pattern as the timber rattler. It, however, has a checkerboard pattern on its belly. It lacks the distinct pits on the side of the head. This snake is most often confused with the timber rattlesnake as it, despite not having rattle scales, shakes its tail to warn off predators.Common garter snake -- These common backyard snakes may share similar coloring of the timber rattlesnake, but lacks its size and distinctive rattle. Garter snakes sometimes have color stripes of scales (rather than the distinctive V or W pattern). This is a harmless snake; however, just like other wild animals, should be left alone if encountered.Eastern hog-nosed snake -- This non-venomous snake shares similar color variations as a timber rattlesnake, but is distinctive for its upturned nose and its square blocks of color (usually black) along its back. They reach about 46inches (115cm) and share the same habitat as the timber rattler., Timber rattlesnakes will hibernate in rocky ledges. Rocky outcrops with crevices and near forest openings are considered prime locations. You may find dozens of timber rattlesnakes hibernating in a single area.In general, hibernation occurs between the first frost and April.
 In more southern and western locations, like Texas, timber rattlesnakes can be found in swampy areas and thickets.Cut timber, tree stumps, and branches are great hiding spots for these rattlers.
 In the more eastern habitat, timber rattlers can be found in more rocky outcroppings near forests. For example, the forest and trails of the Appalachian mountain chain make a prime habitat for the timber rattler.
 Across all habitats, timber rattlesnakes can be found in two primary biomes: mountains and forests.These biomes share a general climate including temperate weather and terrestrial land.

