 First, use warm soapy water to make sure no adhesive or adhesive remover remains on the paint. The wax will serve as a seal once applied, and you don’t want to seal the adhesive to your paint under a coat of wax. Use a sponge to scrub the area lightly, then rinse it thoroughly to ensure it is completely clean.Make sure to use soap designed for automotive applications, as things like dish soap will remove more wax and clear coat from the paint.
Ensure the sponge is clean of dirt and debris before you begin scrubbing. Any debris caught in the sponge can cause scratches in the paint.
 Once the area the badge was is completely clean, use a clean microfiber towel to dry it thoroughly. You may also want to allow it to air dry for a an hour or two before you begin applying wax, as it’s important for the paint to be completely dry before you can begin.Wax will not apply evenly to wet or moist surfaces, so wait until the paint is completely dry.
Some waxes are designed to work on wet surfaces, but these often do not offer the same level of protection.
 For wax to work properly, it shouldn’t be exposed to direct sunlight. Automotive wax performs best in cool, shady environments. It's important that the surface the wax is applied to isn’t too hot. If the temperature is too high, elements of the wax will dry out too quickly for you to effectively wax the de-badged area. Move the car so the portion you are waxing is in a cool, shady space.Waxing your car in direct sunlight will result in a worse final product and lackluster shine.
Be sure the metal of the car has cooled from when you were heating the adhesive.
 With the vehicle completely dry, use the applicator that came with the wax to apply a small amount of it to the area that was once under the badge. If you are using a liquid wax, you will only need a small dab for the area you are working with. Squeeze out enough wax onto the applicator to take up about the space of a quarter. Rub the wax compound into the paint in a circular motion.Ensure you apply the wax evenly to the area.
More wax does not necessarily mean a brighter shine. Only use as much wax as you need to.
 Once you have applied the wax evenly to the surface of the vehicle, you’ll have to allow it to dry completely before buffing it off. Some waxes are designed to dry quickly and may be ready to buff of in just a few minutes. Others may take up to a half hour. You’ll know the wax is dry when it becomes white.Take your index finger and lightly swipe it through the dry wax. If it rubs off onto your finger, it’s dry.
If the wax still sticks to the vehicle, allow it dry for another few minutes and try again.
 Once the wax is completely dry, take a clean microfiber towel and buff it off using a circular motion. As you remove the dry wax residue, you will reveal the newly shiny paint beneath. Rotate the towel as frequently as needed to avoid saturating it with wax residue as you buff the wax off.Do not apply too much force when buffing the wax residue off of the vehicle. If it is difficult to remove, the wax hasn’t dried sufficiently yet.
There may be some wax residue dust left over after buffing. Lightly blow on the body panel of the vehicle to remove the dust.

