 Long distance relationships are much easier to maintain today than they were a long time ago. With text messaging, social media, and video chatting, technology can allow long distance couples to feel closer to one another, even when they are far apart.


There are apps for smartphones that allow you and your partner to touch your thumbs to the same spot on the screen and your phone will emit a vibration.Video chatting services like Skype and FaceTime allow for those in long distance relationships to have face-to-face conversations rather than just talking on the phone. Download a video chatting service and get a webcam! Most new laptops come with web-cameras built in.
It’s safe to say that most people use text messaging very often in their everyday lives. Use it as a way of sending messages and photos to your significant other while you are apart. It will help you feel more connected and more like you are a part of each other’s day-to-day lives.
 If you go to college far away from one another and decide to maintain a long distance relationship, make sure you are both clear on what you expect from one another.


Be open and honest about your needs and where you want the relationship to go. Don’t be afraid to tell your significant other if your needs aren’t being met, or if you think you both should work towards making some changes., A long distance relationship, particularly one that is made more difficult by the stresses and responsibilities that come along with college life, is an entirely different entity than the average, geographically close relationship., As college students, you are more than likely living on a small budget. With tuition, rent, food, and transportation costs, college is an expensive time in anyone’s life. So, budgeting for trips to visit your significant other might seem like a difficult task.


Book airline tickets well in advance. A few months to about 8 weeks before is a good window for purchasing. You can even create a price alert on some travel websites and get an e-mail or text alert when plane tickets for your route go down.
Try planning a trip to a third location—rather than you going to see them or them coming to see you, plan to meet in the middle, or meet up in some other fun, interesting location. Not only will it keep things interesting, but the effort will feel more balanced on both sides.
Consider taking a bus. It isn’t as time efficient, but new express bus services in the US can take you pretty long distances for a low fee.

