 It’s hard to stay focused and apply yourself to work if your work space is messy and cluttered. Spend the last 15 minutes of each day organizing your work space. Stack or file any miscellaneous papers. Throw away trash. Clear out the extra open windows on your computer. You can even set out the next day’s work, if you know what it will be. This will help you to start each day fresh with a welcoming space.If you feel the unstoppable urge to clean mid-day, then give yourself a maximum of five minutes to tidy everything up. Don’t let these breaks become a distraction.Also, make sure that you have everything you need in your work area, such as tissues, water, coffee, pens, paper, etc.
 Sit at your desk. Close your eyes and take a series of deep breaths. Focus on a thought that makes you happy, such as relaxing on a beach or reading a good book. Keep that thought front and center and banish any work worries. Repeat this practice for just 10–20 minutes total each day.Office meditation has been shown to boost concentration and to lessen signs of depression and anxiety., The ideal temperature for a work environment is 71° Fahrenheit (21° Celsius). If you cannot maintain that exactly, try to keep the thermostat between 68–77° Fahrenheit (20–25° Celsius). If the temperature is too high, you could overheat or become sluggish. If the temperature is too low, you may jitter or feel ill., A comfortable chair can help to make it easier to concentrate as well. Make sure that your desk chair allows you to sit upright and that it provides good back support. Also, make sure that it is the appropriate height for your desk., If you are working on a task that doesn’t require the computer, go ahead and turn off the monitor. Only turn it back on when you need to use it. When you are on your computer, limit distractions by placing limits on web browsers and social media sites, and try to have relatively few browser tabs open at once.You may also want to turn off email notification settings as well. Email can be very distracting and it is difficult to resist the urge to constantly check and respond.
 Place a small plant on your desk or a larger one on the ground. Look for a plant that requires little light, unless you have a large office window. The plants will help to provide fresh air, which can help your mind to stay clear.The presence of a plant may also encourage you to open up your windows, which will have the benefit of exposing you to healthy sunlight as well.

