 Visit http://www.nokia.com/global/support/nokia-pc-suite/.;
, Click on the EXE Nokia PC Suite 7.1 option underneath the written paragraph on the page.
 Once downloaded, follow instructions to finish and complete installation.
 Most Nokia phones come with their own data cable. Use this to plug and connect your phone to your computer.


You can also connect via Bluetooth. If your phone has Bluetooth, turn it on and have your phone and your computer pair up.
If this is your first time to link the two devices, you will be asked for a passcode that you would need to enter in both devices.
 Look for the Nokia PC Suite under your programs in the start menu of your Windows desktop. Click on it to launch.
 Depending on your phone, you can do several things with it from the Nokia PC Suite. Navigate through the menus and the functionalities.


All the connected phones will be listed on the left side of the program window.
 Click on the "Messages" icon. The "Nokia Communication Center" subprogram will appear.
 Choose from the drop-down list. The program will automatically sync all your message folders from your phone.
 Click on "Create a New Message." The Message Editor will appear.
 In the To text field, type in the mobile number of the persons you want to send a text message to.


If the persons are already in your contact list, you can just type in their names, and the program would automatically look them up.
Another way is to click on "Select recipients," which will bring up a window containing your contact list. Just double-click on the names to add them to your To list.
 Type your text message under the SMS Message box.
 When you are done with your message and are ready to send it, just click on "Send Message." A progress window will appear while your message is being sent to your recipients.


Note that standard SMS rates still apply, even if you used your PC to send the text message.
 Repeat steps 3 to 6 as needed.
 When you’re done, click "File" from the menu then "Exit."

