 The first thing you need to do to diagnose acromegaly is to make an appointment with your doctor. During this visit, they will conduct a general physical examination. They may also ask you about problems or symptoms.The doctor should take a detailed medical and family history.
If you have pictures of yourself taken over the years, then bringing these in to show your doctor how your face has changed may also be helpful.
 You doctor may suggest that you get a specific test to measure the levels of growth hormones (GH) or insulin-like growth factor-one (IGF-I) in your blood. These are hormones, and if you have elevated levels in your blood, then you may have acromegaly. The doctor will take a blood sample and test it.For some tests, you may have to return to the doctor the next day for the test. You must fast overnight before they can do the test. This occurs if they want to test the GH levels.
If the doctor only wants to test the IGF-I levels, you may not have to fast. The doctor may take your blood right then.
 The most effective way of determining if you have acromegaly is to get a growth hormone (GH) suppression test. The doctor will measure the GH in your blood before giving you a sugar drink. The doctor will test your blood again to measure the GH in it after being exposed to glucose.If you have acromegaly, your GH level will still be elevated after drinking a glucose drink. The normal response is that glucose lowers GH levels.
This test takes around two hours.
 If the doctor confirms acromegaly after checking hormone levels and doing a glucose test, they may next check how the parts of your pituitary not affected by the tumor function. Your doctor will test your blood.The blood will be tested for pituitary hormones. Sometimes, this condition causes other essential hormones to be low or missing.
 Your doctor may order imaging tests after checking the growth hormone levels in your blood. Generally, an MRI is ordered. This test helps to locate where the tumor on your pituitary gland is. It also helps determine the size of the tumor.If no tumor is found on the pituitary gland, they may look for other tumors that could cause the elevated GH levels.

