 This is very important. If you find a closed door of possibilities, find an open door. Asking "how bad can it be," can really help you survive fifth grade!;
, People in the 5th grade change drastically. Your friends could abandon you, teasing could be awful, and people may even start to show their feelings for you!

, Try to be the 'teacher's pet' even if people make fun of you for it! It will make your life even better during class.
 Then you can kiss your mean teachers goodbye!


It's one of your last years of elementary school, so make the most of it!

, School prepares you for the future and you need to take advantage of every bit of education that you can get!


If there is a teacher you are scared of or don't feel comfortable with, don't let this teacher scare you or get the best out of you. If they dislike you for whatever reason and tries to call on you when you aren't paying attention, show them that you know the answer. Don't look like you don't know the answer, as this will make them call on you more often. Straighten up and speak the answer and show them you were paying attention.
 Even though socialization is very important, classwork is even more important. Pay attention in class and get your homework done. If you forget your assignments have a post-it or index card ready so you can write down assignments and be prepared. Even though this is not a very heavy homework year, and you will probably get the majority of it done in Study hall, don't goof off and don't forget to do any homework that you may get. Your teacher will get upset.
 Listen to what the teacher is saying and take notes, if that's what you're supposed to do. Raise your hand up if you know the question this can even raise your B to an acing A.
 In the beginning of the year, make sure you bought or have gotten all your needed school supplies. This comes in handy in the middle of the school year. Your school probably gives you agendas, or planners. Write your homework in there everyday.


Keep an agenda to organize your classes, tests, assignments, clubs, homework and extracurricular activities. This will keep you organized, help you remember assignments, and keep a fixed schedule.
 Homework sounds hard and annoying, and sometimes it is. But if you do it, you'll not only get better grades, but you can have all your time to play. Finish all your homework every day. If you don't know the answers, you can leave it blank and ask your teacher the next day.


Do not procrastinate. Once you get home, immediately start your homework and restrict yourself from any type of entertainment until then.
 Study for big tests and try your best. Keep in mind that if you read too much or look over your answers too much, you usually get the question wrong. Just proofread the test once or twice, and hand it in.
 Although work is important, grade 5 is a fun and great year. Play and talk to others. This even helps your grades by making you feel refreshed.


Relax once in a while to avoid stress. Plan out 30 minutes a day to lie down, breath easily, eat a snack, and relax so you are not overwhelmed. Catch your breath; take a break from all stressful thoughts.
 It will make studying more difficult. If you get it wrong, work hard to improve your skills until you know the correct answer!

, Be clean and brush your teeth and shower everyday. Wear pretty clothes and experiment with accessories. Style your hair in a braid or ponytail. Buns and natural hair is cool too.
 This is self explanatory.
 You are the only person in the world that is you, so if you are the only person like you in the entire world, why follow the crowd? Do your own thing don't let the popular girls/boys tell you what to do. Just try to be yourself if people try to change you they're not very good friends. If you see everyone in your class has a special hair cut or hair do don't ask for one because everyone has one. Only do something if you want to because when you have originality it creates more friends.
 Always stay in fashion. Try wearing jeans matched with a graphic tee or a tunic. However, if you don't want to dress like this, don't! Remember step 3, don't follow the crowd? Well that step still applies here! A whole stash of Hollister clothes and Osiris high-tops doesn't make you cool, right? And if your school has a uniform, wear colorful leggings under your skirts or a cute undershirt! Uniforms are not that dead!

, This is not a very big problem in grade five, although some people have tons of friends. To make lots of friends, talk to people! Be likeable and not that quiet and boring girl in the class that has no friends. Nice people are liked too. Try to befriend as many people in your grade or class as possible. Have a kind manner and treat others with respect. Be open to anyone who wants to be friends with you.
 This year you will spend a lot of time with the kids in your class, if your friend is in another class you'll probably make new friends. Make an effort to make friends. Don't be unfriendly to people and then complain that nobody likes you and that you don't have any friends. Be independent, not clingy.
 Besides the advantages of having many friends (which can make school more enjoyable), there are other benefits:


You will do a lot of partner projects and you need to be comfortable with who you are assigned to do it with no matter who it is.
While making friends is a great way to get through fifth grade, make sure your friendships are not lowering your grades. Know your priorities, and remember school before friends.
 Don't leave your friends behind because they're being mean. Give them a few more chances, but don't be a pushover either!

, Don't be all cheesy and mean like those annoying, dumb girls in your class, but know what's going on. For example, if a girl in your class kissed a boy or something, know it, if it's something big.
 This makes you look happy. In grade 5, everybody likes a bubbly, pretty, popular girl.

