 Make sure you add a picture of your face and a brief biography that explains what you like and what you do. Include your website and your city location.


Many people do not follow Twitter users who don't use a photo of themselves as their picture. This is because Twitter-based spammers often use other images, rather than personal photos.;
, This is the bar at the top of your profile with a small magnifying glass in it. Search for friends, family and famous people you may want to follow.
 Send them a message by including "@" in front of their username to introduce yourself and encourage them to follow you. Add them to lists, if you want to make your followers more manageable.


Do your research on each user before following them. Click on the profile and read their tweets. Send them a message if you know them already to encourage them to follow you back.
Many people receive updates when new people follow them on Twitter. This is a notifications setting in your personal profile. In some cases, if you start following someone, they will start following you, and you can begin talking with them regularly on Twitter.
 It will list people your friends follow or people with similar interests. Click on their name to go to their Twitter profile, and follow them if you read their tweets and like what you see.
 This trend started in 2009, and it encourages people to recommend their favorite Twitter users by putting @username and "#followfriday" or "#ff" at the end. You can click on the hashtag to see all the people who are recommended in the Twitter feed on Friday.


Also pay attention to other peoples' lists that recommend people. They might be named "Tweeps I suggest," or something similar. This is another great way to look for good people to follow and connect with.
 Search for users with a tag of your choice, such as "books," "San Francisco" or "marketing." When you follow them, reply to their tweets or retweet them to begin the connection.


Decide what kind of connections you want to make on Twitter. You may want to develop professional, community, business or personal contacts. The type of user you want to meet will define how professional or personal your communication should be.
Directories are great places to find the most influential Twitter users so that you can stay on top of trends and news. You may not make close connections with people who have thousands or millions of followers.

