 You cannot easily obtain the phone records of any person--even your spouse--if their account is in no way linked to your name. If you do obtain the records without consent of the account holder, the records remain inadmissible as evidence in court., If a person is making harassing phone calls or you suspect someone who shares your cell phone plan of making inappropriate calls, you should have a record on your cell phone bill.


Frequently, the records you receive will be divided by the phone used to place or receive the calls. Less organized records will jumble them all together, but will still list the number of the sending and receiving phones.
 Again, the phone company should have complete records of all incoming calls and outgoing calls made to or from anyone on your cell phone plan. Whether you are trying to identify a stalker or keep an eye on your children and spouse, the phone company will have records that can help you.


You may have to first create an online account in order to access your records on the phone provider's website.
After logging in, look for options such as anything labelled "Call Details" or "Call Records."

, Ask for a new copy of the records if they cannot be found any other way. They are mandated by law to keep the records, and should be able to provide them to anyone who can prove that they are the main account holder.


Be prepared to provide personal information that will assist the customer service representative in identifying your account, including your account number, cell phone number, current home address, and possibly the last four digits of your social security number.
 The cell phone records of an estranged spouse can be obtained when you are in the middle of a court case by having them subpoenaed. This is the legal method of obtaining cell phone records that your lawyer can use in a court case.


You an only subpoena phone records are part of a court proceeding--that is, through a lawsuit or divorce. The subpoena will usually have to be approved by a judge, though that differs based on the type of proceedings.Instead of getting a subpoena, you could purchase cell phone records from a data broker that charges a fee to obtain the records. These data brokers often operate businesses of questionable legality (depending on the methods they used to obtain the records), and most commonly they are not admissible in court.

