 Navigate to https://www.airbnb.com/help/contact_us. Log into your Airbnb account, if prompted. Click on the text “Resolve Issue” on the left-hand side. A box with your recent host(s) should appear. Click “Send Message” under the appropriate host’s name. Use the message to outline and detail your concerns.You can contact your host during or after your stay if something is missing, not working, or otherwise not the way you expected.Allow your host some time to respond. If you don’t hear back, you can try their listed email address or phone number.;
, Navigate to https://www.airbnb.com/contact. Alternately, you can reach Airbnb by phone at 1-855-424-7262. Explain your situation and that you attempted to reach the host but have not heard back.

Contact Airbnb at https://www.airbnb.com/contact within twenty-four hours of your check-in to make a record of the issue and initiate a hold on your payment.
The Airbnb phone number is available 24/7. The average wait time on the line is twelve minutes., Navigate to https://www.airbnb.com/terms/guest_refund_policy. Review Airbnb’s Guest Refund Policy to see if you may qualify for a refund. Eligible travel issues tend to fall into one of the following categories: the host failed to provide reasonable access to the location; the listing misrepresented details; or the location was unclean, unsafe, or contained an animal not mentioned in the listing.You must have used reasonable efforts to resolve the situation with the host before filing a claim. In other words, you must have contacted your host and attempted to resolve the issue with them directly before resorting to initiating a claim.
You won’t be eligible for a refund if you’re directly or indirectly responsible for the travel issue. Your own action, negligence or omission must not have caused the travel issue.
 Navigate to https://www.airbnb.com/resolutions to submit a refund request to your host. Click the “Request money” button. Use the Resolutions tool to select the appropriate reservation. Choose the radio button to “request a refund.” Enter the refund amount and reason, and click “Send Message.”

Contact your host first to agree upon a refund amount.If you’ve been unable to reach a resolution with your host, use Airbnb’s 30-day satisfaction guarantee instead. Navigate to the Profile tab and contact Airbnb.
You have up to 60 days after checkout to submit a Resolution Center request., Request that Airbnb make the final decision. Wait at least 72 hours since you opened the request. Navigate to https://www.airbnb.com/resolutions. Choose the reservation you had issue(s) with. Click “Involve Airbnb.”Make sure to answer any requests Airbnb may have for additional information.

