 Watch closely. Take notes. Keep track of important plays, scores, and statistics. Take note of interesting details, such as how the players celebrated at the end or the feel of the crowd that night.


Local sporting events are a good place to start for an aspiring sportswriter. You’ll find passionate fans/parents, eager participants, and a good environment for covering a sporting event from several angles.
 Even if you are writing an event recap and not a personal interest story, a few good soundbites or a central figure to build the article around can only help.


Contact coaches to see if they have a player who would make a good story. Watch the subject play the game, and set up a brief interview. Figure out what makes his or her story distinctive.
Talk to players and coaches to get quotes about the game. Even asking boilerplate questions like “What contributed to you winning the game?” will give you some material with which to work.
Ask permission to record your interviews. Also, try talking to people close to the person, such as parents and friends to create a well rounded view of the person.
 Obviously you need to provide the final score and who did the scoring, but think about the most interesting statistics to come out of the event. How many passing yards did the quarterback have? Did the team’s star swimmer set a personal best in the backstroke? Was a long losing or winning streak broken?

, Known in journalistic circles as a lead (or lede), the opening lines of an article, sports-focused or otherwise, are critical to the success of the piece.Leads should be short, direct, provide the most essential information, and compel the reader to keep going deeper into the article.


Leads focus on the 5 “W’s” and “H” (who, what, when, where, why, and how). In a sports context, the score is always a great place to start. For example: “Last night in Falcon park, the air as crisp as winning quarterback Joe Smith’s passes, the Redview Falcons stunned the first-place Washington Coyotes in overtime, 56 to 54.”

, What was the best part of the game? What were the highlights? What made this game special? For a person, why is his or her story important? What makes them special? Use the quotes you got from players and coaches to add interest to the story.


Consider the 4-step approach to a sports recap that begins with the lead, follows with more essential information, then adds a quote for flavor, then pushes out the rest of the details.News article writing relies on an “inverted pyramid” structure, where the most substantial elements are found at the top of the article, and the information becomes less weighty and important as one approaches the bottom.Readers always start but don’t always finish an article, so make sure they get your best stuff up front.
 Even if you aren’t on an editor’s word count, one of the essential goals of all journalism, including sports writing, is to say as much as possible in as few words as possible. Even if you aren’t restrained by the space needs of a newspaper and are publishing online, your readers will appreciate it if you get to the point quickly. Use shorter sentences instead of longer ones.

