 Hearing perspectives from people of color can give you a sense of what it looks like, how it feels, and how to avoid it. You may learn a lot, and become a significantly more educated and egalitarian person as a result.


Consider the book “Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria: And Other Conversations About Race.”Some books on racism can be quite academic. For a more accessible writing style, try bell hooks.
 Don't just look for the people who look like you; reach out to others with different races, backgrounds, religions, abilities, et cetera.
 It's better to have people laughing about how overcautious you are than feeling stung by your comments. If your not sure, stay quiet or noncommittal. Here are some examples of how to speak considerably:


"I have something to say, but I'm hesitant, because I don't want to misspeak and sound racist when that's not my intent. I'll try to word this right, so stop me if comes out weird."
"Don't ask a pasty guy like me about what racism feels like! Try asking someone who has actually experienced it. Maya studies racism and is a great source."
"I don't have anything to add. I'm happy to listen."

, If your positions and attitudes are consistently evaluated as being racist by those who endure racism, you could be a racist. Many people are racist without knowing it. Structural racism—the legitimization of one race domineering all others in business, politics, art, and other social arenas—is often invisible but no less harmful than more overt racism such as racial slurs and disparaging racial comments.Hearing what people who have experienced racism of both kinds have to say on the matter can leave you better equipped to respond to charges that you yourself are a racist.


To listen to what someone has to say, stop speaking. Take a seat, if possible, and place both feet on the ground in a comfortable manner. Place your hands on your thighs.
Maintain eye contact with the speaker.Clear your mind of distracting thoughts and prepare to hear what the other person has to say. Be present in the moment. Think about what you expect to hear, but keep an open mind. Check after the conversation to see if your expectation matched the reality.
Bring a notebook to the conversation so you can take notes on what is said.
If you’re able, bring a recording device like a portable tape recorder so you can play back the conversation and listen again later.

