 The perineum is the area between your vagina and your anus. During childbirth, this area can suffer some injury, so it is important to make sure that it is clean and does not become infected. If it becomes infected, the infection may move up into your body and change the color of your discharge. Cleaning your perineum will also help to make passing your discharge as comfortable as possible. To clean:


Wash your perineum with unscented, gentle soap and warm water. Scented soaps can contain chemicals that can lead to infection. Use clean wipes, like baby wipes, to wash, rather than a washcloth (this is simply for cleaning purposes—if you don’t have baby wipes, you will just have to wash the washcloth after you use it).
Clean the labia first. Using separate wipes, wipe the area from least contaminated (pubis/vagina) to the most contaminated (anus). This is to prevent transmission of microorganisms from one area to the other.;
, If you plan on breastfeeding your child, start doing so as soon as possible. When you breastfeed your baby, your body is prompted to release oxytocin, a natural chemical that helps your uterus to contract fully.


Oxytocin is also used to control the intensity of your discharge. If you do not plan to breastfeed your child, you can get oxytocin supplements (this is covered in Step 1 of Method 4).
 As discussed in the step about cleaning your perineum, you should avoid scented soaps while you are still producing discharge. Scented soaps can contain chemicals that can alter the pH levels in your vagina, making you more susceptible to infection.The same goes for douching. It is best to avoid putting anything in your vagina, be it a douche or a tampon, while you are dealing with discharge. Putting anything foreign in your vagina can introduce bacteria that could lead to an infection.
 After you deliver your baby, your bladder becomes less sensitive for a period of time after childbirth. You might not notice that the bladder is full, which makes it harder for your bladder to contract. When you bladder is full, your uterus also has a harder time contracting, meaning that your discharge could be heavier than it should be.


To make sure that your bladder remains as empty as possible, go to the bathroom and urinate as frequently as you can.
 You have just given birth to a living, breathing human being—you should take some time to rest. Resting helps your body to recover and repair itself from the crazy thing it has just gone through. When you avoid overworking yourself, your uterus also has an easier time contracting, which will make your discharge lighter and easier to manage.
 Try to drink as much water as you need to stay hydrated; doctors generally recommend between 8 and 12 glasses a day. Water helps to flush out substances like discharge. Being hydrated also helps your body combat any infections that might be trying to take root in your body.


If you get tired of water, add some fruit juice to it to give it some flavor.
 When you wear tight underwear that does not let your skin breathe, you increase the chances that you will develop an infection. This is particularly true when you are dealing with discharge. Because of this, it is important to wear loose underwear that let’s your skin breathe.


Cotton is a good fabric to go with when looking for breathable underwear. The fabric is light and does not stick to your skin. It also absorbs sweat, which reduces the chances that you will develop a fungal infection.

