 People who are considered attention seekers tend to behave in ways that are inauthentic. They do things for attention, rather than simply being or expressing who they really are. Doing something creative is a great way to express yourself authentically, and practice being yourself. You can choose any form that you want, including painting, writing, making music, singing, or practicing a craft.If you’ve never done something creative before, don’t be afraid. Try something that interests you, even if you don’t know if you’ll be any good at it.
Remember that you’re doing this for you. Practice expressing yourself creatively without worrying what others will think, or planning to show off what you make.;
, Social media can often be misused by people who are seeking attention. It’s okay to use social media to make plans with friends and stay on top of current events. However, if you notice that you’re using it just to get attention, you should reconsider before you post.Notice if most of your posts seem like bragging, or like showing off.
Notice if your posts often express feeling sorry for yourself, or seem like you’re fishing for compliments or support.
An attention-seeking post could be, "Always having the most fun with the coolest friends in the world!!", whereas you could instead post a picture of your friends and write, "So grateful to have such great friends in my life."
If you need support, instead of writing something like, "Worst day of anyone's life, ever. I totally want to crawl into a hole and die right now," you could write, "I had a really terrible day today. Is anyone available to talk? I could use some company." It’s okay to ask directly for support with social media. However, be clear that you’re asking for support, and keep the conversation private once someone offers.
 When you’re always seeking attention, most of your focus is on yourself. In order to shift this, try focusing on others. There are many ways to do this. You can spend time with people you care about, volunteer, or even spend time learning about others.Are there people in your community who are in need? You could volunteer your time at a soup kitchen or retirement home. You could also volunteer at your local library, reading to kids or helping students with homework after school.
Spend time with friends and family, and ask them about their own lives. Remember how much you care about them, and spend time investing in what they have to say.
You can invent a way of focusing on others that’s fun for you. For example, you could organize a coat drive in the winter, or organize a neighborhood cleanup.

