 Breathe deeply, and remember that, while your child's distress may be difficult to watch, the seizure should pose little threat to your child's long-term health if treated properly.;
, It is important for you to keep track of how long the seizure lasts so that you know whether emergency medical assistance is needed, and so you can accurately report the duration of the seizure to your child's doctor once the episode has subsided., The convulsions associated with a febrile seizure can cause your child to move about involuntarily, so you should make sure to place him away from any steep drop.If your child is already safe where he is, you should avoid moving him.
Placing your child on the floor, or in the center of a bed are good options. If your child is still small enough, you may simply lay him on your lap, and support him with your hands.
 If there are hard objects (such as furniture) in the vicinity, move them away from your child so that they can't accidentally strike her., Remain calm, and remember that, while it is distressing to watch, your child's seizure will pass.Speak in soft, low tones to your child. This well help both of you calm down. Remind him (and yourself) that you are there to care for him, and that everything is going to be alright.
If your child is laying on a hard surface, slide a blanket underneath him.
Remove or loosen any clothing from the waist up, especially around the neck.
Do not restrain your child. Simply ensure that he is safe, and allow the convulsions to pass., It is normal for a child to vomit or produce a lot of saliva during a seizure, and re-positioning her will ensure that her breathing passages remain clear.Watch for breathing problems, including the child turning blue from a compromised airway. If this occurs, dial 911 immediately.
Avoid sticking anything in your child's mouth to clear her breathing, as she may choke, or involuntarily bite down.
 If your child's seizure lasts longer than five minutes, or if your child does not regain consciousness quickly after his convulsions have ceased, you should call an ambulance before continuing treatment. Don't panic: even febrile seizures severe enough to require emergency medical attention do not pose a serious threat to most children.If you do call for an ambulance, calmly relate to the operator that your child is having a febrile seizure. Tell them how long the seizure has lasted, and briefly describe your child's convulsions and state of consciousness.
Know the difference between a complex and a simple febrile seizure. A complex febrile seizure lasts longer than 15 minutes and occurs multiple times in a 24-hour period., You should observe and soothe her constantly until your child returns to consciousness, or until emergency assistance arrives.
 If your child has already returned to consciousness, you may give him a normal oral dose (closely follow the instructions on the medication package). If the seizure is continuing, do not attempt this, as your child will likely be unable to swallow properly. You may give an acetaminophen suppository, if you have one.Children six months old or younger should not be given ibuprofen, and no child should ever be given aspirin, for any reason., This will help sooth the child, and lower her body temperature. , This will further relax your child, help relieve his fever, and make him more clean and comfortable.If the seizure is still in process, use a sponge to bathe your child, rather than moving him to a bath.
Do not bathe your child with cold water or rubbing alcohol. Lowering the body's temperature too quickly is dangerous and can induce shock.
 Continue soothing your child, and treating her fever while you await medical assistance.
 Once the seizure has ended, and you have taken steps to reduce his fever, make him comfortable in a cool room, and let him rest. Sleepiness is common after a seizure, and sleep will allow your child's body to begin working to lower his fever.While your child may feel chilly, don't bundle him up in too many blankets until his fever has broken. Remember that your primary goal once the seizure has ended is to gradually lower his body temperature.
 If her fever worsens, or she experiences more seizures, call for emergency medical assistance. Again, do not panic. Febrile seizure are dramatic and frightening, but even repeat episodes pose little threat to your child's long-term health, especially if you remain calm and focus on soothing her and lowering her fever., It is important to identify and treat the cause of the fever to prevent future seizures. Give your child's doctor a detailed description of the seizure, including symptoms, and the length(s) of the episode(s).