 Make sure your body language communicates that you’re focused and ready to learn. Lean slightly forward and keep your head up so you can see the teacher. A distracting person isn’t likely to talk to you if you look unavailable.


Try not to look bored so you don’t invite conversation.;
, Position your body away from the distractor so that they will not feel as comfortable talking to you. Keep your eyes toward the front of the classroom and your chest pointed away from them. Practice negative body language to communicate that you don’t want to listen to them.You want to make yourself appear physically cold to the person trying to distract you.
 Even if the person trying to distract you gets offended that you’re shutting them out, don’t acknowledge them. If they take your indifference personally, they may lash out at you. Don’t react to their outburst.


Make it clear to your teacher that you’re not involved in their outburst. You don’t want to get in trouble for disrupting the class.
 No one will have a chance to distract you if you’re constantly active in class discussions. Focus your attention completely on the class lecture and raise your hand to answer every question the teacher asks.
 Keep a notebook handy. Every time another student tries to get your attention, act like you’re busy writing notes. When your eyes aren’t on your teacher, keep them buried in your notebook.


Be sure to look up from time to time, you don’t want your teacher to think you’re doodling.
 Let your teacher know that you’re having trouble focusing in your current seat and ask if you can change seats away from your distractor. If there are no seats available, you can ask another student if they don’t mind switching with you.Get close to the teacher. The closer you are to the front of the class, the easier it will be for you to pay attention.
If the distractor is your friend outside of class, you may not want to get them in trouble. Give your teacher an excuse why you need a new seat. Say “I’m having trouble hearing the lecture, would you mind if I moved closer to the front of class?”

