 Try to use the ripest, freshest raspberries you can find. This usually means you'll be getting them at the peak of their season, when they're also the least expensive. Buy as many raspberries as you'd like to dehydrate.You may be able to find deals on bulk raspberries from farmer's markets or orchards.;
, Place your ripe raspberries into a strainer or colander. Run water over the berries to wash away any dirt or debris. You can also pick out any twigs or leaves you find and discard them., Go through the washed raspberries and remove any berries that are smashed or so soft that they begin to fall apart in your hands. Set these aside for a different use. You'll want to use raspberries that are whole, don't have any blemishes, and are still a little firm.You can freeze the berries that are slightly smashed and blend them into a smoothie.
 Once you've selected the best raspberries for dehydrating, scatter them on a baking sheet and let them air dry. This will take several hours since the berries should be completely dry., Place the raspberries in a single layer on the trays that came with your dehydrator. Ensure that there's a little space between the berries, so air can circulate easily. If you want the berries to keep their shape, set them upright.If you can, use mesh trays. These can contain the raspberries better and keep them from rolling off as you place them in the dehydrator.
 Put the trays of berries in your dehydrator and close it. Turn the dehydrator on to 135 degrees F (60 C). Let the berries dehydrate for 12 to 18 hours. The time it takes depends on the size of the berries, moisture level of the berries, and your dehydrator.If your dehydrator has a fruit setting, you can simply turn it on.
 If you don't have a dehydrator, you can just place the raspberries on rimmed baking sheets. Put the raspberries into an oven at 140 degrees F (60 C). Bake the raspberries for 6 to 9 hours or until they completely dry out. You'll need to stir the berries every 2 hours, so they dry evenly.

The oven is convenient if you don't have a dehydrator, but it won't dehydrate the raspberries as evenly as a dehydrator.
 Once the berries have dehydrated, they'll become light and completely dry. Don't worry if they lighten in color - they're still safe to eat. If the berries seem chewy, put them back in the dehydrator. Only store them once they're crisp., For quick storage, scoop the dehydrated raspberries into airtight containers (like mason jars or airtight plastic containers). To keep moisture out of the containers, add an oxygen absorber packet.Store the containers in a dry place away from light. This will prevent the light from fading the raspberries further.
 You can eat the dehydrated raspberries on their own for a quick snack, or use them in recipes calling for raspberries. Just add a few tablespoons of water or liquid to the dehydrated raspberries to rehydrate them.

You can also grind the dehydrated raspberries into a powder. Sprinkle the powder on baked goods, oatmeal, or use it to decorate desserts.

