 Some companies only allow employees to release basic information such as employment tenure. Some may only allow for written references. Confirming your company’s reference policy can help ensure that you provide the best possible verbal reference.
 If an employee or colleague asks you to give her a reference, make sure you can positively accept the request. If you have had a good experience with the person and can support her application, then offer to provide a reference with the potential employer.


Don’t offer to serve as a reference if you cannot say something positive about the person. You don’t want to subvert her chances of getting the job.Only agree to speak to a potential employer if you’ve worked with the person for a while. It may be difficult to answer questions about a person or her skills in a few months.Make sure that you are the appropriate person to provide the reference, which may require checking with your boss or the company’s policies on references.
 You’ll need some basic information from the person about the job for which they’re applying and any other relevant data that you should know.Request information about the candidate’s potential job and an updated resume. You may even want an assessment of how she thinks she contributed to your company or projects and how she could benefit her new workplace.You should also collect any information pertinent to the person’s job for you such as performance reviews.Consider reading through your correspondence with the person to get an assessment of their professionalism and how they work. You can also use performance reviews for this purpose., Most verbal references are provided by phone and you’ll want to schedule a time to speak with the candidate’s potential employer. Setting aside a specific time to discuss the candidate can help ensure that you are able to give a comprehensive, professional, and positive reference.


Either have the candidate give your contact information to the potential employer or ask the candidate for the appropriate data at the new company.
Make sure you schedule the appointment for a time when you are relaxed and not pressed to make a meeting.
 Once you’ve had a chance to schedule a meeting and gather some pertinent information, sketch some notes about the candidate. This can help ensure that you don’t forget important information about the candidate’s skills or behavior during the conversation.


Since you will not know what questions the potential employer may ask, make sure to write notes on various aspects of the candidate including how you know them and for how long, in what capacity you worked together, and an assessment of their skills.
 A verbal reference will often require you to answer questions a potential employer has about the candidate. Having notes and answer the questions as detailed and honestly as possible may help the candidate land the job.


Make sure that you don’t exaggerate the person’s qualifications. You don’t necessarily have to say “he’s the greatest ever”, but can objectively say “He’s one of the best colleagues/ employees I’ve ever had.”
Remember that hesitating on an answer may make it seem like you’re being dishonest.
 When you’re answering the potential employer’s questions, make sure to incorporate words that make the candidate attractive. This can give the candidate the edge over other people for the job.You can use a variety of verbs, nouns and adjectives to describe the person. The more descriptive you can be, the more helpful it is to the potential employer.For example, you can says things such as “Christopher is a very creative problem-solver,” or “she communicates her ideas clearly.”Make sure to use language that also incorporates skills the person will need in their new position.
 Only talk about things relevant to the person's job performance, such as his superior leadership skills or ability to resolve disputes among colleagues. Don't talk about his personal life because it may make him—and you-- seem less professional in the eyes of prospective employers.


Don’t discuss anything personal including religion, marital status, age or health.
Providing personal information could jeopardize the candidate’s chances of getting hired. It may also be illegal depending on the type of information you divulge.
 Conclude the phone reference once you’ve answered the potential employer’s questions. You may ask questions if you think it is necessary or will shed further light on the person. Make sure to thank the potential employer and offer to provide further information if necessary.

