 To avoid overwhelming yourself, start small. Identify two to three short-term goals you would like to tackle. This could be a goal like preparing coffee for yourself in the morning without any assistance. Or you may want to learn how to brush your hair on your own. These goals can make your everyday life more manageable and make you feel more independent, despite your visual impairment.If you know how to write in Braille, you may write the goals down. If you do not know how to write in Braille, you can record the goals onto a tape recorder so you can then listen to them later.
For example, you may write down or record, “Learn how to prepare a meal on my own,” or “Be able to groom myself on my own.”;
, Set goals that will take time for you to achieve, perhaps weeks or months. Long-term goals may seem daunting at first, but tackling them one at a time can help them feel more manageable. List two to three long-term goals that you want to achieve in detail.For example, you may have a long-term goal like learning how to orient yourself in a space without the use of a cane. Or you may have a long-term goal to learn how to read and write in Braille. Write these long-term goals down next to your short-term goals.
Once you have identified these long-term goals, break it down into more manageable short-term goals so that it is less daunting and more achievable. For instance, if your long-term goal is to learn to read and write in Braille, set a short-term goal of signing up for a class, to attend class every week, and so on. This can make the larger goal of learning Braille seem more achievable and less overwhelming.
 Whether you are making short-term goals or long-term goals, it is important that they are realistic and attainable. Having several attainable goals and achieving them can then encourage you to make more challenging goals in the future. Start slow and small, then build up to bigger goals so you can feel a sense of accomplishment as you go.For example, you may first start with the goal of reading and writing well in Braille. Then, once you have achieved the first goal, you can move on to the more challenging goal, like reading an entire text in Braille.
Remember that all goals, even the small and simple ones, are important in moving you forward and building self-esteem. Achieving any goal, no matter how small, is worthy of celebration.
 To put your goals into action, create a timeline of when you are going to achieve your goals. Do this by recording the goals on a voice recorder, listing the short term goals first on the timeline. You can also use Braille to write the goals down, if you know how to write in Braille. Give yourself a time frame for when you have to achieve this goal. Make the time frame realistic and achievable. Note a specific due date or deadline for achieving each goal.For example, you may place the short-term goal of preparing coffee for yourself first on the timeline. You may give yourself several weeks to achieve this goal. Then, you may add the goal of preparing a meal next to the goal of preparing coffee on the timeline. This way, once you achieve the first goal, you can move on to a second, more challenging goal.
 Staying motivated to achieve your goals can be a challenge, especially if you feel defeated or deterred by your visual impairment. To make sure you feel good about achieving a goal, reward yourself every time you complete a goal. The reward could be small, such as a small piece of candy or your favorite dessert. You may also use a meal out as a reward for achieving a goal.For long-term goals, you may have bigger rewards, such as a vacation with friends or a day trip with your partner.
You may also tell others about achieving your goals as part of your reward, where you brag to others and feel proud of your accomplishments.
 While it is important to celebrate your successes, it is just as important to stay positive and refrain from beating yourself up if you do not meet a goal. Being too hard on yourself can make you feel hopeless and want to give up and can damage your self-esteem. Have compassion for yourself and forgive yourself if you don't achieve your goal. Consider revisiting the goal and assessing whether or not it was truly attainable (you may have set a deadline to read and write in Braille after three weeks of class, for instance, and then find that this is an unrealistic time frame).

Think of set backs as opportunities to learn. Was there something you could do differently next time?

, You may find putting your goals into action difficult, especially if you feel challenged by your visual impairment. To stay motivated, use daily affirmations. Say the affirmations out loud first thing in the morning to embrace the day and feel motivated to tackle your goal. You can also say the affirmations out loud to yourself at night to set an intention for the following day.For example, you may say to yourself, “I will achieve my goals,” “I can make my goals a reality,” or “I am strong and powerful.”
Surround yourself with positivity. Spend time with positive people who are also trying to achieve their goals. Listen to motivating speeches to stay inspired.

