 There are lots of possibilities here, so this section will provide a few suggestions and you can experiment with your own as well.;
, Choose a balloon in the color you'd like the dog to be, such as brown, white, black, grey or any other color.


Blow up the balloon with helium gas. Tie it into a knot, to keep the gas in place.
Draw floppy ear shapes onto two pieces of card. Color in (if needed), then cut these out. Attach using glue to each side of the balloon, at the non-knotted end.
Draw the face directly onto the balloon. Draw a kidney shape facing downward for the snout and draw a circle in the middle for the dog's nose. Draw large eyes above the snout and blacken them in.
Tie a string on the base. The dog balloon can now be played with or used as a party decoration.
 Choose an orange or yellow balloon for making the fish.


Blow up the balloon. You can use air or helium gas, whichever is easiest. Tie a knot in it, to keep the air in place.
Draw two fin shapes on orange or yellow card. Cut these out. Attach them with glue to the sides of the balloon, with the back of the fins facing toward the knotted end of the balloon.
Cut out a tail fin from the orange or yellow card. Glue over the knotted area of the balloon.
Stick on two large eyes made from card. Or, simply draw these on with markers.
The fish balloon is now ready for play or to be placed out as a decoration for a party.
 This is a fun one for the kids to drag around with them, and is easier if you only have air rather than helium for filling the balloons.


Blow up the balloon. Tie a knot in it, to keep the air in place. (Air is best as it allows the balloon puppy to hover around the kid's feet as it is being walked.)
At the knot end of the balloon, create the dog's face. Draw a round nose just above the knot and blacken it in. Draw a smiling mouth (two semi circle arcs either side of the knot). Draw whisker dots above each smile arc (about four is sufficient).
Either attach floppy ears made from card, or draw them on the dog. They look more effective if made from card though.
Cut out a length of string or cord. Tie onto the balloon knot. This becomes the puppy's leash.
Allow the kids to take the balloon puppy for a walk.

