 An elderly person who is being abused might have visible bruising, welts, or other injuries. Physical abuse is when someone uses physical force to inflict bodily harm, injury, or impairment. If an elder is being physically abused, she may experience hitting, beating, pushing, shoving, shaking, slapping, kicking, punching, and burning. You may notice signs of injury anywhere, such as on the elderly person's face, arms, legs, abdominal area, or back.Bruises may be from being hit with someone's bare hands or fists, or from being hit with an item such as an electrical cord or belt. Bruises can also be caused by restraints that were applied to the wrists and ankles.
Look for cuts and scrapes as well. Cuts may be small or large, and can appear in groups or clusters. Cuts and scrapes can be from someone's fingernails or from a sharp item such as a knife, razor blade, or scissors.;
, Look at the person’s clothing for any rips, tears, or burns, as this could be a sign the person has been mistreated or mishandled.You should also note if the person’s personal items are damaged, such as the person’s glasses, jewellery, or other items that have significant value to the person. This could be a sign someone is abusing or bullying them by damaging their possessions.
 If the elderly person is being taken care of by someone else, such as a family member or a caretaker, you should note if the person starts to display signs of poor care. Poor care can result in unclean or soiled clothing, poor hygiene, bed sores, or sudden weight loss, which are all forms of physical abuse.


You should also note if the person’s nails and hair appear overgrown or unkempt, and if she develops dental issues due to poor dental care. These are considered symptoms of physical abuse due to neglect by a caretaker.
 Physical abuse of elders can also occur through improper dosage of medication or over medicating. If the person’s medication is administered by someone besides you, such as a caretaker, you may want to confirm the proper dosage is being given to the person and they are not being over-medicated., Sexual abuse of elders can and does happen, leaving the elder physically and emotionally scarred. Notice if the person complains of genital irritation or develops a genital infection, such as an STI. Have the person’s doctor confirm the genital infection or STI so it can be treated right away.You should also check if the person’s inner thighs or genital area is bruised or damaged, as this can indicate sexual abuse.
 Maybe the person is suddenly unwilling to get out of bed or has difficulty walking around, when previously she was fine and mobile. This immobility may be a sign that she has experienced sexual abuse, leaving her body bruised or injured, especially in the pelvis area., It can be challenging to identify emotional and mental abuse, as there may be no physical marks or indications that abuse is happening. Though it can be difficult for the elderly to discuss their abuse, you can try to ask the person if she feels threatened or scared by a caretaker or a person she is in contact with. Do this one on one, out of the vicinity of anyone else, so the elder feels safe and able to discuss any emotional and mental abuse she may be experiencing.


Start by asking, “Are you being treated well?” or “How do you like your caretaker?” You can also let the person know you are available to talk about any issues she may be having, noting: “Please know you can reach out to me if there are any issues with your care.”

, Sometimes the elderly person cannot verbally express their experience of abuse and may instead withdraw from others out of fear or anxiety. She may also appear depressed and refuse to leave her room or go outside to socialize with others., Any negative changes to the person’s demeanor should be taken as a sign that something is wrong and you should consider if the person is being neglected or mistreated. This could be a refusal to go for daily walks, a change in appetite, or turning down visits and contact with others. These disruptions in routine could be a sign that the person is suffering from emotional and mental abuse and is too afraid to let anyone know what is going on., Note if the person appears frightened around certain individuals, with wide eyes, nervous ticks, or a lack of eye contact. These signs could indicate that the person is fearful around someone due to abuse.The person may also express other signs of agitation, such as biting her nails, pulling at her hair, fidgeting with her clothing, or stuttering on her words when she speaks to you in front of her abuser.
 This could be withdraws in large amounts from her bank accounts or consistently large amounts being withdrawn from her bank accounts. You may also notice ATM withdraws from her account which could not have been authorized by the person, especially if she is bedridden.You should also be wary of large payments made to charity organizations that appear suspicious or dubious, as well as payments for items the person would have no use for or do not appear to have in their possession. These actions could indicate that the person is being scammed by a fake charity organization or giving a donation to a charity under false pretenses. Someone may also be using the person’s credit cards or debit card to pay for items for themselves, a clear indication of financial abuse.
 Sudden changes to the person’s will or to her power of attorney should be regarded with suspicion, especially if the change benefits someone who is not known to her family or who appears to be taking advantage of her.


You should consult the person’s lawyer to determine why the person decided to adjust her will and confirm that it was done when the person was of sound mind and body.
 If the person has stacks of unpaid or overdue bills and expenses that are usually paid on time every month, this may be a sign that someone is diverting their money for their own benefit. This could then cause the person to miss payments and perhaps be unaware she is missing payments, especially if she is bedridden or on medication.You should compare the person’s bank statements to the overdue bills or expenses to confirm that money came out of the person’s bank account, but it did not go to pay the bills. It likely instead went right into the pocket of the person who is financially abusing the elderly person.
 Neglectful caretakers may steal valuable items for their clients and sell them for money to pay off debt or to support an alcohol or drug habit. Note if the elderly person is missing jewellery, art, or silverware, as well as any other items of high value. This could be a gradual issue, where items disappear over time, or a sudden theft, where all the items are taken at once., If you have witnessed outright forms of abuse, you should call the police and report the perpetrator. Describe in detail what you have witnessed and be prepared to answer follow-up questions.
 If you have witnessed abuse and know the family of the elderly person, consider contacting them to inform them of the situation. While this is not a direct way to help the elderly person, it will allow the family to decide how to handle the situation of abuse.
 If you suspect that an elderly person is being abused, consider calling an elder abuse hotline and reporting the abuse anonymously. There are many different hotlines to call. You can also contact some agencies online. Some elder abuse hotlines include:


Aging and Disability Resource Centers: 1-866-286-3636 (toll free)
Apprise: 1-800-783-7067 (toll free)
Children of Aging Parents: 1-800-227-7294 (toll free)

