 Cigarette and tobacco smoke contains harmful substances known as carcinogens that can damage the cells lining your lungs. Over time, smoking can lead to the development and multiplication of abnormal cells and increase your risk for lung cancer.Contact your healthcare provider for help with smoking cessation programs if you experience difficulty with quitting smoking. Your physician may prescribe medications that can help you quit smoking, suggest that you join a smoking cessation support group, or recommend nicotine patches and gums that can help you kick your habit.;
, Non-smokers exposed to secondhand smoke inhale the same carcinogens and cancer-causing substances as actual smokers. Avoid spending time around people who smoke, and avoid spending time at venues such as bars and restaurants that allow smoking.
 Radon is a radioactive gas released during the natural decay process of elements such as uranium, thorium, and radium -- all of which are commonly found in rocks and soil. When inhaled, the radioactive particles in radon can damage the cells lining your lungs and increase the risk for lung cancer. Purchase a radon-testing kit for your home, or contact a local radon-detection specialist who can inspect your home for signs of radon., Substances and chemicals such as asbestos, formaldehyde, benzene, and arsenic are all types of carcinogens that have been found to cause lung cancer. If you spend time working with carcinogens, follow the necessary precautions to lower your exposure to these substances. Wear protective gear such as a face mask, goggles, pants, long-sleeved shirts, and jackets.
 Exercise improves overall lung function by increasing blood flow to the lungs and helping eliminate waste from your body, including toxins from cigarette smoke, carcinogens, and other free radicals that increase your risk for lung cancer. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that adults engage in at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity activities per week (brisk walking, swimming, cycling), and strength-training exercises at least twice per week that work some or all of your major muscle groups.
 Natural whole foods such as fruits and vegetables are packed with vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants that can help prevent lung cancer by strengthening your immune system. Lower your intake of processed foods and foods high in fat and sugar, and consume more fruits and vegetables. Increasing your intake of other natural whole foods such as nuts, seeds, legumes, sources of lean protein, and healthy fats can also help reduce your risk for lung cancer., Long-term exposure to air pollution from motor vehicles, factories, and other sources have been shown to increase the risk for lung cancer. If possible, avoid walking or running next to busy roads, and spend less time outdoors in environments with heavy air pollution.
 Lung diseases such as tuberculosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease can increase your risk for lung cancer. If you suffer from these types of lung diseases, work with your healthcare provider to have these diseases treated as soon as possible in an effort to prevent the development of lung cancer.