 First and foremost, if you want your hermit crab to change to a new shell, you must provide some options for him to choose from! Make a variety of shells available to your hermit crab.


Hermit crab shells can be purchased at pet stores, craft stores, or a variety of online retailers.;
, It is important to remember that hermit crabs grow very slowly. When selecting new shells, you will want to select a few shells that are roughly the same size as the one he is wearing, and a few that are just slightly larger., Different types of hermit crabs tend to prefer specific types of shells. You can select the best shells for your crab by choosing varieties suited to your crab’s type. If you are not familiar with different shell types, someone at a pet store can help you.For example, Coenobita clypeatus (or Purple Pincher) crabs generally prefer turbo shells.
Coenobita compressus (or Ecuadorian) crabs tend to prefer short shells (such as Thais biserialis, T. orbita, or T. haemastom shells). They also prefer shells that been previously warn, as the inner spiral has often been removed.
 You will also want to select shells for your hermit crab by considering the shape of their opening, as well the thickness of given shells. In both instances, look to the shell your crab is currently wearing for clues.


Most shells will have either a “D” or “O” shaped opening. Look at the shape of the opening for the shell your crab is currently using, and select new shells that mirror this opening shape.All crabs have preferences for the thickness of their shells. Investigate the thickness of the shell your crab is currently using. Then aim to provide alternative shells that share a similar thickness.Avoid painted shells. Many pet stores (or craft stores) sell painted shells for hermit crabs to use. These painted shells must be avoided! Although they are cute, the paint can chip and be ingested by your crab, causing him to be very sick. In some cases, the paint used may even be poisonous to crabs.