 Press the Windows key, type in “computer,” and right-click the top result. Select “Properties” from the drop-down list that appears to view the computer’s properties.;
, After the Properties window opens, you should see a list of options on the left-hand side. Click “Advanced System Settings to continue.


Please note that some of the settings in this area may change the way that Windows will behave. Please make sure not to click or change settings on things you don’t know, as this can cause your PC experience to become degraded instead of enhanced.
 There should be a small window that appears; these are the System Settings. There should be 3 different settings options on the tab currently being displayed in front of you: “Performance,” “User Profiles,” and “Startup and Recovery.” Each option will have a “Settings” button in their specific boxes. Click the “Settings” button under “Performance.”

, A little box should have appeared. Inside this box should be 4 different options near the top of the window. The top 3 should be presets entitled “Let Windows choose what’s best for my computer,” “Adjust for best appearance,” and “Adjust for best performance.” You can select any of these options if you don’t want to bother selecting individual visual settings yourself. Click the circle to the left of each option to activate, then press Apply >> OK when you are ready.


There may be other options listed as well, and you can choose any of these safely without any harm.
 The final option at the bottom should be “Custom.” When you select this from the list, you will find a box below it with a bunch of different checkboxes in it. Each of these turns a specific visual effect on/off by checking and unchecking the boxes respectively. Adjust these to your liking.


While checking and unchecking the boxes you will have to find your own happy medium. Try turning different effects on and off to see what you think. Make sure to click “Apply” in the bottom right-hand corner of the little box after you make your selections in order to preview them.

