 If you're at home and a meteorologist has warned you of a tornado in your area, take cover in the most safe place possible. If you have a storm cellar or safe room those are the safest places you could take shelter in. If you don't, make sure you're on the lowest level! If you have a basement go there, in a small corner, and protect yourself with something soft like a mattress or lots of blankets and pillows. If you don't have a basement go in a small bathroom or a closet (such as a coat or a linen closet) in the center of the lowest level of your home. Don't go in a room with windows! The windows could bust open and the wind would get in, that can hurt you! Again, protect yourself with a mattress or pillows and blankets. Keep a radio near-by at all times tuned on a station telling the weather. If you're home alone the least thing you want to do is panic. Do not wait around for your parents to come home, cause they're probably not going to if there is a tornado warning. Where ever you're taking cover, keep a phone with you! This way, if you keep trapped under debris you'll be able to call the Emergency Services for help. Don't leave your shelter until you know it is safe.;
, If you're at school your teacher should already have a plan. If he or she doesn't have your parents discuss the importance of a good fire escape plan. If you're at home make sure you also have a fire escape plan. That should Consist of 2 ways to get out of room in every part of the house. Every family should have at least 3 fire alarms!. But if you're in your room and all of a sudden you smell smoke, go to your door but don't open it. If possible, get a wet cloth (or a fire mask, if you have one) and put it over your nose and mouth. The chemicals in the smoke are dangerous, so if possible, GET A WET WASHCLOTH. Feel of the door to see if it is warm with the backside of your hand. If it is and you know there is a fire in your home, go to the biggest window in your room and open, or break open the screen (if your window has one). You can break it open by using a toy to bang on it with, or just punching through and pulling it apart. If you're room is on the second floor, keep an escape ladder handy. These ladders are made of rope and wood and fold up so you can keep it near by. Carefully escape and run as far away from the house as possible (staying in your yard).
 Earthquakes have only two ways of easy survival. One: run under a sturdy table, where there are no objects to fall on you or the table. Or run to the doorway and stand straight and still. Don't move around! The more you move the better chance you have of getting hurt badly. Open fields, and (some might argue) limestone caves are the best places to be during an earthquake. Open fields rarely have fault lines, and there's nothing to fall on you. The cave theory is disputed, but the theory is: that you can shake it as much as you want, but the hole in the rock stays the same. Limestone is the strongest sedimentary rock.
 Most homes now have security systems. A security system is something that automatically contacts someone for help and makes a loud noise when someone breaks in. They have saved many lives, but then again not everyone. If someone breaks in you'll either see them, hear gun shots, yelling, or movement. Or you won't see them at all. If you see them and they don't see you, be as quiet as possible! If you think you can, sneak off the other direction and hide under your bed, cover your self up with a blanket, or climb to the top shelf on your closet. Anywhere you think you'll be safe until help arrives. Keep a cell phone with you at all times - even at home. Immediately call Emergency Services! The longer you wait, the longer it will take. Just remember, stay quiet and calm. Don't cry or they'll hear you. Just think good thoughts and know that you're going to be okay.
 Car wrecks can happen so fast! That's why you need to be prepared! If a wreck happens, try to get out of the car (unless you absolutely can't), and if possible, call the Emergency Services. If you're stuck and you can't, let someone know that you're still alive. Say something like, "Help," or "I'm alive," as loud as possible. When emergency arrives, it may hurt when they pick you up. Remember they're there to help you and you're going to be okay. Stay as calm as you can the whole ride to the hospital and let them do whatever they have to do in order for you to survive. The EMTs will help you get better, so don't be afraid.
 Through any emergency always stay calm. It always pays to be prepared!

