 Swallowing a poison can lead to serious complications that can't be addressed without medical intervention. If you suspect someone has swallowed a poison, get help right away. Try to determine what caused the poisoning and have the person's age and weight ready to give to the person who answers the phone.


Look for pills, plants or berries (berries), mouth burns, etc. Knowing the source of the poison is essential for treatment purposes.
If the person is unconscious or otherwise exhibiting severe symptoms, skip the call to poison control and seek medical help right away. If you're not sure what the person swallowed, seek immediate medical help, no matter what the symptoms are.
If the person has just swallowed the poisonous substance, and you're not sure whether or not it will become a serious issue, call poison control at 800-222-1222 (in the United States).Poison control is a hotline staffed with attendants who can tell you what measures to take to help the person who has been poisoned, and whether you'll need to go to the hospital.;
, If the person swallowed a household product, pills, or another substance, it's important to make sure none remains in the mouth or air passage. Wrap a clean towel around your hand. Open the person's mouth and remove traces of the substance using the towel.If the person vomits, continue monitoring the airway and keeping the mouth area clean.
If you're not sure what the person swallowed, keep the soiled towel to bring with you to the hospital for testing.
 Determine whether the person is breathing, check his or her airway, and determine if he or she has a pulse. If you don't feel breath or a pulse, administer CPR immediately.


If the person is a child, administer do child CPR.
For babies, administer infant or toddler CPR.
 Poison in the system can lead to seizures, so it's important to take measures to prevent injuries from occurring. Have the person lie down on his or her side on a comfortable surface, and place a pillow under his or her head to cushion it. Loosen belts and other tight clothing. Remove jewelry and other constrictive items.


Make sure the person doesn't lie down on his or her back; if vomiting occurs, this could lead to choking.
Continue monitoring the person's breathing and pulse, performing CPR as necessary, until medical help arrives.

