 As mention above, Sever’s disease is self-limiting, which means that if your child rests up, she will make a full recovery. Getting rest involves keeping your child from participating in physical activities while her body heals.


Keep your child off her feet for 24 to 72 hours, or longer if more time is prescribed by a doctor.
 Any further harm to the affected area could lead to a longer healing time. To protect your child’s heel, try to help her avoid the following:


Heat: Your child should avoid soaking her feet in warm baths, applying heat packs, or sitting in a hot environment. Heat causes blood vessels to dilate, which increases the flow of blood to the area, making the area painful and swollen.
Further movement: Any excessive movement of the affected area may cause further injury.
Massage: Putting pressure on the affected area by massaging it could also lead to further injury.
 Apply an ice compress to areas where your child feels pain for the first 24 to 72 hours after she first feels pain. The cold temperature will help the blood vessels to constrict, thereby reducing blood flow (and thus pain and inflammation) in the area.


To use apply a cold compress, wrap a bag of ice or an ice pack in a hand towel. Do not apply the ice directly to your child’s skin, as it could cause skin damage. Leave the compress on the area for 15 to 20 minutes. You can apply the ice pack every two to three hours.
 Elevating the affected heel can help to reduce swelling in the area. To elevate the heel, you can sit your child down in a chair and prop her leg up in front of her on another chair with a cushion underneath it. The goal is to elevate the heel so that it is above your child’s heart, thereby restricting blood flow to the area, which helps to reduce swelling.


If your child is lying down, place several pillows under your child’s heel so that her heel is above her heart.
 Your child’s doctor may recommend getting her orthopedic shoes or heel cups. Hell cups are soft pads that get inserted under the heel bone; they help to reduce the pressure put on the Achilles tendon.Foot orthotics also act like cushions to support your child’s sole, which takes pressure off the other parts of your child’s foot.

