 The easiest way to clean skate ball bearings is to use a specially made kit, but you can also make your own kit at home. Grab a sports drink bottle and cut hole in the cap large enough for a bolt that’s a quarter inch (0.6 cm) wide and six inches (15 cm) long. Run a gasket down the bolt’s length until it’s flush with the head, insert the bolt through the cap, then secure it to the cap using a washer and a nut.You can cut a ballpoint pen casing into quarter inch (0.6 cm) wide cylinders to create spacers to place between the bearings.If you want to purchase a skate ball bearing cleaning kit, you can find one online or at a skate shop.
 If you’re using a store bought kit, place a bearing casing onto the base, snap a spacer over it, then repeat the sequence until you’ve stacked all of the casings. If you’re using a homemade cleaning kit, slide the bearing casings down the bolt’s length and place a ballpoint pen spacer between each casing.Stacking the bearing casings instead of free washing them in a container will help prevent casings from scratching each other. It’ll also help keep the balls from falling out of the casings., After stacking the casings, fill your kit container or bottle with a cleaner.You can use a citrus-based cleaner, 90% pure isopropyl alcohol, or a solvent cleaner, such as acetone.Each cleaner has pros and cons. A citrus cleaner is the safest choice, but might leave a residue on the casings. Isopropyl alcohol and acetone are stronger and won’t leave residue, but are skin irritants and emit hazardous fumes.
Be sure to wear gloves if you choose 90% pure isopropyl alcohol or a solvent cleaner.
Don’t use WD-40 or oil to clean ball bearings or bearing casings. These will just cause buildup without actually removing any debris.
 Insert the stacked bearings into the cleaner-filled container and secure the lid. Shake the container for a few seconds, then let it sit for five to ten minutes to cut through buildup. After letting it sit, give the container another shake., Remove the casings from the container and unstack them. Use compressed air to thoroughly dry them.Once they’re dry, apply a few drops of lubricant using a hypodermic needle or pin.


Use either a lubricant made for skate ball bearings, sewing machine lubricant, or lubricant made for electronic devices. These products typically come with a needle applicator., Once you’ve lubricated your ball bearings, you can reassemble your bearings and wheels. Snap the rubber or metal seals back onto the bearing casings. Use a skate tool to reinsert the bearing casings back into the wheels’ centers, then fasten the wheels back onto your skates or skateboard.You can use a skateboard axle to pop the bearing casing back into place, but you might risk damaging the casing. Using a skate tool is the preferred method.