 Make sure the exercises you choose specifically target the waist. Avoid doing the old-style crunch. It can damage your spine.


Stand with a pole between your shoulders. Keep your back straight, and your feet apart. Twist your waist from side to side while looking straight ahead. See how many rotations you can do. Try to do as many as 50 rotations.
Instead of a crunch, try a curl. Lie on your back. Your hands should be palm down. Tuck them under your back. Bend your knees and lift your head and shoulders – but only a bit.
 If you get bored with typical exercises, why not buy a hula hoop? If you hoop for just a few minutes a day, you will end up with a smaller waist. Even hula hooping for 10 minutes a day has been found to reduce waist size! You can also burn 100 calories a day just with a few minutes of daily hula hooping. To hoop better, keep your back straight, bring the hoop against your back when you start hooping, and try not to turn your hips too much. Put your right foot slightly before the left. Spin the hoop counterclockwise and then shift your hips from front to back to keep the hoop moving. You need to keep your core engaged, making the hoop stay above your hips.
One study found that hooping for 30 minutes, three times a week took 3-6 inches off the waist in just a month. , Circuit training is a great choice for an exercise program because it involves elements of strength training, resistance training, and cardio, all of which will help you pare your waist. Pilates features many poses that work on the core.


A typical circuit training program would involve 4 circuits that feature different exercises, which you do for about 12-15 reps about three times each and then rotate.
Circuit training often involves such exercises as squats, push ups, vertical jumps, resistance bands, and using light dumbbells.
Pilates will tone your waistline because it focuses on poses that will create a strong core.
 If exercise isn’t cutting it for you, you could try the latest celebrity trend: Waist training. Jessica Alba is among the celebrities who have tried this technique, which she did to help regain her figure after having a baby.


Basically waist training means you wear a corset on a daily basis. Buy a waist trainer (or corset, or waist cincher) that has flexible bones in it, so you can breathe. Don’t expect instant results, though. Waist training can take months to be visible.
You could also try buying a waterproof cord you wear underneath your clothes around your waist, and you tighten it as you lose weight. This will help you realize when your stomach is expanding.

