 Marriage is a decision that, for most, means a lifetime commitment. Ideally, people who are married should share such a level of intimacy that there's very little they aren't comfortable talking bout. In terms of writing a love letter, this means that virtually everything is on the table. While you'll probably want to err on the side of sincerity (rather than, say, irony), you have lots of room to be creative here.


There's no "right" way to begin a love letter to your spouse. Only you know your spouse's most intimate hopes, dreams, feelings and fears, so we'll leave this one to you.
If you're in doubt, simply be sincere about the way you feel. Even something as simple as, "I love you — that's how I've always felt and it's how I always will feel" can do the trick.
 One sure-fire trick to trigger warm feelings of nostalgia in your partner is to bring back memories of the very first time you met or went on a date. This will almost always bring back fond memories of when you and your partner were younger, more naive, and more carefree. If written with sincerity, including this sort of nostalgic reference can make your letter a tremendously poignant, bittersweet tearjerker.


For example, if you're writing to your wife Tina Smith, whom you met in the hospital when she was your nurse, on your 20th wedding anniversary, you might start like this: "I still remember that day 22 years ago, Tina. I woke up amidst the cream-colored pillows at St. Claire's as if I had come to in heaven. Was it a dream? Had I survived the crash? Then, I saw you, and in an instant, I was more grateful to be alive than I had ever been before (or have been since.)"

, A couple that's been married for years isn't the same pair of people that they were when they started dating (or even when they married). Marriage changes a relationship — often, this change isn't better or worse, but merely different. For extra poignancy in your letter, you may want to consider calling attention to the way your relationship has changed, like the way your feelings for each other are more mature, the way you've discovered each others' secrets, and so on. As you do this, reflect on the fact that your love, though different, is no weaker than it was on the first day of your honeymoon.


For example, let's say you're writing to Jim Davidson, your husband of a little over a year. You might try something like this: "Jim, honey. It's been just 14 months now and it feels like we've been married for a lifetime. The way we talk, the way we hold each other — even the way we look at each other is so much subtler, so much more intimate than the way we were back then. And yet, I've never loved you more."

, It's a simple fact: not all marriages last until "death do us part." Your love letter to your spouse, however, should be written as if this outcome is impossible — even ludicrous. While you can bring up difficulties or struggles you've had as a couple, don't leave any doubt about the strength of your marriage. Make your love letter a bold proclamation of how you intend to spend the rest of your life with your partner (and how much you'll enjoy doing it!)


For a great example of the positive, affirmative sort of approach you may want to take, enjoy this passage from a love letter written by President Woodrow Wilson to Edith Bolling Galt, the woman who became his second wife: "You have the greatest soul, the noblest nature, the sweetest, most loving heart I have ever known, and my love, my reverence, my admiration for you, you have increased in one evening as I should have thought only a lifetime of intimate, loving association could have increased them."