 Most financial aid sources require you to remain in “good standing” or to make “satisfactory progress” in your educational program. Depending upon your school, this may mean maintaining a certain grade point average (GPA), taking a certain number of credits, or completing requirements specific to your program of study. If your financial aid has been affected because of unsatisfactory progress, however, you can write an appeal to have it reinstated., Your school may have a financial aid counselor who can advise you on requesting more aid. Your school’s financial aid office can also advise you on where to submit your letter, and whether or not there are any special forms to fill out or information to include. Your academic advisor can explain any requirements for (re)achieving satisfactory progress.
 Write your letter in a formal, business format. It should be typed, dated, and signed, and use a formal tone.Start by briefly explaining the purpose of your letter. Write something like “This letter is an appeal to the Office of Financial Aid so that I can continue receiving financial aid.”

, Do not blame the issue on someone else, but instead accept responsibility for it yourself. Be as specific as you can.


Try writing something like: “During my first two semesters, I did not focus on school the way I should have, because I was working too many hours at my part-time job. I take full responsibility, and am ready to prioritize my education.”
Excuses such as not liking your professors or classes, not knowing the guidelines for satisfactory progress, spending too much time socializing, or being unprepared for college coursework will usually not be accepted. Your explanation should concentrate on your responsibility for the problem, and how you will be accountable for it.
Provide any documentation you can to support your explanation. For example, if working too many hours caused you to fall behind, provide copies of pay stubs or work schedules along with your financial aid appeal letter.
 Be honest, and concentrate on specific ways that you will re-achieve and maintain satisfactory progress.


For example, write something like: “I have met with my academic advisor to discuss plans for me to succeed. I will take X, Y, Z courses next semester to move forward in my program. I have developed a schedule so that I will devote X number of hours to educational tasks on A, B, C days. I will also visit the peer tutoring center on B and C days to work further on improving my academic performance.”

, Close your letter by thanking your school for its consideration of your request, and assure the financial aid office that you want to succeed in your educational program.


Try writing something like: “I appreciate the Office of Financial Aid taking the time to review my appeal. Continued receipt of financial aid will provide much-needed support as I follow my new plan for academic success. I am proud to be a member of the community at , value the education it provides, and look forward to completing my program in .
 Once you have written your letter, you should deliver it to the address you have been instructed to, such as your school’s financial aid office (in hard copy or electronically, according to its specification).

