 The first chance to DQ is before you even start your swim, when you step up on the block. When the official says, "take your mark," you must take your mark and not move until the signal to start is given. You cannot move your feet, hands, head or chest after you take a position.;
, The next chance you have to DQ is on your underwater pullout. In every pool, the lane lines have red lines marking about 15 yards (13.7 m) out. If you surface past these lines, then you are automatically DQ'd. Also, if you start doing any other stroke besides butterfly, you will get disqualified.
 On your turn, both hands have to touch the wall before your feet and you may not push off on your back, only your side.
 Then there is your transition to backstroke, the key part here is to not go on your stomach during your flip.
 You may only turn on your side for one second and take only one freestyle stroke before your flip. You also can't stroke and flip at the same time, they have to be two separate movements.
 This is the hardest part of the I.M. You can only start your transition after the flags and again can not last for longer then one second. You place one arm at your side and one arm in streamline position. The leading arm touches the wall and you must push off the wall with that arm.
 Here is where the league you swim in becomes a factor. In USA swimming, you can take one dolphin kick after you bring your arms down, but in high school leagues, you can take one dolphin kick before and after your pullout. You can also only take one stroke of breaststroke under water.


The breaststroke to breaststroke turn is similar to the butterfly turn because it must be done above water and both arms must touch.
 This is the same as the previous turn except that, instead of going into breaststroke, you go into freestyle where you must do dolphin kicks and not flutter. Also you must start stroking the moment your body touches the air.
 This is a flipturn where you push off the wall like a normal flipturn.

