 More will be needed depending on the length of your hair. It might be best to consult a hairdresser/hair professional to see how much bleach you will need.;
, Pick up a 20V (for toner and bleach, if you want to do it slowly) and/or 30V (for bleach). Bleach your hair twice with 20V followed by a deep condition. Bleach it again and follow it with another deep condition. This should help limit the damage to your hair. 30V will do more damage to your hair, so you may need to take more precautions to protect it.
 Use a violet-based toner to remove yellow/brassy tones from your hair.
 You don't have to spend lots of money on these - lots of the cheaper brands work just as well. Find one that is beneficial to dry/damaged/coloured hair. You might want to get a few and repeat the treatment in the weeks following you bleaching your hair in order to restore moisture.
 Follow the instructions included in the particular brand of bleach you have bought, as it may vary. It may be best to apply the bleach in sections on your hair, especially if it is thicker. Ensure you have covered all the hair you want to bleach and leave on for the recommended time. Never exceed this developing time, as it can really damage your hair.
 If you are bleaching it multiple times make sure you condition after every bleach. Conditioning often works best if you keep a cap over your hair whilst it is soaking. If you don't have a deep-conditioning product, you can use normal conditioner and leave it to soak in your hair for as long as you feel is necessary.
 Use a 20V bleach and not 30V, as this may put too much strain on your hair.
 Follow the ratio on the bottle. Leave the toner in for the recommended time with a cap on your hair. Keep checking on your hair under the cap to ensure it hasn't turned silver! (Unless you want it to be silver!)

, Condition your hair afterwards to restore moisture and get rid of any tangles.
 Be careful how much product you are putting into your hair, as it will be weakened from the bleaching process.
, Washing hair removes natural oils. Bleach removes oils from the hair, which is why conditioning treatments are important to restore moisture that has been stripped from the hair.
,