 Your parents installed this because they love you and care for you. They know that the internet has its dangers and you need to be protected. It isn't just porn or drugs, although a third of all internet downloads involve pornography and there are 4.2m porn websites out there.One big concern is potentially abusive or ill-intentioned individuals lurking on dating sites or social media, often pretending to be someone they're not. Cyberbullying is a real threat, too - one on four teenagers has experienced repeated bullying via their phone or PC.Teenage girls from 15 to 19 are the most vulnerable because they spend a lot of time online and are the key target for these dangerous individuals.;
, See it from their point of view and instead discuss the level of protection you need. Most parental control software blocks websites using a list of banned terms. Discuss how they have configured this for you if you think it is too strict – and be prepared to give reasons why. If sites you need to visit are being blocked, ask for them to be whitelisted so the software will always allow access. Engaging with your parents will impress them; you are showing that you understand and accept why they installed parental controls and why you benefit from it.


Some parental control software, such as the ones automatically installed on Macs, will just automatically block any non-whitelisted website, and may even go to the extremes of blocking search engines such as Google. If this is the case of the parental control software you're dealing with, try asking if a different software can be used. If your parents are hesitant to agree, point out the amount of websites you visit that'll have to be whitelisted, and they may be more tempted to listen to you!

, Most software also controls how long you can be online and many parents use it to log you off at a given time to stop you from staying up too late. They have a point – like most teenagers, you probably don't get enough sleep! Again – negotiate. If you accept an earlier logoff time and bedtime during the week will they adjust the times at the weekend?


Some parental control software can be glitchy. If your parents have installed time restraints on your computer, there is a known issue with the Apple parental controls on Mac where the user is prevented from logging on at any point, even if the permitted time to use the computer is not used up or the log-off time has not occurred yet. If you get this issue often, try asking your parents about using a different software.
 The internet is awash with pages explaining how to do this. But if your parents have installed it properly, and you don't have administrator rights on your PC, it is very hard anyway. Additionally, the attempt will be logged, so they will know if you try to disable the software, and your parents will lose their trust in you - and you'll probably lose your phone and PC, too.
 Software versions for smartphones sometimes make it very obvious that you have parental controls installed. This can be embarrassing, especially when you're an older teen, as your friends are certain to realize. Resist the temptation to complain about your parents in this situation; it'll just end up making you more upset. Instead, explain that they feel it makes you safer online and that you think it's a good idea too. You can then crack a joke or change the subject.

