 It's important to move around during the day to get the blood flowing through your legs. Sitting or standing for long periods of time allows the blood to collect instead of flowing, and is detrimental to your health over time. If you find you've been in the same position for an hour or more, move around for a few minutes before resuming your position.


If you work in an office and are required to sit for your job, get up and take breaks every hour and a half or so. Even if all you do is walk to the bathroom and back to your desk, you're moving your legs, which helps circulation.
You could also look into getting a stand-up desk, which allows you to stand instead of sitting while you work.;
, Do you tend to cross your legs when you sit? That common position cuts off the circulation to your legs, making it more difficult for blood to get to your leg tissue to keep it healthy. Make a habit of sitting in a position that's better for blood circulation.


Sit with your legs spaced slightly apart and your feet on the floor. Remember to get up from time to time so you aren't in this position for too long.
You can also slightly elevate your legs to help your circulation. Put your feet up on a stool 6 to 12 inches (15.2 to 30.5 cm) above the ground.
 If you can work some exercise into your schedule, your circulation will certainly benefit. Any exercises that employ the legs will help your circulation. Try power walking, running, biking, swimming, hiking, and other exercises you enjoy that get your feet moving.


Exercise daily for maximum benefits. Even a 1/2-hour walk will improve the health of your legs.
If you're looking for a low-impact exercise, try yoga.Many yoga poses engage your legs and stimulate the circulatory system.
 Wearing high heels, pointy-toed shoes, or other tight shoes can impede blood flow from your legs to your heart. When you're focused on improving leg circulation, it's important to wear comfortable, low-heeled shoes with plenty of cushioning.


Wear tennis shoes or loafers that give your feet room to breathe.
Go for dress shoes with rounded or almond-shaped toes instead of pointy toes. Choose wedges instead of heels if you want extra height.
 These are similar to panty hose, and they're specifically designed to stabilize the leg tissues and help blood circulate more easily. You can pick them up at the drugstore or see your doctor about ordering hose specially fitted for your legs and your individual needs.
 Smoking can actually lead to peripheral artery disease, a condition in which the arteries in the legs harden and can no longer circulate blood. If you have poor circulation, stopping smoking and use of other tobacco products is an important way to regain leg health.