 Old fashioned swear words certainly don't hold the same power today that they once did. Therefore, you can get away with using them in polite company. As a bonus, old-fashioned words may make people in the room giggle, diffusing the tension.For instance, "Jumpin' Jehoshaphat," "dagnabit," and "Jiminy Cricket" are old-fashioned swear words that you could use to replace cuss words in polite company.;
, Shakespeare was a master at cursing people, and you can use that to your advantage. As a bonus, you'll confuse your adversary in the process.For instance, you could try "Thou art a hideous, eye-offending, hedge-pig!"Other options could include "Thou art as loathsome as a toad," "I do desire we may be better strangers," or "Away, you three-inch fool.", If you really don't want to give up cuss words, try looking up bad words in other languages. You may be able to get away with these words with your polite-tongued grandparents, but beware, as many people do speak other languages and may call you out.If you're worried about offending someone who speaks the language, try picking a word close to the cuss word but that's not actually a cuss word, such as "Miercoles," which means "Wednesday" in Spanish but sounds close to a curse word., Come up with your own creative substitutes for your favorite curse words. The word should be catchy and not too close to the original, since you are trying to go your own way with your curse words.For instance, you could try something silly such as "fartknocker," which gently invokes the same types of taboos as curse words without offending most people., An acronym is a word or group of letters taken from the first letter of each word in a phrase. Therefore, you can use an acronym to build a curse word that no one realizes is a curse word.For instance, you could use a "Yafs!" as a cuss word that represents "You are fracking stupid."

, If you're trying to cut cussing from your vocabulary, you probably will slip up from time to time. Instead of getting mad at yourself, repeat the word you'd rather use to yourself, so that it becomes embedded in your memory.