 Asiatic lilies are generally hardy plants, but need a cool period for overwintering. For this reason, they’re not the best choice for outdoor gardens in regions that don’t experience cooler winter temperatures.Your local home improvement store or nursery will likely carry plants appropriate for your area. Check with staff for help choosing plants that will thrive in your climate.
You can also look for a local public garden or arboretum. Their plants will most likely be labeled, which will help you choose varieties for your own garden.;
, Your planting area should have enough drainage that water doesn’t pool after heavy rain. It should receive at least six hours of full sunlight, preferably in the early morning or late afternoon.Lilies can tolerate less than six hours of sun, but less light exposure will result in spindly plants that produce fewer blooms and lean toward the sun.
 Planting in the fall will keep plants in a normal blooming cycle. Plant bulbs as soon as you bring them home. Asiatic lily bulbs will dry out quickly, since they lack a paper-like covering called a tunic.You can plant bulbs in the early spring, and they’ll likely flower later in the year then readjust to their normal bloom cycle the following year.
 Remove rocks and other debris from the soil, and loosen it with a garden tiller if it’s tightly compacted. Use the tiller to incorporate a layer of organic matter, such as peat moss, at least six inches (15 cm) deep into the soil. This will help ensure your soil can provide enough drainage for your lilies., Plant a group of three to five similarly-sized bulbs about six inches (15 cm) deep, measuring from the top of the bulbs. Space the bulbs about eight inches (20 cm) apart. Be sure to plant bulbs with their tops facing up.You can tell a bulb’s top from its bottom by looking for the pointed tip at the top and the hair-like roots at the bottom.
Repeat planting groups of bulbs until you’ve planted all of your bulbs. Space each group about three feet (about a meter) apart.
 If you’re planting in the fall, cover your planting area loosely with four to six inches (10 to 15 cm) of mulch before the first frost. A layer of winter mulch will help delay the soil from freezing, giving the bulbs a little extra time to establish their roots. It will also help minimize temperature fluctuations, which will make the shoots stronger come springtime.