 While the demands of work and everyday life are constant, our will and ambition are sometimes not up to the task. We reach low points. It becomes hard to accomplish routine tasks. During these low points we have to remind ourselves to stay motivated. Look for ways that will keep you on task and focused.


Keep long-term goals in mind. If you are discouraged, step back and try to gain perspective. What are you doing? Why? Remind yourself of how hard you have worked, and remember that it is easier to tread water than to fall behind and catch up later.
Rehearse your past triumphs. Revisit a time when you accomplished something important — maybe it was winning a "worker of the year" award or getting special recognition for your volunteering. Let some of the positive memories flood back.You might also try reminding yourself of strengths. Write down your areas of skill and strength. Having a reinforced sense of self can be a powerful sources of motivation.Take stock of what you’ve accomplished each day. In the evening, reflect and recognize what you’ve done. Take a few minutes. Create a list. You will probably be surprised at how many items there are.If the source of your fatigue is deeper, consider using a vacation day or planning a day on your weekend for yourself. Rest and focus on re-energizing.;
, Events in life rarely go exactly as planned. We run into unexpected problems with work, finances, or family, and it is important to be ready to adapt. Flexibility requires having an open mind, being ready to accept change, and sometimes making painful decisions. Without it, you may find yourself with lost opportunities.One way to be flexible is to be prepared for all possibilities. Think about what might happen in the future, and consider different scenarios or perspectives. In other words, see the big picture.
Be willing to learn new skills, methods, or ways to take on tasks. For example, instead of fretting about why you lost out on a recent promotion at work, look for ways to make changes that will improve your efficiency and productivity.
Take risks. Success usually doesn’t just fall on your lap. Often we need to take a risk in order to take advantage of opportunities. And, if we fail, we can still learn from the failure and adapt in the future.Don’t be afraid to vent a bit. Adapting forces you to go outside of what you are used to. It can be uncomfortable. It’s OK to feel that way, and, at least in private, you are justified in blowing off some steam.
 While pursuing goals, it’s healthy in both work and life to know when to stop, take a break, and rest. Pacing will improve your mental and physical well-being, while preparing you to start anew with full tank of energy.Setting a good pace can be as easy as giving yourself regular breaks at work, or changing tasks every so often in order to reduce fatigue.
Listen to your mind and body. If you feel chronically tired and run down, rest. You can’t be productive unless you have energy and focus. If you can, take an hour for lunch and go for a walk.
Get adequate sleep each night to wake up refreshed — around eight hours is usually enough. A good sleep routine lets your brain function at its highest levels, while a lack of sleep will leave you grumpy, fatigued, and wooly-headed.Enjoy life’s pleasures. There is a big world out there with music, movies and books, each of which can bring out your best. Have coffee or outings with friends or loved ones. An active inner and social life can give you a healthy balance.
 Perfectionists sometimes have issues with prioritizing. For them, every task, large or small, must be flawlessly done. In the fact of challenges, however, this attitude leads to a lot of stress. Mental health experts suggest asking, "What now?" and the identification of what is really urgent and has a lower priority.Pay attention to when, if ever, you are not making efficient choices in your use of time. Be self-correcting.
You might try writing down your tasks and then putting them in a hierarchy. Some tasks will be “A” tasks. These are ones that need your best attention or are very urgent. Rate those under them in importance as B, C, or D tasks.
Do the most important thing on your list first thing in the day, maybe for 90 minutes. Then, in the evening, spend about 10 to 15 minutes reflecting on what you want to accomplish the next day. Make a new outline, if need be.