 If you’re the one left in the apartment after a separation, giving your home a good scrub will help you feel better. There’s nothing worse than finding traces of your absent mate in your apartment months after he’s gone. Cleaning your house, both physically and metaphorically, will help you regain your sense of yourself.If you’re in a new place, there’s nothing like cleaning it well to make it start to feel like home.
Pick new cleaning products, with scents that that don’t remind you of your mate.
 Get a fresh look for your old things by moving your furniture around, particularly your bedroom furniture. You can even move items from one room to another, or switch the functions of your room.For example, try moving your bed to another side of the room, or beneath the window.
Try putting a loveseat in your bedroom, or bringing the painting you bought for the living room in the kitchen.
 Nothing says a new beginning like new sheets, pillows, and towels. Find the kind that feels most luxurious against your skin, and a color that you adore. This is a good time to pamper yourself, and practice self-care.Try sleeping with a body-size pillow to snuggle in the bed with you.
If you like sitting up late in bed, invest in a big reading and backrest pillow (sometimes called a “husband pillow.”)

, Nothing makes an old room feel newer than giving it a new color. Choose the colors that make you feel happy and joyous, whether they’re neutrals like slate gray and beige, or vibrant tangerines and lime.You don’t have to paint the whole apartment at once. Start with the bedroom or the kitchen, and work from there.
Invite friends over to help you paint. They’ll be glad to help and you’ll enjoy having their support and company.
 You may want to temporarily take down pictures of the two of you in happier times, and replace them with pictures of yourself as a child, and with your closest friends. Put them in a box that’s consigned to the attic or basement for safe keeping.If you’re able to work things out, your things can be returned to their original places. Or, you might decide to start fresh again with each other.
You might find that a simpler look is best for your new life.
 Nothing is sadder than finding your special box full of items that recall fun times that you may not have again with your mate. The first step will be taking the old ones out of the house.You might not be ready for new ones right away, but go ahead and order some catalogs, or scroll through some websites.
You might find yourself enjoying some quality time alone with your new toys.
 If there were things that he used to make you keep in the closet, now’s the time to bring them back out. You’re likely to find items that help you connect with the self you were prior to the relationship.


No matter what you’re bringing into your home, making these changes will help you feel stronger and more empowered to survive your separation.
Adding curtains, changing light fixtures, and other small changes can make a big difference to the way your home looks and feels to you.

