 To build strong, healthy teeth you need to brush them twice a day. Choose a brush with soft bristles. It should comfortably fit the size of your mouth. For example, if you have a larger mouth, choose the brush with the largest head.Hold the brush at a 45 degree angle to your teeth and move it in short strokes in an up and down motion — down on your upper teeth and up on your lower teeth. Use gentle force and repeat the movement for about 10 strokes on each tooth.
Make sure to brush each surface of the tooth: front, back, inside, and food chewing.
You should also brush your tongue to help remove bacteria from your mouth.;
, Flossing is an essential part of keeping your teeth and gums healthy. When you floss, you can reach areas that your tooth brush can't. This helps you prevent buildup of plaque and bacteria. Dentists recommend flossing at least once a day.You need approximately 18 inches (46 cm) of floss to do a good job. Wrap one end around a middle finger on each of your hands. Holding the floss, move it up and down between each of your teeth.
Curve the floss into a "C" shape so that you cover all surfaces of the tooth. Never press the floss into your gums.
Do not reuse the same piece of floss. That could spread bacteria.
 Make oral care a consistent part of your daily routine. Get in the habit of caring for your teeth at the same time each day, so that it soon becomes second nature. For example, brush your teeth after your morning shower and before you go to bed. Floss after your evening brushing.Don't rush when you brush. You should brush for two minutes, twice a day. Flossing will take the same amount of time, once a day.
 Your local drugstore or superstore likely offers an overwhelming array of dental care products. Take care when choosing the toothbrush, toothpaste, and floss that are right for you. It is important to remember to only buy products that are recommended by the American Dental Association.Ask your dentist or hygienist to recommend a toothpaste that will best suit your needs. For example, if tartar is a major issue for you, he might suggest a brand that combats buildup. If you find that heat and cold bother your teeth, ask about a brand for sensitive teeth. If you have bleeding gums, you will need to get a toothpaste that fights gum inflammation.
A toothpaste that contains fluoride is a good idea for most people over the age of six, as it has been shown to prevent cavities.
Many dentists recommend using powered toothbrushes. These devices offer a more consistent brushing technique.
 Dentists recommend that you only brush twice a day. But you can still clean your teeth after eating by rinsing your mouth. Rinsing thoroughly can help prevent the buildup of acids and bacteria, which can weaken your teeth.Choose a mouth rinse that is antibacterial. This will keep your mouth healthy, and your teeth strong. If it hurts your tissue or if you feel any sort of pain after using the rinse, go see your dentist and ask for a recommendation for a new mouthwash.
Mouthwashes that contain fluoride may be a good idea for individuals prone to cavities. Adding mouthwash to your routine can help keep your teeth strong.

