 If you would like to use the license for McAfee Internet Security on another computer after you uninstall it, you will need to release the license from the old computer. This can save you money, since you will not need to purchase a license for your other computer.To log into your account, visit the McAfee homepage at http://home.mcafee.com. You will see a button in the upper-right corner of the page that says “My Account.” Click on this button.Log in using the email address associated with your McAfee user account (the email address you provided when you first signed up) and your password. Click “Log in” to access your account.;
, The My Account page contains all the information about your McAfee Internet Security license including the version and license term and expiration dates.


Navigate to the My Account page. Here you will find a list of the computers registered to your account. Select the tab for the computer you wish to deactivate.Look for the “Details” section of the computer. There you should find the “Deactivate” button.A pop-up window will appear asking you to confirm that you want to deactivate your liscense for this computer. If you are sure you want to do this, click “Deactivate.”Once deactivated, you can reuse the license on a different computer, whether you are buying a new one or just wish to protect a different computer you already own.



Click on the Start button.
Select the Settings menu option.

On Windows 8 Swipe In from the upper right corner of the screen and tap Search. Enter “Control Panel” in the search box and Tap or Click on Control Panel.
On Windows 7 or Vista click on the Start button and then click on Control Panel.
 The Uninstall wizard will guide you through the process of uninstalling McAfee Internet Security completely from your computer.


Select System > Apps & Features.
Select McAfee Internet Security and then select Uninstall, and follow the prompts and directions on the screen.

On Windows 8, Navigate to View by and select Large Icons, tap or click Programs and Features, select McAfee Internet Security and then tap or click Uninstall and follow the prompts or directions on the screen.
On Windows 7 or Vista select Programs > Programs & Features, then McAfee Internet Security and finally Uninstall and follow the prompts and directions on the screen.



