 Unlike other weight machines, the more weight you add to an assisted pull-up machine, the easier the exercise will be for you. The machine counterbalances your weight with the weight you add to the machine.Start with more weight than you think you'll need, and experiment with different weight until you find a level that's challenging without being too much.
Generally, you should be able to do several reps with the weight, but no more. In other words, if you're planning to do 10 pull-ups, set the weight that is just enough to enable you to do 10 pull-ups.
 Depending on how the machine is designed, you'll start your pull-ups from either a standing or kneeling position. Check the resistance on the platform and make sure you're comfortable and well balanced.Make sure the platform is adjusted appropriately for your height. Your arms should be completely straight when you reach up to grab the handles.
 An assisted pull-up machine has two handles, one on either side of the machine. These handles are approximately the same width apart as your hands should be when using a pull-up bar.Due to the position of the handles, it would be difficult or awkward to use anything other than an overhand grip. If you attempt to use an underhand grip, you'll have to twist your arms in a way that your elbows won't bend to do a pull-up.
Your arms should be completely straight to begin your machine-assisted pull-ups, with your elbows locked.
Be careful not to hyperextend your elbows – you could injure yourself.
 When you're ready, pull yourself up using a similar form to the one you would use if you were doing a pull-up on a regular pull-up bar. You'll feel the weight kick in to assist you as you complete the motion.You should pull yourself up so that your chin is over the level of the top of the handles. Use a pumping motion, driving your elbows towards your side.
Don't strain or pull with your neck, and keep your shoulders down. Keep your hips and torso as still and straight as possible, without swinging or pumping from your hips.
 As you lower your body, keep your movements controlled and let your muscles do the work rather than either relying on the assistance from the machine or allowing your body to drop by force of gravity.Focus on taking between two and four seconds to lower your body back to your starting position.
When you've completely lowered yourself with your arms extended, lock your elbows and pause for a couple of seconds before you do your next pull-up.
 Generally, machine-assisted pull-ups won't help you progress towards unassisted pull-ups unless you take responsibility for the work and do multiple reps to build the strength in your muscles.However, you should take advantage of the assistance provided by the machine to do multiple reps that you might not be able to do with band-assisted pull-ups or unassisted pull-ups.
Doing 10 to 15 pull-ups on an assisted pull-up machine is a reasonable goal.
After you've finished your reps, make sure you're removing the weights and returning the machine to its default position so it's ready for the next user.

