 Before your dog can be considered for a commercial, it is crucial that it attends obedience classes. These introductory courses teach dogs basic compliance to commands telling them to sit, stand, down, stay in position, and come when called. Make sure to choose a trainer approved by the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers (CCPDT), listed on the council's website at http://www.ccpdt.org.;
, Hand signals can be useful for a dog to follow on-set, when verbal cues may not be possible. To teach your dog basic hand signals, use cues (with the influence of treats) that will then become the hand signals. For instance, teach a dog the "down" hand command by holding a treat in front of its nose and drawing it down towards the ground, having the dog follow it. After repetition of this exercise (varying between dogs), the motion itself will serve as the command and it will be clearly understood by your pet. Other hand signals to try include:"Sit"
"Stand"
"Heel"
"Spin"
"Go to your crate"

, The American Kennel Club’s Canine Good Citizen Program is a two-part course aimed at rewarding dogs with solid obedience training and good manners, both at home and in their community. This certification is a good foundation for the training your dog will require to get into show business, and is available to all dogs, regardless of breed or age (provided that they are fully vaccinated). Visit the AKC website at https://www.apps.akc.org//apps/clubs/ to find clubs and training programs near you providing CGC training., To really solidify your dog's training, consider signing it up for an acting class to learn entertainment industry tricks like finding a mark on the set floor, cocking its head, and waving its paw. Classes are offered by some dog training venues and pet agencies, and can be a costly investment in your dog's acting career. Look online for courses available in your area.For instance, the Hollywood Paws agency in Los Angeles, California offers introductory, intermediate, and advanced courses in animal acting. Each level costs $995.00 and is comprised on 6 courses (totalling 7.5 hours).