 For increased intensity, you can also add dumbbells.


Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and your hands on your hips. Putting your hands on your hips will force you to use your core muscles for balance. If you're using dumbbells, keep your arms straight down by your side.
Still facing forward, move your right foot about 2 feet to the right. Bend your right leg as you put your weight on your right foot; your left leg should stay straight. Keep both feet facing forward and your hands on your hips.
Push off with your right heel to return to the original position.
Repeat the exercise on the left side; do 3 sets of 10 total.;
, Squats work both your thighs and butt. If you want to increase the intensity, you can add weights.Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart, hands on hips.
Bend your knees inline with your toes, as if you're going to sit in a chair. Keep your heels down, and stick your butt out. Remember to keep your back straight; leaning forward as you squat will put stress on your back.
Return to the original position; do 20 reps.
 Pushups work much of your body, including your butt muscles. They also work your arms, chest, and stomach.Lie down on the floor with your stomach towards the floor and your palms up by your shoulders, palms down. Your elbows should be in the air.
Place your toes on the floor so your heels are in the air.
Push your body into the air with your arms, making sure to keep your body straight. Repeat until you start to feel tired. Take a break, and then do some more.To make it easier when you first get started, you can do pushups with your knees on the ground rather than your feet., These squats also work your thighs and leg muscles, helping to tone them.


Stand with your feet slightly wider than shoulder-width apart with your toes turned out to the side. You can put your hands out in front of you or on your hips, just as long as your torso stays straight and upright throughout the exercise.
Bend your knees over your feet, and keep your butt tucked in.
Return to the original position; do 10 reps.
 As an added bonus, reaching lunges help you to build strength and balance in your legs.Stand with your hands at your side, and your feet shoulder-width apart.
Step forward onto your right foot, and then reach both hands forward to touch your right foot (or as close as you can).
Return to the original position and repeat the exercise on left side; do 10 reps on each leg.
If you want to tone your arms more with this maneuver, you can add dumbbells and a bicep curl as you come up. A bicep curl is when you bring the weights up from your waist to shoulders with your palms facing up, moving only your lower arm. As your move your arms back towards your feet, twice your hands to face down., Touching your toes may not sound that hard, but each time you lift back up, you are using the muscles on your backside and toning them, which is why it's also known as a dead lift.


Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart.
Bend forward with your hips until your back is parallel to the floor. Your hands can be on your shins, or your fingertips can be pointing toward the floor with your arms straight.
Return to the original position; do 10 reps.
 Leg dips also help with balance.


Find a chair with a seat that's about 2 or 3 feet (0.6 or 0.9 m) from the ground.
Put your right leg up on the chair, then turn your body so that you are facing forward and the chair is 90 degrees to your right.
Bend your left knee, keeping your torso straight.
Do 10 reps, then swap legs; do 3 sets on each leg.
 Dance around the kitchen while you're making dinner. Hula-hoop with your kid on a warm afternoon. Adding more movement will help tone you overall, including your butt.