 You must be at least 21 years old to obtain employment. You must also be a U.S. citizen and claim residence within the five boroughs of New York City or the surrounding counties of Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Putnam or Orange., You will need to be able to document either 60 college credits received with a Grade Point Average of at least 2.0 or 2 years of military service.You will need an official transcript from your college.
 You will need to authorize the NYPD to conduct a background check. Any unexpunged criminal activity can disqualify you.


Any felony conviction automatically disqualifies you as well as any conviction for domestic violence-related charges, including misdemeanors.
Dishonorable discharge from the military will also disqualify you.
 Specifically, contact their Candidate Relations Section.


Their phone number is (718) 972-2503. You can call anytime between 7:00am and 7:00pm, 7-days a week.
You can also email them at APD@NYPD.org.
 You will have 10 minutes to carefully study the details of a photo. You will not be able to take notes. Then the photo will be taken away and will be asked questions requiring you to describe minor details of the photo., You will be presented a map and asked to pick the route that contains the shortest distance between two points.
 You will be asked to read and understand written passages and then answer relevant questions.


You will also have to complete written sentences using the correct word or phrase. The focus will be on your grammar and appropriate use of language.
 You will be presented various sets of information and asked to draw conclusions and justify them.Deductive questions will involve processing and eliminating certain forms of information to determine which facts should inform your conclusion.
Inductive reasoning questions will begin with a conclusion and ask you to assess its validity by reviewing the facts that lead to it.
You can purchase an exam prep kit from sites like jobtestprep.com. Many of these will include samples for all of the relevant sections., This test consists of a 6-part obstacle course that simulates basic physical activities you will need to perform on the job. You will need to complete the test in under 4 minutes and 28 seconds.The 6 stations are a barrier surmount, a physical restraint simulation, stair climbing, running in pursuit, trigger pull and victim rescue.
If you fail your JST, you will need to wait 4 months before you can take it again.
 You will need to attend 26 weeks of academy training sessions, including 1,095 hours of training with certified staff.


Your academy training will include a wide range of activities including shooting, use of non-lethal force, car and foot pursuit, investigative procedure, conflict resolution and
You will also be subject to in-service training after you graduate from the Academy. Some of this training will be mandatory and some will be optional but required for advancement and promotion.
 Your height, weight, blood pressure, cholesterol, hearing and dental health will be assessed during a general medical exam.
 You will need a vision score of 20/100 for uncorrected vision or 20/20 for corrected vision.


You will also be tested for color blindness. If you are color blind, you will be disqualified.
 If any illicit drug shows up on your screening you will be disqualified from service.


Even if you have legal authorization to use medical marijuana or come from a state where marijuana use is legal, you will still be disqualified if it shows up in your screening.Make sure you provide certified medical prescriptions. This is especially important if you take an amphetamine-based prescription like Ritalin or a prescription opiate like Oxycodone., Every candidate undergoes a mandatory character investigation. An investigator will contact you to request any necessary documents and will meet with you for a formal interview.


The character investigation will cover things not necessarily included on your criminal background check such as a history of civil legal actions or a poor credit score. This will not necessarily disqualify you but could if the investigator determines that it is detrimental to your ability to perform your job.
 The oral psychological exam will assess your ability to handle stressful situations.


The examiner will likely try to make you angry, ask you a large number of repetitive questions and ask for split-second reactions to stressful scenarios. The point is to see if you can remain calm and consistent.
The exact content and procedure can vary greatly but will usually involve questions about your background and basic logic questions., Once you pass the basic requirements, you will begin receiving pay during the training period. Unless you undergo specialty training and receive a specialist position, you will start on the standard salary and benefits package for recruits.


While training, your salary will be $44,744, which may go up to $46,288 after six months. After 18 months, the salary may go up to $48,173, up to $53,819 after 30 months, up to $58,786 after 42 months and up to $62,455 after 52 months.
After a total of five years of service, NYPD officers may become entitled to an annual pay of $69,005. The biggest jump comes after 5-and-a-half years of service, reaching up to $90,829 annually.Keep in mind that your total compensation will include longevity pay, uniform allowance, holiday pay and average night shift differential. These figures do not include potential overtime hours.
You will receive 10 paid vacation days during each of the first two years, 13 days during each of the next three years and 27 days per year after five years of service.
You will receive unlimited paid sick leave. However, you may be subject to reprimand if you overuse sick leave.
You will have the option to receive employer-assisted health insurance, an annuity fund and a deferred compensation plan.
You will have the option to retire at one-half your annual salary after 22 years of service. You will also receive a $12,000 Variable Supplement Fund upon retirement.

