 Metal is an extremely diverse genre of music that encompasses many distinct styles. Be aware of the most prominent styles and their unique characteristics. It may be that a certain subgenre of metal isn’t your cup of tea, while another really speaks to you. Diehard metal fans should at least be able to articulate the particulars of each major style.Heavy metal is the progenitor of all other strains of metal. It is characterized by its mid-tempo rhythms, melodic, technical instrumentation and operatic vocals.

Power metal makes use of fantasy motifs such as dragons, wizards and warriors. It is notable for its powerful percussion, harmonic techniques and triumphant tone.

Thrash metal is an outgrowth of hardcore punk, and features blasting rhythms and chugging guitar riffs played at extremely high speeds. Owing to its roots in the mid-to-late 80s, thrash metal has an infatuation with themes like nuclear war, Armageddon, mutated monsters and cartoonish violence.

Doom metal takes cues from psychedelic rock and blues. It focuses on guitars heavily distorted with effects like “fuzz,” lo-fi analogue recording techniques and references to crime, nature, the supernatural and the occult.

Black metal is a form of extreme metal dealing with Satanic, medieval and occult subject matter. Black metal musicians are renowned for their theatrical costumes and black and white “corpse paint” that is meant to give them a ghastly appearance.

Death metal is usually played at a very low tuning and features guttural, growling vocals. Among its imagery, death, dismemberment, torture, and gruesome acts are prevalent.

Grindcore is a punishingly loud, distorted and often chaotic subgenre of metal known for its relentless pace and aggression. Grindcore vocals are typically growled or screamed at full volume.;
, Browse the metal section at your neighborhood record store, or use a entertainment streaming service like YouTube or Spotify to begin your journey into metal music. If you’re interested in becoming a metalhead, it’s essential that you develop an appreciation for the music itself. Devour everything you can get your hands on at first and find out what you like and dislike.Because the genre has been progressing and expanding since the late 70s, knowing where to begin can be difficult. For a good entry point, look up lists of best metal groups, albums and songs as ranked by fans and critics.Some programs such as Spotify, Google Play Music and Last FM have music discovery features which can help point you to new artists similar to artists whose music you like.
 After you’ve heard a little of what the genre has to offer, fine tune your listening habits to narrow down your preferences. Take note of artists, albums and individual songs that stand out to you. Create a kind of mental catalogue of the music you’ve heard so you can analyze and discuss it later.Make a list of your favorite bands and which of their works you most enjoy. This can clue you in to what kind of metalhead you’re most likely to be.
Metal has an extensive and storied history. As a result, the average metal aficionado is like a walking encyclopedia of music knowledge., Acquire digital or CD copies of your favorite metal albums, or go above and beyond and seek out the vinyl pressings. As you delve further into the realm of metal music, you’ll amass a collection that you can revisit and share with others. Your storehouse of metal mementos could also include band merchandise, collectible memorabilia, autographs from musicians and even documentary films about the artists and their inspirations.Organize your library of music by creating custom playlist on iTunes, Last.FM, Spotify or Google Play Music.The more you collect, the more knowledgeable you will become about heavy metal music, history and culture.
 Black is the cornerstone of metal fashion. Start incorporating more black clothing into your wardrobe and daily outfit selection. The color black represents darkness, death, evil and other bleak themes embraced by metal culture. Avoid bright colors, normal, “mundane” garments (skirts, polo shirts, sandals, etc.) and any other items commonly worn by the uninitiated.The dark color has come to be strongly associated with the metal lifestyle. Metal musicians and fans often wear black from head to toe.
Avoid wearing light hues, like white, khaki or light gray, or bright colors.
 From the waist down, metalheads can almost always be spotted wearing tight-fitting dark blue or black denim jeans. These are often in various stages of disrepair—they can be tattered and full of holes or held together with fabric patches depicting band symbols or slogans. Try to find a pair with a sharp taper rather than a baggy or flared leg fit.Black shorts (usually with cargo pockets), cutoffs and bondage or military style pants are also common.
 Show your support of your favorite bands by wearing shirts bearing their logos or other metal imagery. Using clothing to advertise musical tastes is a common practice of metal enthusiasts. It can also serve as a great conversation starter. Best of all, metal t-shirts are nearly exclusively black, which means you’ll never have to worry about matching.Many metal bands make a good part of their earnings by selling merchandise. If you want to help out a band you like, make sure you’re buying officially licensed shirts and other products directly from the band.Pair a black band shirt with a pair of dark jeans, or layer it under a battle jacket.
 Don’t stop at basic black clothing. Exhibit your disregard for societal norms by donning spiked or studded jewelry, heavy black boots and death or combat-related paraphernalia. Battle jackets, denim or leather jackets or vests adorned with spikes, patches or buttons are also a popular choice.The purpose of most of the traits of metal style is to appear dangerous, brooding and antisocial. Violent and aggressive themes, such as modern and medieval weaponry, Vikings and warriors are not out of the ordinary.
If you want to go all the way with your look, paint your fingernails with black nail polish, wear dark makeup or even don the black and white “corpse paint” commonly worn by black metal musicians.
 Take liberties with your appearance to demonstrate your unique sensibilities. There are no rules. Metalheads often sport long, wild hair and grow large beards, or cover themselves in tattoos and piercings. These features can be off-putting to most people, but to fans of metal music they symbolize a nonconformist philosophy and the freedom to live the way one chooses.There’s no dress code for metalheads. While many metal fans wear similar kinds of clothing to signify their membership in the culture, you should wear whatever best suits your own personality.
 Find out about metal shows being put on in your area and make sure you’re in attendance. Being part of the crowd at a loud, aggressive live performance is a much more exhilarating experience than sitting and listening to a record. Live shows are also a great place to meet like-minded people and have a chance to feel like part of a larger, unified movement.Look for flyers are music stores, coffee shops, alternative boutiques and school campuses for information on upcoming metal events.
Most bands post tour dates and venues on their social media pages.
 If you can find others that have the same passion for music, consider taking up an instrument and forming your own band. That way you can participate in the creative side of metal music. You’ll have full control over the over the type of sound you produce and become a fixture in your local metal scene, which can lead to more opportunities to perform and network in the future.Try posting audition announcements in places where metal fans tend to hang out in order to find potential bandmates.
Though a lot of people think that playing metal music doesn’t require skill, this couldn’t be further from the truth. The complex structures and virtuoso soloing of classical music has been highly influential on metal, as have the breakneck tempos of punk and rock and roll., Spend time with others that share your musical preferences. Common interests are often one of the foundations of lasting friendships. Once you’ve made a few friends within the scene, you’ll have someone to listen to records, go to shows and take road trips with. Despite its mistakenly gloomy reputation, the global metal community is quite inclusive and treats its members with the respect of an extended brotherhood.Discover new music with your current friends and get them into metal with you.
Make an effort to meet people at shows or record stores who are also into metal music. Telling someone you like the band on their shirt is a great way to strike up a conversation.
 Run a search for internet forums or social media groups you can become a member of. There, you’ll be able to read posts, voice your opinions and discuss music with other fans from all over the world. It can also provide a channel for you to receive news updates related to the metal music industry, band tour schedules, interesting anecdotes and recommendations for new music.Metal Injection, Metal Sucks and Loudwire are examples of a few higher-profile metal websites.
Take a look at groups on Facebook that are open to the public, and keep up with band media on Instagram, Twitter and Bandcamp.
 Metal is not about fashion or following trends but being yourself. While a certain aesthetic can help you express your individuality, the most important thing is that you remain true to yourself and be authentic. Listen to what you like, dress how you want to dress and make no apologies. Pay no mind to critics who badmouth your lifestyle or the music you listen to, and never make it your goal to impress anyone. Metal was born from the urge to stand at odds with society.Metal is all about freedom, self-expression and the courage to live outside of what is typically regarded as "normal."
If you always do what you want rather than what's fashionable, you have more credibility as a metalhead than someone who has the look down but is just trying to gain acceptance from others.

