 Not all materials can be spot-cleaned. The following materials must be professionally dry-cleaned: wool, velvet, silk, and upholstery., If the stain is in an obvious area, consider doing a spot test in an inconspicuous area first. You can do this simply by soaking a cotton ball with water, and lightly dabbing it on the pillow. If the color bleeds, take the pillow to a dry-cleaner. If the color does not bleed, you can spot clean it., Pour some warm water into a bowl, and add a few drops of mild dish soap. Agitate the water until it becomes sudsy, then dip a cloth into the water. Use the dampened cloth to blot up any stains. Blot up any soap residue using a clean cloth dampened with fresh, non-soapy, water. Let the damp area air dry before you put the pillow cover back on.If your pillow is made out of leather, consider using a leather conditioner afterwards. Make sure that you are using a leather conditioner intended for upholstery leather and not saddle leather.
 Brush the entire piece using a soft-bristled brush to loosen dirt. Always go with the grain stead of against. A suede brush would be ideal, but a clean toothbrush or manicure brush might also work. If the stain remains, follow up with any of the following options:Try white vinegar on stains. Dampen the brush with vinegar first, then go over the stain. Don't worry, the smell will go away.
Use suede cleaner on tough stains. Consider doing a spot test first, in case of discoloration.
Sprinkle cornstarch/cornflour over oily stains, wait overnight, then vacuum the next morning. Use a soft-bristled brush to comb out any residue cornflour/cornstarch.
Use water with care. Some stains must be cleaned out with water. Dampen the brush first, then go over the stain--and the rest of the pillow. This will help conceal any potential discoloration.
 Read the care tag on your pillow and try to notice if there is a letter code on it. Choose one of the cleaning methods from the list below, based on the letter code. If the microfiber turns hard after you clean it, simply brush the fabric with a soft-bristled brush, such as a clean suede brush, toothbrush, or manicure brush.If the tag has a W on it, you can use a water-based cleaner, such as soapy water.
If the tag has a S on it, you can use an alcohol-based cleaner, such as rubbing alcohol or vodka.
If the tag has a S-W on it, you can use either water or alcohol based-cleaners.
If the tag has a X on it, you must vacuum the fabric.
If there is no tag, use an alcohol-based cleaner.

