 You can print your picture by making a photocopy of an original photograph or by printing it out with a laser printer.


Do not use an inkjet printer for this project.
Black and white photos work best, but you could also experiment with any photograph that has a lot of contrast in color and shade.
Consider adjusting the contrast of your photograph before printing or copying it. Make the contrast as high as possible without damaging the quality of the image.
, Remove the backing from the contact paper, revealing the adhesive side. Carefully place this adhesive side onto the image.


Make sure that the inked side of the image faces the adhesive as you press the two pieces together.
If there is excess contact adhesive, press it onto plain white paper. Doing so will make it easier to work with.
Firmly rub the contact paper onto the image, making sure that all of the inked parts of the picture are firmly stuck to the contact paper. Work from the paper side instead of the plastic contact paper side for best results.
 Cut away any excess paper using a pair of scissors.


For best results, make sure that there is enough contact paper to completely wrap around the outside of the candle holder.
 Fill a sink or plastic tub with warm water and submerge the picture in it. Let the picture soak for 7 minutes or more.


The paper and contact paper will both appear very soggy when done.
 Take the picture out of the water and gently roll your thumb over the soggy paper side of the picture, peeling away the paper and leaving only inked plastic behind.


Work under running water for best results.
Note that some of the paper may fall off on its own due to the moisture.
The image should have completely transferred itself onto the plastic portion of the contact paper. If you rub the image too forcefully, however, you could cause some of the ink to smear or wipe off.
 Place the plastic strip on a dry surface, like a table or counter, and let the entire thing air dry completely.


The ink side should face up as the strip dries. Even though the ink will not seem sticky when the contact paper is wet, it will become sticky again once the contact paper dries.
Note that you may also see a few dots of paper after the strip dries. If this happens, rub these bits of paper off under running water, then let the strip dry again.
 Place the contact paper strip around the outside of a clear glass candle votive, pressing it firmly into place.


Keep the inked, sticky side of the contact paper toward the glass. This adhesive should be all you need to hold the strip in place.
Use your thumb to smooth out any bubbles or creases. Keep the strip as straight and flat as possible as you adhere it to the glass.
 Place a candle inside the decorated candle holder and light it. The picture on the outside of the glass should be beautifully illuminated.


This step successfully completes the entire process.

