 If a virus causes your tonsillitis, you’re more likely to have a runny or stuffy nose. A general feeling of being unwell and a fever can occur with either viral or bacterial infection, but the fever is usually lower if you have a virus – closer to 100.4°F (38°C) than 102°F (38.9°C)., You may have a cough with either cause, but a cough and a husky voice are more commonly associated with viral illness. Coughing and voice changes can be caused by laryngitis, usually a viral ailment that goes along with tonsillitis., Tonsillitis caused by a virus usually goes away or at least begins to improve within three to four days, so if you start to feel better after that time you likely have a passing viral infection. Bacterial tonsillitis can last much longer, or even until medically treated.See your doctor if you see no improvement in symptoms after four days — you may have a bacterial infection requiring antibiotics.
Even viral tonsillitis can last up to two weeks, so a longer illness isn’t a definite sign of a bacterial infection., EBV is the usual cause of mononucleosis, or “mono.” Mono is a common cause of tonsillitis in young adults and teens. Mono can last for weeks, and is often associated with fatigue, sore throat and tonsillitis, fever, swollen lymph nodes in the neck and armpits, and headache.Mono will pass on its own and usually doesn’t require treatment, but you should still get diagnosed. This can be done with a simple blood test.
 Some people with mono also get a pinpoint red, speckled rash on the roof of their mouth. Open wide and look at the top of your mouth in a mirror. Red speckles can indicate mono.Mono can occur with or without a skin rash, too.
While looking in your mouth, also check for a gray membrane covering your tonsils. This is another sign of mono., Gently feel over the area of your spleen — under your ribcage, above your stomach, on the left side of your torso. Your spleen may enlarge if you have mono and feel tender when pressed. Be gentle! A swollen spleen can rupture if handled roughly.