 If your balcony is very small, consider turning it into a flower and herb garden. Mix up colorful perennials, seasonal delights, hardy ivies and herbs that you can use in the kitchen. Get a sturdy stool and a soft cushion for the seat so that you’ll enjoy working your own private garden.
 Put plants that need sun up higher, and plants that like shade down lower. Fill in the corners with larger herbs such as rosemary or tomato plants.
 Make sure you water regularly, fertilize your plants, and keep them trimmed. This will keep it looking like paradise.
, One of the easiest way to make your balcony more comfortable is to add a chair or two and a small table. You’ll be able to have a place to sit and admire the view, have a pleasant conversation, or simply enjoy an afternoon snack.
 If your balcony is long and skinny, consider a park bench, multi-purpose storage bench, or hanging porch swing, and add a side table for drinks, books, glasses, suntan lotion, and other friendly clutter.
 While this may not be the focus of your balcony, plants add a personal, colorful touch that will really make your little retreat a welcoming, homey place.
 There are several ways to approach this. If you have electrical outlets on your balcony, consider adding an inexpensive outdoor-rated lamp from the local hardware store, and use low-wattage bulbs for a warm and comfortable glow. You can also use a string of white outdoor Christmas tree mini lights strung up on the perimeter for an attractive effect. If you don’t have electricity available on your balcony, candles are a beautiful way to bring light to your retreat. Just make sure they are allowed by your covenant, and that you extinguish them whenever you leave the balcony.
 The last thing you want is a soggy seat.
 The flowers are pretty, and who doesn’t like a nice place to sit? But for you it's barbecue, friends, and libations all the way!

, Being mindful of apartment covenants, get the nicest barbecue that will fit your space. This will be the centerpiece of your balcony world, so do it right. Place it opposite the entry and exit doors if possible, so that you can make a quick dash from the barbecue to the kitchen in just a few steps.
 Barbecues sometimes last well into the evening, so you’ll want to be sure you can see what you’re cooking. Either use floor lamp (make sure it’s rated for outdoor use), or a battery-powered barbecue lamp.
 You’ll want a place to sit and talk about the game, the boss, and other deep topics.
 Refrigeration is something to consider as well, if your covenant permits. A small outdoor refrigerator is a great place to keep beer, condiments, and other barbecue essentials cold and fresh. It also works well as a little countertop, so consider adding a heavy-duty cutting board on top of it.


Should you be unable to add a fridge, a cooler is a good alternative, and can function as an impromptu seat as well.

