 Before joining Project fi, open a tab in any browser and go to https://fi.google.com/coverage


By entering your desired address or zip code the page will load with a map showing your location and let you know if Project Fi is available in your area and the coverage speed available, from 2G (slowest) to 4G (fastest).;
, After you have checked your coverage area, check what devices are supported to use this network. Currently, Project Fi's fully supported devices are the Pixel, Pixel XL, Nexus 5X, Nexus 6P, and Nexus 6.


If you don’t have a device supported by Project Fi you can purchase a device from the Project Fi website during registration or buy from a third party (Ex: Amazon).
Buying the device from Project Fi during registration will allow you the option to buy at full price or pay monthly. If you choose the option to pay monthly you have to do a credit check to know if you qualify.
 Before registering for Project Fi you have to use a Google account. This can be a Gmail, Google+, Google Drive, and/or YouTube account. If you already have one of these accounts, move on to the next step.


To sign up for a Google account, type in your search bar: www.gmail.com. When the page appears you will click on create account on the bottom of the page. Enter your information and create a password that is secure but easy to remember.
After you accept the privacy terms and conditions, you will have completed registration and be ready for the next steps of the registration process.
 Open a web browser and type https://fi.google.com and you will see on the top right corner a green button that says Join Fi.


When you click Join Fi, it directly will link to a page reading "Ready to Join Fi?" You will see your Google account that you created if you haven’t signed out. But if you did you will see an option that says sign in. Click on it and sign into your desired Google account.
When you click on you desired accounts, you will click on get started on the right side of the page. Leading you to the next page where you would type your zip code or address you would wish to get service for. Afterward, click the white arrow button on the right side of the page to continue.
 Clicking the green arrow button from the previous step leads you to a page informing you on who is on your plan and informs Fi basics are $20 dollars per month that include unlimited calls and texts in the US, unlimited, international texts in 135+ countries and territories, and 24/7 live support.


You can either add another person for $15 more or just click the white arrow button to continue to choose your data plan. When you are on the next page, you will see options to choose your data plan from 3 gigabytes to 10 gigabytes. The default option will be 3GB; however, you can change by clicking on the green arrow on the corner of the 3GB option. Clicking will give you a list of data gigabytes available for purchase.
Keep in mind $10 per gigabyte is the rate, meaning that 1 gigabyte of data equals $10. Total you will pay monthly will change based on gigabytes you choose. Example: If you choose data of 3GB per month plus Fi Basics, your total will be $50 per month plus any fees and taxes.
 On this page, you will be able to purchase a new device directly from the Google Store or bring your own Pixel or Nexus phone to use on the network.


If buying a device from the web page, select your desired device and you will be taken to next page to customize the color, storage space, and payment plan.
If buying a device another seller or using a used Pixel or Nexus, select "Bring a Pixel or Nexus to Project Fi." You will now be prompted to order a Project Fi SIM card directly from this page.
 When signing up for Fi, you will be given the option of either keeping your number under your current provider or obtaining a new number.


If you want to transfer your number, choose "Bring a number you already have" and enter the number under your current cellular provider into the given space.
If you wish for a newly assigned number, choose "Get a new number" and select the area code you would like from the list of codes provided in your area.
 This will be your primary address for billing and tax purposes.This should be the area that you will primarily use Project Fi.
 This page will give you a summary of the items you will soon order. Make sure you have selected the appropriate plan and phone for yourself.


After you hit the next arrow, you will be asked to read and accept some terms and agreements after which you may need to provide proper payment and billing information.
 Make sure the device is adequately charged and plug the phone in to avoid losing power mid-process. For the most seamless experience, have a WiFi network available nearby.

If using a new phone, turn on the phone and follow the on-screen setup steps. Be sure to use the Google Account used when signing up for the Project Fi service. As part of the onscreen setup, you will be prompted to activate your new number or begin the number transfer process.
 There are a few tablets and other devices that may be able to use Project Fi's network.Check if your tablet or another compatible device is available for data-only use and determine which type of SIM card and SIM adapter your device will need and order your data only SIM and appropriate SIM adapter.
 You should make a phone call, send a text message, and browse a web page using your cellular data.

If you run into problems using your device, contact Project Fi's customer service number and ask for assistance.
 If you have switched networks, you must now cancel your previous service once you have confirmed you new Project Fi service is working.

In some cases, your previous phone service will automatically cancel after you transfer your number. Be sure to call your provider to check.
Be wary of cancellation fees and pending dues when canceling your service.
 If you switched phones, you may have a list of contacts that you may want to transfer over to your new device.

If your contacts have been saved on your Gmail or Google account, transferring contacts is as simple signing into your associated Google account on your new phone. To see them, open the Contacts app on your phone. Make sure you are connected to a network.
If you are coming from iPhone's iCloud contacts or from any other device, the process is a little more complicated, but still doable, too.