 If possible, try to arrange to see your friend a time or two each year. Keep in touch over the phone by calling and texting. You can also utilize social media to stay as close as possible to each other. This allows the two of you to remain connected without having to expend unreasonable amounts of time, energy, and money to keep the friendship afloat.Avoid putting unreasonable expectations on your friendship. Talking once a week or once a month might be realistic, while talking every day is likely to end quickly.
 Whether you have moved to a new location or stayed behind when your friend left, your world has changed. This is an opportunity for exploration and excitement. Go out to places you’ve never been before (this should be easy if you are the one that moved). Try to meet new people in the area, and then tell your old friend about some of the great memories that you’ve made.This should not be done in an attempt to make your friend jealous. Just stay connected with them by talking about the things you do now.
 Clubs, groups, and other affiliations give you a chance to meet new people that have interests similar to yours. This is a great place to look for potential friendships and have some fun. You can look in your local stores and coffee shops for advertisements and postings about when and where different clubs meet. You might also find the information in your newspaper or online.You can even join online groups if you struggle to find something fun in your area , or just want to start online.
 There is no need to rush into new friendships, but you should be open to them. Accept an invitation from someone you’ve met recently, or reach out and invite them to something you enjoy. Friendships rarely happen instantly, but taking the first step towards making new friends is crucial for you to keep a healthy frame of mind.If you ignore your need to make new local friends, you might end up demanding too much of your long distance friendship and draining your old friend. This could lead to losing touch completely.

