 As with mobile devices, logging out of Instagram on your computer is something you can only do once you're already logged in. To begin, visit the Instagram home page at Instagram.com. If you're logged in, you should be taken to your main account page, which will feature recent content from the users you are following.


If you visit Instagram.com and you see a screen inviting you to download Instagram or log in, you're already logged out. If you'd like to log in, click the "Log in" button and provide your username and password when prompted.
 This will open your Instagram profile page.
 This will open a small menu.
 You will immediately be logged out of the Instagram website.


After logging out, you'll be brought to the standard Instagram welcome screen, where you'll see options for downloading Instagram or logging in again.
 There are several known issues with logging out from the Instagram website. Try some of the following fixes if you can't get logged out:


Try opening the Log Out button in a new tab. Rather than simply clicking on the "Log Out" button, open it in a new tab. Some users have found that this creates a new tab with Instagram logged out. After this, close both the new tab and the old tab to complete the logout process. On a Windows PC, you can open a link in a new tab by right-clicking and selecting "Open link in new tab" from the menu. On a Mac, the shortcut is Command+Click if the option is enabled in your browser's personal preferences.
Try clearing your cache and cookies. Some users have found that clearing their cache and cookies allows them to log out as normal once again. For a step-by-step guide to this process, see How to Clear Your Browser's Cache and How to Clear Your Browser's Cookies.
Report a hijacked account. If you or your friends notice that your Instagram account appears to be making posts without your consent or seems to be behaving oddly in another way, your account may be hacked. You can report a hacked account at help.instagram.com/368191326593075/


