 Autistic children may rely upon scripts to make communication easier. Many autistic children repeat words and phrases (echolalia) as a way to say, “I heard what you said and am thinking about the answer.”


Try to remain calm and patient while interacting with the child. If you think about the fact that echolalia serves a communication purpose for the child, and it’s not just way to try and frustrate people, it can help you to see it from the child’s point of view.;
, For those questions to which they do not know the answer, autistic children should be encouraged to say “I don’t know”. There is evidence to suggest that training a child to use “I don’t know” to respond to questions to which they don't know the answer helps in picking up and using this new phrase appropriately.


Try asking a series of questions to the child that you know they don't know the answer to. For example, ask "Where are your friends?" and prompt the answer by saying, “I don’t know.” Then, “What is the capital of Kansas?” followed by, “I don’t know.” You can write down many questions ahead of time and practice this script each time.
Another way to teach the “I don’t know” script is by having another person there who answers the unknown questions with “I don’t know.”, Children may use echolalia when they don't know how to respond, or how to turn their thoughts into appropriate words. Providing a script helps them know what to say.


For example, ask "What is your name?" and prompt the correct response (the child’s name). Repeat this until he has learned the right script. Try this with all questions that have the same answer. “What color is our house?” followed by “Brown.” And, “What is our dog’s name?” followed by “Spot.” It’s important that you supply the answers every time to teach the script until the child starts doing it on his own.
This approach only works for questions that always have the same answer. For example, it would not work for "What color is your shirt?" because the child's shirt color will change each day.
 This way, your child can successfully communicate basic things, even when feeling overwhelmed.


This gradual process can provide the tools to build confidence, vocabulary, communication and proper interaction for the child., If an autistic child cannot communicate their needs, they may become frustrated or distressed, and melt down. Scripts will help them tell you what they need, allowing you to fix the problem before they are pushed over the tipping point and start screaming or crying. Example scripts include:


I need quiet time.
I'm hungry.
That's too loud.
Please stop.