 This can be your boyfriend, a crush, even your husband or simply a good friend.;
, Guys can (and often will) think and act differently depending on who they're talking to. If you see him with a bunch of guys talking about hot girls, sex, and performing seemingly stupid actions, then don't assume this is how he naturally thinks. Watch him when he's with a bunch of girls. If you see him being polite, complimentary, and inoffensive, he may just be trying to impress them. While this is most likely how he behaves, he may just be inflating things a little bit to show off.. Talk to him in mixed company, or even on the phone and he'll probably act more like his true self. Also, become good enough friends with him and talk to him in private, and he'll more than likely reveal his true self.
 If all you see him as is some rowdy boy, then bring up a topic about social issues or something serious. You may find he's deeper than you gave him credit for. If all you see him as is some nerdy egghead, bring up music or popular culture, you may find that he's interested in more than just science and math.
 If a guy keeps repeating something you asked him not to do, he most likely sees you as a nagging person even though he pretends to be listening. If you want to know if he is listening just ask him what he thinks of what you just said. This is also a great way to make him participate in the conversation.
 if you think he doesn't like you, and want to see if he really likes you as a friend, don't be afraid to start the conversation. Most guys would actually prefer to participate in a conversation than to initiate it themselves. Being straightforward and confident works wonders!

, This will most likely end up with him unknowingly yet subtly telling you what opinions he has about different things and how he thinks about them. You may also find that you two share a lot more in common than meets the eye!

, A good chat a day works well. Long conversations should only be made with the guys that you know very well or who are close to you. Guys don't and won't really ask for space, but they definitely want it. Constantly asking about what he thinks or how he feels about stuff is only going to make him lash out eventually, at which point you will most likely form the wrong opinion about him.

