 Follow the recipe above, but use brown sugar instead of white. Omit the essential oils and dyes, and add 1 tablespoon of maple syrup.You will get a golden-brown scrub that is perfect for fall!

, Make the basic scrub above using white sugar and your choice of oil. Omit the essential oils and dyes, and add ¼ cup (25 grams) ground coffee and 1 tablespoon of vanilla extract.Some people find that coffee-based scrubs help temporarily reduce the appearance of cellulite., Make a basic scrub using white or brown sugar and your choice of oil. Omit the essential oils and add 1 tablespoon of honey and 1 teaspoon of pumpkin pie spice.The honey in this scrub will make it extra moisturizing because honey is a natural humectant—that is, it helps the body retain moisture.For a fun touch, use mini pumpkin or leaf shaped molds for this.You do not have to add soap dye to this scrub, but if you'd like to, use fall colors, such as: red, orange, and yellow.
 Make a basic scrub using brown sugar and your choice of oil. Skip the essential oils and dyes, and add 1 tablespoon of vanilla extract. If you'd like extra fragrance, add 1 teaspoon of almond extract., Make a basic scrub using white sugar. Use lemon essential oil for this. If you'd like to give it some color, use 1 to 3 drops of yellow soap dye.Almond oil will work great in this scrub, but you can use other kinds as well.
A goat's milk melt-and-pour soap base will make this soap extra-luxurious.
 Before you add the sugar to the soap and oil base, mix in a pinch of dried, ground herbs. These will give your scrub a little exfoliating power as well as a nice fragrance. Herbs that work great in this include lavender, rosemary, and thyme!Avoid using herbs whose scent you don't like.
 Mica powder is a very fine, shimmery powder, sort of like loose eye shadow. Add a pinch of the powder into the sugar and stir it until it is evenly mixed together. Add the sugar to the soap and oil base.You can find mica powder online and in some makeup supply stores.

