 Selective mutism is rare, but it often starts when a child is around the age of five and may first be noticed when she starts school;however, older children can also develop selective mutism. In order for a child to receive a diagnosis of selective mutism, she must have symptoms that interfere with normal activities, are not related to another disorder, and that last for at least one month (the first month of school does not count).Children who have selective mutism may:Act extremely shy
Be able to speak at home or with people they know well
Get anxious around new people or in certain settings
Not be able to speak in certain social situations;
, Children do not outgrow selective mutism. It requires treatment.It may even become worse over time if left untreated, so it is important to seek help for your child if you suspect that he may have this disorder.Call your child’s pediatrician and make an appointment.


Your child’s pediatrician can do a physical exam to rule out any other potential causes and then refer you to the appropriate specialists as needed.
The pediatrician may perform a hearing screening to rule out a middle ear infection or decreased hearing ability.The doctor may also perform or refer your child for an oral-motor examination. This can help determine if all the muscles and body parts involved in speech — lips, tongue, jaw, etc. — are strong and work together in coordination., Since selective mutism is considered a speech disorder, seeing a SLP is essential for your child’s treatment. A SLP can diagnose your child and recommend a treatment plan that can you can put into practice at home and share with your child’s teacher.The SLP will need a lot of information to begin treating your child, from both the family members and teachers. The SLP will have to evaluate the child's expressive language ability, language comprehension, and verbal and non-verbal communication.In addition, it will be necessary to look at any academic reports, the results of any standardized testing, any comments from teachers.The SLP may need to observe the child in the classroom and in other settings, such as on the playground with other children and adults. A family medical history, symptom history for the child, and information about environmental factors will all be helpful in diagnosing your child and developing a treatment plan., In addition to working with a SLP, there are other mental health professionals who may be able to help your child. Consider psychodynamic therapy, behavioral therapy, and speaking with a psychiatrist who may suggest medication to support treatment.Your child should undergo a psychiatric evaluation to rule out any other potential psychiatric issues that may have symptoms in common with selective mutism.Psychiatric help may benefit your child, especially if the selective mutism is related to some form of trauma.In some cases, a psychiatrist may prescribe fluoxetine (Prozac) for selective mutism. Fluoxetine has been found to be effective in some cases and is generally considered safe for children;however, it does carry a black box warning. Certain antidepressants, including fluoxetine, may increase the risk of suicidal behavior or thinking in children.Closely monitor your child for any signs of depression or suicidal behavior.A common therapy to help with selective mutism is behavioral therapy.The therapist will work with your child to develop a step-by-step plan to slowly introduce speaking-type behaviors. Using a reward system, your child will gradually tackle larger and more daunting speaking behaviors.Look for a mental health professional trained in cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) to help your child. This may help if your child is suffering from a social anxiety disorder. It is more effective for older kids and teens.<refhttp://www.selectivemutism.org/faq/faqs/how-is-sm-treated</ref>, Family members including parents, siblings, and grandparents can provide some much needed support to a child with selective mutism. By helping the whole family to understand the condition and how to respond, family members can increase the child’s chances of recovery.Try to educate your family members so that they will know what the condition means and how to respond to it. Provide them with literature, guide them to helpful websites, or simply sit down and have a conversation with them explaining what is going on and how you are approaching treatment.
Teaching family members what is and is not helpful (yelling at the child or pushing too hard for him not to be shy, for instance) and how they can help build your child's confidence and self-esteem may help support your child. Maybe grandpa can help teach the child a new skill, or a sibling can participate in a sport with the child with selective mutism to help him feel a sense of belonging and acceptance.Talk to the family about creating a healthy environment in which your child is praised for all attempts to communicate with others (and not punished for not communicating), is not made aware that anyone else is worried or anxious about whether or not he is speaking, you concentrate on play and having fun together, and in which you reassure the child that he'll be able to speak when he's ready.