,, This is first thing that needs to be understood by all.,

Find those who are cool, calm and collected in-game, patient, aware, focused 100% of the time, and make rational decisions. Physical skill can be molded and can always be improved, but the mental skill comes down to you and your DNA make-up, including individual moral beliefs and personal characteristics.
A good thing is to recruit those who may not be the best individual players, but who listen, learn and are open-minded.


Remember this: a mentally fit player is a dependable player.


Take down everyone's schedule. Now your schedule should include a specific weekly forecast of your life.

Every day needs to be specifically planned out to the best of your knowledge.


Then, after you've acquired everyone's schedule, match up the times for everyone and write down the universal times when every player can be on.
From there, add up the total amount of hours per week your team will be putting into the game. It should be no less than 40 hours a week (equivalent to a full-time job).
, This is most easily done by having map layouts in front of you (purchasing the primary strategy guide would most likely be your best bet as it comes fully equipped with everything you will need). If you can acquire map layouts online for free, then by all means take the free route. Then, take your team and go into private match. Run through all the MLG variant maps while they are spawning and then switch sides constantly, in order to find all of the spawn points for that map. Then move on to the next map. Keep in mind that in FFA game-types, there will always be more spawn points than in team game-types. Therefore, doing this in a team game-type would probably be easiest and most efficient. Make sure that everyone has a copy of this., There are already pre-call outs on the map layouts in the PSG which are good to start out using, then just fill in any extra spots with your own where needed. Make sure that everyone has a copy of this., Set-ups need to be done for both sides. Use your knowledge of spawn points when creating set-ups, so that you can try to anticipate where the enemy is going to run and which routes they will take, allowing you to counter accordingly. Remember that transitioning is very important when trying to implement a set-up.,, This means that you need to have two set-ups for when you get into these positions, and then you can transition accordingly to cap a flag. Stage 1 is the ODB (off the bat) and getting into position; the set-up is stage 2 of your strategy; stage 3 is the transition for capturing the flag; and stage 4 is where you have them in a spawn trap or something close to it so you can continually cap flag after flag, also referred to as cherry picking.,, Any team who tells you that they are efficient at running the same strategy over and over again to mold it is wrong. This will never work against truly skilled teams who are able to quickly adapt to the first strategy they see your team using. They will anticipate the same thing being done on the second time around, or test the waters and half-adapt to check if this is how your teams plays. Common sense and logical thinking are the two biggest mental characteristics that are really cherished and rare to find in players ODB, but these are characteristics that you all must have.,, However, for offense and defense it may also be wise to explore other alternatives, such as playing it out like a domination game, where you control half map and force them to kill you instead of directly going for the objective. Demolition is probably the hardest game type of the three just due to the fact that you have to cover the whole map while the offensive team may plant at either bomb site. In this game type, whoever has the more efficient map/spawn lock will be the team who will be able to run down the clock the fastest, which in turn will get you your win., Let's start with positioning first. Some of you may be wondering, "well this isn't Halo, so this is pointless". But the fact is that this is probably the next biggest thing that any player can do besides making a call-out. Where you place your body is so important in order to block off your flank or blind spot, when you’re pushing up or in your set-up. For example: positioning your body where a wall, box, crate, pole, or any object that can be used as a shield, is pretty much directly to your left, allows you not to worry about getting shot from your left or hit by grenades, which will now allow you to focus on your target-area. Never get caught standing in no-man’s land, which is generally anywhere not close to the perimeter of the map. Always know where you’re going, what you will be watching, and when you'll be moving. Communicating during all three of these stages is essentially for up-to-date info while in-game so your teammates know what's going on at all times., The first rule of angling is never show more than necessary, which in turn means that if you’re in a building looking out a window, you never want to be hugging the window; you always shoot from cover, standing up or crouching, depending on which window it may be, but refrain from crouching while looking out windows if you can. Standing up and shooting from inside the building will always be better because it will be harder for your opponent to recognize you from the darkness inside the building, always giving you the advantage. The golden rule is to never show more than is needed. The best example is a high-rise on the elevator side. In this situation, when you get to the fence corner, you want to edge out only far enough to see barely in front of their elevator side and always stand a little ways back from the corner. Never hug corners, because by hugging corners even the most perceptive eye can see your gun sticking out of the fence and start pre-firing at you and maybe get lucky. You always shoot from cover,because now you have the advantage, since he has to come to you or at least where he may be running with his gun, not out right away, which will give you the advantage(and of course always be wary of stun and grenade checks)., If you are able to pull off an efficient and successful spawn trap you most likely will take the lead or be in a position to take the lead somehow. However, ST's are tricky because there is a certain minimum distance you need between the spawn point and yourself, in order to not accidentally cancel out that spawn point. This means that if you go, for example, within say 20m of a spawn point, you will cancel out that spawn point and then force spawn will take effect, where your opponents will most likely spawn in the middle perimeter of the map. This is something that your team must test out., This is definitely another important part of the game. having assigned roles to each player or possibly assigned load-outs to objective players and slayer players. these are things that you all are going to have to talk about with your team if you’re going to want flag runners, bomb planters, or slayers. another alternative is that for CTF and demo, you can just implement a half map lock and then just slowly push up from their after they have 2 down or what not, gradually make their area to work with smaller. then go in for the grab on the transition. there are multiple variations and alternatives. of course some may think it depends on the map, trust me it doesn't. You can run any strategy you want, it's just going to come down to whether or not that strategy is efficiently effective or not., Being able to comprehend all the great things that your mini-map gives you is something that 99.9% of players just honestly don't know how to do. Most of you may think that the mini-map is just for spotting enemies on the UAV and then occasionally opening up your big map to spot the far away enemies. now whereas this may be an important feature of the mini-map, it is not the only one. The next type of important intel that you can get from your mini-map is positions. now what I mean by that, is that you know exactly where your teammates are positioning on the map because you can see their green arrows on your mini-map. Not only can you see where they are positioned, but you can also see where they are watching by which way the arrow is pointing. I mean does it get any easier to set-up knowing this. the answer is "no" by the way., The object is to fill-in to the farthest away positions so that the spawners and fill-in to the shorter distance positions, which now creates efficiency in how you save time setting-up. most of you probably have never thought of using your mini-map as a way to set-up before until you've read this meaning that most of you were most likely not using your mini-map to its full potential. so I hope this part helps those who were unaware until now., now PN's can be effective if either thrown all together around a certain area where the chance of inflicting damage if not killing an enemy ODB is high. of course you can always go with the other alternative where all 4 throw your own PN and spread out the area of impact. the only way to effectively find these out if you so desire to is by timing how long it takes to run each route ODB from the spawn in order to calculate at what time to throw it, how to angle it, and how long to cook it(if semtex, then this doesn't apply)., Now using stun checking is to overall become fortunate in reveling where an enemy is hiding. Or to slow them down while reveling them as well. now even most of you see SC as purely on offensive maneuver, there are defensive tactics for this as well. for example if you’re about to push or you've just killed an enemy, turning to throw a SC at your flank or blind spot which most likely is either behind you or 90 degrees to either side of you. so simply put we can assume that after you killed an enemy, your position has be compromised, so SC your BS is used as a defensive tactic. so you would throw it and then immediately go back to watching your area. stun grenades are honestly one of the most useful items you are allowed in this game. cherish them., the benefit to this is that if you can find a great angle to use for this tactic you may get lucky in killing 1 person ODB and tilt the advantage in your favor. the best example is the GS on invasion between courtyard and parking lot spawn. You can shoot all the way down mid st. and possibly pick off 1 or 2 people ODB using this angle. Works for both sides, but is more in favor of base spawn. if you take the time to find these, they may become your advantage early game., RT's are fairly simple to figure out on your own. all you need is a stopwatch or even better, just use the clock in the game when the match starts. Then just run routes that you think your opponents would run and one's that you would run, then write down times on how long it takes to get to a certain place or point on that map. This information will then allow you to make pre-nade selections and coordinate other tactics as well., the mental game is so important, it's just ridiculous because the fact is that 99.9% of you get emotional and let your emotions show during games and after them. This is not the way to go about handling yourself. I’m not saying don't feel down that you lost or maybe a little disappointed, but don't show it, because no one honestly wants to hear it. if you've ever watched any type of MLG live streams from events, you will notice that some pro's don't get emotional. when they die, they keep a straight face and just worry about what they’re going to do when they spawn. They don't sit here like a lot of you may do but just won't admit that you do, where you may say things in-game like, "wow!!", "OMG no freaking way!", "how did that bk kill me!", and my personal favorite "get so lucky kid! you’re so bad at this game! play me 1v1!". these are all so pointless and honestly get you nowhere but put your team in a negative atmosphere and mind-state., you have to understand that in order for competitive gaming to ascend and be considered to be on the same level as other professional sports, the attitude of the individual and players has to change for the better. Just in order for our sport of gaming to be taken seriously., Be positive in every situation, but don't milk it. Make a list of what to do and what not to do, and just read it every night before you go to sleep to improve your mental game. Trust me, you will see changes, and not only on the game but in your life as well, and they will be for the better. Being mentally fit is what every athlete wants to achieve at some point in their career and you should want to as well.