 It is important to start with clean hair that is free of any product. Start by washing your hair with a quality shampoo and conditioner. Look for a shampoo that is made for your hair type. If you have thick hair, avoid using too much conditioner as you do not want your hair to be too slick to hold on to any product.If you have curly hair, you should opt for shampoo and conditioner that does not contain heavy ingredients, like coconut oil, as this will make your hair curlier and more difficult to spike.;
, Once you get out of the shower, you should towel dry your hair until it is dry but still slightly damp. It is easier to style your hair in spikes if it is slightly damp to the touch.








Some hair experts recommend blow drying your hair after a shower, especially if you have longer strands of hair on the top of your head. Once your hair is completely dry, you can then style it into spikes. However, this option may not be ideal if you have dry hair or thick hair, as blow drying it can make it more difficult to work with.
 If you have curly short hair, you may need to remove tangles or knots before it can be spiked. Gently run the comb through your hair so there are no knots. You can also use a hairbrush to do this. Make sure your hair is still slightly damp when you comb or brush it.Combing your hair will also reduce any frizziness and make it easier to style your hair into spikes.
 When you are using hair products, it’s always best to start with a small amount and add more as you go. Begin with a dime sized amount of the hair gel, wax, or pomade, placing it in the palm of your hand.








You should then warm up the gel, wax, or pomade by rubbing it between your hands. Make sure you get the product on your fingers as you will be using your fingers to run the product through your hair.
 You should then apply the gel, wax, or pomade to the front section of your hair, coating your hair fully. Use your fingers to run the product from the roots of your hair to the tips in a combing motion. Do this two to three times until spikes form in the front section of your hair.








You can also use hair mousse if you feel your hair is too thin and limp. Only apply a very small amount of hair mousse to your hands and run it through the front section of your hair in an upward motion.
If you want more uniform spikes, you can use a comb to brush your hair upward. Do this while the gel or wax is still wet in your hair so the uniform spikes stay in place., Once you have achieved the spiked hair look, you should check it out in a mirror. You may want to twist a few of the spikes with your fingers for a more messy look. You can also smooth down the sides of your hair slightly with your fingers for a more clean, spiked look.









If you are worried about your hair staying in place, you may decide to use hairspray to finish off your look. Make sure you use hairspray that will not make your hair appear stiff, as you do not want your spikes to appear crunchy or greasy.
 You can touch up your spiked hair look throughout the day by using a small amount of gel, wax, or pomade on your locks. You may need to dampen your hair with water to touch it up. Always run the product upward through the front section of your hair and use a little at a time.
 Hair gel is ideal if you are going for a wet, spiked look. It will give your hair sheen and make it appear wet when it is in spikes. You can find hair gel at your local drugstore or online.








Hair gel is good for hair that tends to get dry and frizzy. Adding sheen to your dry hair can help it appear healthier and more styled.
Hair gel may not be ideal if you have oily hair or hair that get oily during the hot weather months. You may decide to use a hair wax instead, as it will not make you hair look too greasy.
 Hair wax is good if you are trying to avoid the wet look and go for a more matte, spiked style. You can find hair wax at your local drugstore or online.








This product is ideal for individuals with naturally oily or thick hair who do not want to end up looking greasy. Hair wax is also often used for individuals who have longer hair on the top of their head that they want to style.
 Pomade will give your hair shine and luster, as it is usually wax-based. It provides excellent hold and can be re-shaped throughout the day. Pomade can be found online as well as at your local drugstore.








Use pomade on wet hair for less hold and more shine, and on dry hair for more hold and less shine.
 You can also use hair mousse if you are looking to add some volume and definition to your spiked hair look. If your hair lacks natural volume, you may get hair mousse to give your hair a little extra weight and texture.








Hair mousse is also great for people with curly hair as it also helps to define your curls and prevents frizziness.
 No matter what you choose, you should check the label to ensure the product will protect your hair and provide long lasting hold. Using a product with good hold will ensure your spiked hair stays spiky and fresh throughout the day.


Some products boost a 24 hour hold, lasting for up to a day.Other products may advertise protection and hold for your hair. You may want to compare and contrast several hair products before choosing the right one for you.

