 One of the biggest mistakes people make when they go on vacation is to share the details of their travel itinerary on Facebook or other social media websites. By doing this, you are making your travel itinerary available to a huge number of people.


Avoid announcements like “We will be in Europe from August 7th to August 14th!” Such an announcement could open you up to a home robbery.
Don’t post play-by-play accounts of your trip on social media websites like Twitter. For instance, “We’re in Istanbul for two days, and will arrive in Ankara on Sunday morning!”
If you absolutely must share your travel plans, try to be as general as possible while still conveying your plans. For instance, post a status that says: “We are so excited to visit North Dakota later this month!”;
, You may, without knowing it, share information on social media simply by posting. As a result, you need to be aware of information that popular websites like Facebook may include in your posts -- even if the posts don't convey information themselves.


Websites like Facebook often put location stamps on your posts. For instance, you may post something simple like "Just had a great dinner" but Facebook will mark it as posted from Mumbai.
Take steps to limit who can see your posts on social media. Websites like Facebook and Myspace allow you to limit who can see your posts -- limit it to your friends. In addition, consider removing any friends or contacts who you do not trust.
The easiest way to safeguard yourself while on a trip is to avoid sharing any information about it at all until you get home., Another important thing to consider is checking the security of your email service and the devices you use to read your email. In short, make sure to avoid storing or sharing your itinerary via email that is insecure.


Make sure your password is relatively difficult. Avoid using birthdays, first names, names of pets, or similarly easy passwords. Try to use a capital letter, a number, and a symbol in your password.
Put passwords on your smart phones and portable devices. This way, if someone gets their hands on your smart phone, they won’t be able to access your email and itinerary.
When traveling, be careful of accessing your itinerary through a computer or device that you do not own., There are a variety of useful apps that you can use to safely share your travel itinerary. These apps will store your itinerary and allow other, approved users, to access it when they need to. Most of them are free. Try:


TripIt.
TripCase.
TripDeck.