 You might fear being made obsolete in your industry but not know what skills you should pick up to remain relevant. Research where your industry is headed by reading industry publications and visiting blogs. Also talk to people in your field who are moving up the ranks. Figure out what skills they have that are in demand.


A safe bet is to increase your technological skills. Older workers are seen (fairly or not) as not up-to-date with newer technology. You should do whatever you can to gain technological skills.It’s also generally helpful to learn a new language. If your company is expanding, then they may bring in clients from other countries. Being able to communicate with them will be a huge benefit.;
, Learning is hard. You might become frustrated as you try to master material that is foreign to you. To help you push through, set some goals.For example, you might need to learn how to use Excel. However, you should identify exactly what you want to learn to do with Excel. Be as specific as possible.
If you want to learn French, set a goal of increasing your vocabulary by 100 words each month.
 Every skill is made up of sub-skills.By tackling each sub-skill individually, you’ll build momentum and find the learning process easier.


For example, learning web design includes learning how to hyperlink, include pictures, and write Search Engine Optimization (SEO) content. Become competent in each sub-skill and feel your confidence grow.
 So many things can interfere with learning, e.g., young children, a demanding job, other commitments. To succeed, you’ll need to identify these barriers and come up with creative ways to work around them.


For example, you might be taking a class on writing. You know that your young children at home will impede your ability to do homework at night. Accordingly, you can do your homework during your lunch break.
You might also be able to change your work schedule so that you have one afternoon free. Spend this time doing homework or attending class.
 You’ll make the biggest gains by applying concentrated effort to something.The first few hours of learning a skill are the hardest, but also the most important. Clear away all distractions and give 100% from the very beginning.
 The best way to survive a layoff is to have a well-developed network you can lean on when it comes time to find a new job. Accordingly, you need to network even while employed.


Popular networking spots include conferences, seminars, and Chamber of Commerce events. However, you should consider any place a potential networking event. You can meet people at a soccer game, wedding, or the gym.Identify ahead of time what you hope to get from the networking event. For example, you might simply want to establish an initial contact by exchanging business cards and shaking hands. Or, if you know the people already, you might want to pitch working on a project together.

