 This is due to poor uptake or lack of dietary vitamin D (it is oil soluble, not water soluble, and requires oil in the intestine to be absorbed).


The US, RDA of vitamin D recently took a big jump, and many dietitians feel it is still 200-400% too low for optimum health. Recognize that any RDA was initially established based on what people could afford (that's right), and not what was required for their optimal health. There is an obvious lesson here, somewhere.
Vitamin D levels in your blood ("serum" levels) also affect cholesterol metabolism. Serum levels, or "what the doctor can measure", are a poor indicator of overall vitamin D saturation, however, as who isn't tempted to pop a vitamin D cap on the way to their test?;
, Made on the surface of your skin, it is, strangely enough, not bio-available to your body until it undergoes two chemical conversions -- conversions which a chronically poor diet will easily interrupt.


It is difficult or impossible to get sufficient vitamin D solely from sunlight, especially in the winter. This is especially true at higher latitudes, where your major source of vitamin D will be dietary, at least for a considerable part of the year.
The rise of sunscreen use, and the thinning of the ozone layer, are factors that should be taken into account when considering relying on this source of vitamin D.
 Primary, of course, should be natural uptake via grass~fed proteins. There seems to be an ongoing debate as to where vitamin D from sunlight should fall in here; but recognize that vitamin D is sunlight, in a sense -- sunlight grows the grass that proteins eat, then you eat the proteins.
 While they exist in pill form, the best are powdered compounds of multiple plants~just concentrated food nutrients. While they aren't cheap, they will save you buying 20 different supplements (or more) -- the best ones contain over 70 ingredients, and, standing in line to buy your second $40 container, people (in a health food store) are going to be asking you what you are taking. Makes the taste worth it.


This container lasts one to two weeks, and the taste of the highest quality ones is reminiscent of...dead cat, and low tide? Yup; just ignore the directions, immediately cut the dosage in half (to 1 scoop), mix with 1 oz. of water, and shoot it.
 At this point, your body should be telling you how much it wants -- try running out, after using it for a week, and you'll begin to understand why, for many, this container is the first, most important grocery shopping they do all week~there is no substitute, and virtually every other thing you put in your mouth will become secondary.
 Vitamin D occurs in high levels from cod liver oil (but not fish oil) and in high quality proteins (grass fed); does anybody get enough of those?

, Consider that it is humans who decided that you only need D3, and seek a complete supplement; consider a "whole food" supplement, as adults don't get vitamin D deficient in a vacuum -- you surely have other deficiencies, as well.


Vitamin D deficiency alone will cause a cascade of deficiencies or poor metabolization; cholesterol metabolism is affected, calcium uptake is affected, mood is hugely affected. If you are currently deficient, and there is an overwhelming chance that you are, taking supplemental vitamin D is going to basically feel like a B12 shot.

