 Depending on the situation, it might be appropriate to ask someone to exchange business cards with you. Their business card will usually contain her name, in addition to other contact information.Even asking for a person's email address often results in learning her name. Many people have their names as part of their email address.
You can ask them to enter their phone number in your phone. They'll likely enter both first and last names, along with her number.;
, If you're in a social environment with other friends, there will likely be other people you know. Take this opportunity to introduce someone whose name you know to your new friend.


When you introduce your friend to the person whose name you've forgotten, there's a good chance that the person will then introduce herself to the new person.
Once you've heard the person's name, repeat it so that you'll be more likely to remember it. You might easily work this into conversation by saying, "I'm sorry, (name), I'm sorry I forgot to introduce you."

, If the person hasn't approached you, initiate interaction by introducing yourself. She'll likely reciprocate by introducing herself. She'll also be likely to appreciate your directness.


If you ask what her name is, and don't want to admit that you've forgotten her name, you can say you meant to ask what her last name was.The reason this works is because the person will rarely expect you to remember her last name, and she'll usually reply by saying her first name.
Ask whether she goes by her first or her middle name. People will often respond to this question by sharing both names, and even offering more information. For example, she might respond by saying, "I was always Emily Jane to my grandmother, and when I was a kid, everyone called me Emily. But when I came to college, I decided to use the name Jane."

, People often are flattered by this attention, and may enjoy sharing particular details about their name's history.


Asking them how their name is spelled is one way to do this, particularly if you recall that it might be an unusual name. Of course, if the name is Smith or Jones, you might have to be prepared with a diversion!
You can also ask the meaning of the name, or about the geographical origins of the name. People are generally happy to talk about themselves in this way, and you'll have more details to help you remember their name should you forget again!

