 For most people, the initial reaction to losing is disappointment, sadness, or anger. Part of being a good sport is not being a sore loser, and you can do this by giving yourself time to relax and collect yourself after a loss.


Instead of yelling, crying, complaining or storming off right after the game, sit down alone for a minute. Take some deep breaths, and try to focus on all the things you love about the game. After that, you can line up with your teammates to shake hands. If you need an extra minute, go to the back of the line.After the game when you're back home, if you still feel like something was unfair, talk to your parents or your coach.
 It can be very discouraging when you're losing in the middle of a game, but being a good sport means sticking with it and trying your hardest, even if you don’t think you'll win the game.Playing a game is all about having fun, doing your best, and working to improve your skills, and you can't do this if you quit in the middle of a game.
For example, if you or another teammate makes a mistake that could cost you the game, such as missing a vital goal, you should still put in just as much effort as before.
You should also thank your teammate for trying, because everyone needs encouragement after a mistake.
 When you're feeling bad for losing, it can be easy to try to make other people feel bad too. But when you lose, being a good sport means being nice to the other team regardless.Try saying something like, “Wow, you played a great game. Any team will have a hard time beating you!”

, Both teams tried their best, and you both deserve to be congratulated! Being a good loser means not being angry with the team who won. If you do that, you can enjoy the victory they're celebrating rather than sulking about your own loss.


After the game, tell the winning team that they played a great game, and congratulate them., Being a good loser also means accepting that you lost, and not trying to blame the loss on yourself, other teammates, the referee, or anybody else.


The important thing is that you learn from the game and use that to improve in the future.At your next meeting, think of a few examples from your game that show where your team can use more practice.
 Whether you're winning, losing, or have no chance of winning, your teammates still need encouragement. You can help them feel good about their efforts by always cheering them on, telling them how well they're doing, and being positive.During the game, say things like “you're doing great,” and, “come on team, we can do this,” and, “what a fantastic play/effort/try.”
Don’t get down on your teammates for making mistakes. Remember that everyone makes mistakes, including you, and nobody needs those errors pointed out.Instead, focus on what your teammates are doing right, and offer helpful suggestions about how they can improve.
 Any time you lose a game, it’s actually an opportunity to make yourself a better player and become stronger as a team. Your loss can show you weaknesses, and you can use this to your advantage by practicing extra hard on the areas where you need improvement.


For instance, if you lost a game because your team let in too many goals, then you know you have to work on your team’s defensive skills.
On the other hand, if you lost because you weren't able to score enough, then you should work on your offensive skills.
Similarly, if your team is disorganized, you should work on drills that will improve how well you play together.
Or, if there are team members that needs help with coordination or technical skills, then work on drills and exercises that will improve abilities on the field.

