 If you didn't install iTunes when you first got your iPod, you can download iTunes from the official iTunes website. iTunes is a free program, and you can add your own music or purchase music from the iTunes Store.;
, You can add your music to the iTunes library if you already have the music files on your computer. To add music files from elsewhere on your computer, either drag the files and folders into the iTunes window, or click File → Add to Library and then browse for the files. iTunes supports the following audio file types:


MP3
AAC
M4A
AIFF
WAV
If you want to add your protected WMA files, you will need to convert them as you add them. You can only add WMA files in the Windows version of iTunes.
 You can rip your entire CD library into iTunes, allowing your iPod to access your whole music collection. There are a few things you need to do to rip your CDs:


Insert the CD into your computer. Wait a few moments as iTunes gathers data about the CD from an online database. This data will help auto-populate the track information.
Select the CD from the Devices menu. This menu is tin the left column. If the left column is not open, click View → Show Sidebar.
Uncheck any songs you don't want. By default, every track will be checked to be imported. If you don't want to import specific tracks, uncheck the boxes next to them.
Click "Import CD". A window will open asking for your import settings. Select AAC from the "Import using" drop-down menu. This will result in a file that has good quality at a small size.
Wait for the ripping to complete. The transfer process will take several minutes. After it is complete, the music will be added to your Library.
 iTunes has a massive selection of music that you can purchase and download to your computer. You can purchase individual tracks or entire albums at once. In order to purchase music, you will need a valid credit card or iTunes gift card as well as an Apple ID.


Music that you purchase is automatically added to your iTunes Library.

