 Wearing the same color from head to toe is a striking look. The classic monochrome look is an all-black or all-white outfit, a sophisticated choice that lends an air of dressiness to your outfit. If you want to really turn heads, try a monochrome look in a brighter color, like red or green.


This needs to be done with some care. A black dress, heels and purse may be gorgeous, but also could accidentally come off as a person in mourning, a Gothic look, or a hairdresser. The whole outfit needs to have consideration, not just color!
The key to making a monochrome look work is finding items in the exact same color. Wearing a bright white top with cream pants is going to clash, but if you find two pieces in the same color, you're golden.
To make a monochrome outfit look less extreme, break it up with some neutrals, like beige heels or a brown belt.
 If you’re headed to a formal meeting that requires wearing a navy or black suit, you can still add some personality to your look with an accent color. Just make sure the accent color you choose is similar in temperature to your neutral basics. For example,


If you're wearing a black suit, try a red or turquoise camisole or blouse.
If you're wearing a navy suit, try a yellow or pink camisole or blouse.
 Once you gain the confidence to match colors effectively, you can start creating really stylish outfits by pairing unlikely items in your closet. You aren't limited to matching solids with solids. Branch out and start matching your stripes, polka dots, florals and animal prints with each other to completely reinvent your wardrobe.


If you are wearing a print, generally try to match it to a solid. If you have a black skirt with a small floral print, pair it with a green top that matches the color of the leaves. While you can mix prints, it is a tricky thing to do.
Wearing colors that pop also can help you out with your wardrobe style. Try Purple, Orange, and yellow. A purple shirt, An orange skirt, and yellow tights would look very nice. Maybe try it with a zebra print.
Match two prints with the same color. A bit more difficult, but it produces striking results. The key is to find one like color across two prints. For example, if you have an orange-striped blouse, you can match it with a leopard-print skirt that has the same color.
Match prints in the same color family. You can match prints that do not have the exact same color by playing within the same color family. A pair of ikat shorts with beige and cream tones can go with a chocolate brown polka-dotted blouse.
 They are the versatile items in your closet that go with almost everything. Neutrals are easy to incorporate, but you should still put a little effort into making sure they match the other items you are wearing. Here are a few popular neutrals:


Denim. Goes with everything, right? Just remember to take the wash into account. A saturated dark wash may match different colors than a light blue faded denim.
Camel or brown. Perfect for a muted, earth-toned palettes.
Navy. Looks beautiful with jewel-toned hues. Navy always pairs wonderfully with white and red.
White and cream. Brightens any outfit, as long as you keep the temperature in mind.
 If you're just starting out in your quest to match more colors in your wardrobe, try playing around with accessories. Experiment to find out what looks good and what doesn't by wearing more belts, flats, jewelry, and scarves. Wearing accessories is also a fun way to learn more about mixing prints without splurging on expensive clothes that might not end up matching.

