 Once you've rinsed and prepped your quinoa, the most straightforward and commonplace manner of adding flavour to it is via adding spices, as you would a conventional grain like rice. A bay leaf, smashed garlic clove, a pinch of salt, a bit of black pepper-- all are tried-and-tested spices to combine with quinoa.


Create a spice satchel if you just desire the fragrance in your quinoa. This can be accomplished by placing your herbs into a small square of cheesecloth. Tie the cheesecloth closed with a bit of kitchen twine. Add the satchel directly to the water before the quinoa is added. Let it cook with the quinoa, then remove it after the quinoa is cooked.
 Because of quinoa's ability to soak up flavours and liquids so effectively, cooking it in a flavoured broth is a quick and easy way to make the morsels flavourful. Experimenting with different kinds of stock will yield different flavours; it's recommended you try at least a couple to get some impression of this seed's versatility.


A vegetable stock (like mushroom) or chicken stock will give it a mild flavor. Beef stock or seafood stock will give it the most distinct flavor. To tone the flavor down, use half water and half stock.
Choose low-sodium broth options for a healthier option. They will still bring a lot of flavor to your dish. To get more flavor, use bouillon cubes-- keep in mind, however, that bouillon cubes will notably increase the sodium content.
 Sesame seed oil, coconut oil, or walnut oil will give a subtle nuance to the flavour of your quinoa. Adding a tablespoon of oil per cup of quinoa is recommended if you are cooking the quinoa via saucepan. , As with a great many other dishes, sauce is a powerful way to inject some flavour into your meal. There are countless sauces to chose from, and considering how malleable quinoa is tastewise, a chosen sauce will likely have the greatest determinant effect on the dish. If you're looking for potential scenarios to combine sauce and quinoa in, think of other grains you regularly sauce. Even pasta may be reasonably substituted with quinoa. While you may want to try simmering a basic tomato sauce alongside your quinoa to start, the possibilities are virtually endless. Try searching online for a few basic recipes; with the upsurge of quinoa's recent popularity, there are plenty of cooking blogs that are more than willing to take the guesswork out of your equation. 