 Position your paper in portrait mode. Fold the top left corner down in a diagonal valley fold. Crease and unfold. Repeat with the top right corner.


Portrait mode means the paper is taller than it is wider.
When you fold your diagonal valley fold you will have a triangle with a portion of rectangular paper of about 2.5 inches (64 mm) at the bottom.
 With your paper laying flat, pick up the sides of your paper and fold the middles in. Follow the creases you made to fold your paper down into a triangle shape. You will now have a triangle shape with two flaps on top of your paper. Below, you will see two more flaps of paper which are creased in the center.
 Take the two corners of your triangle on the top layer, fold each to meet at the top of your paper.


This is another diagonal valley fold.
When completed you have a new top layer consisting of two triangles pointing away from each other. Together, these triangles form a diamond.
 You will have a larger triangle shape under your diamond. Take the outer corners of your triangle and fold to the center.


Lift up the flaps of your diamond layer to fold these sections of paper under the diamond.
The inner edges of this fold should meet at the area where the bottom crease on the inside of each diamond is.
 Perform a vertical valley fold to fold your plane in half.


Press all of your creases to keep your folds in place.
Make sure that both sides of your plane are as even as possible.
 Fold your wings down so the edges of the wings align with the body of the plane. Then fold the triangle flaps in the front down. Fold these inner flaps down over the top edge of your wings.


Make sure that your wings are even with one another for best results.
Crease all of your new folds to keep everything in place.
 Fan out your wings so you have two narrow wings underneath two larger triangular wings at the front of your plane. This plane is built to fly far due to its narrow structure.
Hold it parallel to the ground flick your wrist to let it fly.
Fly your plane in an open space for best results.

