 Oftentimes, mindless eating or drinking lead to the consumption of sugar. Take note of your own lifestyle and personal habits and try to find where and when you find yourself overeating.


Many people eat when they watch television. If this is true for you, try substituting a sugary snack with a healthier option, like a bowl of fruit or a plate of cheese and crackers.
If you're craving something that feels like a treat, air-popped popcorn can be a great choice. While microwave popcorn and popcorn from the movie theater is often full of saturated fat, unhealthy oils, and salt, air-popped popcorn is a healthier alternative. It's low calorie, low sodium, and contains little sugar and no saturated fat.,


You cannot always read nutrition labels at a restaurant, but you can use your best judgment. Select meals less likely to contain added sugar, such as grilled meats, veggies, and whole wheat products. Salad dressings at restaurants are often loaded with added sugar. If possible, order a vinaigrette, just oil and vinegar, or ask for dressing on the side and use sparingly.
Avoid dessert. If it's hard for you to pass up a cookie or cake at the end of a dining experience, try splitting an item off the dessert menu with a friend or group of friends. This limits the amount of sugar you consume while allowing yourself a treat.
Cut out fast food. While there are a multitude of reasons to cut back on fast food intake, added sugar is among the biggest of concerns. Fast food chains are notorious for added sugar, and not just in milkshakes and soft drinks. Many chains, such as Subway and KFC, have multiple sources of added sugar in items like grilled or charbroiled chicken. It can be difficult to find fast food items that do not contain some added sugar so such establishments are best avoided altogether., If you're having trouble satisfying your sweet tooth on a sugar-free or reduced sugar diet, natural alternatives are available.


Try adding two teaspoons or less of natural sweeteners, such as coconut sugar, raw honey, and natural maple syrup. These foods contain vitamins and minerals, which make them less taxing on the body than simple table sugar.Many recipes can be sweetened with date paste (dates finely pureed) or other naturally sweet fruits. These are all ways to incorporate natural sugars versus processed ones.
Artificial sweeteners however, like Sweet 'N Low and chemicals found in diet sodas, should be avoided. Such products are far sweeter than actual sugar, and leave an aftertaste. This results in greater cravings for sweetness, which can make longterm change difficult., Many of us use a milkshake, a soda, or a donut as a reward after a long week of work. The reward-based mindset is hard to shake. Instead of going for a junk food fix, try to think of a healthy, non-food related end of week treat. Examples include:


Going for a walk or drive.
Having coffee with a friend.
Seeing a movie.
Going to a spa or salon
Getting a new haircut
Buying something you've been wanting for awhile. 