 When you read a work of literature with the purpose of critiquing it, whether a poem, short story, nonfiction essay, or memoir, you must read it with an active mind. This means that you should ask questions as you read.You should read with a pen and paper handy, as well as with a dictionary. Write down the main ideas in the margins and look up words as you go.
Ask “how,” “why,” and “so what” questions to help you read critically.
 Aside from noting when important ideas occur in the margins of the text, you should write down important ideas and themes on a piece of paper as you read, noting the page numbers. You should also think about the text in terms of critical thinking, such as evaluating the work’s clarity, accuracy, and current relevance to society.Evaluate elements of the work as you go, such as plot, themes, instances of character development, setting, symbols, conflicts, and point of view.Think about how these elements interact to form the main theme.
 Before you settle on a thesis statement—in fact, to formulate a thesis statement in the first place—you should brainstorm what aspect of the work you want to write about. Look at your notes from while you were reading and see if there are any ideas that you have already extracted from the piece, and place these ideas in your brainstorming. You may want to choose a theme from the work that particularly struck you and critique how well the author presented this theme through the elements you evaluated in your notes. There are many ways to brainstorm, including:making a list,
mapping out a web, and
freewriting.
For example, while reading Pride and Prejudice, you might feel that Mr. Darcy’s character needed more development than Jane Austen gave him, or you might prefer Jane’s character to Lizzy’s and feel that she would have made a better heroine (for example, Jane shares a name with the author, giving you grounds to explore the argument that Austen might have actually preferred her). Make a list, web, or freewrite out of ideas like these.
 Once you have populated a brainstorming list and selected a critical perspective (whether based on your own observation or on a critical theory), you should compose a working thesis statement. A “working” thesis is one that can be changed and adapted to your writing as you compose the essay.


The thesis should present your opinion in an arguable manner accompanied by a solid reason why your opinion is true.
The formula for a basic thesis statement might look like this: _______ is true because of __________, ____________, and ___________., You should always use an outline as it requires you to organize your thinking in a logical manner so that your critique is sound and credible. An outline will include elements like your thesis statement, the content of your body paragraphs, and quotes and examples with page numbers. It makes writing the actual essay much easier because all of your research is compiled in one place.You can also take advantage of an outline to form key sentences like the hook (first line of the intro paragraph), topic and transition sentences for each body paragraph, and your conclusion.
 While you are creating the outline, you can start to pick out direct quotes and examples from the text itself (the primary source) and any research you have done (secondary sources). If you place a topic sentence in each body paragraph, you can add the right quotes to support each idea.


Look at your notes and identify any patterns you see in the text that support your thesis statement, such as how no one is ever sure what Mr. Darcy is doing until after the fact, contributing to a lack of character development in Pride and Prejudice (if you were trying to prove the validity of an argument that Mr. Darcy is not developed enough, for example).
You must include a page number or authorial attribution anytime that you: talk about a specific event; paraphrase a quote; paraphrase a passage; or use any direct quote. You usually insert a page number in parentheses after the sentence.
 In order to write a strong critique, you need outside sources to agree with you. This boosts the credibility of your argument and shows that you have the strength of mind to think critically about what you read. Outside sources are also called secondary sources, and you need to make sure they are reliable, such as peer reviewed literary journal or magazine articles, published books, and chapters from books.


You should also address any criticism that does not agree with your thesis, as refuting the counterargument also builds your credibility.
 Once you have gathered your research, formed a thesis statement, and filled in a detailed outline, it is time to write the critique. At this point, you will have plenty of information, and all the organization has been done already, so writing the piece should go smoothly.


If you created your outline on a word processor, then you can simply fill in the outline with additional information.
You can also treat the outline as a roadmap. Consult it as you draft your paper to make sure that you are including all of the points and examples that you have identified.
 Make sure that you follow your instructor’s guidelines for the assignment. For example, you may have specific questions that you need to answer in your paper. You might also have a page length or word count requirement that you need to meet. You will also need to use the correct style to format your paper, such as MLA, APA, or Chicago.


MLA is more common for literary-based essays, but you should ask your instructor if you are not sure.
 Your paper should include quotes from the primary source (the work of literature itself) and from secondary sources (articles and chapters that help your argument). Make sure you analyze every quote that you include so that you are expressing your own opinion rather than regurgitating someone else’s.


For example, after offering a quote, you might explain what the quote means or demonstrates as well as how it supports your thesis. Do not simply paraphrase or summarize the quotes after you offer them. Summary does not show critical thinking. Instead, try to explain the significance of each quote or example to your readers.
Try to create quote sandwiches. A quote sandwich is simply how you position a quote in an essay. You should have a sentence introducing the quote and its author, then have the quote itself, followed by one or more sentences analyzing the quote right after it.Make sure you include a references/works cited list with all sources you quote from or paraphrase in the essay. This prevents plagiarism.
 Proofreading, editing, and revision are all important parts of the writing process and should be done before turning in or publishing a critique of literature. When doing the revision, it is helpful to have someone else look over the essay or read it out loud yourself to find careless mistakes, awkward phrasing, and weak organization.

