 Everything has a history and people do scholarly works on that part of the history. Some good examples are :


History of Cooking
History of Mathematics
History of Painting
History of Ceramics
History of Musics;
, For example, to teach the history of music, one should be well familiar with music (though perhaps not as much as an accomplished musician).
 If you are working on the art of painting, as a hobby you can start study history of painting to apply for teaching.


Have a brief study of history of painting from cave paintings to Greeks and Romans,
Ancient Hindi, Chines, Japanese paintings,
Africans and native Americans paintings
Painting in Middle Ages Europe, stained glass painting and story telling of churches, Mosaic paintings of Islamic cultures, Middle Eastern miniatures and Mongols of India,
Emergence of perspective and renaissance painting.
Continue until you get to present time abstraction, graphical arts, digital arts and so on.
This takes a couple of volume that one might enjoy during his spare time in few months.
,,, If reached to this point, you are ready to go ahead for becoming a teacher in that field.
 Gradually, you become convinced that without using flashcards and dedicating more commitment you cannot progress much. As a future teacher of history you cannot refrain using the main tools of academic works.
, Social dynamism of human is woven together from the threads and strings which look diverse at the first sight, but not at the reality. Wars and natural disasters hinder the arts and kings and rulers can encourage and help them to flourish. That might take you to a new decision.



Note that you might bypass the previous steps if from the beginning your desire is study of general history. Hence, put yourself in the crucible of test.
 You might have your own philosophical ideological taste to select from a range of general history books, but the one recommended here is one of the most read and readable.
 This book is available on different formats, even free PDF and also in audio forms that you can listen on your MP3 device while driving or travelling to school or work. Best is to use both format.
 You should be able to tell, by heart, a movie that you have seen to a friend or a member of family. You should remember all the details and do not skip over them.
 Students of these subjects expect their teachers not to use notes and be talkative. You can start as an assistant.


For having any job that deals with younger people you need a clean police check.
 One cannot teach by memorizing. You should study all the time such that in the classroom students only get the overflow of your boiling knowledge.
 He creates and delivers in the arena.
 Study part of the Will Durant's that you like most. Select certain period of time and certain geopolitical entity of that period. Study that part with few chapters from important references available in public or school library. Write down some six seven thousand about that events. You should be able to remember relations of people and events and the roots and aftermaths of those events.
 Parallel to flashcards you need to use vastly mind maps for your own study and when you are teaching.
 Most of the modern teaching of history consists of social history and social analysis of events. Modern history does not look to events as separate adventures of certain kings, rulers and characters. In contrast, it studies history as a living evolving social phenomenon. Therefore, you need to have a minimum familiarity with sociology and its terminology per se. Then you can use it into your historical intellectualism.
 Gradually you feel that you recognise yourself in a strange way more knowledgeable than average.
 Go into a large university library and look in shelves of history books with thousands of tomes and volumes of works done by your predecessors and see if you will be able to add a page a chapter or a volume to them.
 Typically, this means you have to graduate from a college or university. In addition, you may need a degree to teach at college level. A degree in History will demonstrate your commitment to the field and dedication to academic work. Your school might require that you pass certain curriculum in teacher training, besides your degree in History

,,