 You may have already figured out if the wig is the right size for your head, and if that’s the case, you can skip to the next step. If not, quickly measure your head with measuring tape. If your head is between 21 to 22 inches (51 to 55 cm), then you should be able to fit into most cosplay wigs. If your head is any larger, it’s a good idea to try on the wig to make sure it fits comfortably., There are usually two types of wig caps. One kind of wig cap is made of a fishnet-like material. The other type is similar to pantyhose. The fishnet wig cap is often tighter and hair can come out of the holes. The pantyhose wig cap is usually preferred because it’s not as tight and covers all of your hair., If it's long enough, twist your hair into a ponytail at the nape of your neck. Then, flip that ponytail so that it lies up against your head, and the tail points toward or across your forehead. If your hair is short, pin it down with hair pins so that it fits easily into the wig cap.It’s also an option to put your hair into pin curls if it is long.
If your hair is very thick or curly, it will make it easier to pull your hair back if you wet it a little bit.
 Start from the back of your head if you have a lot of hair in a ponytail. Stuff as much of your hair as possible down toward the back of your neck, making sure it's still contained by the wig cap. If you have short hair or are bald, simply pull the wig cap on. Check to make sure all or most of your hair has been hidden by the cap., Use snap clips to secure the wig cap to your hair. You will need about 10 snap clips in total. Use 6 snap clips spaced evenly around the front of your head. Snap in 4 clips towards the back of your head. You can use more or less clips if necessary.Make sure the top of the clip is over the cap and the bottom of the wig is under the hair and cap.
 Hold the wig with both hands. The backs of your hands should be facing each other, and the fingers should be inside the wig with thumbs outside of the wig. Slowly begin to slide the wig over the cap., It should be placed just above your eyebrows. Tilt your head forward as you slowly stretch the back and sides of the wig down over your wig cap, sliding your fingers out from underneath the edges as you pull them down.
 The wig will stretch to accommodate any extra hair that you've stuffed into the back of your wig cap. Tug the back of the wig down until the front of it sits just below your natural hairline. If the wig you're wearing has bangs, you can let it sit a little higher—right at your natural hairline.Make sure the ear tags lay evenly at your temples.
 Hair pins are open and bobby pins are closed. This is why bobby pins are better for securing your wig. Start piercing the bobby pins through the wig, the wig cap, and into your hair below. Work your bobby pins into the wig all along its edges at every angle possible. Your wig will be more and more stable with every pin you use.


You will probably use at least 10 bobby pins to secure the wig.
Be careful not to poke yourself in the scalp.
 Test it by jumping up and down, shaking your head vigorously from side to side, flinging the wig hair around, and touching your toes. If you've added enough pins, the wig should stay firmly in place through all of this and not wiggle at all. Add more pins if the wig does move around., Once the wig is securely in place, you can style it to your liking. You may not need to style it, but you will probably want to at least brush it down from testing it out. Hairspray is damaging to synthetic wigs, so you should only hold the style of the wig with hairspray if it is made of human hair.