 Ask your teachers which texts you will be studying well in advance. This will allow you to start reading and becoming familiar with the texts before you study them in school. That way, you'll already understand what's going on and can get as much as possible out of them when they are taught in class.;
, The specification is always useful when it comes to grasping what examiners want to see in your answers. Targeting your answers to the points raised here will help you focus on the assessment objectives so that you can get as good a score as possible on each question. This is especially useful when making your notes so you can pay attention to matching the notes up with the assessment objectives. Then you can tailor your revision to the specific kinds of questions that will be asked and the bits of information you'll need to know.
 For each text you will be studying, jot down notes on context and background, like the name of the author and when the text was written. Think about how this context might affect your reading of the text itself. When writing your answers, you can get marks for identifying context and noticing how it shapes meaning.
 Jot down a quick summary of each chapter of a novel or after each poem that you read. This will ensure that you understand and absorb what you're reading, as well as making it easier to go back and remind yourself of details about the texts later. This can also help you quickly remember the chapter you should reference so as not to waste time when in the exam.
 This will help you identify and quickly reference the most important aspects. Color-coordinate your highlighting to make quickly flipping through your notes even easier. For example, use different colors for different literary devices: yellow for metaphor, pink for tone, green for historical details. This is particularly useful if you are a visual learner.
 During your lessons when you analyse poems, write down as many notes as possible! Your own notes should be done separately and in your own time to show examiners your individual opinions and interpretations. Remember that with English, there is no right or wrong answer, so your personal interpretations are valid as long as you can back them up with evidence.
 In AQA, the ‘unseen poetry’ section is one of the most daunting parts of the exam. Prepare for this by practicing analyzing new poems as much as possible. Have a teacher, parent, or someone else pick a wide range of poems for you to practice on, choosing poems you haven't read or studied before. For each poem, sit down in a controlled environment and write an analysis, just like you will when taking the test. After each analysis, go over each poem with a teacher to discuss what you did well and what you should improve on. Do this as much as possible to get good at analysing new poems so that you can ace this section on the test.
 While taking notes on the texts you're studying, have a look at sites such as Spark Notes, York Notes, and BBC Bitesize. These sites can offer new information or alternate interpretations that will improve and expand your notes. Also discuss each text with a teacher or friend to get another perspective and answer questions you may have.
 Start organizing your notes and putting them into flash cards. Separate the flash cards into language, structure, theme, form, and context, and jot down the most important points and quotes incorporating all your sources, including websites, personal interpretations, and your teacher's and classmates' interpretations. Read over these as many times as you can.
 A few months before your exam; make sure that you understand all the poems and novels. A way to check this is to teach your family, friends or classmates about the texts without referring to your notes. If you can successfully do this from memory, you can be confident that you know the texts inside out.
 Beginning well before your exam, attempt as many exam papers as possible. You can find old exam questions and practice questions on the exam board websites under the subject. Show your practice papers to your teacher and perhaps organize a one-on-one session with them to go through the paper and get feedback. Consider this feedback and use it to help you with your next practice question. If you have run out of questions, you can always ask the teacher to give you some more that you can practice.
 Starting revision early will mean there is no need to cram in last minute revision. Make sure you are conscious of the time in the exam. When reading the question, know the points you want to address. Remember from all the preparation you have done for the exam, you have all the knowledge and necessary skills to do well.

