 The most important characteristic you want in a box used as a dog bed is sturdiness. You'll also need the box to be large enough to accommodate the size of your dog. If your dog has a tendency to sprawl or move around in its sleep, you may want to choose a box that's on the larger side.If you don't have any suitable boxes at home but still want to make a box bed, you can purchase a box relatively cheaply from a shipping store, the post office, or in some cases an office supply store.;
, Stress and strain will be put on your box by the simple act of your dog getting into and out of its bed. Over time, this can cause your box to break down or become less structurally sound. To prevent this, apply a durable tape along the edges and sides of the box to reinforce it.Duct tape works very well for the purposes of reinforcing your dog bed as it is very durable. However, you can also use packing tape or other kinds of tape, though these may not hold up as well to wear and tear.
You might also want to tape the flaps at the bottom of your box where the box folds together. This can help strengthen the shape of the box and hold its shape.
 Take a pair of scissors or a utility knife and cut a downward pointing U-shaped opening in the box for your dog. For some boxes or dogs, this may only involve you cutting off the top flaps of the box. In other cases, you may have to trim down the sides of the box to make it easier for your dog to enter and exit.You might also want to cut a semi-circular "main entrance" for your dog bed. Take your utility knife and cut a semi-circle in the front of your box. This lowered lip of the box will be easier for your dog to enter, making it the default entrance for your pet., Although this is not necessary, padding can provide comfort and warmth to your pet. For example, if you're making a bed for an outdoor dog, wood chips can help fight insect infestations while insulating the animal from the cold.Indoor pets may have a special blanket or pillow that they often use that can be put in the box bed for additional comfort.You might also use some leftover padding, rags, old clothing, and more to make your box bed more comfortable for your dog.

