 If you are trying to merge multiple YouTube clips together, you'll need to download them to your computer first. Visit keepvid.com and enter the addresses for each of the videos you want to download. Select the highest quality MP4 format video from the download options to download the file to your computer.;
, You can download the free version of Any DVD Converter from anvsoft.com. You can also use the free version of Any Video Converter from the same company, and the process will be exactly the same.


If downloaded from anvsoft.com, the installer should be malware-free. Still, it is recommended to carefully read each screen of the installation wizard. Make sure that you uncheck any boxes that want to install extra software, or decline any extra offers.
The free version is limited to a 3 minute output file. If you need to make a longer video file and don't want to pay for Any DVD Converter, click here for instructions on using the free Avidemux.
 Start your trial if prompted when using the free version. You'll be taken to the Convert Video tab of the program.
 You can drag and drop files into the main frame, or you can click the "Add Video(s)" button and browse for video files on your computer. It may take a few moments to add large files.


You can add files with different file formats to the same project.
Any DVD Converter supports virtually all video formats.
 The combined file will be in the order that the videos are listed in, starting with the top of the list.
 Click the Scissors button next to the clip you want to edit. A new window will open, allowing you to skip to the exact spot you want. Set a new start point for the clip by clicking the "" button to set an end point.


The new segment will appear beneath the original video file.
Note that Any DVD Converter can run into problems when trying to join trimmed clips. For best results, output the trimmed files first into new video files, and then add the new output to your project.
FLV files can be difficult to trim, as Flash video uses a different frame system. For best results, convert the FLV video to MP4 first and then trim it.
 Once you're satisfied with the order and the length of the clips, select all of the files in the list. You can do this by holding Ctrl/⌘ Cmd and click each one, or you can press Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+A.
 The videos will be merged together, with subsequent videos indented beneath the first clip. Select the first video in the list before proceeding.
 Click the Output Profile drop-down menu at the top of the window. Select the device that you are planning on playing the video on. If you're going to play the video on a computer, or want it to be compatible with the most devices, select "Customized MP4 Movie (*.mp4)".
 Click the folder icon in the Output Folder line in the right sidebar. Make sure "Basic Settings" is selected to see the Output Folder button. Select a folder that you can easily access and find your merged video file.


Click the "File Name" line to set the file name of the merged video clip.
 The wrong settings could lead to a bad file or could cause Any DVD Converter to crash. Adjust your settings before you start the merging process.

Click the Gear button at the top of the window.
Click the "Video" tab and uncheck all of the boxes in the "Video Resize" section.
 Right-click on the top file in the list and select "Start Converting". Any DVD Converter will begin merging the clips into a file in the location and format you specified.Depending on the length and size of the videos, the conversion may take a while to complete.
 Any DVD Converter can get overloaded with too many clips. If you're having problems merging many different clips together, it's recommended that you do them in small batches and then join the batches together.

For example, if you have 15 clips to join, join five clips together at a time. This will leave you with three output videos. You can then load these three output videos into Any DVD Converter and join them as normal.

