 Prepare a baking sheet by spraying it with nonstick cooking spray.


You could also grease the baking sheet with shortening or cover it with a layer of aluminum foil or parchment paper.
 Pour the contents of the can through a strainer to separate out the liquid. Rinse the chickpeas, still in the strainer, under running water for 30 to 60 seconds.


You could also drain the liquid from the beans using the lid of the can. Partially crack the lid open just enough so that liquid can escape but chickpeas cannot. Tip the can over a sink and let the liquid drain out through this gap. Drain out as much liquid as possible before opening the lid all the way.
You can also add water to the drained can and swish it around to help rinse the beans. Place the lid over the can so that there is a small gap and pour out the rinsing water through this gap. Note, however, that proper rinsing through a strainer is still the recommended method.
 Lay the chickpeas out in between two layers of clean paper towels. Gently roll the chickpeas around with the top paper towel to remove any remaining, excess water and to peel off loose skins.


Be careful as you press on the chickpeas, however, since you do not want to accidentally crush them by using too much force.
 Dump the chickpeas into a medium mixing bowl and drizzle the olive oil over them. Gently toss the chickpeas around with a mixing spoon or clean hands to coat them all in the oil.


The oil will add flavor to the chickpeas, but it will also help them to develop a pleasant color and texture while roasting in the oven.
 Transfer the coated chickpeas to the baking sheet, spreading them out in a single, even layer.


Make sure that the chickpeas are kept in a single layer. The beans need equal exposure to the heating elements in order to cook evenly.
 This should take about 30 to 40 minutes in your preheated oven.Pay close attention to the chickpeas as they cook so that you can remove them if they appear to be burning.
 Sprinkle the salt and garlic powder over the toasted chickpeas and toss them gently with a flat spatula to coat evenly. Serve and enjoy as a healthy snack.


You can experiment with other spices and spice mixes, as well. For instance, you can season the chickpeas with paprika, chile powder, curry powder, garam masala, or even cinnamon.

