 Collect leaves, branches and pine cones from your backyard or a nearby park. Individual leaves and branches surrounding battery-powered candles on a tray or charger plate is a subtle but beautiful accent. You can also press dried leaves flat and arrange one or two in a picture frame. For a more dramatic centerpiece, cut medium- to large-sized branches with changing leaves and place them in a large vase.As fall progresses, the leaves that change color vary so you can continue to collect different hues and patterns throughout the season.
If you don’t live in an area that experiences fall, purchase fake pine cones, branches and leaves to reuse each year.
There are endless ideas to decorate with dried leaves and branches. Use your creativity!;
, Decorate your dinner table, sideboards and coffee tables with pumpkins and squash of all sizes. Add some dried wheat, dried Indian corn and fall-themed ribbons to create an entire centerpiece or focal point. Place the pumpkins, gourds or squash on a fall table runner or in cylindrical vases with vines or branches. Accent these festive centerpieces with votive candles.Buy carving pumpkins early in the season to use as decoration for the fall, and then carve them when it comes time for Halloween.
Yellow, green and purple squash can double as decoration before you prepare it for a meal.
 Place kindling or pine cones to throw in the fire in a basket near the fireplace. Baskets can hold seasonal soaps, lotions and tissue in the bathroom. Use a large bushel basket to hold extra blankets near the sofa. A basket by the front door can be a holder for umbrellas.
 Find accents in colors like gold, crimson, red, orange, vermilion, tan, beige and maroon. Arrange seasonal pillows and throws by layering colors and adding in a few patterns and textures. Pick patterns and textures with similar shades to keep the arrangement cohesive.Work from the outside of the sofa and move inwards as you arrange.
To save some money, buy pillow covers that you can put on the pillows you already have.
Don’t be afraid to add in extra large pillows or odd shapes to mix up the look.
 Don’t worry about purchasing new curtains or drapes for the season, but instead purchase a large piece of fabric that you can drape across the curtain rod for a cozy touch.


Make sure that the fabric lays evenly on both sides.
 Before installing, wipe down the wall you are planning to cover and let it fully dry. Unroll the wallpaper and place a few heavy books on the corners to help flatten the curled edges. Cut the panels of paper according to the space you have and lightly mark the wall with a pencil where the edges of the panel should go. Stick the paper to the wall and smooth out any creases and bubbles.Temporary wallpaper makes it easy to switch out your look for each season.
Peel and stick wallpaper typically runs for less than $50 a panel.
Be sure to measure the space you plan to cover carefully before purchasing the wallpaper panels. Consider purchasing more than you need to be sure you have enough.
Ask a friend to help. The process is much easier with two sets of hands.
 Large rugs can change the look of a room but are pricey, so you can just focus on switching out rugs near your home’s entryways, in the bathrooms and under the kitchen sink.


Instead of purchasing Halloween or Thanksgiving rugs, consider purchasing fall themed rugs to keep all season.

