 After you file a lawsuit, you might be offered a settlement. As part of that settlement, you may be asked to sign a covenant not to sue.Before agreeing to sign, you should analyze the settlement offer. Look for the following:


How much money you are being offered.
Whether your attorneys’ fees are included in the settlement.
Whether the settlement is a lump sum or structured as a series of payments over time.
 Before deciding whether to settle, you need to have a general sense of how much your injury is worth. You should calculate the economic loss you suffered because of the injury. For example, if you suffered personal injuries in a car accident, then you could get compensation for the following:medical expenses
lost wages
property damage
lost earning capacity

, ”General” damages are injuries suffered for which money is only a rough substitute. Generally, you can get 150% to 500% of your total economic loss in general damages. For example, you could recover for the following:pain and suffering
shock and mental anguish
emotional distress
humiliation or embarrassment
loss of society and companionship

, To fully understand the amount of your injury, you should adjust the amount of economic losses and general damages by the following, all of which can reduce the amount of your monetary compensation:Whether you were partially at fault. In most states, your fault will reduce the amount of money you can get. For example, if you were 25% at fault for the car accident, then your compensation could be reduced by 25%.
Whether you could have mitigated the damages. You might have wrenched your back in the car accident. However, if you refused to go to the doctor for two weeks, then your overall compensation for pain and suffering could be reduced.
 A qualified attorney has experience valuing how much lawsuits are worth. You should get a referral to a personal injury lawyer and talk about your case. Your attorney can analyze your injuries and other factors, such as where the lawsuit is being brought, to estimate how much you could win at trial.


To find a qualified personal injury attorney, you can contact your state or local bar association and ask for a referral. Once you have the name of an attorney, you should schedule a consultation.
Take all relevant documents to your consultation, such as medical reports and bills, as well as a police report, information about insurance, or other evidence., When deciding whether to sign a settlement agreement and a covenant not to sue, you will need to compare the amount offered to the value of your injuries. If the amount offered compares favorably, then you can sign the settlement agreement and agree to the covenant.


If you think the offered amount is too low, then you and your attorney can continue to negotiate for a higher amount.

