 When the bird sees you enter the space, it will be tempted to move away as quickly as it can, even if that means flying deeper into your home. Close all doors to the room so the bird cannot fly into all corners of your house. It will also be easier for the bird to find an exit once it realizes it can't leave that particular room..


If the bird is in a room that does not have a clear exit, then hold up a large sheet with both arms and attempt to herd the bird into a better room of the house. Do not touch the bird with a broom or any other long-handled object.;
, This will certainly disappoint your cat, but having additional animals in the room will only increase the bird's level of panic. You also don't want to risk the spread of disease to your household pet should they attack the bird.
 Close all window curtains and turn off all lights except where you want the bird to exit (such as an open door or window). The bird will naturally avoid darkened spaces and will treat the light near the exit as a beacon to guide it out., The bird might seem very intimidating to you; if it is panicked and beating its wings while flying in an erratic fashion, you might be tempted to yell, scream or immediately strike it. But this will only increase the bird's fear and potential damage to your home. Remember that you are in your natural habitat whereas the bird is scared and disoriented. Remain calm while you close off additional lights and entrances to the room.
 Depending on the room the bird is trapped in, you should select the easiest, largest exit available for the bird. This might be the largest window or, ideally, a door that leads to the outside. It will easiest if you just select one clear exit so the bird will notice it from the light.
 Once you have sealed off the doors to the room, turned off additional lights, and have clearly opened a door or window so it can exit, leave it alone. There is a good chance the bird will eventually fly out on its own. Birds are very sensitive creatures and they can die due to complications from stress; the least traumatic solution for the bird is to let it attempt to leave on its own., If the bird has not left on its own, you can attempt to 'herd' it toward the exit. Take a large sheet and hold it up with both hands; slowly walk behind the bird, steering it toward the exit so it can fly outside.
 Some sources suggest that you should throw a towel or sheet on top of the bird to ground it and then pick it up and manually remove it from your home. This method, however, should be avoided except as an absolute last resort, as this could easily injure the bird, even if we can't tell that it is hurt.Birds are biologically designed to be sensitive to pressure; they can feel very subtle changes in air pressure, so being engulfed by a large towel or sheet can be incredibly painful to them. Their bones are also very fragile so even a gentle human touch could cause significant injury to the bird Do not use a broom or other object to hit the bird; this will only injure the bird and further prevent it from flying back outside.
 If you have tried all of these steps and still cannot successfully remove the bird, then you should call a local professional who works in bird removal. They will have a better sense of the bird's behaviors and the best way to remove it safely from your home.
 Sometimes, a bird will simply fly into your home through an open door or window by mistake; there will be very little you can do to prevent this from happening. But you should still consider adding sturdier screens onto your windows and avoid keeping large entrance ways (like sliding glass doors) open to the outside.
 When a bird randomly flies into your home, you can view that as just a single, strange incident; but having a nest of pigeons or other birds move into your attic is another crisis that requires a very different approach. Birds that like to nest in homes tend to prefer areas such as chimneys, gutters, eaves, and laundry vents; you should make sure that these areas are properly sealed so they cannot enter your home.If you have a woodpecker who continues to bore into the side of your house, hang a shiny object -- like an old CD or DVD -- near the site; this will deter the bird from remaining in that spot. Wind chimes are also helpful in discouraging woodpeckers., Many wildlife removal experts specialize in using objects that will prevent birds from nesting on or in your home, such as bird spikes, avian sound machines, tape, glass and other materials. If you sense that birds could become a problem for your home, go ahead and contact a professional to help you prevent this from happening.

