 These are discrete programs that upload, copy or forward all history from the phone to a secure server that can be accessed by your personal phone/computer. These programs include monitoring of placed and received calls, texts, url's, picture messages; sometimes email services and application data. Some apps also offer tracking options that use geolocation data to send updates on that person's location or if they go outside a designated area.


You can monitor the phones whereabouts by it emitting regular GPS signals at specified intervals, (so long as the target device has GPS location turned on.)Some apps are hidden, however others require them to be downloaded on both parties' phones.
While cellphone spyware programs are legal, you must either obtain permission from the person's phone you wish to monitor, or the phone (and number) must be under your name. You can bypass this by informing them that you'd like to install a security monitoring program on their mobile device, just as you have on yours. They will more than likely consent. You have not lied or done anything illegal (they agree to have the application installed). Furthermore, if the device you wish to monitor is a prepaid device, you can log into the providers website (or access an application on the phone) and add your name on the account or change account names entirely. If you do not feel comfortable doing so, you can pay to have their service refilled a few times using your own credit/debit card. You already have a card associated with the account, so having your name on it shouldn't feel like such a bad thing after you take this step. These programs automatically save all texts, phone calls, and pictures, so even if something has been deleted off the phone it will be saved in a secure server online for you to view at any time.
This type of spyware only works on smart phones, requires the user of the phone has internet access either through their cellular data network or WiFi.
Some are completely free, most offer free trials and sometimes charge a for a monthly subscription.