 You may be surprised by how often you drive to locations that can be easily reached on foot. Even those tricky shopping excursions can be made walkable if your store is close to your house and you have a cart or wagon to hold your groceries.Walking is excellent exercise, so think of your walks as making both you and the earth healthier.
If you’re walking to work, you may need to wear sneakers and pack your work shoes in your bag. You probably won’t be the only one rocking the beat-up sneakers and pantsuit look in the morning, so don’t worry about looking unprofessional.
 If you have good weather, safe terrain, and feasible distances, cycle to your destinations. Even more so than walking, biking is an excellent form of cardiovascular exercise. You can even use your bike to combine your commute with your trip to the gym!Drive the route first to make sure that it is safe for biking. Additionally, cycling comes with its own rules of the road, so learn the protocol before heading out.
If you’re cycling to work, make arrangements to shower or freshen up once you arrive. Keep a spare set of dry, clean clothes in your office for emergencies.
 Not all cities and towns have public transportation options. If yours does, commit to using it. It may not always be fun taking the often-crowded bus or underground, but mass transit is a great and eco-friendly alternative to driving.You may be able to increase your positive outlook toward mass transportation by considering the benefits. A train ride may give you a quiet hour to catch up on your pleasure reading or finish your presentation before work starts.
If you live in a rural area that doesn’t have public transportation options, approach your local government with the possibility of adding a bus route from popular residential neighborhoods to your town’s main shopping areas. If the proposal receives support from a majority of residents, it may become a reality!

, The process of decreasing your vehicle dependence can be a team effort. Carpooling may be your best option especially if you live in an area without good public transportation options. If you, your family, friends, and/or co-workers frequently visit the same places together, there’s no reason not to travel in groups and take turns driving.


If you’re struggling to find fellow commuters to carpool with, try apps designed for that purpose. Carma and Ride both match commuters for carpools., If you’re looking for alternative means to travel longer distances than a few miles, consider purchasing a motorcycle or a scooter. These vehicles use less gas than cars, and they provide a great and fun way to limit your carbon footprint.


Before you ride your new vehicle in traffic, be sure you’ve practiced and are prepared to go out on the road safely.
Some states will require you to have a different license or registration for this type of vehicle. Make sure you’re adhering to local and state laws before you ride.

