 Nothing screams "rocker" on a dude like long hair. Grow it out. If you've got curly hair, you can rock the jealousy-inducing afro, while if you've got straight hair, you can still pull of the moppy lead-guitar-player look. Medium length? All the way down your neck? You decide how rock 'n roll you want to be.
 It looked cool on James Dean and it looks cool on you now: a plain white t-shirt with tight-fitting jeans will probably always be cool. Go for a slimming v-neck shirt and pair with Ray-Bans for the ultimate in cool.


In general, the simpler the better when it comes to dress. T-shirts should be plain block colors, or graphic band shirts. Vintage would be cooler than brand-new.
For over-shirts, flannel, denim, and western shirts are always cool. Roll up the sleeves for added bonus points. You gotta get those sleeves out of the way of your guitar, after all.
 Has anyone ever looked uncool in a leather motorcycle jacket? No. Ditto the motorcycle jacket's equally-rad cousin, the jean jacket. Aim for a relatively tight fit and go vintage, if possible. Old-looking ratty jean jackets scream rock band, and faux-leather doesn't even have to be very expensive to jump into the deep end of the awesome pool.
 Chuck Taylors aren't going anywhere. Low-top or high-top, Chucks are where it's at. Go for the classic white or black, or mix it up with other colors. For an added bonus, if you start building up a collection, you could even wear one color on one foot and another on the other foot. Mix and match for endless variety.


If you can pull 'em off, cowboy boots or Beatle boots are also super rock-n-roll. Wear them inside your pant leg, rather than outside, and give yourself an intimidating height with the heels.
 While a necklace, bandana, or well-placed ring can look cool, it can also make you look like you're dressing up as a rocker for Halloween, not like you're about to jump on stage and start melting faces. Aim for one variety of accessory at the most.



Piercings and tattoos are pretty rock-and-roll, it's safe to say. If you're committed to your rocker persona, you might consider them. Certain piercing and all tattoos are permanent, however, so make sure you're really committed to your look before getting big gauges and half-sleeves. Think about it and always make sure you've got parental permission.
 A beat-up and tight-fitting sport coat with a western shirt and jeans is an up-scale rocker look that you can always pull off. Dinner jackets can be found at second-hand stores for relatively cheap, often in rad patterns and pre-distressed for vintage comfort. Try on lots to get the right fit, or you'll end up looking like you're playing dress-up in your dad's closet.


Use stylish rock icons like Bob Dylan circa 1966, or the Strokes circa 2002 for great examples of rocking the suit jacket.
 The unspoken rule of rock and roll stage craft? No short pants. If you want to be a rocker, treat shorts like your mortal enemy. Never wear them, especially if you're actually in a band and play on stage.If you must wear shorts, they should be jean shorts that you cut yourself, and should be raggedy as all get-out. This is only appropriate in extremely hot climates. You've been warned.

