 For instance, if you loved to color, maybe you have a latent passion for design. If you were into building toys, such as building bricks or building logs, maybe your passion is more along the lines of architecture or construction.Don't just think about what you loved. You should also consider why you loved it. For instance, you may figure out that you loved building blocks because you loved the neat rows and colors, meaning you actually loved the organization of it.
 That is, if you suddenly inherited enough money that you didn't need to worry about rent or food, how would you spend your time? Think beyond sitting on the couch and watching television. Would you dive into a hobby? Volunteer? Visit the library or museum? What you would do points to what you're most passionate about., You know those moments when you lose all track of time because you are so absorbed in what you're doing? Those moments are the ones you need to pay attention to because you are obviously loving what you are doing., Learning what you don't like is just as important as learning what you do love. For one thing, it can show what you need to avoid when you're seeking out your passions and when you're seeking out a job.Start with the activities you dread. What do you dread about them? Why do you dread them? Once you answer these questions, you'll start to notice themes across the activities, such as maybe you don't like organizing or maybe you're not really a people person.
 Whether you use a journal, a poster, or board, make a space to put up the things that inspire you. Try putting up quotes, pictures, and ideas. Once you've started filling in your board, you'll start to notice themes, identifying some of your passions.Use anything you can get your hands on for your board, from the internet and junk mail to old magazines.
 When you find you are curious about something, take the time to do some research. You may find you are passionate about a subject just by following through on an idea. Use the internet or the library to start following your curiosity., When life invites you to do something new, follow it along for awhile. For instance, when you get an opportunity to try something new at your job, agree to it. When your friend invites you to a new experience, go along with it. You never know what you'll come to love., One way to explore is to try different things. Go to the library, and read books about topics that interest you. Try joining different community clubs or taking classes through your parks and recreation department. However, you don't even need to leave home to explore different passions. Try doodling one afternoon or playing around in your garden. Leave yourself open to possibility., Your passions are where you can show who you are to the world. They also define who you are as a person because what you're passionate about drives your life. That's why it's so important to have them. If you're passionate about art, you can express yourself through it, either by creating it yourself or supporting people who do.

