 The tips of good asparagus spears should be tight. No part of the spear should be mushy.Choose spears that are relatively equal in thickness for cooking. The spears can be thick or thin, however.






Thin asparagus is tender and has a crisp center.
Thick asparagus has more crunch and a meatier center.

;
, Place the asparagus in a colander and run the batch under cold, running water to remove any sandy soil clinging to the tips.


For especially sandy or dirty asparagus, you may need to gently scrub the tips with your fingers to remove the debris. You do not need to use a vegetable brush, though.
Pat dry with clean paper towels when done.
 The woody part of the stem is usually located around the bottom third of the spear. This part is not appetizing and should be snapped off by hand.


Find the woody base by gently bending the spear at different places. The "right" breaking point should be obvious and will be easy to spot, as it will be the point at which the spear turns tender.






You can snap the woody part off with your hands. You do not need to use a knife.
 If the scales on each spear bother you, you can use a vegetable peeler to scrape this portion of the outer spear off. The spear will look smoother and cleaner when done.


This is most helpful when dealing with thick spears of asparagus.
If using thick asparagus, use a vegetable peeler to also remove the woody outer skin 2 inches (5 cm) up from the stem end.
 If the asparagus is especially long or especially thick, you might find it easier to cook them by cutting them into pieces.


For longer spears, cut the asparagus into two or three separate sections that are each of equal length.
For thicker spears, cut the asparagus in half lengthwise.
 Before you add any fat to the skillet, bring it up to temperature by heating the empty pan over a medium heat.


This should only take a minute or two. The fat is hot enough when you can drop 1 tsp (5 ml) of water onto the surface and see it immediately evaporate into steam.
 Add 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of olive oil or butter to the hot skillet. Continue heating the fat over medium heat for another minute or so.


Do not let the oil smoke now or at any point during the cooking process. If this happens, the fat is starting to break down, and the asparagus will develop an unpleasant taste.
 Carefully transfer your asparagus to the hot oil in your skillet. Season with a dash of salt and pepper as desired.


Use tongs to place the spears in the pan to minimize the risk of accidentally burning yourself with hot oil.






Make sure that the asparagus lays flat in a single layer inside the pan. If you cannot fit all of the asparagus in the pan at once, cook it in batches.
 Keep the skillet uncovered and keep the asparagus moving by gently shifting the pan or stirring the asparagus with a heat-resistant spatula.


When done, the asparagus should turn a brighter green and still have a little crunch.
 The asparagus will taste best and have the most crunch if served right after you finish cooking it.
 Even shallots, though milder, are a splendid option.


Add minced or chopped garlic, onion, or shallots to the hot oil before you add the asparagus. Cook these aromatic ingredients for 1 minute until they soften and become more fragrant.
After the garlic or onion releases its full flavor, add the asparagus to the pan and cook until done, stirring well to mix the flavors fully.
 The tangy flavors of cheeses like Parmesan or Feta match well with the woodiness of cooked asparagus.After you finish sauteing the asparagus, transfer it to a serving plate and sprinkle it with either Parmesan or Feta cheese. Let the cheese sit on the asparagus for another minute until it begins to melt slightly.
You can also mix and match flavors by adding cheese to asparagus cooked with garlic, shallots, onion, mushrooms, shrimp, bacon, or herbs.
 Sauté the mushrooms alongside the asparagus in the same pan until tender.

Chop the mushrooms into fine pieces before adding them to the skillet with the asparagus. The two ingredients should take similar amounts of time to cook. When done, the mushrooms will be tender.
Since many mushrooms do not have strong flavors on their own, you can also add other, more potent ingredients, like aromatic garlic or a simple dressing.
 Sauté shrimp separately for 3 minutes or until done and toss the seafood favorite with the cooked asparagus to serve.If you cook the shrimp and the asparagus in the same pan, you will likely end up overcrowding the pan. As a result, the ingredients may not cook thoroughly or evenly.
Cook the asparagus first before removing them from the pan. Keep warm as you cook the shrimp in the same pan.
Once the shrimp is cooked, add the asparagus back to the pan and cook, stirring, until reheated.
 Cook the bacon in your skillet before you Sauté the asparagus. That way, you can use the rendered bacon fat as your oil instead of olive oil or butter.Fry the bacon over medium heat for 5 minutes or until crispy on both sides. Remove from the heat and drain on paper towels. Once drained, crumble into small pieces.
Meanwhile, cook the asparagus in the bacon grease left in the pan. Once done, add the crumbled bacon back into the skillet and toss until evenly mixed.
 Herbs are a good way to bump up the flavor and reduce the sodium.


Tarragon, thyme, marjoram, and parsley are all good options to consider.
Add 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of fresh herbs to the asparagus immediately after it finishes cooking. Toss to coat well.
If using dried herbs instead of fresh herbs, use 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 ml) instead.
 An acid brightens the flavor of asparagus, giving it an added zing that it would otherwise lack.Coat the asparagus with the lemon juice after you finish cooking it. Remove the cooked asparagus from the heat, add 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) lemon juice, and toss gently with a spatula or mixing spoon until well coated.
 As with lemon juice, adding an acid can brighten the flavor of asparagus. When using vinegar for that acid, however, you should choose a slightly sweeter variety rather than a plain white vinegar.

Sherry vinegar, red wine vinegar, and balsamic vinegar are all good options to consider.
Once the asparagus is completely cooked, remove it from the heat and add 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of your vinegar of choice. Toss well to coat.
 Adding a bit of Dijon mustard at the end of the cooking process is a simple yet effective way to coat the asparagus in something flavorful.

Wait until after the cooked asparagus comes off the heat before adding the mustard. Add 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of Dijon mustard to the asparagus and toss well to coat.
If you do not have Dijon mustard, you could use honey mustard, instead.
 If you are interested in a more complex flavor, make a vinaigrette from 2 tsp (10 ml) Dijon mustard, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) red wine vinegar, and 2 Tbsp (30 ml) olive oil.Whisk the mustard, vinegar, and oil together in a small bowl. Set aside as you cook the asparagus.
Once the asparagus is ready to come off the stove, add the vinaigrette to the pan and toss well to coat.

