 Even if you are completely uninterested in the topic of a conversation, you should think about your body language and try not to look bored. No-one wants to bore anybody else, and you will make the person you are talking to feel bad if you are visible not paying any attention. Be sure you are facing the person and keep some eye contact.


Don’t slouch or fidget. This kind of body language shows that you are bored and looking for a way to escape.Crossing your arms across your chest will make you look disinterested, and of course looking at your watch or checking your phone is a clear signal that your mind is elsewhere.;
, Try not to just respond with monosyllabic noises, such as “yeahs,” “umms,” “ahhs.” Make an effort to engage more meaningfully in the conversation and you might find that it becomes a lot less boring. When you do try and get involved in the conversation, try to avoid relying on simple questions that betray your lack of real interest in the topic.


Don’t just ask things like “Where did you go?” or “What happened next?”
Try to ask more complicated questions that might open up to the conversation to other topics, and allow you to steer it in a different direction. For example, try asking questions that ask "why," such as "Why do you think things happened that way?"By asking more complicated questions you are showing curiosity and interest that goes beyond simple politeness., Measured interruptions can actually indicate that you are interested in the topic and have something to contribute, but don’t try to suddenly change the subject altogether. If you do this you will appear to be rudely dismissing what the other person has to say.

For example, if your friend is talking at length about the latest baseball game they went to see, don’t blurt in with “So, how’s school?”
Try to intervene in a way which acknowledges the other person, but still enables you to subtly shift the conversation.
For example, you might say something like “Yeah, it was a great game. That reminds me, did you manage to get all that school work done beforehand?”

, One way to try to liven up a conversation is to bring more people into it. You can do this in a polite way if you are not too abrupt, and you keep in mind what the other person was talking about. For example, perhaps you are being told about cars and you really are not interested in them, but you know someone who is.


You might say “My friend John is really into cars, I’d be interested to hear what he thinks about it.” You can then bring the friend into the conversation.
This can be a way to excuse yourself, but it can also be a way to broaden the topic and take some pressure off yourself.
Generally, if there are more people involved in the conversation it won’t be such hard work for you.

