 You don’t have to become close friends with anyone, but it’s smart to stay on good terms with your peers and teachers. Use good manners in your day-to-day life, and treat other people the way you want them to treat you.When you treat other people well, your peers won’t have anything to use against you, and you’ll have an easier time making friends in the future if you want to.
 High school and college provide plenty of opportunities to get involved in interesting activities. Look for programs offered by your school or community center. Participating in a club or group can be a good way to stay connected to other people without having to become close friends with them.For instance, you could join a science club, a book discussion group, or a sports team.
You can also check out Meetup.com to find people who will share your interests.
 Animals can be wonderful companions, especially dogs. Some people even find that animals are better friends than people. If you don’t already have a pet, ask your parents about adopting one.Consider adopting a shelter dog or cat. These animals often have a hard time finding good homes, but they can make very loyal pets.
Having a dog may also help you to break the ice when you are out walking with your dog. For example, someone might compliment your dog, and this could be a good opportunity to strike up a conversation, such as by saying, “Thank you! Do you have a dog?”
Having a dog or cat might also provide you with something to chat about with neighbors or new acquaintances. For example, if someone brings up their pet, then you could say, “Oh, I just adopted a cat/dog myself. I really enjoy the companionship.” Then, you could show a picture of your pet and talk with the person about your pets.
 Search job boards and volunteer sites on the internet for positions that interest you. Working and volunteering are good ways to get involved with your community and interact with other people regularly.Start small. Even a job at McDonald’s or Starbucks will help you save money for the future.
Volunteering for a cause you care about will make you feel good, and the experience will give you a leg up when you search for jobs or apply to college.
 If you’re not spending time with friends often, your social skills might be rusty. Look for opportunities to practice introducing yourself to people, keeping a conversation going, and making people feel comfortable around you.If you aren’t sure why you don’t have friends and you know your social skills are a bit rusty, then this could be a potential explanation. However, keep in mind that having rusty social skills is often indicative of a deeper problem, such as a fear of rejection. Talk with an adult you trust, like a parent or a teacher, to talk about why you might be having some issues with social interactions.

