


The first way is through a concerted reaction that takes place in a single step, with only one transition state.
The second way is through a non-concerted reaction, which results in intermediate structures consisting of highly reaction carbon species. This is the dominant sort of chemical reaction.;
, For example, through the use of mass spectroscopy (MS). The follow-up of fragmentation patterns displayed by chemical compounds in the gas phase using MS can show the viewer the existence of these reactive species by including their molecular mass as part of the spectrum.
 They will not result in a single product. On the other hand, reactions that occur within one step tend to be more specific, owing to their concerted nature.


An example of the one-step reaction is the SN2 reaction in organic chemistry that proceeds in a single step. This is stereospecific and results in a single product.
An example of the step-like manner of a reaction are SN1 reactions with intermediates. These are not stereospecific and produce more than one possible product. The end product is usually a mixture of enantiomers, a starting compound.
 The determination of the rate of the reaction, whether first order or second order, can provide valuable information about the dependence of the rate of the reaction on the concentration of the reactants.
 This area is formally part of physical chemistry, whereas physical organic chemistry can be considered as a branch of physical chemistry (as applied to organic compounds).
 The fragmentation of the organic molecule by the effect of thermal energy or light can cause the molecule to dissociate into fragments. These fragments are highly unstable carbon species that are electronically deficient; they combine with any possible compound that is present within their neighborhood.


This process is driven by the energetically favorable product.
 These are:


The electron deficient carbocation species; and
The negatively charged carbon ion called carbanion.


By virtue of their charge, these species are unstable thermodynamically and have an inclination to bind with other chemical species in order to satisfy their electronically unstable structure.



Intermediates are seen, for an example, in electrophilic aromatic substitution reactions of benzene and its derivatives. These intermediates tend to restore the aromatic structure of the compound which is much more stable than the reactive intermediates. Reactions that have complicated mechanisms are also characterized by the presence of chemical intermediates in their reaction pathway. For an example, the formation of pyrole from an amine and a diketonic compound can be considered one.
Aromatic compounds are unusually stable from the thermodynamic point of view. In order for an aromatic compound to undergo a chemical transformation there must be an active destabilization of its stable structure. For this reason, aromatic compounds do not undergo concerted reactions and have reactive intermediates that characterize the mechanism of all aromatic compounds.
 This modeling can be very useful in determining whether a reaction pathway will be favorable or is likely to have intermediate structures. This is mostly seen based on the energy balance of the participants in the reaction as well as the matching of the symmetry of their frontier molecular orbitals. The best approach of research in this area as well as in other areas of chemistry is to start a research that involves two aspects; the first is the experimental research and the second is the computational research which can corroborate the experimental data.

