
To boost your overall intake of Vitamin C, aim to include a Vitamin C-rich food at every meal and snack. You want to aim for 300 mg of Vitamin C daily. There are many foods to choose from which makes meeting this target fairly simple.
Try: oranges, yellow peppers, dark leafy greens (like spinach and kale), kiwis, broccoli, berries (like blueberries or raspberries), tomatoes, peas, papaya, grapefruit, pineapple and mango.;
, In addition to Vitamin C, other studies have showed that Vitamin E (a natural antioxidant) can also help slow the progression of cataracts.Vitamin E is a little trickier to find in foods, so plan out your meals wisely.


Studies have shown that Vitamin E can help prevent and slow the progression of cataracts. In addition, it helps support your immune system and can repair damaged cells (like those in your eyes).
Aim to consume about 400 IU of Vitamin E daily. You'll need to focus on including Vitamin E-rich foods in your meals to help you reach this amount.
Try: wheat germ, sunflower seeds, almonds, peanuts, peanut butter, sweet potatoes, avocado and corn oil.
 You may be aware that Vitamin A (sometimes referred to as beta carotene) is an important vitamin and nutrient for your eyes. Without adequate Vitamin A intake, your cataracts could worsen or progress more quickly.Studies have shown that those people who consumed adequate amounts of Vitamin A-rich foods (in addition to foods high in Vitamin C and E) showed less risk of developing cataracts and also a slower progression.
It's recommended to consume about 700-900 IU of Vitamin A daily. Research has shown that Vitamin A from foods is the best choice.
Try consuming more of: carrots, sweet potatoes, dark greens (like spinach and kale), pumpkin, yellow and red bell peppers, cantaloupe, apricots, salmon, broccoli, butternut squash, acorn squash and liver.
 Outside of vitamins and minerals, there are antioxidants. Both lutein and zeaxanthin are antioxidants that have been shown to have beneficial effects on eye health by slowing the progression of cataracts.Studies have shown that these two antioxidants (specifically in the family of carotenoids) are the only ones found in the eyes. Those who consumed adequate amounts had less need of cataract surgery and the progression of cataracts slowed.
Health professionals typically recommend consuming about 6 mg of a combination of both lutein and zeaxanthin daily to reduce the need for cataract surgery.
You can find these antioxidants in the following foods: eggs, green leafy vegetables (like spinach and kale), corn, peas, broccoli, green beans and oranges.
 Both green and black teas are known to have a variety of antioxidants (like catechins) and other beneficial nutrients. Recently, these same nutrients have also been shown to help slow down the progression of cataracts.One specific study showed that regular consumption of black and green teas were associated with not only preventing cataracts but also promoting the growth of new blood vessels in the eye and preventing macular degeneration.
Health professionals have not recommended a specific dosage of either green or black tea at this time.
Aim to drink at least one cup of either green or black tea daily. You can increase this amount to 2 or 3 cups if you enjoy this type of tea. Make sure to be mindful of how much sugar (or honey) you add as high quantities of sugar can affect your overall eye health.
 One important part of maintaining proper eye health is eating a balanced diet. Since it is a variety of vitamins and antioxidants that play a role in the maintenance of your eye, a balanced and varied diet is the best way to consume those important nutrients.A balanced diet includes foods from every food group each day. You should eat something from the dairy, grain, protein, fruit and vegetable group on most days.
In addition, it's important to eat a varied diet. That means eating a large variety of foods from within each food group within each week.
For example, don't only go for oranges. They are high in Vitamin C and lutein, but so are other fruits like kiwis, grapefruits, apricots and cantaloupe.
 Healthy fats, like omega-3 fats, aren't only for your heart and arteries. These nutritious fats have also been shown to maintain and improve your eye health.Studies have shown that healthy fats, like DHA, become concentrated in the retina and may prevent plaque from building up in addition to protecting the tiny blood vessels in your eye.
Health professionals have always recommended including a serving of healthy fats at least once during the week. However, to maintain eye health (and heart health), aim for a serving several times a week.
Foods that are high in healthy fats include: cold water fish (like salmon, tuna, mackerel, herring or sardines), walnuts, olives and olive oil, avocado and seeds (like chia and flaxseeds).
If you're planning to have a serving of fish, go for 3-4 oz. If you're having some avocado, measure out about 1/2 cup. For nuts, seeds and oils go for 1-2 tablespoons per serving.
 Like following a balanced and varied diet, it's important to make sure you're meeting the minimum intake guidelines for fruits and vegetables. These food groups in particular are full of nutrients that can maintain eye health.The vitamins and antioxidants that are best for preventing cataracts or slowing their progression are found in fruits and vegetables. Making sure you eat adequate amounts of these foods can help you meet the intake guidelines for those nutrients.
It's typically recommended to eat five to nine servings of fruits and vegetables daily or make half of your meals and snacks a fruit or vegetable.
Also fill up on fruits and vegetables that are dark or brightly colored. These foods have higher concentrations of those health boosting vitamins or antioxidants. Try foods like: dark greens, beets, blueberries, blackberries, pumpkin, sweet potatoes, kale, spinach, cherries or even pomegranate seeds. These are all high in a variety of nutrients.
 Both saturated fats and high levels of sugar have been linked to a variety of health issues and chronic diseases. Although not commonly known, eating fatty foods or sugary sweets can increase your risk of developing eye related health problems.One specific issue of high fat or sugary foods is that when eaten regularly, they can increase your risk of diabetes and high blood pressure. Both of these chronic diseases can increase your risk of a variety of eye-related health problems.Aim to limit or avoid foods like: fatty cuts of meat, full fat dairy products, fried foods, fast food, sweetened beverages, candy, cookies, cakes/pies, breakfast pastries, ice cream and sugary cereals.
 In addition to having a well balanced diet and focusing on foods rich in Vitamin A, C or E, you may want to consider taking a MVI formulated for eye health. These are easy to find and can help you maintain your eye health.


Always talk to your doctor before starting any type of supplements. Even a MVI should be discussed with your doctor.
Look for a MVI that has at least 100% of your daily needs for Vitamin A, C, E and zinc. Those that are designed to maintain eye health may also have added omega-3 fats or lutein and zeaxanthin.
 Unfortunately, cataracts are a progressive eye disease. Without proper care and treatment they can progress quickly and lead to blindness. Make sure that you're following up regularly with your physician to manage your cataracts.


Discuss your prognosis and treatment options with your physician. You may be able to hold off on surgery and manage your cataracts with a proper diet and supplementation.
Talk to your doctor about your current diet and any supplements that you're taking. Ask if there are any specific changes your doctor suggests.
Also ask if they recommend a specific MVI or vitamin supplement for eye health or if they sell them in their office.
 UV light from the sun can be very damaging to your body. Not only can it causes skin cancer and lesions, it can also cause damage to your eyes - like cataracts.Make sure when going out you avoid squinting your eyes from the sun or glare. If you are, you need to get out of the sunlight.
Anytime you go outside and it's sunny or there is a glare, make sure to wear UV/UVA protected sunglasses. These are designed to filter out harmful rays.
If you don't have sunglasses or need extra protection, wear a hat with a wide rim or bill to also keep sun out of your eyes.
 Although not diet related, smoking is another risk factor you can change so you can decrease your risk of developing cataracts or progressing current cataracts to a more advanced stage.Many studies have linked smoking to an increased risk of cataract formation (in addition to many other chronic health conditions).
When you quit smoking, studies have shown a decreased risk for developing cataracts in addition to a slowed progression of current cataracts.
If you currently smoke, quit immediately. Either join a smoking cessation program, see your doctor for medication or quit cold turkey.
 Cataracts are a common and early complication of diabetes, and blood sugar levels have a direct impact on their development. To fight cataracts, it is essential that you work with your doctor to keep healthy, consistent blood sugar levels.