 After shampooing your hair, don't forget to use conditioner. Hair can split and break for a number of reasons, but often it's because the hair isn't properly moisturized.


Use conditioner that's tailored to your specific hair style. For dry hair, use a conditioner with natural oils (shea butter, coconut butter, etc.), and condition the ends more than the scalp. For oily or fine hair, use a light conditioner and go very easy on conditioner near the scalp.
Moisturize at least every time you shampoo. Your hair is made out of proteins, and needs nutrients just like other organs in our body. If you shampoo every other day, be sure to hit your hair with moisturizer after each clean.
 You did all that work getting moisture into you hair — don't let it go to waste! Use products like shea butter or olive or coconut oil to help seal in the moisturizing treatment you just gave your hair.
 Put your hair up in styles such as buns and pin-ups to keep it from drying out and getting damaged. After a shower, some girls like to let their hair air-dry up in a bun for the duration of the night when they sleep.
 Give your hair a little boost at least every week or so by doing a deep treatment. Deep treatments will give your hair more moisture and protection, so that if you go 2-3 days without shampooing and conditioning, your hair is sure to retain a lot of moisture.
 People with extremely healthy hair usually have this in common: they avoid styling their hair more than is necessary.


Watch out for heat damage. Heat damage, caused by straightening hair, for example, is known to produce split ends. Use the blow-drier on the lowest heat setting when you're drying your hair. If you can, let your hair air-dry after you step out of the shower: give it a quick pat-down with a towel, spray in some detangler, give your hair a quick run-through with a comb, and let it dry on its own.
Don't brush your hair when it's wet. Your hair is very vulnerable to breakage when it's wet, so you should be careful. Use a wide-toothed comb on wet hair to cut down on split ends and other damage.

