 Know that He is mighty, is the creator of the Universe and deserves glory, praise and honor. Your prayer life should acknowledge the Lord in His rightful place in your life.;
, Overcome attitudes like unnecessarily emotional begging and pleading to God 'at bedtime' because -- for example this might cause upset sleep and bad thoughts can lead to bad dreams; be peacemaker in your own mind: how -- believe that God already knows and wants for you what you need and rightly desire (not coveting or envying). Then give thanks in advance, expecting good results (that's trusting). There is, of course, a time and a place for that pained, pleading and begging: "work out your salvation with fear and trembling", anytime you like, but bedtime is not always the best time. Though, happiness is not the goal -- rather ask for joy in whatever you experience -- for trying to stop anxious thoughts or bad dreams, ask the Lord to show you the root cause of these and take them to him in meaningful prayers (personalized), believing. Colossians 4:2, "Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving;" -- and everyday thanksgiving can bring peace into your life!

, God and Jesus have promised to bless one who blesses others and who thanks God for blessings.
 God can not look upon sin. I Corinthians 6:9-10, "Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God."

, Yet, you need to access His righteousness and forgiveness, remembering that you must also forgive, or you will not be forgiven "relationally" as a friend (and follower). So that you yourself may be more pleasing in His eye, always forgive, as it comes back to you in kind! Mark 11:25, "And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses."

, Notice what you will should be in His pleasure for you. Sin is disobedience and separates us from Him (out of His pleasure). The Holy Spirit will not dwell in an unclean temple; therefore you must repent often, be saved once and remain yielded to the will and the grace of God. Whatever you plant into the lives of others grows in your own life, i.e.: "You reap what you sow."

, Be wise enough to pray for what you want and be sure that you have the wisdom to believe when you pray, and so you shall receive. Faith makes it possible. James 1:5-8,
"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraids not; and it shall be given him.
But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavers is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed.
For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord.
A double minded man is unstable in all his ways."

, How? Make a prayer journal or a prayer list of things, people and missions you pray about. Your prayer journal may enable you to keep up with the progress in the things you pray about. But be careful. Your prayer journal is a list of things to pray about. However, it's not a score card to grade God's answers.
, "Study to show yourself approved, unto God," and to know the mind of God and His will from His written word.
 When we quit: that's it. Ephesians 6:13-14, "... and having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, ..."

, Love one another as He has loved you. Love mercy and do it! And if they are sick you should pray for them to be healed Matthew 7:12, "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets."

, Seek goodwill and the good of others in all you do or say! Pray for God to bless your enemies with good things. Considering that is a direct instruction from His word, we need to practice that whether we like it or not.
 Remain in a spirit of thankfulness and gratitude: blessing others for God hears such things as a living prayer, and it counts as praying ceaselessly as you glorify God as you treat others as you would want to be treated. And whatever you do to the least of these, you do to the Lord, good or bad.
 God obviously knows every aspect of your life (lying won't help), and He knows your struggles and sins. He knows how you feel. He loves and cares for you without limit. Since He is love and mercy, He doesn't unfairly favor anyone because He created and seeks to heal and save all of us if we have faith and follow in God's will.



Jesus said:"When you pray, do not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by men. I tell you the truth, they have received their reward in full. But when you pray, go into your room, close the door and pray to your Father, who is unseen. Then your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you."Matthew 6:5-6
Jesus also said:"When you pray, do not keep on babbling like Pharisees, for they think they will be heard because of their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him."Matthew 6:7-8
Pray with right motives, not self-serving. Let your thoughts be of good reasons, and when you pray ask yourself whether it is going to bring glory to God or not. (James 5:3)

