 It seems hard to do and nerdy, but it's very much worth it. Do so before you give a sadistic punch to that kid who beat you at soccer, before you cheat off that smart and highbrow person in your class, and before you vehemently talk back to your teacher. Think, reflect and judge. "Could I get into trouble if I do this?" "Could I get a detention?" "Could I endure the punishments?" "Would my teacher/parents approve of what I'm about to do?" It'll take some practice, but soon enough, it'll come automatically like an intuition.;
, This is hard for everyone, but it will save you a good many detentions. Don't pick on anyone or say anything that you could get into trouble for. Avoid physical fighting at all costs.


If you have to stick up for your friend or you can't just let someone insult you, stick to stuff like, "Push off/Go away," "You can't talk," and "Oh, shut it." That stuff still sounds cool and assertive, but it's just mild enough to keep you out of trouble, rather than physically attacking people.
 If you and your teacher loathe each other, you're more likely to get a detention. Obey and respect your teacher at all times. Don't suck up to your teacher, just make sure you listen in their classes and aren't too cheeky and disruptive. A little mouth shutting and behaving well can pay off, big time.
 It might seem like this has nothing to do with detention, but you'll find that if you're nice to people, they'll back you up and won't dob you in. So have patience and be nice to everyone. Try to avoid the impulse to give them wet willies. A little smile could save you from a deadly detention.
 This is a very important step. Reread your school's rules and regulations and abstain from vandalizing, etc. By being lawful, you don't have to worry about receiving a detention.
 If that person tattle-taled on you, calmly tell your teacher your side of the story.
 If another student does/says something that you know is wrong, or think may possibly be wrong, you might be in doubt as to whether it is acceptable. Do not copy his/her behavior. This applies, even if he/she is labelled by school officials as a rightful person. Sometimes he or she may do very bad things, but copying him or her could result in a detention.

