 Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted viral infection (STI). It can be caused by the herpes simplex type 1 or type 2 (HSV-1 or HSV-2) viruses. Most cases of genital herpes are caused by HSV-2. HSV-1 more often causes sores or fever blisters on the mouth and lips. , Genital herpes is spread by direct sexual contact, genitally, anally or orally, with someone who is infected. Transmission is more common if the individual has open sores, but HSV can be transmitted by a person without any obvious sores. Birth control doesn’t protect against HSV infection. Male or female condoms do not always protect you because the sores are not always located on the genitals, though condoms may decrease the risk.


You can infect your partner whether or not you are having an outbreak, although the risk is lowest between outbreaks.
If you have any oral lesions, you should not give oral sex or receive oral sex from someone who has oral lesions.
In men, the sores or lesions are usually on and around the penis or around the anus. In women, the sores may be around the genitals, the anus or located in the vagina. The sores or lesions in the vagina may not be noticed except during an examination and can cause discomfort and/or a vaginal discharge.
The only way to prevent infection is to avoid having vaginal, anal or oral sex., Many people with genital herpes don’t have symptoms. Others can have mild outbreaks while others have severe outbreaks. Because of this, someone can pass along the infection without even knowing they have HSV. If a person does have symptoms, they usually get sores. Then fluid-filled blisters can form around the genitals or the rectum. The blisters can break, leaving tender areas. The sores may show up within 2 weeks of infection and can last for 2-3 weeks.Other common symptoms include an itching, tingling or a burning feeling in the genitals or in the anal area, flu-like symptoms, including fever, aches and pains, pain in the legs, buttocks, or genital area, vaginal discharge, swollen glands usually located in the groin or along the neck, and pain when urinating or having a bowel movement.
 HSV infection can result in long-lasting and recurrent outbreaks. The virus can remain hidden for a long time without showing symptoms. There is no clear cause for the virus to become active again. However, outbreaks tend to occur during times of fatigue, stress, and illness. For women, it can often resurface during a period. The average number of outbreaks is around 4-5 the first year. After that, your body tends to build a better immune response. The frequency, and sometimes the symptoms, decrease as time goes on., HSV is particularly a problem for individuals with a weakened immune system. It is also problematic for women who are pregnant or who want to get pregnant. HSV infections can lead to miscarriages and premature delivery. A mother can infect her babies with HSV. This infection can be very dangerous.


Moms who are HSV generally are scheduled for a C-section because this reduces the risk of infection.
HSV infection may increase the risk for cervical cancer. Women with HSV infections should get regular pap smears., HSV can be diagnosed during an outbreak by examining the sores and taking a sample to be tested in a lab. Make an appointment with your physician for the testing. Taking a sample from the sore is generally not very painful, but if the area is very sore, you may experience some pain.


If you don't have obvious sores, your doctor can give you a blood test that checks for antibodies to the virus.
Ask your doctor if the sore may be the cause of other medical issues. These include fungal infections, Hand-Foot-and-Mouth disease, syphilis, and a Herpes zoster infection.