 All right, now that you've got the meat of it together, how do you put it onto paper? Well, for starters, cut it to length. It should be a page long at most, if that. No one's going to waste time on 5 paragraphs unless you're covering WWIII. Here's what you need (some of which we've already covered):FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE should go at the top of the page, on the left margin.

If the release is embargoed, put "EMBARGOED UNTIL..." with the date you want the story released. A release with no release date is presumed to be for immediate release.


The headline, usually in bold, should be centered below that.

If you'd like, put a subhead in italics (briefly elaborating the headline).



First paragraph: most important information. May be quite news-like in that, it starts with a date or where the news is coming from.

Second (and probable third) paragraph: secondary information. Should include quotes and facts.

Boilerplate information: more on your company. Who are you, really? What achievements do you have? What's your mission?

Contact information: more on the writer (probably you!). If you grab someone's interest, they'll want to be able to find out more!

Multimedia: in today's day and age, there's always some Twitter handle to be had.
 That means it's time to include information about your company. When a journalist picks up your press release for a story, he or she would logically have to mention the company in the news article. Journalists can then get the company information from this section.


The title for this section should be "About ."
After the title, use a paragraph or two to describe your company with 5 or 6 lines each. The text must describe your company, its core business and the business policy. Many businesses already have professionally written brochures, presentations, business plans, etc. That introductory text can be put here.
At the end of this section, point to your website. The link should be the exact and complete URL without any embedding so that, even if this page is printed, the link will be printed as it is. For example: http://www.example.com, not Click here to visit the website.
Companies which maintain a separate media page on their websites must point to that URL here. A media page typically has contact information and press kits.
 If your press release is really newsworthy, journalists would surely like more information or would like to interview key people associated with it. If you are comfortable with the idea of letting your key people be contacted directly by media, you can provide their contact details on the press release page itself. For example, in the case of an innovation, you can provide the contact information of your engineering or research team for the media.


If not, you must provide the details of your media/PR department in the "Contact" section. If you do not have dedicated team for this function, you must appoint somebody who will act as a link between the media and your people.
The contact details must be limited and specific only to the current press release. The contact details must include:

The company's official name
Media department's official name and contact person
Office address
Telephone and fax numbers with proper country/city codes and extension numbers
Mobile phone number (optional)
Times of availability
Email addresses
Website address



, It's good practice to keep a log of all of your press releases housed on your own website. This can make providing such a link easier to produce, as well as keeping a record for historical purposes.
 Center these directly underneath the last line of the release. This is a journalistic standard. It may look like you're over-tweeting, but you're not. This is how it's done.

