 Discard any strawberries that show signs of damage:Mushy or leaking juice
Large white or green areas
Dry, brown caps instead of green
You can use strawberries with missing caps and stems, but they won't last as long.;
, Fill a colander with the strawberries. Rinse under cool, running water. Gently shake the colander to clean all sides of the strawberries.Don't wash the strawberries more than an hour in advance. They spoil quickly once washed.
 Even a drop of water can make the chocolate grainy and unpleasant. Pat dry, then space the strawberries out on dry paper towels to finish air drying. Leave them at room temperature to avoid condensation from the fridge., Push a toothpick into each strawberry cap. You can skip this if the stems are still attached.
 Parchment paper will work as well. Aluminum foil will prevent sticking just as well, but may leave a pattern on the chocolate strawberries.
 Besides the taste, cheap chocolate may not melt and harden evenly. Semisweet, bittersweet, or dark chocolate is easier to melt than milk and white chocolate.Use chocolate chips, or chop bars into even, ¼ inch (6 mm) pieces.
"Candy melts" are extra-easy to use, but usually don't taste as good as real chocolate.If using a candy melt, follow the instructions on the label.
 This makes the chocolate smoother and easier to use as a dip. Mix in 2 teaspoons (10 milliliters) unsalted butter for every 8 ounces (225 grams) chocolate.Never use more than this, or the water in the butter could ruin the chocolate's texture.


Shortening has no liquid, so it will never ruin the chocolate. However, it should only be added after the chocolate has melted., You can make one of these at home by placing a stainless steel or heat-safe glass bowl over an ordinary pan. Fill the pan with an inch or two (2.5–5 cm) of water, but make sure it doesn't touch the bottom of the bowl.Bring the water to a simmer, then add chocolate to the bowl and stir until melted.


Use the lowest heat setting possible to keep the water simmering. Chocolate melts at low temperatures, and can separate if heated too high.
 Be aware that this method comes with a high risk of damaged chocolate. It should only be used for small amounts of dark or bittersweet chocolate. Set the microwave to defrost or the lowest power setting. Microwave the bowl of chocolate for 30 seconds, then take out and stir. Repeat in 15–30 second intervals until fully melted. Let stand 30 seconds, then stir one last time.Melted chocolate may still look shiny and hard, and will not feel hot. You'll have to give it a stir to test for melting.
 Leave the chocolate at room temperature for a couple minutes. It's easiest to dip strawberries in chocolate that's at around 100ºF (38ºC). This is roughly human body temperature, so it will feel tepid.
 Hold each strawberry by the stem or using a toothpick. Dip it into the melted chocolate, nearly up to the green cap. As you pull it out, give it a small shake. This fills in gaps in the chocolate and leaves a smooth line. Finish by rotating the strawberry to let excess chocolate drip off.
 Place the dipped strawberries upside-down on the baking sheet covered in wax paper. Space them so they don't touch, or they'll stick together.
 Sprinkle chopped nuts or sprinkles over the chocolate while it is still soft. Or, if you'd like to add a classic white chocolate drizzle, refrigerate the strawberries first. Melt the white chocolate the same way as before, then drizzle it over the hardened chocolate using a fork.
 Leave them in the refrigerator until the chocolate hardens completely. This should minimize the chance of white fat "blooming" to the surface.


The chocolate is still safe to eat if it does bloom. You may wish to decorate it as described above, in order to hide the white surface.
 These are best served the same day they are made. If storing them longer term, you have a few options:Room temperature: Hold flavor best, but only lasts 2–3 days. Keep covered but not in airtight container. May become limp. Hot temperatures will cause white fat blooms.

Refrigerator: Keeps for 5–7 days. Lay a paper towel at the base of a container and sprinkle with baking soda, then add berries and cover. This absorbs moisture, preventing sugar in the chocolate from forming white crystals.

Freezer: Best within 3 months, but keeps indefinitely. Chocolate must cover 100% of the strawberry to lock in juices. Freeze separated on a flat sheet first, to prevent sticking together.

