


Rom 8:1 There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but Spirit. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, in that is was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh: That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.

Condemnation means in the Strong's Hebrew and Greek dictionary "to judge against", thus there is no judgment against them which are in Christ. God condemned our sins once and for all on the cross.
Rom 5:19 For as by one man's disobedience (Adam) many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one (Jesus) shall many be made righteous.

Righteousness means just, blameless, honest, spotless, guiltless, innocent and flawless. Jesus by his death made us righteous (blameless and guiltless), and the law is not for the righteous man.;
,


Rom 8:31 What shall we then say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He that spared not His own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things. Who shall lay anything charge to God's elect? It is God that justifies.

Justifies means to declare free of blame, to free a human of guilt and penalty attached to grievous sin.



Rom 8:16-18 The spirit itself bears witness with our Spirit, that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs of God; and joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with Him, that we may also be Glorified together.

Bears means to hold up, support. The Holy Spirit supports and hold us up.



Rev 12:10 And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, 'Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night.'

Accuser means to charge with a shortcoming or error. Accusation means an allegation that a person is guilty of some offense, fault, crime, imputation. Hallelujah, so it is not God accusing us but Satan. We should not accept the accusation or condemnation, because God justifies us and forgives us for all our sin.
One may receive God's provision in Christ Jesus, who gave Himself freely as redeemer.

Redeemer means one who pays for the debt, mistake or crime of another, or buys one out of slavery, from the Law of Sin and Death.
John 3:17 But "God did not send His Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world might be saved through Him."

