 Your own Twitter account and tweets will likely play a big part in getting a reply from your idol. Depending on who your idol is, they may or may not appreciate certain tone, language, or other elements of your tweets. Try to use language that you think your idol will most enjoy.For example, a profanity loaded tweet sent to Martha Stewart is highly unlikely to be noticed.
On the other hand, tweeting your favorite comedian a rude joke might be appreciated.
Always customize your tone to match the interests and image of your idol.;
, Letting your idol know how they have helped you in your own life can make them more likely to respond. You might try letting them know about something they did or said that you found meaningful and helpful. Share how your idols actions and words have had an impact on your life to increase the chances that they will respond.


For example, your idol might have inspired you to create some art or music.
Maybe something your idol said got your through a difficult time.
 Retweeting your idol's tweets can be a great way to show how much your enjoy their content and will help to support them. If you find a tweet from your idol that you enjoy, try to retweet it. Having a history of retweeting your idol's tweets can increase the chances that they will respond to one of your own tweets.Try not to retweet everything as your own followers may not share the same appreciation of your idol.
 Your goal will be to catch the attention of your idol. A great way to do this is to do some research into their own personal interests. Take some time and find out some things that your idol loves and try building your tweets around those interests. By including personally interesting content for your celebrity to read you will increase your chances of being noticed.For example, your idol might love video games. Posting something about gaming might help get their attention.
Try to make your tweets in-line with whatever image your idol is presenting.
 A large part of getting noticed by your idol on Twitter is timing. If you tweet too long after your idol does there is a lower chance of them seeing it. You will need to reply to your idol's tweets as soon as they are posted. Doing so will get your tweet higher up in the time-line and more noticeable.Keep an eye on your idols account to see when they are online.
Watch for new tweets and reply as soon as you can.
You can set your Twitter app to send you push notifications whenever your idol tweets. This will allow you to respond instantly without being glued to your Twitter feed.

