 Before initiating the salat, it is important that your intention be known and understood. Not necessarily aloud, but from within.


You may think about how many rakats you are going to do and for what purpose. Whatever it is, be sure you mean it.
 This translates to "Allah is the greatest." Do this while standing (or sitting if you can't stand).
 Do not let your eyes wander.


Recite the Isteftah Dua/opening prayer (optional):
subhanakal-lahumma
wabihamdika watabarakas-muka wataaaala
judduka wala ilaha ghayruk.
a’auodu billaahi minash-shaytaanir rajeem
bis-millaahir rahmaanir raheem
Follow it with the opening chapter of the Qu'ran, the Surah Al- Fatiha (this Surah is recited in each Rak'ah):
al-hamdu lillaahi
rabbil’aalameen
arrahmaanir raheem maaliki yawmideen
iyyaaka na-budo wa-iyyaaka nasta’een
ihh dinas siraathall mustaqeem 
siraatal ladheena an’amta alayhim
ghayril maghduobi’alayhim
waladduaaalleen
ameen
Recite any other surah or any part of Qu'ran such as:
Bismillaa hir rahmaan-irraheem
Qul huwal-lahu ahad
alluhus-samad
Lam yalid wa lam yulad
Wa lam yakul-lahu kufuwan ahad

, While bending, say "Allah - Akbar." Bend your body so that your back and neck are straight and level with the ground, keeping your eyes there. Your back and head should be in a 90 degree angle with your legs. This position is called "ruku'."


Once you are bent to the proper angle, say, "Subhanna - Rabbeyal - Azzem - wa - Bi - haamdeh" three times. This translates to, "Glorious is my Lord, the most great."

, Whilst rising up recite "Sameya - Allahu - leman - Hameda with your arms beside you."


This means, "Allah hears those who praise Him. O our Lord, and all praise is to you." Whilst standing up recite Rabana Walakal Hamd once.
 This is the position called "sajdah." Whilst doing that say, "Allah - Akbar."


When you are positioned fully, say "Subhanna - Rabbeyal - Alla - wal - Bi - haamdee" three times.
 Place your left foot from ball to heel on the floor. Your right foot should be toes on the floor only. Place your hands flat on your knees. Recite "Rab-ig - Figr - Lee, Wa-ar - haam - ni, Waj - bur - nii, Wa-ar - faa - nii, Wa-ar - zuq - nii, Wah - dee - nee, Waa - Aafee - nii, Waa - fuu - annii." This means "Lord, forgive me."


Return to sajda and, just as before, say "Subhanna - Rabbeyal - Alla - wal - Bi - haamdee" three times.
 Stand up and say, ""Allah - Akbar." You have completed 1 Rakat. Depending on the time of day, you may need to complete up to three more.


In every second rakaat, after second sajda, sit on your knee again and recite "Atta - hiyyatul - Muba - rakaatush - shola - waa - tuth thaa - yi - batu - lillaah, Assa - laamu - alaika - ayyuhan - nabiyyu warah - matullaahi - wabaa - rakaatuh, Assaa - laamu - alaina - wa alaa - ibaadil - laahish - sho - le - heen. Asyhadu - allaa - ilaaha - illallaah, Wa - asyhadu - anna - Muhammadan rasuul - lullaah. Allah - humma - sholli - alaa - Muhammad - wa - ala - aali - Muhammad.”

This is called "tashahhud."



, After the tashahhud, pray to Allah before signing off with these movements and words:


Turn your head to the right and say, "As Salam Alaykum wa Rahmatullahi wa Barakatuhu'." The angel who records your good deeds is to this side.
Turn your head to the left and say, "As Salam Alaykum wa Rahmatullahi wa Barakatuhu'." The angel who records your wrongful deeds is to this side. The prayers have ended!

