 You would see flannels, Nirvana, unwashed hair and all that jazz, along with some elements from the modern soft grunge subculture, like pastel hair and such.
Soft grunge: basically a generalization, it is in a sense related to seapunk, pastel goth, 90s grunge, hipster and the emo subcultures.
Dark grunge: the "goth" part is stronger. Wears muted/dark colors and the brighter colors are seen on their hair rather than on their clothes.
Pale grunge: the opposite of dark grunge - pale grunge is almost like a watered down version of pastel goth.;
, Dyed hair is very common, especially pastel and unnatural colors such as lavender, pink, blue, mint and silver. If you don't want a full commitment, an ombre or balayage would be a good choice. Getting it done at a professional salon is ideal, but you can also do it at home.,

Foundation: a medium to full coverage foundation is recommended. Remember to blend it all the way onto your neck and hairline.
Brows: go for full, bold brows, but never go darker than your natural hair color (unless you are blonde). Make sure you don't sport Sharpie brows though.
Eyes: after applying an eye primer, apply taupe all over your lids, all the way to the crease and the lower lashline. Then apply a dark brown onto your upper lashline, outer V and blend. Apply mascara and tightline.
Lips: soft grunge lips are usually nude, but you can go for a berry color if you like.
Contouring: skip the bronzer and head to a contour powder (bronzers are often shimmery and orange and therefore not to be used for shaping the face). Make sure it's about two or three shades darker than your skin tone and apply it, with a fluffy brush, onto the hollows of your cheek.
 Some soft grunge staples are:

Leather jackets
Band tees
Ripped jeans
Ripped leggings
Doc Martens
Flannels
Graphic tees
Denim jacket
Oversized knitted sweater
Ripped shorts
Creepers
Boots
Denim skirt
Leather skirt
Circled sunglasses
Tie dye
Knee high socks
Button ups
Ripped tights

, It follows the original 90s grunge attitude, which could be summed up with "I don't care". Kurt Cobain did it best - but you can do it too. Without the attitude, you're going to be labelled a poser and that would be the last thing you want.