 The only difference between the double-leg takedown in mixed martial arts and in wrestling is the set-up. Without the right set-up for the maneuver, shooting in for a takedown of this sort in MMA can get you choked out quickly, because of the variety of strikes, chokes, and other defensive maneuvers available. For this reason, setting up your opponent for a double-leg takedown is almost more important than the maneuver itself.


If you shoot in from too far away and drop to your knee with your head in your opponent's armpit, you might as well wear a sign that says, "Hey, guillotine-choke me!" You've got to use this move in tandem with set-ups to get your opponents arms out of the way and get them to the ground before a strike is possible.
 One of the most straight-forward and common ways of trying to set up the double-leg takedown is by striking at the head with jabs to draw your opponent's arms up into a defensive position, then shooting in for the takedown.While this still leaves you open to a knee or to a choke, you can get past your opponent's guard if you do it quick enough.


Alternatively, faking a double-leg is sometimes a good way of dropping your opponent's arms to open up for strike attacks.
 One of the best ways of defending a quick wrestling-style shoot for a takedown is with a hard knee strike to the head. It's a quick way to end the match and a devastating strike. Since you know this, you can try to draw out a premature knee by juking in as if you're about to shoot, but pulling up short.


Practice half-shoots, in which you fake a shoot from far away, keeping your eye on your opponent's knee the whole time, to make sure you come up short when it's thrown. As soon as you see it up in the air, shoot back in to finish off the job. Your opponent will already be off-balance with one leg in the air.
 Shooting in for a double is usually best after you've worn each other down some, and your opponent is grabbing for your shoulders, rather than striking out. A quick chop upward with your hands, striking your opponent's elbows with the space between your thumb and forefinger, should be effective in breaking their grip and allowing you to shoot in for a takedown. Stay low and watch for knees, then chop upward hard, using a short jab with your hands to get your opponent's arms up. Shoot in normally.
 Another effective method of setting up a double-leg takedown in MMA is with a Russian arm bar combination, which will allow you to tangle your opponent's arms and open up the lower body for a takedown.When your opponent reaches in to grab the back of your head with one hand, grasp the forearm with a baseball-style grip, hugging it close into your body in a Russian arm bar. Your opponent's natural instinct will be to push away from you with the other hand, at which point you can duck down, shoot the barred arm up into the other arm, tangling them and getting them out of the way. Drop into your shoot for the double-leg takedown.

