 Make sure your hygiene is "Perfect". Put on a nice suit, shave, and use some perfume if you're a woman.;
, Take a lot of time practicing tasks such as parking a big car in a tight car park or parking spot, gently accelerating/turning and braking the "chauffeur" car. Get familiar with the car you will be using.
 Below are some examples:


If you chauffeur your kids or friends around everyday, you probably don't need any special transportation vehicle; your daily family car will fit the deal.
If you chauffeur your wife/girlfriend/mother for the weekend in short distances, your daily family car will fit the deal perfectly once more.
If you are going on a longer trip and you have a car that belongs to the "touring" car category, such as BMW 5/7 series, an Audi A6/A8, or a Mercedes E/S class, or this type of vehicle, prefer this one because they have a more comfortable ride. They offer a good variety of equipment whether it is for safety, comfort or entertainment.
 If you are planning to buy another car to be the chauffeur car, look at your needs and the available budget first.


For a low to medium budget there is lots of cars out there that are very comfortable, safe, and built to "eat" kilometers/miles. Search brands that have a long history record on luxury cruisers, because these companies know how to build very good cruisers.
If you have a medium to high budget, consider cars such as BMW 7 Series, Audi A8, Mercedes S Class, Lexus LS Series, etc.
If you have a budget that is higher than the average high budget, consider a GT (Gran Turismo), or category cars such as the Aston Martin Rapide, Aston Martin DB9, Bentley Continental Flying Spur, Bentley Mulsanne, Ferrari 612 Scaglietti, Ferrari FF, etc. Remember there are thousands of good condition used luxury or hyper-luxury cars that are the bargains of the century.
 The car that is used should always be as clean as possible, fully filled up with gas, and well maintained so that it won't break down or do strange noises during the drive. It's also important to do the regular checks such as fluid level, tyre pressure, and other everyday maintenance.
 A typical greeting (as you would always greet them) is okay. If you will also have somebody in the car who is a stranger for you or someone much older than you, make a gentleman greeting and open the door for him. If you chauffeur someone with high reputation (you will probably be a chauffeur for a living in this option) greet them again as a gentleman and open the door for him.
 Try to drive at the speed of the traffic flow and avoid constant overtaking. Be sure to stop gently and also drive off gently. When overtaking. Try not to accelerate too hard or floor it because high speeds could scare some passengers.


A V8 is good entry level engine, as it has good low end and medium end torque, so you don't have to downshift or accelerate too hard. The V12 engine is the boss in these cars because it has a lot of torque, so you almost don't need to downshift. You just have to press a bit more on the accelerator. V12 engines also are extremely smooth and quiet in the way they deliver both power and torque. If you are chauffeuring your family and friends, you can show them what your V8 Charger or Bi-Turbo V12 S600 can do, but avoid doing that when you are transporting a stranger. You can accelerate a bit more quickly from time to time and, if you see that he/she likes it, then it's okay if you drive a bit faster, especially if it is going to make the ride a bit more exciting. However, you should still always obey traffic laws and never break the speed limit.
 If you transfer your family/friends stop as close to your destination as possible, let them get off the car so you don't have to carry them with you while searching for an empty parking spot. If an elderly passenger or a passenger with special needs requires assistance, provide it. If you have an important passenger (minister, star, singer etc) in the car, stop, turn on the hazard lights, and open the door for them. Then find a place to park the car.

