 It can also serve as the time that you take care of the remains.Your memorial service can be as private, or as public, as you like, but it should be meaningful to you in order to help you cope with your loss.


If you would like to share this time with others, invite people close to who had a chance to spend time with or meet your dog.
You may want to display pictures of some of your times together or light a candle in honor of your dog.
You can also say a few words, play a song, or recall a memory that reminds you of your dog. Do what feels appropriate and meaningful to you.
You can hold this ceremony each year on the dog’s birthday, adoption anniversary, or anniversary of their death.
 It’s likely that there are a lot of large and small things about your dog that you’ll want to remember. It may be difficult for you to do now, but taking the time to gather and store some of your dog’s favorite objects and things that remind you of your dog can help you cope with your loss. Although you may not want to keep everything, save a few items to help preserve your memory of your dog.If it is too upsetting for you to do this right now, then you could also ask a friend or family member to do it for you. They can dispose of these things for you in the way that you specify, or you can simply ask them to hold onto these things until you are ready to deal with them yourself.
 An album, photo collage, or scrapbook of items related to your dog is one way you can preserve their memory. Include pictures, vet reports, adoption papers, training certificates, and other things that help you remember your dog.


Use the time you spend collecting items for the project to reflect on the memories you have with your dog.
Consider making an online scrapbook, webpage, or blog about your dog as an alternative or supplement to a hard copy.
 This is an excellent way to preserve some of your dog’s items that won’t fit in a scrapbook. You might include favorite toys, photos you have of the two of you, their collar, and other things that give you fond memories of them. You can look through the box any time you want to remember your dog.


Decorate the box with dog-themed pictures, stickers, or other art that makes you think of your dog.
If you have an annual ceremony to remember your dog, you can use some of the items from the memory box at the ceremony.
 Although you may not want or need to go out and adopt a new dog, doing things to help other dogs is one way to cope with your grief and remember your own dog.Consider making a donation to an animal rescue or rights organization in your dog’s name. Or, you may want to volunteer at an animal shelter or clinic in your area.
 In some cases, your dog might have been a significant part of other people’s lives as well. Give these people the time, space, and respect the need to grieve and memorialize your dog as well.For example, respect it if your partner doesn’t want to throw away the old shoe that your dog used to chew up. It may have sentimental value for your partner.
Or, for instance, allow your children to remember your dog in their way, even if it doesn’t make sense to you.

