 Galvanized metal is metal that has been coated with a thin layer of zinc to protect it from corrosion. Zinc is more chemically-active than the underlying metal, so it oxidizes when exposed to air. Once the zinc layer oxidizes, it forms a protective coating, preventing further corrosion of the metal underneath. The most common type of galvanization today is a process called hot-dip galvanization in which metal parts (usually steel) are submerged in a vat of hot, molten zinc to gain a uniform coating.


This process involves handling industrial chemicals, some of which are hazardous at room temperature, at extremely hot temperatures and thus should not be attempted by anyone other than trained professionals. Below are the basic steps of the hot-dip galvanization process for steel:

The steel is cleaned with a caustic solution to remove dirt, grease, paint, etc., then thoroughly rinsed.
The steel is pickled in acid to remove mill scale, then rinsed.
A material called a flux is applied to the steel and allowed to dry. This helps the final zinc coating adhere to the steel.
The steel is dipped in a vat of molten zinc and allowed to heat to the temperature of the zinc.
The steel is cooled in a "quench tank" containing water.
 One way to protect a metal object from corrosion is to electrically attach a small, reactive piece of metal called a sacrificial anode to it. Because of the electrochemical relationship between the larger metal object and the small reactive object (explained briefly below), only the small, reactive piece of metal will undergo corrosion, leaving the large, important metal object intact. When the sacrificial anode corrodes completely, it must be replaced or the larger metal object will begin to corrode. This method of corrosion protection is often used for buried structures, like underground storage tanks, or objects in constant contact with water, like boats.


Sacrificial anodes are made from several different types of reactive metal. Zinc, aluminum, and magnesium are three of the most common metals used for this purpose. Because of the chemical properties of these materials, zinc and aluminum are often used for metal objects in saltwater, whereas magnesium is more suitable for fresh water purposes.
The reason a sacrificial anode works has to do with the chemistry of the corrosion process itself. When a metal object corrodes, areas that chemically resemble the anodes and cathodes in an electrochemical cell naturally form. Electrons flow from the most anode parts of the metal surface into surrounding electrolytes. Since sacrificial anodes are very reactive compared to the metal of the object being protected, the object itself becomes very cathodic in comparison and, thus, electrons flow out of the sacrificial anode, causing it to corrode but sparing the rest of the metal.
 Because the chemical process behind metal corrosion involves electric current in the form of electrons flowing out of the metal, it's possible to use an outside source of electric current to overpower the corrosive current and prevent corrosion. Essentially, this process (called impressed current) confers a continuous negative electrical charge on the metal being protected. This charge overpowers the current causing electrons to flow out of the metal, halting corrosion. This type of protection is often used for buried metal structures like storage tanks and pipelines.


Note that the type of current used for impressed current protection systems is usually direct current (DC).
Usually, corrosion-preventing impressed current is generated by burying two metal anodes in the soil near the metal object to be protected. Current is sent through an insulated wire to the anodes, which then flows through the soil and into the metal object. Current passes through the metal object and returns to the source of the current (generator, rectifier, etc.) through an insulated wire. , Anodizing is a special type of protective surface coating used to protect metal from corrosion and also to apply to apply dies and so forth. If you've ever seen a brightly-colored metal carabiner, you've seen a dyed anodized metal surface. Rather than involving the physical application of a protective coating, as with painting, anodizing uses an electric current to give the metal a protective coating that prevents nearly all forms of corrosion.


The chemical process behind anodization involves the fact that many metals, like aluminum, naturally form chemical products called oxides when they come into contact with oxygen in the air. This results in the metal normally having a thin outer oxide layer which protects (to varying degree, depending on the metal) against further corrosion. The electric current used in the anodizing process essentially creates a much thicker buildup of this oxide on the surface of the metal than would normally occur, providing great protection from corrosion.
There are several different ways to anodize metals. Below are the basic steps of one anodizing process.See How to Anodize Aluminum for more information.

The aluminum is cleaned and de-greased.
The aluminum's surface impurities are removed with a de-smut solution.
The aluminum is lowered into an acid bath at a constant current and temperature (for instance, 12 amps/sq ft and 70-72 degrees F (21-22 degrees C).
The aluminum is removed and rinsed.
The aluminum is optionally submerged in dye at 100-140 degrees F (38-60 degrees C).
The aluminum is sealed by placing it in boiling water for 20-30 minutes.
 As noted above, some metals naturally form a protective oxide coating upon exposure to air. Some metals form this oxide coating so effectively that they eventually become relatively chemically inactive. We say that these metals are passive in reference to the process of passivation by which they become less reactive. Depending on its desired use, a passive metal object may not necessarily need any extra protection to make it corrosion-resistant.


One well-known example of a metal that exhibits passivation is stainless steel. Stainless steel is an alloy of ordinary steel and chromium that is effectively corrosion-proof in most conditions without requiring any other protection. For most day-to-day uses, corrosion isn't usually a concern with stainless steel.

However, it bears mentioning that in certain conditions, stainless steel is not 100% corrosion-proof - notably, in salt water. Similarly, many passive metals become non-passive under certain extreme conditions and thus may not be suited for all uses.



