 Popovers get their shape because the high heat quickly puffs up the steam inside the pastry, so your oven needs to be hot.
 You do not need a popover pan to make them, as a regular muffin dish will work fine. You can also use 6-ounce custard dishes.Non-stick cooking spray can substituted for butter.
 You can also use a food processor if you prefer.
 You do not want to overmix, as this leads to a coarse and chewy popover. Simply whisk it until there are no more chunks of flour, then stop.


You should see little air bubbles – this is what will cause the popover to rise later.
 To make popovers “pop” you need to preheat the pan. This heats up the batter and causes it to grow rapidly in the first 20 minutes in the oven.
 Put an equal amount of batter in each popover pan, muffin dish, or custard cup and put them in the oven.


Some cooks suggest quickly whisking the batter before pouring so that it is frothy and airy as it goes into the pan.Be careful-- the dish will still be hot from the oven.
 Quickly get the batter back into the oven after pouring the batter and cook it for 20 minutes.
 This is the golden rule of popovers! The high heat inside the oven creates steam that shoots the popover sky high, but even quickly opening the oven lets out enough heat to deflate them. Resist the temptation to check your pastries and leave the oven closed., After the first 20 minutes, the popovers will have a crispy shell and will retain their form. Lower the heat and cook them for an additional 10-20 minutes, or until the outsides are golden brown.


It is safe to open the oven door during this second cooking period.
If you have 2 pans of popovers in, rotate them now so that they heat evenly.
 The outside will be crispy and the popover won’t collapse or crumble, so quickly pull them out of the oven and set them aside to cool.
 This allows the steam to quickly escape the pastry and keep it crispy when you serve it., Popovers are best right out of the oven, so eat them right away whenever possible.
 Melt 2-3 tablespoons of butter and whisk it into the batter with the milk and eggs for a rich, buttery popover.


Let the butter cool slightly after melting it – otherwise it might cook the eggs slightly.;
, Simply sprinkle shredded cheese, such as gruyere or cheddar, on top of the batter before it goes in the oven, then cook normally. The final popover will by topped with crispy, delicious cheese.
 Simply add 1-2 tablespoons of sugar with the flour and whisk it into the batter, then add whatever other sweet ingredients your heart desires. Some ideas include:½ teaspoon vanilla extract and 2 teaspoons orange zest
½ teaspoon vanilla and 1 ounce chopped semisweet chocolate.Brush the tops of cooked popovers with melted butter, then sprinkle with ground cinnamon and sugar., Popovers are a fantastic addition to dinners in place of rolls or bread, and can be customized to fit your meal. Try mixing and matching the following variations, adding them to your batter with the flour:


¼ cup chives, chopped finely
¼ cup roasted shallots or garlic, chopped finely1 teaspoon rosemary, thyme, or basil, minced
4 pieces cooked bacon, finely chopped

