 This website will show you where you need to register your assumed business name according to the type of business you will conduct.;
, Find the correct agency according to the state chart below. Not all states require you to register a name, while others refer you to the Secretary of State, County Clerk or another government agency.


Your state may refer to an assumed business name in other terms, such as a fictitious business name or a DBA. Look for these terms on the site.
 In some instances, you cannot use a geographical area unless you are located there. You will not be able to duplicate your name with another business in the county or state.


Many states require you to file within the first month of doing business under the fictitious name. This requirement may be longer or shorter depending upon the state.
The state may require you to list your fictitious name in a newspaper for a period of time. This is to inform the public and prevent fraud. It also creates another public record of the change.
 This is sometimes called a "Business Entity Search." It will allow you to search for duplicate names in the state.
 You will need to include the legal name of the business, its address, contact information, social security number or employer identification number and description of its services. The legal name depends upon the type of business.


The legal name of a sole proprietorship is the full legal name of the owner.
The legal name of a partnership is the name listed in your partnership agreement or the legal last names of the partners.
The legal name of a limited liability corporation (LLC) or corporation is the name that was registered in the state when the corporation was formed.
 This is usually approximately $20 to $30. There may be an additional $5 fee for filing or re-filing a name.
 Make a copy of the form and payment for your records. You may be able to expedite the processing time for an additional fee.
 Save the certificate when it arrives. You will need it in order to open bank accounts.
 The State of California requires that the business announce its name within 30 days of registering. It must run the ad for 4 consecutive weeks in an adjudicated newspaper.
 They can range from every year to every 10 years.

