 This is especially true in a social situation like a bar, dance club, or party. Many people do go to these places to seek out a sexual partner, but not always. Therefore, always respect people’s boundaries and choices.Common body language signs given off women who are not interested in you are avoiding eye contact as you approach her; she moves away from you when you move closer; she tries to keep another body between you and her; she gives you a fake smile or frown; or she rolls her eyes when she tell you to “get lost.”
Men, on the other hand, will not listen, touch, or look into the eyes of somebody they are uninterested in. If on a date, men will treat you more neutral, like a sister or a buddy, if they have no sexual interest.;
, Voice can indicate sexual desire as much as physical appearance. How you talk and are talked to in a social encounter can quickly determine if there is a sexual interest or not.Pay attention to the tone of their voice. If they sound uninterested, unsure, or afraid it is probably not a good idea to try and coax them into having sex. Sex should be consensual under all circumstances. An unsure person might regret it later.
Science has proven that when women deepen, or lower their voices they are romantically interested. It is believed when a woman naturally lowers her voice it is an attempt to sound more attractive and provocative.
Men, on the other hand, speak in more variable tone. They do, however, lower their voice when speaking to a potential sex partner., If you find yourself with somebody who is impaired from drinking alcohol or taking drugs, do not take advantage of the situation by trying to have sex with them. An impaired person has lost the ability to think rationally or take responsibility for their actions. This does not give you the right to overlook their condition. Remember, no is no and silence does not imply consent.Alcohol and drugs also induce a state of loss of self-awareness, including beliefs, attitudes, and your own high standards.
Drinking or taking drugs can never be used as an excuse as to why you had sex without full, conscious consent. Rape is rape, drunk or sober.
Make good and careful choices and don’t leave anything to chance. Before you go to a social setting to have fun, understand your motivations for drinking or taking drugs, and be cautious of engaging in these behaviors if you are frustrated, depressed, angry, or lonely.
 There are many reasons not to have sex: the person is not interested, has a significant other, is just partying, or is spending time with friends are all reasons a person might say “No.” If rejected in a social encounter, it is best just to move on.Throughout the night, if the person you are pursuing does their best to avoid you or refuses to give their phone number to you, it is probably because they are not interested in you. Leave them alone.
Rejection for intimate encounters in public is more frequent than acceptance. If you realize this and keep a good attitude, then taking rejection will be easier.
Remember that “no” means “no” under all circumstances.
Think of rejection as an opportunity to meet someone new.

