 Look for small pellets of rodent droppings about ¼ – ½" (0.5 – 1.0cm) in size. You may also see signs of gnawing on your furniture or rodent tracks in dusty spaces. If you find small wads of soft materials or paper, you may have found rodent nests. You might even smell rodent urine or be able to hear them scurrying around.If you have mice, you may find uneaten food since they won't eat everything they find. If you have rats, you might only find inedible things like shells or bones.;
, Remove rodent food sources inside your house. Wash your dishes and sweep and mop your kitchen floors. When sweeping be careful not to stir up any dust that you might breathe in. Inhalation of any rat droppings/dust is a sure way to contract the virus. Try to do this before you go to bed every night since rodents are most active at night.Store the food in your pantry in rodent-proof jars. The jars should be thick metal, glass or plastic and should have tight-fitting lids so that rodents can't chew through them.
 Use garbage cans that have tight-fitting lids and try to take the trash out before night. Clean out the garbage cans with soapy water in between uses so that food doesn't build up inside the can. You should also remove or cover any uneaten pet food at the end of the day.Only put out enough pet food for one day. Allowing your pet to have unlimited access to food also gives rodents unlimited access to a food supply.
 Purchase rat or mice traps depending on the type of rodents you have around your house or workplace. Spread a pea-sized amount of peanut butter on the snap trap and place the trap on the floor near the baseboard. To dispose of rodents and traps, spray them with disinfectant and scoop them into a double bag. Seal the bags and bury or burn them.Avoid using glue or live traps since these can cause the live mice to urinate and spread disease.
If plague is suspected in your area, spray the trap, your clothes, your shoes, and your hands with an insect repellent that contains DEET. This will kill the fleas on the rodents that may transmit the disease., If you find holes in your walls, you should fill them. Take a ball of steel wool and place it in the hole so that it's completely filled in. This will prevent rodents from getting into your house. Remember to check and seal all interior and exterior walls for holes.You can use other patching supplies, depending on the size of the hole. You could use insulation foam, wood filler, or putty to fill the hole. If the hole is large, you may need to replace the piece of the wall.
 If you still see signs of rodents after completely cleaning and sealing up your house, you may need to get professional help. Professional pest companies will be able to quickly and effectively remove the rodents from your home before they begin to transmit disease.If you have a large or widespread infestation, you may want to contact a pest management company even before you begin cleaning and sealing your home.

