 There are some common signs that your child has an overactive bladder. Signs that your child might have an incontinence problem related to under filling include:Your child dashes to the bathroom, crosses her legs, and wiggles or drops to the floor, sitting hard on her heel.
If asked, your child will often admit that she releases a little urine on the way to the bathroom.
Many children also will admit that, sometimes, they run to the bathroom but only void a small amount of urine, even though they felt like they really needed to go. , Some kids, while they are growing up, go through a phase where they suddenly, without warning, need to go to the bathroom really badly. This underdeveloped control, which presents itself as urge incontinence, often resolves with time as the child matures. However, this can also be the symptoms of a functionally small bladder or an overactive bladder.


There are some medications that can actually increase a bladder’s holding capacity. You should talk to a doctor about the options for dealing with a small or overactive bladder., There is a filling condition, called overfilling, that can also lead to incontinence. Overfilling is a less common condition that occurs when the bladder won’t or can’t empty and has an usually large capacity. Symptoms of an abnormally large capacity bladder include:Voiding large volumes of urine frequently during the day. This can happen if the kidneys produce enormous volumes of urine. You should take your child to a doctor if you notice your child voiding a large amount of urine every time she goes to the bathroom, especially if there is a change in the amount from usual.
Infrequent voiding, which is considered less than two or three times a day. This can be a sign of a spinal nerve problem, such as spina bifida or cerebral palsy. If your child has not been diagnosed with a spinal nerve problem, it is unlikely that this is the cause of your child’s incontinence.
 Sometimes, if your child gets in the habit of holding his urine too long, it can result in over filling of the bladder. Your child’s bladder can become enlarged if he is a chronic urine holder, which means he avoids going to the bathroom, even when he really, really has to pee.


When this goes on for a long time, the muscles related to urinating become over trained, which means the muscles relax poorly, leading to bladder dysfunction like incontinence.This happens frequently when a child does not want to use the bathroom at school or other public places.
 Behavioral modification may be able to help your child with her urge incontinence. Most experts today favor behavior modification therapy over drugs as a first line treatment for daytime wetting of almost all types. Behavior modification is a method of training to relearn a skill such as bladder control. The therapy must be done strictly and consistently in order to get the desired results, such as your child being able to control her bladder.


Behavior modification therapy generally works best in children who are older than five or six years of age. This is because younger children generally lack the self-discipline to stick to the therapy schedule. However, each child should be analyzed on a case-by-case basis.
Child psychologists can provide good advice on how to go about creating a schedule., If your child suffers from an overactive bladder, you need to create a schedule to help him. After your child goes to the bathroom in the morning, begin a strict timed voiding schedule. Normally, parents pick every two hours as the scheduled voiding time. Your child must go to the bathroom every two hours, even if he says he doesn’t have to go at that specific time. That is actually the point, to get him to the bathroom before he has a bladder spasm.


If you wait for the bladder spasm, you are reinforcing the absence of control. If your child does go and attempts to void, even a little, it reinforces his control about when and where he goes.
If your child has an overfilled bladder, you should create the same schedule with an added step. Your child should wait four to five minutes after going to the bathroom and then try to go again. This is called double voiding in an attempt to reduce that lingering bladder volume. The goal is to change voiding habits and allow the bladder to carry a more normal volume of urine., In addition to a schedule, set an alarm to help your child remember to go to the bathroom. It can be hard to remember to go to the bathroom every two hours. Because of this, its important to set up an alarm system. When your child is at home or visiting family, such as staying at Grandma’s house, set alarm clocks that go off every two hours.


You can set these alarms on a smartphone or alarm clock. You can also get your child a watch that beeps or vibrates silently every two hours as a reminder for when she is at school.You may also consider trying a bed-wetting alarm if your child has nighttime incontinence (bed-wetting).
 Once you have followed this schedule for four to six weeks, you should extend the voiding time. Normally, you should see improvement within four to six weeks. However, this does not mean you should stop the schedule. You should extend the time so that your child tries to urinate every three or four hours, rather than every two.

