 Use a dedicated pair of waterproof rubber gloves to clean your toilet. Toilets can be a haven for bacteria - you'll want to keep your hands as clean and dry as possible when you're cleaning yours.









Keep these gloves separate from your other gloves. It's handy to buy your toilet gloves in a different color than your other rubber gloves - you don't accidentally want to mistake them for your dish-washing gloves.;
, It can be handy to give your toilet an initial once-over with hot water. While you're cleaning the rest of the toilet, this will sink in, loosening up dirt and grime and making your later efforts easier. Moisten a sponge with hot water and wipe around the tank, lid, seat, base, and exterior of the bowl. Often, this will be enough to completely remove dirt without the need for special cleaning products.
 Specially-formulated toilet cleaners can help you eliminate stains, rings, and mineral deposits in your toilet. Squirt or dab cleaner on the inside of the rim of the bowl, allowing it to drip down the sides of the bowl and into the water. It's important to apply cleaner to the inside of the bowl's rim - this area is often ignored, which can lead to gross brown mineral buildup along the rim.









Read the manufacturer's instructions for the cleaner you use. Many cleaners work best if you allow them to soak into the bowl before proceeding. If so, take a short break before the next step.
 Using a firm-bristled toilet brush, scrub the entire bowl thoroughly, paying special attention to any mineral stains that may accumulate along the water level and at the back of the bowl. The more thoroughly (and firmly) you scrub the bowl, the cleaner it will get.









Make the most of your toilet cleaner - since it's accumulated in the water at the bottom of the bowl, dip your brush in it a few times to work up some suds, which will give your scrubbing extra cleaning power.
 Flushing rinses the bowl and the brush. Continue to scrub as the water drains from the toilet, as the motion of the water may not be enough to rinse all of the dirt away.









If you have persistent stains, repeat the cycle of applying toilet cleaner, allowing it to sit if needed, scrubbing, and flushing until the stain is removed.
 After you've cleaned the bowl, you should clean the rest of the toilet, even if it's not as dirty. When you're done, not only will your toilet have a beautiful, even sheen - it'll also be free of harmful bacteria. Use a spray bottle of "all-purpose" or "bathroom" disinfectant cleaner to mist the entire toilet. Make sure to get both the top and bottom of the seat and the entire exterior of the bowl, including its base. Use light pressure with a cloth or paper towel to work in and wipe away the cleaner.
 The handle needs to be extra-clean because you touch it every time you use the toilet. If it's a breeding place for bacteria, that bacteria will be on your fingers after you flush! Be sure to give the handle a generous coat of disinfectant spray. You're more likely to give yourself germs from the handle than you are from any other part of the toilet, so clean it well.








