 Hand grenades come in a huge variety of forms. Some are made for inflicting casualties on the enemy, others for merely stunning or subduing them non-lethally, and still others for inflicting damage on non-human targets. It's extremely important to be aware of the type of grenade you're throwing (and how it's used) before you throw it — if you use the wrong grenade, the results can be disastrous. Below are a few of the most common grenade types:Fragmentation grenades: Produces many small pieces of shrapnel upon detonation. Usually considered lethal to non-armored targets at close ranges with rapidly decreasing effectiveness at longer ranges. Shrapnel can penetrate soft barriers like wood, plaster, and tin, but not usually cinder blocks, sandbags, and armor.
Concussion grenades: Creates an explosion with extreme concussive force. This concussive effect is amplified in enclosed environments, making it useful in urban areas and bunkers, fortified enclosures, and so on. Can also be used for improvised demolition.
Incendiary grenades: Produces extremely high-temperature flames. Can set fire to flammable structures, destroy equipment and weapons, and even penetrate armored vehicles in certain situations.
Smoke grenades: Produces either white or colored smoke. Usually used to conceal infantry or light vehicle movement or to make positions visible to friendly forces.
Stun grenades: Sometimes called "flashbangs", these produce a deafening bang and a bright flash, momentarily disorienting targets in the room.
Riot control grenades: Usually loaded with teargas, rubber pellets, or other nonlethal deterrents, these grenades are meant to disperse and subdue crowds without causing mortal injuries.
 Grenades can easily cause friendly fire casualties if they detonate too close to you or friendly forces, so it's extremely important to know what ranges are considered "safe" and which are not. Even if you're well outside of your grenade's lethal range, you'll want to take cover before it detonates. Though rare, it's possible for a grenade to send shrapnel, debris, or concussive blasts beyond its designated lethal range, so don't expose yourself to these dangers needlessly.


For fragmentation grenades, ranges within 15-20 meters (50-65 feet) are generally considered to produce casualties. While shrapnel can potentially fly as far as 60 meters (about 200 feet), the speed of the shrapnel decreases rapidly with distance, making casualties at these ranges are rare.Concussion grenades have much smaller ranges on open terrain — usually just a few meters. However, in enclosed areas, their killing power is greatly amplified. In these situations, it's best to entirely remove yourself from the bunker, enclosure, etc. before throwing the grenade in.
Other grenades have much more limited damaging ranges. An incendiary grenade is usually lethal only if you come into contact with its flames, find yourself trapped in a burning building, or suffocate on its smoke in an enclosed area. Smoke grenades can cause burns at extremely close ranges but aren't usually considered lethal. Stun and riot control grenades are explicitly designed to be nonlethal, though rare accidents can result in fatalities., Since grenades have a timed fuse, it's theoretically possible for an enemy target to pick up the grenade and throw it back at you. To avoid this, some soldiers use a technique called "cooking off" their grenade — intentionally holding it for a short time before throwing it to shorten or eliminate the amount of time that the enemy has to throw it back. To cook off a grenade, pull the pin, release the lever, count to "one one thousand" or "two one thousand," then throw. Most combat grenades have a four or five second fuse, so don't cook off your grenade for more than one or two seconds unless you're positive its fuse is longer.


Note that this technique is also sometimes used to increase a grenade's effectiveness against bunkers or other fortified emplacements — in these cases, having the grenade explode in the air above the target can be preferable to having it explode on the ground.
Note also that many former Soviet Union grenades have a slightly shorter fuse than American grenades — often about three to four seconds.
 When throwing any grenade, lethal or non-lethal, it's important to remember that the grenade can roll. Thus, if it lands on a slope, it may roll away from your target or, worse, roll back toward you. For this reason, it's generally a bad idea to through grenades onto sloped surfaces, especially up inclines that you're at the bottom of.If you absolutely have to throw a grenade uphill, try cooking it off beforehand and giving it a high arc so that it explodes in the air above your target or else has little time to roll back towards you.
 Taking cover before a grenade detonates can literally make the difference between life and death, especially if you're within its lethal range. Putting physical barriers between yourself and the detonating grenade is almost always a good idea (except for smoke grenades, for obvious reasons). However, not all forms of cover are equal when it comes to grenades. For your personal safety, it's important to understand the difference between "good" and "bad" cover before you throw your first grenade.


The shrapnel from fragmentation grenades can penetrate wood, plaster, glass, furniture, and thin layers of metal, especially at short ranges. On the other hand, thicker, heavier materials like sandbags, cinder blocks, stone, and thick metal can usually block shrapnel — the thicker, the better.
Note that the shockwave from a concussion grenade can travel long distances through enclosed spaces (even around corners). Thus, in bunkers, tight corridors, and other enclosed spaces, cover may not offer protection from concussion grenades.
While incendiary grenades have a short effective range, they can burn at temperatures of over 2,200o C (almost 4,000o F).This is hot enough to melt through steel, so distance, not cover, is essential for protecting yourself against these grenades.

