 Place the basmati rice in a glass bowl and completely cover it with water. Allow the rice to soak for 20 minutes before draining away the water.Soak the rice in approximately 3 cups (750 ml) of cool water, keeping it completely submerged the entire time.
Near the end of the soaking time, use your hands to move the rice around while still submerged. As you do this, the water should become notably cloudy.
Pour the contents of the bowl through a fine metal colander. Drain the water and keep the rice in the colander.;
, Place the the colander of rice beneath the sink and run water over it for 30 to 60 seconds, or until the water draining beneath it runs clear.
 Place the clean rice in a heavy-bottom stockpot and cover it with 2 cups (500 ml) cool, fresh water. Set the pan on your stove and bring the water to a boil over medium-high heat.


Gently stir the rice as the water heats to prevent it from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Do so slowly to avoid breaking the grains.
 As soon as the water reaches a boil, sprinkle the contents with salt and turn off the heat. Cover the pan and continue cooking the rice until it becomes tender.


Do not remove the pan from the stove. The rice should continue cooking in the residual heat.
The rice should finish cooking in approximately 15 minutes. Do not remove the lid or stir the contents of the pan during this time.
 Gently fluff the cooked rice with a fork. Set it aside while you continue preparing the rest of the recipe.Ideally, the rice should cool to room temperature before you add it to the other ingredients.
 Place the ghee in a skillet or wok. Set the pan on the stove over medium-high heat.


Allow the ghee to heat for at least 30 to 60 seconds. It should become somewhat glossier and more fluid, making it easier to spread across the bottom of the pan. Do not allow the ghee to start smoking, however.
 Place the cashews and raisins in the hot ghee. Stir fry for several minutes, or until the nuts look evenly toasted on all sides.Once the cashews and raisins are ready, transfer them to another plate using a slotted spoon, leaving as much ghee in the pan as possible. Keep the nuts and raisins warm while you continue working.
 Place the sliced onions, minced garlic, cinnamon, cardamom, cloves, bay leaf, and star anise in the remaining ghee. Fry the seasonings, stirring frequently, for about 5 minutes.


During this time, the garlic and onion should both become golden-brown in color. The bay leaf should turn crisp and the whole spices may make gentle popping noises.
 Add the cooked basmati rice to the pan. Fry for 2 to 4 minutes, stirring frequently.


As you stir the rice, evenly mix the ghee, garlic, onions, and spices into the grains. Work carefully to avoid breaking the grains.
When ready, the rice should have a slightly darker hue but should not turn fully brown.
 Transfer the rice to serving plates and garnish each serving with the reserved cashews and raisins. Eat the ghee rice while it's still hot.


You can also serve the rice with fried onions, vegetable korma, or spicy gravy.

