 Breaking up with someone, especially someone you had very strong feelings about, can make you feel like the world is crumbling down around you. It’s important to remind yourself that there is usually a very good reason for relationships to end. There probably was an excellent reason why you and your ex broke up, even if you can’t remember it during your darkest moments. Try to avoid pursuing a relationship that would not but functional., Realize it’s okay to feel the grief and sadness. Don’t force yourself to do things you don’t want to do. It’s okay to give into the compulsion to lie in bed all day and call in sick. Don’t worry if you eat too much chocolate. One of the important things is to try to prevent yourself from giving into your urge to contact your ex in order to feel better. You can do it!, You are stronger than you think. You will make it through this, even if it doesn’t feel like it right now. You may find yourself reliving certain events and dwelling on the reasons why it didn’t work out. The problem is, you may never really know. There might not be a good reason. But you don’t have to understand why the breakup happened to get over it. You just need to get through the hour, day, week - one step at a time., Don’t try to fight your way through your grief by yourself. Reach out to friends, family and professionals for help. Talk about how you’re feeling and allow yourself to grieve. It’s important for people to know you’re struggling, you might find yourself just relieved that you’re not the only one who knows how you feel. If talking is too difficult, try writing your thoughts and feelings in a journal, and just use your friends and family for companionship., After you’ve moved yourself through the days of being unable to think clearly and do anything productive, you can start thinking about how this whole experience will make you stronger. You’ll also start to realize that as bad as you feel, you do actually feel better than you did a short time ago. You’ve improved. You’ve been able to heal a little bit. More healing is inevitable., Once you feel yourself on your road to recovery, get yourself back into a regular routine. Include relaxing activities where you can just enjoy yourself (e.g. go for a walk, read a book, have a bubble bath, etc.). Say “no” when you need to. Go out or stay in as you desire. Get enough sleep and eat properly.