 You'll likely lose some sand during the cleaning process. When you collect sand at the beach, gather twice as much sand as you need for your project. This will ensure you’ll have enough even if you lose some sand when you clean it.;
, If you have an old colander or strainer, use it to sift out rocks and other debris from your sand. You can also make your own sifter using tulle and a container. Fasten the tulle to the top of the container with a rubber band, then pour the sand through the fabric into the container., Beach sand is littered with particles of broken shell, microscopic organisms, silt, and other tiny debris. To rinse away unwanted particles, fill a bucket halfway with fresh water. Gradually stir your beach sand into the water, continue to mix it for a few minutes, then slowly dump out the water.Drain the water slowly to avoid pouring out too much sand with it.
Repeat the rinsing process until the water runs clear when you dump it.
 For an even deeper clean, you can bake beach sand after rinsing it. Drain as much water as possible, then transfer the beach sand to baking sheets. Set your oven to 300 degrees Fahrenheit (150 degrees Celsius) and bake the sand for 45 minutes to sanitize it.Beach sand is home to lots of microscopic lifeforms. If you're making something that will be handled a lot, like kinetic sand, it's a good idea to sanitize the beach sand.
If you want to use beach sand for a hermit crab habitat, you should bake it to sterilize it so your hermit crab isn't exposed to fungus or bacteria., Pour beach sand into a large pot, then add enough water to cover the sand. Heat the pan until it simmers and reduce heat or add more water if it starts to boil. Simmer for a few minutes to dissolve the salt, then remove the pan from heat and use a large coffee filter to collect the sand.Try attaching a coffee filter to a large wide-mouth jar with a rubber band. The coffee filter will strain the sand from the saltwater. Be careful handling the hot pot, and let the water cool until it's safe to touch.
If you want to mix sand with paint, you should remove salt from the sand first to avoid corroding the canvas or paper over time.

