 Lidocaine is a common treatment for mouth sores caused by cancer therapies. Many doctors will write you a prescription for this fairly readily, as it is not a controlled substance and has few negative side effects in adults.Ask for a 100 mL vial. Viscous lidocaine is also fairly cheap and covered by most insurance plans.


Get your prescription filled by a pharmacist. Lidocaine will reduce the feeling in your mouth, possibly making it difficult to chew, so avoid eating for at least one hour after using the drug.
Lidocaine may not be safe for children under age 3, so make sure to keep the contain tightly closed and stored where children cannot access it., The common brand name for the first medication is Benadryl. You can find this easily at drug stores and it is often available in a generic or store brand. Make sure that you are purchasing the liquid (children’s) kind. One bottle of at least 100mL will be enough.Get a bottle of liquid antacid, as well, like Mylanta or Maalox. Again, you’ll be able to find these at any drug store, usually in a generic or store brand. A bottle of 100mL is again enough.You’ll see that these ingredients are fairly cheap. A vial of lidocaine will cost you about $20 and may or may not be covered by insurance.Children’s Benadryl and Maalox will cost about $10 each.
 Viscous lidocaine usually comes in a 100mL bottle. It is easier to use the entire bottle in a batch, since the medication is thick and difficult to measure. Mix 100mL of each of the other two ingredients with the lidocaine.


For the last two ingredients, measure using a sterile medical measuring cup or, if you have purchased the proper amount in a bottle, use the entire bottle. Never measure medicines with household utensils. They are not always standard size and could give you the wrong dosage.Now, shake the solution until it appears uniform. Once you’ve done this, the mouthwash is ready to use.
Be sure to follow your doctor’s advice on dosage. Since this medication is used to treat a wide variety of conditions, your physician will give your instructions based on the specific treatment you are seeking. Usually doctors recommend that you use it once every four to six hours, for two minutes at a time.