 In general, it's best to have a weight loss buddy with similar goals to your own. This way, the two of you will be working at the same pace throughout your weight loss journey. Make sure you know your specific goals so you can find a buddy to match you.Think about how much weight you want to lose. You want someone in that general range as well.
Consider your ideal rate of weight loss. For the most part, it's healthy to lose one to two pounds a week. Find someone aiming for a healthy weight loss range.;
, Compare schedules with a potential workout buddy. You want someone who is consistently available and has a schedule similar to yours. This way, they'll be able to do things like go to the gym and provide emotional support regularly.Look at your own schedule. Think about when you work, go to the gym, and do meal prep. Find someone with a similar routine.
You do not need to find someone who's on the exact same schedule as you. However, someone who's routine is structured similar to yours can help.
 A weight loss buddy should be your cheerleader rather than trainer. You want someone who is positive and encouraging rather than someone who will be strict and domineering. Seek out people who give off a friendly vibe and are excited at the prospect of helping you lose weight.If you're choosing a weight loss buddy in your friends group, assess your friends honestly. Which friends are the most open, friendly, and encouraging? Which friends tend to be a bit aloof?

, A little competition can be a motivational factor. However, weight loss should not be primarily about competing with someone. Look for someone who is motivated, but is not focused on winning. For example, do not opt to pair up with the person at the gym who's constantly comparing their skills to other people. Instead, go for the person who's there to meet their own personal goals each day., A weight loss buddy should push you out of your comfort zone a little. In order to lose weight, you often need to try different types of physical activity. Seek out a weight loss buddy who's always trying new forms of exercise. This will encourage you to do the same., A good place to start is your own personal social circle. Friends and co-workers who are also trying to lose weight may be happy to be your weight loss companion. If you know someone who's on their own weight loss journey, approach them and ask if they want to work with you.Only approach someone who's open about the fact they're trying to lose weight. If you assume someone is dieting or trying to shed pounds, this can easily offend that person.
 Meetup is a website where you enter your interests and find groups of likeminded people. Try searching for weight loss groups on Meetup. If you join a group dedicated to weight loss and support, you may find someone there you hit it off with. This person can be your new weight loss buddy., If it's within your budget, try enrolling in a few classes at your local gym. Classes can be a great way to meet people who enjoy the same work outs as you. Go for classes with a specific emphasis on weight loss so you know you're finding people who also want to shed pounds.One major advantage of a weight loss class is that you can easily spot people with similar fitness levels. This allows you to find a weight loss buddy on the same level as you.
 If there's a trainer at your local gym, approach them and ask about finding a weight loss buddy. They may have a client or know a gym-goer who is also seeking a companion. You can explain your fitness level and goals. A trainer may be able to match you with someone else seeking weight loss support., There are tons of websites online that offer support via things like forums and virtual meetings. Try joining a site like MyFitnessPal or Calorie Counter and find a weight loss companion there. A virtual weight loss buddy can be as helpful as working with someone in person.When choosing a virtual weight loss buddy, take things like timezone into account. You want to work with someone who isn't on a vastly different timezone.
 Once you've identified a potential buddy, approach them and ask them. Remember to only ask people who you know are trying to lose weight. Propose the plan politely, and explain your goals.

For example, say to a co-worker, "Hey, I know you've been sharing your weight loss journey with all of us. I really admire your drive. I want to lose weight too, and was thinking having a weight loss buddy could help."
Explain the specifics of what you're looking for. For example, say, "I feel like we could motivate one another, work out together sometimes, and provide emotional support when we have a bad day."

, Your weight loss buddy should be your personal cheerleader. When agreeing to be weight loss partners, talk about how to best cheer one another on. Promise your partner you will be encouraging of their success, even when you're frustrated on your own end.You can even plan events centered around celebrating success. For example, you can agree to go shopping together once you both hit the 10 pound mark.
 At times, it can be hard to be honest. However, you should agree to be objective. This is part of keeping one another accountable. If your weight loss partner is making mistakes, agree to let them know tactfully.For example, say your weight loss buddy has hit a plateau. Politely suggest any potential barriers you're seeing regarding their weight loss.
You can say something like, "You've been running four days a week for awhile, and I know you need to diversify your routine sometimes. Maybe that's the problem. You could try something like cycling or join an aerobics class at the gym."

, Agree to help one another meet goals. If your work out buddy is consider skipping the gym, be willing to remind them of the importance of exercise. If you text your work out buddy that you're craving pizza, listen when your workout buddy encourages you to opt for a healthy snack instead.