 This is so you will not need to work over the lower cabinets to do so.
 Most modular cabinets come with instructions and go together just like kit bookcases. Take the time to make sure that the cabinets are assembled as securely, squarely and evenly as you can.
 Plumb down from the ceiling and use a measuring tape to mark the height of the cabinet brace or rail you will fasten through. Since the new cabinets will conceal the wall after they are installed, you can simply tap a small nail through it to locate the studs. When you have found one, measure either 16 or 24 inches (40.6 or 61.0 cm) to find other studs in your wall, since these are typical stud spacings.
 There are two methods you can use. Either way, get help lifting and supporting them until they are screwed in.









The first method, called the French Cleatmethod, consists of screwing a support, or cleat, to the wall at an appropriate height that allows you to hang the cabinets on the cleat. See the Sources and Citations section below for a link giving the details of this method.
The second method will require a partner. Create a support jack by screwing a short length of a 2x4, or other sturdy scrap wood across the end of another 2x4. If you like, cover the end with a rag or old towel to use as a cushion. Have your helper use this T of wood with the bottom end against the floor, and the top against the bottom of the cabinets to support the cabinets while you level them and screw them to the wall.
Calculate the distance from the edge of a wall cabinet to the stud(s) behind it. Mark these spots on the back of the cabinet, and drill pilot holes from the back of the cabinet. Be sure to allow for the "ears" on the front of the cabinet. When you place the cabinet to the wall, you'll know where the stud is.
Always secure the cabinets firmly to studs before loading them with their contents. Secure cabinets to each other as well as the wall. Drill pilot holes in the cabinet frame and screw together with good wood screws.

