 If you observe these symptoms, you should bring it to a doctor's attention as soon as possible. He or she will be able to give you a professional diagnosis and immediately begin the treatment process. If you’re trying to find out if someone other than yourself has cirrhosis, make sure to include that person in your evaluation, as there may be symptoms that can't be observed from the outside. The symptoms of cirrhosis include:Fatigue, or feeling tired
Easy bruising or bleeding
Lower extremity edema (swelling)
Yellow-tinted skin and eyes (jaundice)
Fever
Lack of appetite or weight loss
Nausea
Diarrhea
Intense itching (pruritus)
Increased abdominal girth
Confusion
Sleep disturbance

, Spider veins are an abnormal cluster of veins that sprout from a central blood vessel with a lesion. They usually appear on the trunk of the body, the face, and the upper limbs.To verify spider veins, press a piece of glass over the suspected cluster of veins.
The red dot in the center of the cluster will seem to pulsate — getting red as blood enters, then blanching as blood exits to the smaller veins.
Large and multiple spider angiomas are a sign of more severe cirrhosis.However, they are also common with pregnancy and severe malnutrition. Occasionally, they are seen in otherwise healthy individuals.
 Palmar erythema looks like speckled patches of reddening spots on the palm, and is caused by changed sex hormone metabolism.Palmar erythema mainly affects mainly the outer edges of your palms along your thumb and pinky, and spares the central palm.


Other causes of palmar erythema include pregnancy, rheumatoid arthritis, hyperthyroidism, and blood problems., Liver disease in general often affects the skin, but observing the nails can provide useful additional information. Muehrcke's nails are pale horizontal bands or stripes that run across the nail bed. This is a result of inadequate production of albumin, which is solely made by the liver.Pressing on these nails will make the bands blanche and disappear before quickly returning.


With Terry's nails, the two-thirds of the nail plate closest to the knuckle appears white. The one-third closer to the tip of the finger appears red. This is also due to inadequate albumin.
Clubbing is a rounding and/or enlargement of the nailbed and the tip of the finger. When severe, the fingers may appear like drumstick, thus the term "drumstick fingers." This is more commonly seen with biliary cirrhosis.
 If you see recurring swelling at the knee or ankle, for example, it may be a sign of "hypertrophic osteoarthropathy" (HOA). Joints in the fingers and shoulders may also feel arthritic. This is the result of chronic inflammation in connective tissue surrounding the bone, which can be very painful.Note that the most common cause of HOA is lung cancer, which must be ruled out.
 "Dupuytren's contracture" is a thickening and shortening of palmar fascia — the tissue that connects the different parts of the palm. This leads to problems with finger flexibility, causing them to curl permanently. It's most common in the ring and pinky finger, and is often accompanied by pain, aching, or itching. The person will have trouble holding objects, as the condition affects grip strength.


Dupuytren's contracture is common in alcoholic cirrhosis, occurring in about one-third of cases.However, it is also seen in smokers, alcohol users without cirrhosis, workers with repetitive hand motions, and people with diabetes mellitus and Peyronie's disease.
 Gynecomastia is a growth of gland tissue in men's breasts that extends out from the nipples.This results from an increase in the hormone estradiol, and is seen in up to two-third of cirrhosis cases. Gynecomastia might appear like pseudogynecomastia, which breast enlargement from fat rather than glandular proliferation.


To tell them apart, lie on your back and place your thumb and forefinger on each side of the breast.
Slowly bring them together. You're feeling for a concentric, rubbery-to-firm disk of tissue directly under the nipple area.
If you feel the mass, there is gynecomastia present.If you don't feel the mass, you have pseudogynecomastia.
Other mass disorders, such as cancer, tend to be eccentrically located (not centered around the nipple)., It may be caused by an injury to the testicle or through a problem with the hypothalamus or pituitary gland.
 These can be signs of ascites, a buildup of fluid in the peritoneal (abdominal) cavity.If enough fluid accumulates, you may also experience shortness of breath.
 Caput medusa is a condition in which the umbilical vein opens, letting blood back up in the portal venous system. That blood is then shunted into the umbilical vein, then the abdominal wall veins. This makes veins highly visible on the stomach. This increased prominence are called caput medusa, because it resembles the head (caput) of Medusa, from Greek mythology.
 The odor comes from an increased amount of dimethyl sulfide as a result from the hypertension.


The murmur grows more quiet when the doctor flattens the blood vessels by applying pressure on the skin above the bell button.
 Jaundice is a condition that causes this yellowish discoloration due to increased bilirubin when the liver can't process it effectively. Mucus membranes may also become yellow, and urine may appear darkened.


Now that yellow skin can also be caused by eating a lot of carotene through carrots. However, carrots will not turn the white of the eyes yellow, as jaundice will.
 Ask the person you suspect of having cirrhosis to fully extend their hands in front of them with palms flat and facedown. The individual’s hands will begin moving and “flapping” at the wrist like a bird’s wings.


Asterixis is also seen in uremia and severe heart failure.

