 This form is available at mail.oslsa.org. If you believe your child is in danger in the care of the other parent and you cannot wait for a permanent custody order to proceed through the court system, you can use this form to get temporary custody quickly. Use the blank space to explain the dangerous situation that warrants an emergency custody order. The other parent will get some notice of your emergency motion, but the judge can make a decision about your request even if the other parent does not attend.


Situations that may warrant an emergency custody order include threats by the other parent to harm or kidnap the child, indications of child abuse, or unlawful acts by the parent, such as illegal drug use.
 Sign the motion in the presence of a notary public. The notary will notarize your paperwork, verifying that you signed the document in his or her presence. Bring a valid form of identification, such as a driver's license or passport, so that the notary can verify your identity.
 This form is available at mail.oslsa.org. You can leave this form blank. The judge will fill out the court's orders, including whether you shall have custody of the child, how long the order will last, and whether the other parent is restricted from visiting or having other kinds of contact with the child.
 Make copies of your forms and take them to the court clerk. The clerk will stamp them, keep the original, and return the copies to you. The clerk will contact you to give you a hearing date. You may be required to pay a filing fee. Contact the court clerk and ask how you can access your county's fee schedule. If you cannot afford to pay the fee, ask the clerk how to submit an application for a fee waiver.
 When you return to court for the hearing, the judge will ask you questions about the information you provided in your motion before he or she grants your request. The child's other parent will have the opportunity to deny or explain your allegations of abuse or neglect. Bring any evidence and witnesses you can use to prove that it would be in the child's best interests to be taken from the other parent and placed in your care.


The court may allow the child to testify at the hearing. A child's competency to testify in Ohio depends upon the age of the child. Children over 10 years of age are generally allowed to testify, while children younger than 10 must be found by the court to be able to understand questions and answer truthfully., Fill out a "Request For Service" form, which is available at supremecourt.ohio.gov. Give the completed form to the court clerk, who will serve the other party according the method you indicated on the form. You can instruct the clerk to serve the other party by mail, or to arrange to have the sheriff's department serve the other party.