

Discuss where their sources of income are coming from (e.g. pension checks, annuities and/or Social Security), and ask them to keep an up-to-date document with this information.



 


Find out what institutions are holding the money.






Ask them to sign power of attorney documents.






Make sure to have this discussion early enough, if you are unable to catch them at retirement age, that their memory capabilities are still intact. Otherwise a large amount of time will probably be spent piecing together the parts of your parents' financial puzzle.





;
,

Set up their Social Security and other income checks to be direct deposited into their bank.






Sign up elderly parents to have utility payments debited from their account.






Reconcile their lists against past tax forms to confirm that you are accounting for all of the income.






Review the bank statement every month to ensure that you understand and are tracking how much money goes into and comes out of the account.
 As parents age and their mental capacities diminish, if you do not intercept their mail, important documents may be thrown away before you have opportunity to see them.


Meet with your parents' insurance provider, and with your parents' permission, discuss their policies and make sure that payment of those policies is being covered. It is a shame for a policy that has been paid on for decades to lapse, and the children lose all death benefits, because the parents mismanaged the paperwork.






Look into Medicare and/or supplemental benefits that may have been offered by former employers and/or look for long-term care policies that may be buried in the paperwork. Policies like these will help ease your and their financial burden in the event of having to put a parent in a nursing home.






With your parents' permission, seek copies of all policies for your records.


The National Council on Aging website at http://www.benefitscheckup.org can help you find out if your parents are eligible for discounts on their property taxes, health care or utility bills.






The Administration on Aging website at http://www.eldercare.gov can provide you information on social services available for the elderly, including health care information by county.
