 Add rinsed and drained quinoa to a pot with 1½ cups (350 ml) of water. Bring the contents to a boil over high heat. Turn the heat to low and put a lid on the pot. Continue cooking for about fourteen minutes. Remove the pot from heat and let it sit, covered, for five minutes. Fluff the cooked quinoa with a fork.The quinoa is finished cooking when the liquid has all been absorbed.
 Heat olive oil over medium heat in a large saucepan. Pour in the vegetables. Cook for five minutes, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables are tender and the onions are translucent., Over low to medium heat, cook the chicken for six to seven minutes in with the onion, garlic and mushroom you just sauteed. Use a spatula or wooden spoon to break up the meat as it cooks, until it is no longer pink., Add spinach to the saucepan and cook it for two minutes, stirring continually, until the spinach leaves wilt. Mix in tomatoes, basil, salt, red pepper, oregano and sugar. Bring the mixture to a simmer and cook for about ten minutes, until the mixture thickens. Remove from heat.The mixture must be thick, not runny, for the lasagna to set properly.
 Preheat the oven to 375 °F (191 °C). Add the quinoa, ricotta and 1/2 cup (95 g) of grated mozzarella into the sauce mixture and fold it in, then mix well. Pour the mixture into a baking dish.You can use a 9” (23 cm) x 13” (33 cm) oven-safe casserole dish.
 Smooth the top of the lasagna with a spatula. Sprinkle the rest of the mozzarella on top in a single layer. Pour the Parmesan and breadcrumbs on top., Allow it to cool for at least five minutes before you serve it.The lasagna is done when the top is bubbling and lightly browned. If you want it browner, you can put it under the boiler for about a minute at the end.
 Store your lasagna in an air tight container. Refrigerate the lasagna for up to five days. If you want to freeze it, allow the lasagna to cool entirely first. Allow it thaw in the refrigerator overnight before re-heating.For example, you can refrigerate the lasagna in a glass pyrex dish with a lid.
For instance, place the lasagna in a disposable casserole dish. Add a sheet of plastic wrap on top, then push all of the air out. Wrap the entire dish in foil, and freeze.

