 A great way to end a conversation is to wrap things up with a positive comment. You can thank the speaker for his or her time, dropping the hint that you now need to exit the conversation.


When things seems to be going on a bit too long, wait for the speaker to finish his or her sentence. Then, smile and say something like, "I'm so glad that we had the time to talk" or "Thanks very much for you time."In the event the speaker does not take the hint, say something like, "Well, thanks again, but I really have to get going." Most people will not question a vague excuse and allow you to get on your way.;
, A good way to push a conversation towards its natural end is to return to the conversation's original purpose. This can help bring the conversation full circle, allowing you to exit gracefully without seeming rude.


Almost every conversation has some purpose, whether its something specific, like making plans, or something vague, like sharing anecdotes from the weekend. By looping back to the conversation's beginning, you can force it towards a natural conclusion.Wait for the speaker to stop talking. Then, make a comment about the original purpose of the conversation, indicating the conversation has accomplished that purpose and can now end. This could be something like, "Thanks for that tip. I will definitely try that next time I'm doing laundry" or "Nice to hear you had a great weekend." You can then offer a few closing lines, like, "I'll see you around" and make your exit., In a given situation, you may be presented with a natural transition to end a conversation. If you're in a bar, the music may suddenly become loud, allowing you to offer an apologetic smile and exit. If you're at a conference or networking event, a speaker may begin talking. If you anticipate there may be a natural conversation-ender coming up, you may want to wait for that. This can prevent you from looking as if you want to back out of a conversation early., Conversations have natural ebbs and flows. You may both be conversing gracefully for awhile, and then there may be a natural pause. If you want to get out of the conversation, try to wait for this pause. After a few seconds of silence, try saying something like, "Well, it's been nice talking to you, but I really should get going."

, A good way to politely end a conversation is to offer a concrete future plan. This shows the speaker you enjoyed talking to him or her, as you're making plans for the future, but you need to leave in the present moment.


Simply wait until the speaker finishes talking. Say something like, "Say, what are you doing next Wednesday? Do you want to grab coffee?" If this person does not have your contact information, you can also say something like, "Why don't I give you my e-mail so we can make plans sometime?"Keep in mind you should only use this tactic if you intend to keep your plans. If you say you'd be interested in getting coffee sometime, but never contact that person again, this can come off as rude.

