 You may get jealous of your sibling for many reasons. Maybe they get more attention from your parents, make better grades, or receive more compliments from other people. Getting jealous from time to time is normal, but you should not let it affect how you treat your sibling.

Anytime you feel jealous, remind yourself of something you accomplished. For example, if your sibling made straight "A's," think about how well you did at your dance recital.
Congratulate your siblings when they accomplish something. If you support them, they are more likely to support you.
If you begin to feel jealous, take a deep breath and as yourself, "Am I upset with my sibling or do I wish the situation was different?"
If you are having problems with jealousy, talk to your parents or write your feelings down in a journal. It is best to deal with your feelings instead of keeping them in., You probably compare yourself to your older siblings. They may have special privileges or get to do things that you do not get to do. Your parents may also deal with them differently than they deal with you. This is not because you are not special or that your parents love you any less.Your siblings have different privileges because they are older. You will get more privileges as you become older.
Your siblings may also be able to do things that you can't do yet. For example, your sibling may be able to ride a bike really well, but you are having a hard time. Remember that your sibling has had more time to practice, and they were not always good at riding a bike. Just keep practicing.
 As a little sister, your siblings may not always be interested in the same things that you are. This is more likely to happen if there is a large age gap between you and your siblings. Having different interests is normal and healthy.


For example, maybe your sibling is a teenager and has begun dating. They may spend less time with you. Remember that nothing is wrong with you and that your sibling still loves you.
Spend time doing the things that you are interested in and spend more time with your parents and friends. If you are busy, you will not be as sad about your sibling doing things without you.

