 These can be purchased at a variety of retail or online stores. Make sure the USB is Mac compatible.;
, Make sure it is in the USB port on the back of your desktop or the side of your laptop.
 The USB port location can vary depending on printer, but it will most likely be on the back side of the device. Check your instruction manual.



Click on the Apple icon on the top left hand corner of your screen.
Select System Preferences.
Select the Printers and Scanners icon.
 A new window will appear with a list of available printers — some you have previously used and others the computer has recognized to be nearby.


Select your printer from the provided list on the left.
Once you have selected the correct printer, click the + button to add the printer to your options.
 Now you must select your file in order to send it to the printer.
 No matter the platform — Safari, Pages, Word, Powerpoint, Adobe etc — the steps should be the same.


Select the File option on the platform’s menu bar.
Click on the Print option on the drop down menu.
Select the correct printer in the Printer option, using the drop down bar.
Customize your print job by selecting the correct number of copies, format, color, etc., found in the full Print Menu.
Select the Print option when you're satisfied with your selections.
 Plug your printer into an electrical outlet and turn it on. In order to print using a wireless connection, your Mac and printer must be on the same wireless network. Refer to your printer's instruction manual to see how to connect to your wireless network.


You will most likely need to access your printer's main menu, then navigate to the wireless set up wizard. Have your Wi-Fi name and password ready to enter.



Select the File option on the platform’s menu bar.
Click on the Print option on the drop down menu.
 Hit the arrows to the side of the Printer option on the pop-up window. There will be a list of Nearby Printers. If your printer has connected to wifi, it should appear on this list. Select the one you wish to use. If there is a problem finding your printer, there may be a problem with your connection. Consult your printer’s manual as well as the Apple Support pages for help.
 In the print menu, select the correct number of copies, pages, format, color, etc.
 Wait for your file to print and readjust your settings if you are not pleased with the end product.


If you have any problems printing, continue on into the troubleshooting portion below.
 Basically all new printers can print from a Mac, however if your printer is significantly older, search online for your printer's support page. Type the name and model of your printer into a search engine followed by the words "Mac compatible". This should lead you to articles answering your question. , Go to your printer's settings page. Different printers may have different links, but there will most likely be a "Maintenance" or "Ink Levels" tab. There you should find a chart reporting the current ink levels in your printer.


If you cannot find the ink level chart, search online. Try typing, "check ink cartridge levels" followed by your printer's name and model into a search engine. Follow the instructions to find the chart.
 Problems with printing can occur due to a paper jam. Remove the paper tray from the printer and take out the paper inside. Look inside the opening for any jammed paper and remove any you find.


In the process, also make sure you have enough paper in the tray for your project.
 Type your printer's name and model into a search engine followed by the word "driver". This search should easily lead you to a support page for your printer containing the correct driver software. Follow the links to download the driver to your computer.
 Apple is constantly updating their software and will not properly print until all updates are installed. Click on the Apple icon on the top left hand corner of your screen.
Select to the App Store in the drop down menu.
Select the Updates icon on the top of the App Store’s menu bar.
Software updates always appear first, select to update any software currently available.
Your computer may need to restart before continuing. In this case, make sure it is plugged in to a power source.
 The problem may be as simple as a bad internet connection. Check your router for the correct amount of blinking lights and reset your internet. If the issue continues, call your internet provider.
 There are a plethora of problems your computer or printer could be experiencing. Luckily, most support pages prove incredibly helpful. Search and find your solution.

