 It is not safe to let a dog roam a car unrestrained. Consider crating your dog if you are driving a long distance or if your dog is a nervous passenger. It is the most effective way of keeping a dog put while you are driving. Having a dog crated will help you to focus on driving instead of on the dog, which is important because distracted drivers can easily cause accidents.It will also keep your dog safe if you have to stop quickly or if you get in an accident.


If you don't want to crate your dog, at least find a way to make sure your dog is secure. For instance if you have a station wagon, consider confining your dog to the back portion of the car. If you do have a large window boot, put up a wire grid to stop your dog jumping over the back of the seats. Line the dog's area with dog blankets or place its bed in the corner so he or she can nap comfortably on the journey. Make sure you don't have any heavy loose items, such as bowls or bottles, as those can become dangerous projectiles in an accident. Most dogs find sleeping an easy way to cope with motion sickness.
You could also purchase a dog safety seat. While it is not as secure as a crate, it will be safer and more comfortable than a car seat for your dog if you turn or stop the car suddenly. The most popular among these are bucket seats. They attach at the back of the front seats, and the top of the back seats, creating a soft well in which your dog, and any liquids (or solids!) they may create, are contained. These can be made with a blanket or purchased cheaply.
Car seatbelts for dogs are a great tool if you don't want your dogs confined, or if you have a two-seat car. Make sure to attach them to a harness, and not a collar. They clip into the female buckle of a car seatbelt on one end, and have a standard leash clip on the other. By attaching them to a harness, you ensure the dog is secured by the body, and their neck won't be damaged in an emergency.
If you use a crate, make sure it is secured. Make sure it is very secure to prevent it from moving if you stop quickly or get hit. An unsecured crate can be just as, or even more dangerous than an unsecured dog.;
, Present the crate to your dog positively. Allow the dog to sniff the crate before it goes in the car. Once the crate is placed in the car, put your dog in it. Continue your positive attitude about the crate and walk away from the dog in the crate for several minutes. Allow the dog to get into the crate itself by luring it with treats, do not force the dog into the crate., You need to get your dog tired before crating it. While a tired dog may still be upset about being crated, a fully rested dog will usually be even worse.
 Feed him or her at least a few hours before. This will help your dog avoid getting carsick.
 Make the dog's area comfortable by placing its bed or blankets down for padding. Also bring water, treats, the dog's collar and leash, some of your dog's favorite chew toys, and plastic bags for waste.
 It is better not to give him or her a bone or food treats because if the dog feels sick it will vomit it back up.


Squeaky toys are also undesirable as they will drive you crazy.
 Never medicate your dog with Dramamine or any other medication without the guidance of your vet. Your vet may have some other suggestions instead.
 If your dog has hyperactivity problems, contact your vet before the trip. See if a mild sedative is available and safe for your dog, especially if it is a long journey. Follow the dosing instructions carefully.
 Then start with short trips until you and your dog become familiar with traveling by car together.
 Don't go long distances right away, just get your dog used to the space. Take your dog to a park or a field so they associate a car ride with something good rather than just trips to the vet.
 There's always a chance, no matter how well behaved your dog may be, that your dog will get out of the car and away from you. Make sure that your dog can be identified if it gets away from you while traveling.
 Let your dog run around and tire itself out. You should also give your dog a little snack and a little water while taking your break. Make sure that you stop every hour or so and go for a quick walk, even if its only on the grass by a fast food restaurant on the highway. This lets your dog use the toilet, so you can also give him or her some water around now. Taking your dog on short walks is important as it means that the dog can stretch his or her legs and stops it from going crazy from being bored.


This is especially important if your journey is more than a few hours. A four hours is your average dog's absolute limit for driving without a longer break. Make sure you stop somewhere grassy and relatively quiet (not right by the road), lock your car, feed your dog some food and water, and take him for a walk so he can let off some of his excess energy.
If you stop by the highway your dog MUST be on a leash for his own safety.
 Be aware of how quickly a dog can get heat stroke, and die, in a parked car. To be safe, never leave your dog unattended in your car in warm weather for any length of time.


If you stop for a meal, park your car in the shade, and let the windows down about an inch each to let cool air in. Put a bowl of cool water in the car for your dog and unbuckle him or her if in a dog seat. Lock your car doors, and order your food to go.
Try to spend no more than five minutes away from the car if it is a warm day, as you don't want your dog to overheat. If your stop will take a bit longer, for instance you are waiting in a long line for food, tie your dog to a post either just inside the front door or just outside in a place where you can see it. At least he or she will be out of the heat while you wait. Make sure to tie the dog with secure knots so it doesn't escape onto the road. Tight knots will also mean it will be less likely for someone to steal your dog.
 Comforting the dog, as natural as it seems, reinforces the idea that something bad is happening. Do your best to stay calm and normal while paying attention for signs of true distress (instead of discomfort).
 Take your pup for a long walk immediately on arrival. Give it a treat, assure it, and give it lots of love for making through the journey.

