 Home educating involves lots of sacrifices on the parents' part, including finances, socialising and even mental health! If you are not sure yet, the best thing to do is write up a list of the pros and cons surrounding home education and your family/situation-just because it works for someone else does not mean it is the right thing for your family. Some things to think about are:


Can I financially afford to do this? (There are many free resources out there but you will end up paying sometimes.)
Do I have the time to allocate to, what amounts to be, a full time job?
How will I find ways to wind down after a long day with my child? What can I do so that I maintain good mental health?
Is this the best thing for my child and am I doing it for the right reasons? Reasons could include religion, lack of support received at school, bullying, isolation, poor school choices among many others.;
,, There are a number of ways of doing this:



Unstructured Allow the child to pursue his/her own interests and don't worry too much about the school set work.

Structured This could be pretty close to actual school regarding having a timetable and following the curriculum, having a desk and workbooks etc. This usually works better for autistic children.
if it's affordable you could employ tutors to teach different subjects
There are many more. The best thing to do is have a Google and research which seems to suit you best. Or try them, one by one, and figure it out through trail and error.
 This will vary wildly based on the nature of their disability. If he/she has severe learning disabilities then you should have an educational plan in place which should set out the best ways for your child to learn to achieve their full potential. If your child is more able then you need to find out where exactly they are in relation to the curriculum (if you choose to follow this).


You could buy workbooks covering a range of ages or do some activities to see which they get on best with. There are plenty of printable worksheets on the web and loads of educational ideas you could easily replicate within minutes.
 If he/she likes to have half an hour a day to be alone and take some quiet time, make sure they get that. They don't need the extra stress to deal with when so much has already changed (this only applies if they have been taken out of school).


If you see the signs of a meltdown, just take a step back, tone down the education for a while and deal with it in the usual way. Education shouldn't come before your child's needs.
 You don't want it to be a negative thing. Also ensure that they get lots of time outside in the fresh air, as well as taking him/her to play groups/museums to stimulate their mind and allow them time to 'let go'.
 You don't need to be a qualified teacher to educate your child. You have parented your child this far and taught him/her everything they know; just add in a few educational games, some workbooks and a few outings and carry on as normal.
 This is new territory and it could be a difficult adjustment for you and your child. Give it time, try to have fun, relax and it will get easier.
 Home educating is a full time job and can come with a lot stress. You need to make time for you to ensure you are on top form for this important job. The little guy won't be thanking you if you are tired, snappy or grouchy.
 You already have a special bond with your child-you found it during pregnancy or birth; there is another special bond to be had through teaching your little guy. Don't ruin it by being too hard on the little one. One of the great aspects of home educating is that you don't have to stick to any certain timetables or expect them to hit milestones at exactly the right time. If they take a little while to learn algebra, its okay as they make up for it in another subject that they are really good at. Allow your child to go at their own pace. Don't place pressure on your child and stop worrying!

, This doesn't mean you have failed in any way. There are lots of online groups, helpful websites and plenty of meet ups. You can find phone numbers on the web relating to home education; give them a ring and they are more than happy to give you advice.

