 Language is constantly changing, and this is reflected in verbal as well as written communication. For older generations, it's always safer to go with a more formal letter structure and ending. For younger generations, you might be able to remain more colloquial.


A good rule of thumb is to be more formal (yes, even in informal letters) with people 60 years of age and older.;
, Sometimes, your audience will be one person but sometimes you might have to address a group of people. Though this point might matter most for the body and addressing of the letter, it can also help you further define an appropriate ending.
 You can choose a more intricate ending if your recipient is a native speaker or has advanced familiarity. But stay with a clear and concise one if your reader only has a working knowledge of the language.
 If you wrote to someone you don't know well or at all, your letter will most likely be formal. It's very important to keep this in mind, not only for the body of the letter, but especially for the ending.


Formal: examples might be your boss, a co-worker, an organization, and anyone you've had limited to no interaction with.
 Writing your best friend or mom? Your letter will likely be informal.


Informal: examples might be family and friends, and anyone you feel very comfortable with.
 Once you've decided that your letter is formal or informal, it's time to zone in on the degree of formality. In other words, writing a letter to your boss might have a different ending than a letter to the President. And writing a letter to your significant other might take a different ending than a letter to your mother or father.
 You might want to thank your reader for his or her time, or say that you look forward to her or his feedback (in a formal letter), or simply say that you miss them very much (in an informal letter). Keep in mind, the first three suggestions are formal while the last three are informal. Here are some ways to wrap up your letter before the ending phrase, :


Ich bedanke mich bei Ihnen im Voraus (I thank you in advance).
Ich würde mich freuen, bald von Ihnen zu hören (I look forward to hearing from you soon)
Für weitere Auskünfte stehe ich Ihnen gerne zur Verfügung (I am readily available should you require additional information)
Ich freue mich auf Deine Antwort (I look forward to your reply).
Bitte antworte mir bald (Please write back soon).
Melde dich bald (Get in touch with me soon).
 Here are the most commonly used ones. Keep in mind, the first closing sentence should only be used for very formal occasions:


Hochachtungsvoll (With the highest regards/reverence)
Mit freundlichen Grüßen (Sincerely)
Mit besten Grüßen (With best regards)
Mit freundlichen Empfehlungen (With friendly compliments)
Freundliche Grüße (Kind regards)

, The first three closing phrases are fairly informal while the last four are very informal.:


Freundliche Grüße (Polite regards)
Mit herzlichen Grüßen (With heart-felt regards)
Herzliche Grüße (Heart-felt regards)
Ich drück Dich (I hug you)
Alles Liebe (All that is lovely to you)
Bis bald (See/talk/write to you soon)
Ich vermisse Dich ( Miss you)

, The last step is to sign your name and send your letter!

