 As you cook, use your tongs to keep the charcoals together, as solitary briquettes will quickly lose heat and do little to keep your fire going. You do not want them so well packed that they can't get air, but you also don't want them separated like many little islands.There are two styles of charcoal placement, depending on how you plan to cook:



Even Grilling: Coat the entire bottom surface of the grill with two layers of charcoal. This allows the whole grill to reach a consistent, even temperature. If you're cooking food quickly and don't need any indirect heat (for large, slow-cooking cuts of meat), this is the way to go.

Two-Zone Grilling: Shuffle all of the charcoals into an even pile on half of the grill, leaving the other half bare. This lets you cook foods quickly, directly over the charcoals, but also allows you to cook slower cuts by indirect heat on the opposite side of the grill. You can also keep already cooked food warm, on the empty side of the grill, or smoke them with grill top on., Don't wait until you're almost out of briquets to add more. Instead, add 5-10 pieces of charcoal when you have roughly half of your charcoals remaining, usually every 30 minutes. Wait 5-10 minutes while the new charcoal ignites and begins to get a white/gray coat on the outside before you resume cooking.If you feel like you need more coals, add them. More coals mean a hotter burning grill. Add slowly, putting on 5-6 at a time, until your grill reaches your desired heat.
 The more air you get to the fire, the hotter it will cook, so opening the vents is key to a hot, strong burning charcoal fire. The more oxygen you give to the flames. the hotter your grill will be. If you need to control the temperature, close one or both of the vents partially. Closing both of them at once can suffocate your fire and extinguish it.Closing the upper vent is also useful for smoking, as it lowers the temperature of the fire and traps the smoke in the grill around your food.
 There is a small lever that lets you open and close the bottom vents on your grill, and this same lever can be used to remove ash through the vents. Ash takes up space for air and will smother the coals as it builds up.
 Wood burns hotter than briquettes, leading to a smokier flavor and an easier sear. It also burns faster than briquettes, however, leading many cooks to use a combination of the two. This allows you to keep the fire burning for longer but still get a hot, smokey fire going to sear steaks or larger cuts or meat.Try hickory or applewood charcoal for the best, classic BBQ flavor and a strong fire.

