 Start with each of these ingredients separated, then add your ghee (clarified butter) and milk to your mixing bowl and whisk it thoroughly. Whisk the mixture until it reaches a smooth consistency and the two ingredients do not separate.

Using a mixer or blender can save you time and effort while mixing your ghee and milk together. However, be careful not to mix too long, as this can cause the ghee to separate.;
, Use a whisk to stir in your arrowroot to your ghee/milk mixture a little at a time until no arrowroot remains, then do the same for your flour. After you have done so, whisk in about 2 cups of water a little bit at a time to your mixture, or until the batter is of coating consistency.

"Coating consistency" implies that your batter can easily be poured or drizzled onto something to coat it.
At this point, your mixture should have the consistency of somewhat thin batter. Stir/whisk it well to remove lumps.
If you don't have arrowroot available, cornflour will work just as well as a substitute.
Take care not to over-stir these ingredients. Doing so can cause the water and the ghee to separate., In most cases, 2 cups of water will give you the ideal consistency for your ghevar batter. However, in especially dry or moist climates, the level moisture in the air may require you to adjust the water added to your batter.

Dry environments will steal moisture from your batter. If you live in an arid or semi-arid region, you may need to use additional water in your batter.
Moist environments, like the jungle or many tropical, equatorial regions, will add moisture to your batter. In these regions, you may find you need less water than usual., Plain ghevar batter will yield fried batter that is golden-to-off-white in color. However, at this point in your ingredient preparation, you can add food coloring to give your ghevar batter fun color. A little food coloring goes a long way! Add your food coloring sparingly. From this point on, your batter should be kept in a cool place away from heat.

If you have a few different mixing bowls, you can divide your batter between two or more bowls and then add a different dye color to each. In this way, with one batch of batter, you can make several different colors of ghevar batter.
Mix your food coloring into your batter thoroughly with your whisk to prevent your color from being improperly distributed throughout., A ghevar mold is a single or multi-ringed mold that forms the shape of your batter as it is heated in ghee. For this reason, flat bottomed, deep vessels, like a pressure cooker pot, are ideal for frying your ghevar batter. To prepare your mold and vessel for frying, you should:

Place the mold into your frying vessel. If you do not have a pressure cooker pot, you might also use a karahi, flat-bottomed wok, or pot.
Pour ghee into your frying vessel until it covers roughly ¾ of the mold. If you overfill your vessel, you may need to drain out some of the ghee.
Heat the ghee to a high temperature. Use a high heat on your stovetop to heat the ghee in your vessel.
If you don't have ghevar molds, you can use the entire bottom of your frying vessel to make one big ghevar at a time. In this case, your ghee height should be about 2½ inches (6.35 cm)., After a few minutes have passed, test the temperature of your ghee. You can do this by drizzling/dripping a little bit of batter into the heated ghee. If the batter drops into the ghee and then bobs immediately back up to the surface of the ghee, your ghee is the right temperature., Now that the ghee in your frying vessel is the right temperature, you're ready to fry. Drip a single spoon's worth of batter into the center of your mold(s) a spoonful at a time. As you do so, you should:

Notice the batter drip down into the heated ghee, then rise back its surface and spread to take the shape of your mold.
See froth build up on the surface of your ghee. If you have a single mold, you may have to wait 1 - 2 minutes for the froth to bubble down before adding more batter.
Alternate between the rings of multiple-ringed molds so that while the froth settles in one ring, you're adding batter to a new ring, and so on. This way you can return to the first ring you added batter to after all others for the next round of batter.
Add several spoonfuls of batter to your molds. The more batter you add, the thicker your ghevar will be. Thin, crispy ghevars can be made with only a few spoonfuls., As the froth settles and you add spoonfuls of batter to your heated ghee, you should also notice the batter browning as it cooks in the ghee. Once the batter is golden brown in color, remove your ghevar from the ghee with a pair of tongs or wooden skewer.

Fresh from the ghee, ghevar can be quite oily and buttery. You may want to absorb some of this by laying your ghevar on paper towel or tissue paper.
The top of your batter will likely cook slower than the rest of it. For consistent frying, you should ladle your heated ghee on top of your batter. After 2 or 3 ladles, your ghee should be mostly fried., During this process, you may need to add some ghee to your frying vessel to continue cooking your ghevar at the proper ¾ height of the mold. As you remove finished batter from the vessel, add more batter to continue making your ghevar in the same fashion as before.

Depending on the size of the ghevar you are making, this may make as many as 25 small ghevars or approximately 15 large ghevars., Cooking at a high temperature for a sustained period of time will have made your ghee very hot. You'll need to allow it to mostly cool before disposing of your ghee.

Ghee used for frying can be reused for other cooking projects, but it will no longer be pure and may influence the outcome of those cooking projects.
Ghee can build up in your pipes and cause blockages. For this reason, you should throw out used ghee that you are not reusing instead of washing it down your drain., Add your sugar and water to a small to moderate sized sauce pan or pot and bring the contents to a boil. After reaching a boil, reduce your heat to low and simmer.

While you're heating your sugar and water, you should occasionally stir the mixture with a wooden spoon, ladle, or other kitchen tool., As the mixture is heated, the sugar and the water should combine to form a syrupy consistency. At about the five minute mark, you should check your mixture for consistency. To check your consistency you should:

Use a spoon to scoop up and drizzle a little of the mixture onto a spare plate. Allow it to cool for a few seconds.
Feel the mixture with your fingers. If it is sticky and forms a tacky kind of strand, your syrup is ready., Turn off your heat. Your sugar syrup is now ready to be used on your ghevars. You may need to warm the mixture occasionally to prevent it from separating or solidifying. Dip your fried ghevar in the syrup to finish this delicious treat.

Excess oil from your heated ghee might cause the sugar syrup to coat your ghevar unevenly. You may want to pat your fried ghevar with paper towel before dipping them into sauce to prevent this.
Your ghevar should be dipped into your sugar syrup shortly after being fried. Drain excess syrup, and then your ghevar are ready to eat.