 Many people in the world do accept Islam and are known as Muslims, but there are few who abide by its sermons completely. For a moment, consider Islam as a large circle and the people standing within as Muslims. It would be seen that there are few Muslims in the centre and many around the edges of its boundary. Some might have one foot outside the circle, others might have one hand out of it and so on. We need ourselves to be COMPLETELY within the circle of Islam and it happens when we accept it COMPLETELY without any "if's or but's" in our hearts.;
, The recitation of The Holy book of Allah though alone gives us enough benefits, but it is essentially required to read and understand the words of Qura'n in our own language. It's important to take out time from our daily routine to read the message of Allah, even one Ayah per day but the thing is to make an Effort. Try to read Translation+ Tafsir to understand it better.Also make effort to learn Arabic. Once you start doing this, you'll realise that you're not reading Qura'n, instead THE QURA'N IS READING YOU!!!

, The whole life of the last Prophet of Allah (Sallallahu Alaihi Wassalam) is the VERBAL TRANSLATION of Holy Qura'n.The Holy Qura'n says: "There has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah (Sallallahu Alaihi Wassalam) an excellent pattern for anyone whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day and remembers Allah often." (Qura'n 33:21). Since books are meant to be read, start reading it as you read other books but soon you'll realise the specialty of that book. Connect yourself to it and it'll become difficult to leave that book without ending it. And remember, that's not the end... It's a START!

, It is the message of Allah in the words of Prophet (Sallallahu Alaihi Wassalam). To understand Islam to a deeper extent and to feel more devoted towards it, it is necessary to read and understand Ahadith as well (along with Qura'n). If you feel distracted, then as a start, search for the solutions of your problems in Qura'n as well as in Hadith. When we are distressed, we seek for advice everywhere else but find no satisfactory solution. Try it this time with the Holy book of Allah and Ahadith and Inn Shaa Allah, you'll find the SATISFACTORY ANSWERS you seek for.
 Islam does not restricts a person to a specified area away from the rest of the world, instead it preaches to seek for knowledge everywhere. Prophet Mohammad (Sallallahu Alaihi Wassalam) said "The most learned of men is the one who gathers knowledge from others on his own; the most worthy of men is the most knowing and the meanest is the most ignorant."It is necessary that a person who possesses knowledge about Islam should also act according to it. Since possessing the knowledge of right and wrong is meaningless unless it is performed practically.
 Behind every religion lies a dynamic history which also acts as a guidance to its followers. The history of Islam covers the whole life of Prophet Mohammad (Sallallahu Alaihi Wassalam) and afterwards. THE SPREAD OF ISLAM in Arab at a time when it was completely sunk in barbarism is an unforgettable period of its history. For developing DEVOTION, what's more better than to know how the Non-Muslim Arabs converted to Islam, what bought them closer to this religion which completely changed their mindsets and evolved their lives in a way that made them closer to Allah!

, The most important thing in life is to always remember/ never forget our Creator and the reason why Allah created us all. Allah declares: " And I (Allah) did not create Jinn and humans except to worship Me (Allah)." (Qura'n- 51:56). Remembrance of Allah brings peace to heart. Try learning the 99 names of Allah (learn it in a tone if it is difficult the other way) and call him with His names. Follow Ahadith for many other ways to REMEMBER ALLAH.
 Salat is the most convenient way to connect with Allah and to purify our inner-selves. Our INNERSELF is the greatest obstruction that prevents us from understanding Islam. When we are on a diet, we have to leave many food items that we want to eat anyway but slowly and gradually we learn to control on ourselves, since we are sure that this is for our betterment. Similarly, our inner-self needs to be controlled the same way and Salat is one of the best ways for doing it. The important thing is to be CONSISTENT and BELIEVE in Allah and yourself. The harder it seems, the easier it becomes!

, The other thing that draws us away from Allah and His Religion is the attraction that our inner-selves develop for this materialistic world. Remember that Everything and Everyone has to END one day. So if the things we run after aren't going to last forever, why run after them at all. Cars, cell-phones, luxuries, even facebook, twitter etc...Most of these things that draw you unintentionally towards themselves actually draw you away from Islam! Use them positively and be THANKFUL to Allah for He has blessed you always without asking for a return.
 Prophet Mohammed (Sallallahu Alaihi Wassalam) said: "“There is nothing more dear to Allah Ta’ala than a servant making dua' to Him.” . Pray to Allah with heart and soul that He directs you towards the straight path (as mentioned in Introduction) and fills your heart with the love of Islam. For it is Only Allah, who gives the right direction... to those who seek it!

