 If your plants appear healthy and you only want to enrich the soil, then you should buy a balanced organic dry fertilizer containing trace minerals and equal amounts of nitrogen, potassium, and phosphorus. To help suffering or struggling plants, though, you should select a fertilizer that directly addresses your garden's needs.


Check for signs of nutrient deficiencies. The quickest way to determine if your plants lack proper nutrition is to observe how they look. The appearance often gives away many clues about what the plants are lacking. For instance, nitrogen improves foliage growth, so yellowing and browning leaves suggest that your soil needs more nitrogen. Similarly, plants lacking in phosphorus produce little fruit and plants lacking in potassium have weak flowers.
Test your soil for deficiencies.If you want to get a more accurate reading of your soil's deficiencies, you should submit a sample of the soil for nutrient testing at an agricultural lab. The lab results will indicate which nutrients were found in high amounts and which are desperately low. Along with an analysis of the soil's quality, many professional tests will also come back with a suggestion on what type of soil you need to look for to improve your soil.;
, Boron, Iron, sulfur, manganese, and zinc are good examples of this. For most nutrients, however, you will need to look for components that are naturally high in those nutrients even though it is not obvious by the name.


To add nitrogen to the soil, look for blood meal, cottonseed meal, fish meal, soybean meal, crab meal, corn gluten meal, feather meal, and leather meal.
To add phosphorus to the soil, look for components like bone meal and rock phosphate.
To add potassium, look for granite meal, greensand, kelp meal, wood ash, Sul-Po-Mag, and sulfate of potash.
Dolomitic limestone can add calcium, magnesium, and molybdenum. Epsom salt can add magnesium. In addition to phosphorus, phosphate rock can add calcium and sulfur. Gypsum is another component that can add sulfur, and kelp meal, greensand, and granite meal all contain trace elements that can benefit the soil.
 Pre-made blends of dry organic fertilizing components can be found on the market. In each blend, the components are dispersed evenly through the mixture, ensuring that each handful contains roughly the same concentration of nutrients. Each blend also uses different components, however, so it is important that you check the label to find out which components are used.


Check the number on the label. All fertilizers, whether chemical or organic, are labeled with a three-part number that indicates the concentration of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, respectively. When buying a pre-mixed dry organic fertilizer, a simple, effective way to determine if it will offer your plants what they need is to check this number. If you need a balanced fertilizer, for instance, you should look for one with a 5-5-5 or 10-10-10 label. If you need to give your plants a dose of potassium, however, look for a fertilizer with a heavier dose of potassium, like a 0-0-12 fertilizer.
 Another way to organically fertilize your garden is to buy dry fertilizer components separately. You can purchase blood meal, kelp meal, and most other dry components separately. Once you have what you need to balance or enrich your soil, you can either combine them together into your own fertilizer blend or apply them separately by digging them into the soil or spreading them at the surface and watering them in.

