 For students who struggle to learn or socialize in a traditional school environment, homeschooling is an excellent alternative. As a homeschooler, you will have the luxury of studying within the safe and comfortable confines of your home. You will receive one-on-one instruction and a personalized curriculum. This alternative learning program is benefits both the student that requires additional attention and the student that requires more challenging coursework., Virtual learning is increasing in popularity. It is providing students across the world with access to excellent educators, customizable curriculum, and exposure to a diverse student body. This is an excellent option for students that excel in non-traditional academic settings., Taking a course at your local college in place of a high school class is an excellent way to challenge yourself—and it allows you to leave campus! Meet with a high school counselor to discuss the possibility of dual enrolling at your local college. Express that you wish to challenge yourself and that you want to prepare yourself for a successful collegiate career.Very few college courses meet 5 days a week, which means less time in the classroom.
 Ask your teachers or school counselors if your school offers semester long internships, service projects, and or placements. Work with the counselor to register for the program. Finding opportunities for hands on learning will allow you to develop personal and professional skills. Your participation in one of these programs not only looks great on college applications, but it also gets you out of the classroom!, Enrolling in a vocational school is an excellent option for students who wish to start their careers immediately after high school or teens who simply prefer hands on learning. Instead of taking traditional courses, take classes that teach you a set of practical and transferable professional skills. Work with your school counselors to register for courses or transfer to your local vocational school.