 You can use any fabric that you’d like for these Neko ears and tail. If you have a sewing machine, you can use it instead of needle and thread. However, the sewing is very light and done easily without one.


Fabric of your choice
Scrap paper
Marker
Masking tape
Sewing pins (straight and hooked)
Glue
Construction paper
Scissors
X-acto knife
Thread
Wire hanger;
, On your scrap paper, use a marker to sketch out the shapes of your ears. To make your cat ears three dimensional, you should have a base shape that is an oval with a triangle cut out. It should almost look like a Pacman shape. Once cut out, tape the straight sides (the opening of Pacman’s mouth) together to create a cone-shaped ear.


Experiment with different dimensions until you reach your desired ear size and shape.
 If you like the way the shape looks, transfer the pattern to your construction paper. Because the construction paper is stiffer, you will be able to use it countless times.


Feel free to label the inside of your ears as L and R so that you keep them straight.
 Instead of tracing all the way around, create a straight line across the bottom where the point of your Pacman mouth hits. This will make triangles. Trace about 2-3 cm around your outline and cut your shape out along this outline. The extra fabric will give you plenty to work with to make your ears.If you’re using faux fur, make sure the hair is going upwards toward the tip of your ears.
 If you want to use separate kinds of fabric for the front and back of your ears, take your second fabric and trace the outline of the first cutouts you made. If you wish to use the same fabric, simply re-trace your first cutouts onto your original fabric. Use your scissors to cut these out.
 When you do this, you want the inside of the fabric to be facing you. Straight pin around the original outline that you made. Sew along the straight pins around the sides of your ears. Leave the bottom unsewn.
 Now that you’ve sewn your ears, use your scissors to cut the excess fabric off of the outside. Flip your ears. Now that you’ve sewn the sides together, flip your ears inside out. (This will make them right side out).
 Put the cutouts into your ears through the bottom slit. Glue them into place, starting with a drop of glue at the top point of the ear and working it down to the bottom. Your Packman mouth should still be sticking out. It will look like two triangles coming out from the bottom of your ears.
 The two triangles of your cutout that are sticking out of the bottom of your ears should be folded toward the back of the ear. Take glue and place it on the underside of the right triangle. Fold the ear so that this triangle lays over the top of the other to form a cone. Hold in place while the glue dries.
 Your ears have structure and support, they just need to be attached. You can either pin them to a headband, or you can pin them straight into your hair. Simply place the ear where you want on your head and slide the pin so that it catches the construction paper structure of your ear as well as your hair. Two pins is all it will take to hold them in place.
 Your tail should go from your hip to the bottom of your knee. Cut a fabric strip this length by 4 inches wide. Fold the tail in half (lengthwise) and sew it shut. Also, sew the bottom shut up leave the top., Untwist and unfold your wire hanger. You want to cut it to be an extra 6 inches longer than the length of your tail.Wrap excess fabric (or cotton if you have it) around your wire. Be sure to begin by wrapping the tip so that the wire doesn’t poke through the end of the tail. Wrap it to the last 6 inches.
 Place your fabric wrapped wire into your tail. Bend the tail into the shape and curve that you wish. Bend the top part of your wire. You may want to use pliers. Bend it into a hook that will grasp onto your belt. Simply make a tight “J” shape for a good hold.


The tighter the “J” shape, the more support your tail will have to stand up.
 Have a friend help you. Once the tail is attached to your belt, put the belt on. Have a friend shape the tail for you once again to ensure the perfect style.

