 If you want all of the walls in the bathroom to be black, it’s likely better to go with black tile, as the reflection offered by the tile will prevent the room from being too dark. You can add depth and class to a bathroom by painting one or two of the walls black, however.More specifically, opt to paint the wall furthest from the door black. This will make the bathroom feel larger. It can also be striking to paint small, oddly-shaped walls black as well.
Avoid painting any sloped walls, especially walls that rise to the ceiling, with an especially dark paint.;
, Straight “jet” black should be avoided, especially flat black. Extremely dark, matte black walls will actually make your bathroom seem smaller, if not a bit depressing. Fortunately, black paint blended with another color can often add a sophisticated look to certain sections of your bathroom.For instance, select a black with a bit of gray or brown in it. As a rule of thumb, if the rest of your home features cool tones, go with a grayish black. If most of your home features warm tones, opt for a brownish black instead.
Another great option is a black paint with a bit of blue or purple undertone. These are especially good in bathrooms that include wood accents., Some paints are designed to be used in bathrooms specifically - but this is mostly a marketing gimmick. More to the point, a high quality, self-priming paint will have many of the qualities you need in a bathroom paint, including mildew-resistance and a tough, tight finish to keep moisture out.In terms of finish, lean towards semi-gloss, as this tends to be the most resilient, and the easiest to wash.
Aside from quality paint, good painting technique is also vital. This will include washing, and potentially sanding, beforehand.
 If you’ll be decorating with other shades of black in the bathroom - for instance, on cabinetry or fixtures - do not try to match the color of your wall paint exactly. If you use multiple shades of black that are similar, but not identical, to one another, the results will look better.