 Calluses and dead skin will build up on your feet from simple, every day use. In order to remove calluses, use a foot file or pumice stone to remove dead skin from the bottom or sides of your feet every day, after a shower or bath.When purchasing a pumice stone, ensure you buy one intended for use on your skin.
Both pumice stones and foot files are essentially sandpaper for your feet. In fact, the coarse surface on a foot file (and emery board) is basically sandpaper made specifically for your body.While not required, it helps if you soak your feet in warm water before using a pumice stone or foot file. This can include having a shower or bath.
Before using a pumice stone, dip it in water, or run it under a warm water tap.
Use either the pumice stone or foot file to gentle rub excess and dead skin off the bottoms of your feet - in a circular motion. Do this for only a minute or two per area on your feet.
You will most likely need to repeat this process several times before you’re able to remove all the dead skin.
Do not use foot razors to remove dead skin. Nicks and cuts to the skin on your feet can be easily infected.;
, Feet do not have a lot of oil glands to keep the skin moisturized on their own. With age, the cell regeneration in our skin slows down and also impacts foot dryness. To help offset these problems, put foot moisturizer on your feet every day, ideally after a shower or bath.Be careful not to walk around in your bare feet on tile or hardwood floors after applying moisturizer, your feet will be very slippery. Either stick to carpet, put socks on, or use slippers to walk around.
If your feet are very dry and bothersome, consider talking to your doctor about a prescription-strength foot cream.
 As we age, our toenails get thicker and harder from the constant contact with the inside of our shoes. To help soften your toenails, you can apply petroleum jelly to your toenails before bed, every night., Every 2 weeks, rub cuticle oil on your toenails and soak your feet in warm water for 10 minutes. Use a wooden manicure stick (or your fingernails) to push your cuticles back and remove excess skin.An alternative to cuticle oil and foot soak is to use a commercial cuticle remover. You should be able to purchase cuticle remover at a department or drug store.
 Hot water is very drying. When showering, bathing, or soaking your feet, avoid using really hot water. Use warm water instead to help keep the natural moisture and oils in your skin.

