 If you are writing to several organizations, you may find questions in each application that are similar. However, craft a personal testimony for each application. You want to make sure you address any specific questions about your qualifications.


If slightly different answers are needed, be sure to create different statements for each application, and make sure your answer fits the question being asked.
You may not need to rewrite your entire statement for each organization or position, however. Start with small changes, such as changing your wording to echo the job advertisement.
You may find that there are overlaps between the questions you need to answer for each statement. In this case, you can reuse sections that you have written for a previous testimony. Just make sure you change the name of the organization or company.
 The organization or company to which you are applying wants to know that you are interested in them. They might even ask you to address this question in your personal testimony. Do some research to find out what sets them apart from other organizations and make your writing reflect that research.


Even if the company or organization does not ask specifically why you are interested in them, your writing should demonstrate your interest. You can do this by including examples and evidence that would be important to them and which are suggestive of what you can do for them in the future, if offered the position.
Specify qualifications you have that would make you a good fit. For example, say you did Peace Corps after college and are applying for a political science master program focusing in international relations. Talk about what you learned about issues in other parts of the world during your service., If you are like many people, your life story may seem to lack excitement. Figuring out a way to make it interesting becomes the big challenge. Finding an angle or providing a storyboard is vital to a quality personal testimonial.Think about what's unique about you. If you were to define yourself as a person, what experience would you draw upon to do so? Maybe your family has a long background in grassroots political action. You've done campaign work for every election since you were seven.
This story could be a great start for a personal testimonial for a job in politics. You could start off writing something like, "I say, without exaggeration, that I've been involved in the Democratic process since elementary school." You can emphasize your lifelong commitment to politics, bringing up related education and work experiences as you go.
 Do not simply state that you would make an excellent doctor, sales manager, or graduate student. Instead, back it up with specific reasons and evidence. Your desire to become a lawyer, engineer, and so forth should be logical, the result of specific experience that is described in your statement.What makes you a good candidate for a particular position? This is your chance to brag. Bring up past work experience and any awards or honors you've received. Talk about your publications, if you have them.
Go into detail about your skill set. If you're applying for an administrative position, include your typing speed. If you're applying for a software company, list all the softwares and computer programs you're proficient in running.
 Backing up your claims with concrete evidence helps you persuade your audience. This also gives them reasons to trust you and believe what you are saying about yourself. It's okay to brag a little in this section. This is your chance to prove yourself.For instance, if you claim that one of your strong qualities is your leadership ability, give details about work where you have taken on a leadership role and state how your leadership was integral to the success of the team. If you won any awards for leadership, state them.
If you have worked in a managerial position, state how many people worked under you, and give an example about an initiative that you lead. Emphasize the outcomes of that initiative and link it to work that you could do in the new position for which you are applying.
Use current examples and data.For instance, if you are using a percentage of quarterly profit increases to demonstrate your business savvy, use the most recent data available to you rather than the profit increases from ten years ago. If you use dated data, your potential employers might wonder if you are avoiding a discussion of your current productivity because your numbers are low.
If you are including testimonials as evidence, use ones from experts in your field. For example, say you're applying to a nonfiction graduate program. Mention that John D'agata reviewed your senior thesis and include any positive comments he made., The middle section of your statement might detail your interest and experience in your particular field, as well as some of your knowledge of the field. Be as specific as you can in relating what you know about the area. Use language the professionals use in communicating this information.


Use jargon here that is relevant to the position. Make sure you use jargon correctly, so you look like you have in-depth understanding of a particular field. For example, say you're applying to a graduate program in English literature. Talk about what genres of literature you're most interested in studying, and the type of analysis that most interests you. Are you interested in post-colonial studies, feminist studies, postmodernism, for example?
Highlight your most relevant work experience. If you are applying to work in a biology lab, don’t tell them about volunteering at the local animal shelter. Describe your work experience in a biology lab and emphasize an important discovery you made or skill you gained.
 People are naturally drawn to stories. If you can find a way to incorporate a brief story in your testimonial, this can help set you apart. Make sure you pick a story that highlights what you can bring to an organization. Talk about a time you resolved a conflict at work. Discuss a personal triumph that changed your attitude for the better. Make sure the story is appropriate, however, and try to avoid anything that could constitute over-sharing.

