 If you notice you are constantly getting in fights in a certain mood or when certain things are said, detach before you get angry. To do this, recognize the triggers and prepare for moments in which they may appear. Go back over past confrontations and isolate the things that made you angry, or made the other person angry.


You might notice that your partner always picks a fight when she or he is stressed about work. On stressful workdays, you can prepare to detach ahead of time by reminding yourself that she or he may be in a bad mood later.
If the issue is not between you and one person, but rather between you and one situation, recognize that situation.
For instance, you might always start to panic in bad traffic. Recognize that this is a big stressor for you.
 When a moment escalates, or when a trigger is presented, take a moment to calm yourself down. Remind yourself what is happening, and take two deep breaths.Remember that in these moments you can only control yourself, not anybody else.
 Take as much time as you need to step away from a confrontation. Spend some time stating how you feel. Say "I feel angry that my mother tried to tell me what to do, and I feel frustrated that when I said this she started yelling at me." Naming your emotions will give you some space from them.


Only return when you can name how you feel without feeling a new surge of emotion., Say how you feel, and what you would like. Avoid the temptation to criticize or blame. You can say "I would like to hear how you feel about this, but I'm afraid we're going to have a fight. Can we take a minute, and then you can say it to me again?" Or say "I notice I'm getting really freaked out about how messy the house is. I would feel a lot better if we had a plan."

, If it feels safe to take a physical break from a situation you would like to de-escalate, go ahead and take it. A walk around the block or a little time to yourself in another room can help you calm down. On your break, focus on how you feel. Try to name it if you can. Forget your partner for a moment, and take care of your own feelings.

You can return when you are ready to re-engage. Come back calmly, knowing that your partner may still be upset.

