 If you have family or a group of friends who are on Marco Polo, you can add them all to a group. Groups are ideal for families who need to communicate throughout the day or friends who like to share silly messages. Like group texts, though, Marco Polo groups may result in everyone receiving lots of notifications. You should only add people to a group if you think they’ll want to be a part of the group.


If you haven’t already installed the Marco Polo app and created your account, do so now.;
, You may have to scroll down through the tiles to find it., You can tap any of your friends’ names from the “Suggested Friends” list, or start typing the names of one of your phone contacts. Once you tap a contact, you’ll see the contact’s name at the top of the screen next to “Add.” Tap “Next” when you’re finished creating your new group.


If you accidentally add someone to the group, tap the small “X” next to their name in the Add field.
If you choose a contact who doesn’t already use Marco Polo, they will receive a text once the group has been created. The text will include instructions for downloading Marco Polo.
 Now you’ll give your group a name so that you can easily select it from your list of contacts.
 Swipe left or right over the round animated avatars to choose one for your group.
 “Done” is at the top right corner of the screen. Marco Polo will automatically take you to the camera screen so you can send your first video message. If you don’t want to send a message just yet, use your phone’s back button to return to the main screen.


The group members will receive notification that they’ve been added to a group. They’ll also be able to see the group’s new tile on their home screen.
You can remove people from the group at any time. Tap the group tile, then click the group’s name at the top of the camera screen. Select a group member, then tap “Remove from Group.”

, When you created a group, a new tile appeared on the main Marco Polo screen (with the rest of your contacts). Tap that tile to begin recording a new message for everyone in your group., When the camera screen appears, it’ll already be facing you. The three icons at the bottom left corner are fun features you can use to make your message more personal. When you’re done with a tool, tap it again to close it.Magic Wand: Choose this while recording a video to select from a set of voice filters. You can choose to sound like you inhaled helium, grew more macho, or morphed into a robot.
T (text tool): This tool lets you type a short message. You can use this tool at any time, including while you’re recording video.
Pencil: Tap this icon to doodle on your message. Like the text tool, you can use this before, during, or after recording your video.
 Swipe to the left or right to cycle through different filter options. If you don’t find a filter you like, keep swiping until you return to the “normal” filter.
 While the video is recording, you’ll see a message at the bottom of the screen that says “You are recording a Polo.”


Marco Polo doesn’t limit the length of your video messages, so you can make the video as long as you want. Not everyone will watch a really long message, so try to keep it reasonable!
Keep in mind that this video will be sent to everyone in the group you created.
 As soon as you tap “Stop,” the message will be sent to everyone in the group. You’ll also see a thumbnail of your video appear just beneath the camera screen.


To watch what you sent to the group, tap the video thumbnail. The Polo will play immediately.
When you receive a Polo sent to the group, you’ll get a notification. To view the Polo (and all Polos sent to the group), just tap the group’s tile.

