 You should think about how you use technology at school and at work as well as the impact this has on your relationships in these spaces. Consider if you only ever talk to your coworkers or your colleagues through technology like a computer or a smartphone. Though this can be an efficient way to communicate, it can also prevent you from connecting with others in person. This loss of face to face connection can make you feel isolated from others.For example, you may notice that you only ever meet with a particular coworker over video chat, even though you work on the same floor. You may worry that you are not building a meaningful relationship with your coworker by only communicating through technology and never in person.
You may also notice that you only text certain friends at school but you do not talk to each other often in person. Over time, you may start to feel isolated from these friends and feel like your relationship is superficial or not as meaningful as it could be if you spent time together in person.
 You should pay attention to your computer and smartphone habits to ensure you are being professional and appropriate towards others. You may scroll through your social media pages to make sure none of your posts could be considered offensive, rude, or disrespectful towards others. Having hurtful, offensive posts on your social media could harm your professional relationships at school or at work, especially if your social media is set to public.You should also consider if you tend to overshare online. You may post status updates every five minutes on Facebook, for example, or post new images on Instagram that are personal every hour on the hour. If you tend to overshare, you may cut back on your postings or adjust your postings so they are more appropriate and professional.
You may also create a private social media account that is only for friends to see. You may then add coworkers or school colleagues on your professional account and limit the private account so it can be viewed by personal friends only.
 You may have a hurtful relationship with technology if it becomes a major distraction in your life, getting in the way of school or work. Notice if you find yourself spending too much time on your computer or your phone, and not enough time on your school assignments or your clients at work. If your use of technology is distracting you from your deadlines at work or at school, you may be using it too much.For example, maybe you notice that you are behind on a client briefing for work because you spend too much time playing games on your computer. This may be a sign that you have a harmful relationship with technology.
Alternatively, you may notice that you spend so much time posting updates on social media, you forget to do your assignments for school. This may be a sign that you have a hurtful relationship with technology and may need to reconsider your online habits.

