 Not all complementary or “integrative” treatments are effective. There are many treatments that make huge claims that aren’t substantiated by scientific research. Before undergoing any complementary, alternative, or “natural” treatment for pain, do your research and consult with your doctor.The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, which is a division of the National Institutes of Health, has a free downloadable eBook about what to consider when thinking about complementary approaches to pain management.Consult with the licensing or certifying board of the practice you’re considering. For example, make sure that your practitioner is licensed and/or certified and that they have adequate training in their field.
“Natural” does not necessarily mean safe. Always consult with your healthcare provider before undergoing any complementary treatment. In many cases, your doctor can help you can combine traditional medicine with complementary approaches for a better effect.
Be suspicious of any treatment that claims to be a “miracle cure” or to treat many conditions at once. These claims are almost always fraudulent., Acupuncture is not a “magic bullet,” but several studies have shown that professional acupuncture can be effective in relieving pain, especially lower back pain.Acupuncture uses very thin needles to stimulate sensitive points on your body. It has long been a part of traditional Chinese medicine, and is now considered a viable pain relief technique by many medical doctors and researchers.It’s important to ask your doctor about alternative treatments, including acupuncture. All of your healthcare providers should work together in managing your pain.Not everyone responds to acupuncture. Its effects are usually visible within a few weeks. If your pain does not improve after a few weeks of acupuncture treatment, it may not work for you.Acupuncture has been shown by several studies to relieve back pain. However, it is often more effective when combined with other treatments, such as pain medication.The National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine is the certifying board for acupuncturists in the United States. They have a database of providers that may be helpful in searching for a reputable professional., TENS, or "transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation," and dorsal column stimulation may help relieve pain.These methods use a little machine that delivers small electrical impulses, stimulating the nerves that carry touch sensations.


Each approach has success with different kinds of pain but not all types. For example, the dorsal column stimulation seems to work best with nerve damage in legs but does little for back pain. Neither machine is a cure, but they may be effective for some people, some of the time, to alleviate pain.
 Several studies have shown that regular massage by a trained massage therapist can reduce pain and disability.Massage can provide fairly quick pain relief, especially for back and shoulder pain.Talk with your doctor about getting a referral for “medical massage.” If you have a specific pain, such as chronic neck pain, your doctor may be able to give you a referral for targeted massage. Some health insurance companies will cover this type of massage but not other types. However, all massage by trained massage therapists has been shown to help relieve pain.
Massage may also help reduce your reliance on pain medication., These methods can be very helpful for pain, especially related to muscle, bone, or joint pain. They can also be helpful for neck or back pain.


An occupational therapist can work with you to learn to redirect pain so that it interferes less with your daily life.Taking your experience into account, the occupational therapist may use visualization, yoga, meditation, and gentle exercises to increase your stamina, strength, and ability to cope with pain.Physical therapy can help you manage pain by teaching strengthening and flexibility exercises, manual therapy, posture awareness, and body mechanics instruction, as well as assisting in discovering the root of your pain., Chiropractors are trained specialists who can manipulate your spinal area to improve your body’s functioning and alignment.It is a common treatment for lower back pain, neck pain, and frequent headaches.This process is sometimes known as “spine manipulation.” It has been shown to be effective for mild to moderate pain.Always have this procedure done by a licensed, trained provider. It is not a good option if you have nerve pain or damage. Consult with your doctor before visiting a chiropractor to make sure it is safe for you., Managing chronic pain with medication can cause your body to become tolerant of those medications. Tolerance requires you to take an ever-increasing dose to experience any relief from the medication. For individuals who suffer from chronic pain, cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) can be a useful complementary treatment. Performed with a trained therapist or psychologist, CBT focuses on how you respond to experiences.CBT teaches you to identify negative and unhelpful ways of responding to pain and replace them with helpful responses. For example, many studies have shown that ruminating on pain — thinking the same thoughts over and over, like a broken record, e.g., “I’m in so much pain I can’t stand it” — can make you experience pain more severely. CBT will help you challenge those negative thoughts.Unlike medication, you will not develop a tolerance for therapy, and there are minimal side effects.CBT has been demonstrated effective in managing many types of chronic pain, including chronic lower back pain, headaches, arthritis, and fibromyalgia. CBT has also been used to treat pain from cancer.CBT can be a good choice in treating chronic and recurring pain in children and adolescents. Biofeedback training, relaxation training, and parent training can all help children manage chronic pain without the more dangerous side effects of pain medication., Biofeedback training connects your body to a range of electrical sensors. With the help of a trained professional, you learn how to direct your body’s responses to stimuli; for example, you might learn to relax certain muscles or lower your heart rate.Learning how to control your body’s stress responses helps reduce your experience of pain without the undesirable side effects of medication.Biofeedback can be performed by several types of trained practitioners. Physical therapists may use biofeedback to help people regain motion after an injury or trauma. Psychologists, psychiatrists, and psychotherapists may use biofeedback to teach their clients how to control stress responses and reduce anxiety and psychosomatic or psychogenic pain (pain that is related to psychological factors). Dentists, nurses, general practitioner physicians, and other medical professionals may also use biofeedback with patients.Biofeedback has been shown to be helpful in treating pain from irritable bowel syndrome, migraine, tension headaches, Raynaud’s disease, and back pain.Ask your doctor whether biofeedback could be helpful for you. Most biofeedback therapists will want you to have had a thorough physical examination before trying biofeedback training to ensure that you do not have any health issues that require medical intervention.You can find a directory of clinical biofeedback practitioners via the Association for Applied psychophysiology and Biofeedback., Some jurisdictions have legalized the use of marijuana for medical purposes, or even in general. Marijuana can help alleviate some types of pain, especially general chronic pain. It is important to consult with your doctor before using marijuana so that you understand its benefits and risks and make sure you know the legal status in your state. Some people should not use marijuana, as it can interfere with pre-existing health conditions.Medical marijuana has been shown to be effective for treating some nerve pain, such as that caused by HIV or MS.Marijuana is natural, but it also has risks. It may irritate asthma or allergies. It may also cause dizziness, increased risk of bleeding, or low blood pressure. Marijuana may be addictive.Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should not use marijuana. Teens who suffer from chronic pain should not use marijuana, as it may cause psychosis, impaired reactions, and poor concentration., You'll need a trained therapist for this approach and you need to be amenable to being hypnotized. Hypnosis for pain relief works by implanting suggestions that can take your mind off the pain. However, it tends to be short-lived, so it may not be the best long-term solution. It also tends to be expensive, so it's not for everyone. Ask your doctor for a referral if you're interested.Hypnosis can be a helpful treatment for chronic pain. It may work by altering how your mind responds to pain., Meditation can help to soothe and minimize pain.There are several types of meditation, but one that is commonly recommended for pain is mindful meditation. This type can actually change how your brain responds to stimuli.You can also try transcendental meditation, where you focus on repeating a single mantra.Ask your doctor whether there are any practitioners who are certified in mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR).