 Honey is a great natural remedy for an irritated throat, as it coats and soothes the mucous membranes in your throat. Honey also has antibacterial properties, thanks to an enzyme added by bees. So if your cough is due to a bacterial illness, honey can help to fight off bad bacteria.Take 1 tablespoon of organic, raw honey one to three times a day and before bed. You can also dissolve honey in a cup of hot water with lemon and drink it before bed.
For children, give them 1 teaspoon of honey one to three times a day and before bed.
You should never give children under the age of two years honey due to the risk of botulism, a bacterial infection.
 Licorice root is a natural decongestant. It soothes your airways and loosens mucus in your throat. It also soothes any inflammation in your throat.Look for dried licorice root at your local health food store. You can also buy licorice root in tea bags in the tea aisle of most grocery stores.
Steep the licorice root in hot water for 10 – 15 minutes, or as specified on the tea bags. Cover the tea as it steeps to trap in the steam and oils from the tea. Drink the tea one to two times a day and before bed.
If you are on steroids or have problems with your kidneys, do not consume licorice root.
 Salt water can ease discomfort in your throat and clear out any mucus. If you are congested and have a cough, gargling salt water can help to dislodge any phlegm in your throat.Stir 1 teaspoon of salt in 8 ounces of warm water until it is dissolved.
Gargle the salt water for 15 seconds, being careful not to swallow any of the salt water.
Spit the water out in the sink and gargle again with the remaining salt water.
Rinse your mouth with plain water once you are done gargling.
 Steam is a great way to absorb moisture through your nasal passages and prevent a dry cough. Adding essential oils like tea tree oil and eucalyptus oils also gives you anti-viral, anti-bacterial, and anti-inflammatory benefits.Boil enough water to fill a medium sized heat proof bowl. Pour the water into the bowl and let it cool for 30 – 60 seconds.
Add three drops of tea tree oil and one to two drops of eucalyptus oil to the bowl of water. Give the water a quick stir to release the vapors.
Lean your head over the bowl and try to get as close to the steam as possible. Not too close though, as steam can burn your skin. Place a clean towel over your head, like a tent, to trap the steam. Breath in deeply for five to 10 minutes. Try to steam with essential oils two to three times a day.
You can also rub essential oils on your chest or your child’s chest to prevent coughing at night. Always mix essential oils in organic olive oil before applying it to your skin, as essential oils should never be applied directly to the skin. An essential oil chest rub will work as well as Vick’s Vapor Rub but will be free of petrochemicals and all natural. For children younger than 10, check the label on the essential oils for safety notes or warnings.