 Showering keeps you clean and fresh smelling, so even if you don't feel like it, remember to shower every day!;
, You should shave whenever you think it's time to. Use shaving cream or soap - never try to shave without shaving cream or soap, as it can lead to irritation, nicks, and little red bumps, which you don't want.
 You can also wear perfume - this is optional but a good idea. If you have asthma, try wearing some scented deodorant.
 There is no point to being hygienic if you have dirty clothes - it'll just make you stink and look unkempt.
 Washing your hair every day will strip your hair and scalp of the natural oils it needs to stay hydrated. Use shampoo made especially for your hair type, and never skip conditioner! You can also straighten or curl if you want.
 Do not bite or lick at your nails! Nail polish is optional, but try not to paint your nails more than twice a month, as this can lead to the yellowing and weakening of your nails.



You will need a cleanser recommended for your skin type. Put a small amount of face cleanser on your hands, about the size of a nickel, and rub some on your wet hands. Use a product that is gentle enough for your skin, because something that's too strong will just dry the skin out and stimulate the oil glands to produce more oil - you're trying to remove oil and retain moisture at the same time. Do not use soap - it's too strong, and can't be rinsed easily.
Using your fingertips, massage the cleanser all over your face, removing any dirt and oil. Take thirty seconds or so, concentrating on first the hairline, then paying special attention to the "T-zone" (forehead, nose, and nostril area), then around the mouth and chin, then cheeks. Cleanse the neck using upward strokes. You have oil glands behind your ears, so don't neglect that area. It's messy, but do it anyway. When you're fifty, you will be glad you went to the trouble to help your mature skin look its best! Rinse your face with warm water and pat it dry with a soft towel.
Moisturizer is a very good thing. You have just washed off dirt and oil, and a moisturizer will help keep the moisture in the surface cells, which promotes a more youthful looking complexion - plus it feels great!

