 Such a project can be useful for both post and clip earrings. If you cannot think of any project to make immediately, at the very least add the lone earring to your craft or jewelry making supplies, for use later on. It's a good excuse to hang onto it, and you never know, the other one might even turn up in the interim. Along with more detailed suggestions following this step, some other ideas include:

Covering a CD player, computer monitor or other electronic device with various odd earrings to form a pretty design.
Incorporating the solo earring into a piece of artwork or sculpture; maybe it forms part of the picture or design or maybe it forms the inspiration from which new things can form.
Use the odd earring as a decorative element on a bag or box lock, attach to a notebook or journal, or attach to drawer knobs.
Use dangling earrings to jazz up zippers.
 If you enjoy making jewelry, there are several items you can repurpose the earring into, such as:

Making a brooch from the earring. Break the backing or post off the earring, then glue to a brooch back. Allow to fully dry before wearing, and be sure to check that it has set in place firmly.
Turning it into a hat pin embellishment. As with the brooch, break off the backing, then glue in place to the top of the hat pin. Allow to fully dry before using. For this idea, choose small and delicate earrings; avoid anything heavy or that dangles below the pin's length.
Adding the brooch to a necklace, bracelet or bangle design. Thread the earring onto a necklace or glue/attach to the bracelet or bangle.


Use duct tape or similar strong, smooth tape.
This is one-wear only; use it for a party or special event, then remove and add again when going to another special occasion.
 For earrings that you consider especially pretty, wearing them in your hair can add some sparkle or decorative interest. Here are some ways to turn solo earrings into hair accessories:

Use a hair comb or barrette back as the base. Decide whether you'll use just a single earring or a row of odd earrings to form a pattern on the comb or barrette; if using more than one, design a pretty order for them. Remove the backs and rough parts from one or more earrings. Glue to the comb top or barrette, either in the center for a single one or a row in the order of choice. Allow the earring backs to dry fully before wearing the decorative comb or barrette in your hair.
The same thing can also be tried with a strong, large hair elastic, by gluing a single earring to one place and allowing it to dry fully.
Use a hair bow that has already been made. Simply glue the earring into the center of the bow as an added decoration. Once fully dried, it's ready to wear.
 It might be suitable for the doll to wear as a brooch or necklace, or it could be turned into a belt buckle or headband decoration for a doll. Other uses might include turning the earring into a kitchenware item, wall picture or toy in the doll house. The uses will depend on the earring style, color, shape and size; use your imagination alongside seeking for online image suggestions for doll house items., This is both pretty and practical, as it makes it easier to locate the bookmark and while the book is sitting around, the earring dangling over the book adds a bit of style. To make the bookmark:Find or purchase some strong fabric, such as velvet, satin or linen. Cut into strips measuring approximately 22.5cm/9 inches in length and 5cm/2 inches across (or to the width of the ribbon clamp you have). To prevent fraying, you may need to sew the top of the bookmark (use a pretty stitch). (Or, you can use a ribbon clamp on each end of the book, remembering though that this will make the book bulge when one end sits inside of it.)
Attach a ribbon clamp on the base of the bookmark ribbon. Fix in place with flat-nose jewelry pliers.
Affix the orphaned earring using jump rings (again with the pliers). Done. You can now enjoy using your pretty new bookmark.
 If you want to make a whole name or word, you'll need a lot of orphaned earrings or other broken jewelry pieces. To make this:

Find a wooden initial at a craft store. This can be the initial of your first name or that of a family member or friend. The size of the letter is up to your needs; think about the end use, from adding to a small box as an embellishment, to placing on a bookshelf as a display item, the size will depend on this.
Prepare the initial. Paint it in a color of choice, using acrylic or similar paint. Match the color to the earrings being used or to the decor you'll display the end product in. Good colors include black, white and beige, as these colors will not overwhelm the earrings. Allow to dry completely before affixing the earrings.
Prepare the earrings. Remove their backings and any unwanted parts. Arrange in a design to see what looks best on the initial; take a digital photo of this to guide you or sketch it; if you have a good memory of where each piece goes, rely on that instead.
Glue the earring pieces onto the painted letter in the desired order. Allow to completely dry.
Done. The bejeweled initial is now ready for display or adding to an object of your choice.

