 Always approach a girl with the underlying realization that she is, first and foremost, a human being and thus is worthy of respect (it doesn't matter what she's wearing, how drunk she is, or how she's acting). Girls are often taught that they don't deserve respect, so you'll stand out from a lot of other guys.


Make sure that you have respect for yourself, too. This is about confidence. When you talk to or approach a girl, don't base your happiness on whether she's going to be interested in you. When you make it seem like you're desperate. Politely engage her in conversation and if she doesn't seem interested, back off.
Be respectful to other people when you're around her (this ties in with treating people well). Avoid degrading women, whether it's by telling a rape joke (just don't), calling other guys "pussies" or using words like "that bitch" to talk about your ex-girlfriend. You'll come across as disrespectful and immature.
A lot of guys mix up being confident with being arrogant and awful. They say that women only want horrible guys who treat them poorly. The thing about this type of guy is that he exudes confidence. It tends to be the confidence rather than the crappy behavior that girls are attracted to.
 Make it seem like you're actually interested in what she has to say. Instead of jumping right in with something about yourself, follow up with another question about what she just said. Girls, like anyone else, like to think that people are interested in their thoughts and opinions.


For example: you might ask her about her job and when she tells you she's working as a barista, ask her how she likes it, what's her favorite part about the job, what's her least favorite part.
Obviously make sure that you listen to what she says. Don't just be formulating your next question, or it'll seem like you're interrogating her without caring about the answers.
Don’t get too personal too quickly. If you've only just met the girl, don't jump right in asking about her relationship with her family, or whether she has any deep dark secrets (although asking this as a joke might be okay depending on the girl). if the two of you end up dating, there'll be time for that later.
 You don't have to have a big shit-eating grin when you're hanging out with her, but it's a good idea to make your interactions fun. She'll remember that being around you was fun and kind of charged (flirting is good for that).


Rather than a big open smile, consider having a kind of half-smile. This is often more attractive to girls than full-on grinning.
Make her laugh. Tell funny stories. Real ones are the best ones, especially ones where you come off as human. It shows that you can laugh at yourself. For example: you might tell her about the time you tried to scare your dad when he was coming out of the gym locker room, only to scare a completely random person.
Be careful with humor, because not everyone has the same type of humor. Make sure that you're gauging your reaction. Is she laughing hard at what you're saying, or only laughing politely. Avoid harmful humor, as well, such as racist or sexist jokes.
 Flirting can be a bit hit or miss, but it's a great way to create a fun, light atmosphere. It can also get a bit charged and leave her wanting more. Make sure you go by each individual girl's reaction, because every girl is different in what she likes and dislikes.


Tease her gently. Don't be mean about what you say, but gently poke fun at her. For example: tell her that you can out-dance her on the dance. If she is a better dancer, pretend that you are, instead.
Eye contact is an extremely important part of flirting. Keep eye contact with the girl that you're interested in, across the bar, while you're in conversation. It'll build a real charge of energy between the two of you. Watch her tone if she need some space let her in.

