 There are many options when it comes to choosing a credit counselor. However, many counseling agencies charge very high fees, which can be difficult to manage if you're already struggling with your finances. There are also many counseling agencies that are not accredited, and these agencies may end up making your financial situation even more dire.Credit unions, extension offices, religious organizations, and nonprofit agencies usually offer free or very affordable counseling.
Make sure any credit counseling agency you work with is accredited by either the National Foundation for Credit Counseling (NFCC) or the Financial Counseling Association of America (FCAA).
You can search for approved credit counseling agencies by state through the U.S. Department of Justice website.;
, If you're struggling with debt and you are a member of the U.S. armed forces, you may qualify for special protection against debt collectors, eviction threats, and civil court actions.You can find out more information about your options by contacting your local U.S. Armed Forces Legal Assistance office., Most reputable agencies offer a range of services, including budget counseling, savings classes, and debt management classes. However, some agencies may attempt to muscle you into paying for a debt management plan without first offering any other services.If an agency pushes you to subscribe to a debt management plan without discussing other options, find another agency.


At the very least, a reputable agency should offer free education materials. If you have to pay for information from an agency, you should not work with those credit counselors.
 If you are unable to find a free credit counseling agency, you may have to pay for credit counseling services. It's important to know exactly how much you'll be expected to pay, as well as how often those payments will need to be made. Some agencies charge a fee for setting up your credit counseling account, others charge monthly fees, and some counseling agencies charge both.Ask for a specific price quote to be given to you in writing. That way you'll know what you're expected to pay, and the agency won't be able to scam you out of more money.
 Certification is not necessarily a required qualification in order to become a credit counselor, but as a consumer you'll want a counselor who's been properly trained. Ask any credit counseling agency you're considering if their counselors are accredited or certified by some external organization or governing body.If the counselors are not accredited/certified by an external organization, ask the agency about the training process their counselors must go through. You will need to assess for yourself whether the training they have is sufficient for your financial needs.
 If you're struggling with your finances, the safety of your personal information may be the last thing on your mind. However, some unscrupulous counseling agencies may be willing to sell your information to third parties.Ask about the agency's privacy policies, both with regards to your personal information and your financial information.
 Once you've chosen a credit counseling agency, you'll need to attend credit counseling sessions. These sessions can be held in person, over the phone, or online, and they typically involve reviewing your debts as well as your assets to arrive at a more sustainable financial plan.Most sessions last about 30 to 40 minutes. Your counselor will conduct an interview to determine the extent of your debt and your current financial situation.
Bring documentation of your income, regular expenses, budget, and assets. Your counselor will need this information to assess your situation.
Your counselor will help you develop and stick to a budget, work out a savings plan, or put together a debt management plan to pay off your debts.
 Depending on your financial situation, you may be able to manage your debt on your own. However, many people need assistance from a credit counselor. Most people wishing to declare personal bankruptcy may also be required to attend credit counseling sessions. It's important to know in advance (and plan accordingly) that you may need to pay money for counseling, which could further strain your finances.Some credit counselors charge large fees, including both one-time payments and monthly fees.
 One of the biggest factors in deciding to work with a credit counselor should be your monthly finances. If you have debt, you may be able to manage that debt if your monthly finances are sufficient. However, if you find yourself struggling to stay afloat each month, credit counseling can help you work out a budget and stick to it.If you're living from paycheck to paycheck, hiding bills from your significant other, or living in constant tension due to your finances, credit counseling may help you.
 The other big factor in deciding to work with a credit counselor is how much money you owe. You may not be too far into debt, in which case you might be able to manage your finances independently. However, if you're deeply in debt and struggling to manage your monthly expenses, credit counseling can help.If you max out your credit card(s) each month, dip into your savings, or use cash advances or payday loans, you may want to consider credit counseling as an option.
If debt collectors call you, you definitely need credit counseling.

