 Coat one large chicken breast (about 1/2 pound of 226 g) with a seasoning (like taco seasoning, garlic, cayenne pepper, salt, pepper, or onion powder). You can either cook the chicken breast in a slow cooker or in a skillet. To slow cook it, just place the chicken breast in the slow cooker and cook it on low for 5 to 6 hours. To cook it in the skillet, add the chicken breast to a heated skillet with a little bit of olive oil. Saute the chicken over medium-high heat for 5 to 6 minutes on each side.


The chicken should be at least 165 degrees F (73 C) in order to be safely cooked.;
, Remove the chicken breast from the slow cooker or skillet. Use two forks to pull the cooked chicken in opposite directions so the meat shreds. Toss the shredded chicken in a mixing bowl along with 1 cup (226 g) of shredded pepper jack cheese. Set this aside while you slice one avocado.If you're using strips of cooked bacon, you'll also need to crumble them and set them aside.
 Lay four burrito-sized flour tortillas on your work space. Divide the chicken and cheese filling evenly among the tortillas. Place slices of the avocado on top of the filling and sprinkle 1/2 pound (226 g) of cooked and crumbled bacon on top of the wraps.If you don't have time to make the bacon and crumble it, you can purchase pre-cooked bacon. All you'll need to do is cut or crumble the heated bacon.
 Fold one half of the wrap over the filling towards the other side. Tuck in the ends so the filling is contained and roll the wrap over itself towards the other side. Roll all four wraps tightly so that the filling won't leak out as they cook.Take care not to overfill the wraps or it will make it difficult to cook them. If your tortillas are smaller than burrito-size, you may need to use an extra wrap tortilla to make an extra wrap.
 Heat 1/2 tablespoon of olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Once the oil is hot, place the wraps in the skillet. Saute the wraps for 1 to 2 minutes. Use tongs to turn the wraps to another side and cook them for another 1 to 2 minutes. Keep doing this until the wraps are completely browned and crisp on the outside.If your skillet isn't large enough to fit all four wraps, you may need to saute them one or two at a time.

