 If the date or time is inconvenient, you can request to reschedule by contacting the person who issued the subpoena. While you may be able to reschedule a deposition, you most likely will not be able to reschedule actual testimony as its bound to the court date. Further, if you have to travel a long distance (usually, over 100 miles), your travel costs will be covered.

If the person who issued the subpoena grants a change of schedule, request it in writing to protect yourself.
 For a subpoena that requires you to provide testimony or a deposition, you simply need to ensure that you show up at the assigned time and place listed in the subpoena. Depending on your situation and the questions you can anticipate being asked, you may want to seek the counsel of your attorney. This will help you determine the best way to answer each question legally without finding yourself in contempt of court.


If the subpoena has been issued to a company, the company must designate an individual who is most knowledgeable about the topics stated in the subpoena. If no single person has all of the information requested in the subpoena, the company may still designate a single individual who would then educate himself/herself about the topics which he/she doesn’t know.
 Complying with the subpoena duces tecum means you must produce every document requested that is under your control. If any of the documents aren’t in your possession, then you or your attorney must submit (and have granted) a motion to modify the scope of the subpoena before the set date.
 If an original of a documents must be presented, then the subpoena will say so. If the subpoena lacks this detail, then you should provide photocopies of any documents instead of the original. If the subpoena is for an electronically stored information, then you must present it in its ordinarily maintained form or a form that is still usable to the court., You do not need to make copies of all the documents for every party in the lawsuit. One copy will suffice unless otherwise stated.
 After you deliver the documents, write a Declaration of Service or a Declaration of Compliance of Subpoena stating who you delivered the documents to; what you delivered; and how, when, and where you delivered them.You keep this document until someone claims you didn’t comply with the subpoena.

