 This section will give you a few ideas on how to use ribbons to decorate your box. You don't have to use all of these ideas. Choose one or two that you like the best., Wrap a wide, ribbon around the gift box first, from bottom to top. Next, wrap a narrower ribbon around the wider one. Try to center the narrow ribbon as much as possible. You can tie the two together into a bow at the top of the box, or you can add a third, really narrow piece of ribbon.

If the ribbons slip around too much, secure them with short pieces of clear, double-sided tape. Do not use the thick, white, foam mounting tape you'd put on your wall. That is too thick and will create lumps in your ribbon.
Consider using contrasting colors for your ribbons that match your box. For example, if your box is white, you can use teal for the wide ribbon, and white for the narrower ribbon.
Consider mixing and matching patterns. You can use solid-colored ribbons, or you can use patterned ones. You can also use a solid-colored ribbon and a patterned one on top of it.
Consider mixing and matching textures. If you want a more vintage or shabby-chic look, consider using burlap for the bottom ribbon, and flat (non-ruffled) lace for the narrower ribbon. You can finish the layering off with a piece of twine or hemp cord.
 Get out a piece of yarn or cotton string that is long enough to wrap around your gift box a few times. Use a 1 inch (2.54 centimeter) or larger shaped hole punch (such as a heart of star) to punch shapes out of colorful paper. Super glue the shapes down onto the string. They can be as close together or as far apart as you want. Wait for the glue to dry, then wrap it around your gift box.You can buy large hole punches in interesting shapes (such as snowflakes, hearts, stars, and flowers) from arts and crafts shops. Look in the scrapbook supply section.
 Find some buttons that have two or four holes in them; the cheap, craft buttons that come in a bucket at great for this. Then, cut a piece of twine long enough to wrap around your box a few times. Weave the twine through the holes in the buttons until you have as many buttons as you want on your twine. Tie a knot at each of the twine, then tie the twine around your box like you would with a ribbon. This is great for a rustic gift of a baby shower. Here are some color ideas:

For a rustic gift, choose a brown piece of twine. Use buttons in random colors and sizes.
For a gift for a baby girl, use a pink piece of twine. You can use all pink buttons, or alternate pink and white buttons.
For a baby boy, use a light blue piece of twine. You can use all light blue buttons, or alternate them with white buttons.
 This will allow the receiver to pull the lid off without untying and ruining a beautifully-crafted bow. Create a cross shape with two pieces of ribbon, and set your box down onto the middle of it. Wrap each side of ribbon up over each side of the box, and tuck the excess ribbon inside the box. Secure the ribbon with a drop of glue. Repeat the process for the lid. Make the bow separately, and glue it on top of the box lid.

Hot glue or fabric glue will be the best for this. They dry the fastest.
 You can use twine, raffia, lace ribbon, or colorful yarn. You can even use 1 to 2 inch wide (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) pieces of calico fabric or fabric. Each will give your box a different unique look. You don't always have to tie a box up with ribbon., Wrap some ribbon or twine around your gift, but instead of tying it into a bow, tie it into a tight knot and snip the ends off. Glue a flat ornament, such as snowflake, a large paper flower, a large sea shell, or even a giant pompom over the knot.