 Squeeze a dime-sized amount of shampoo for short hair and a quarter-sized amount for longer hair. Use cool water when rinsing off shampoo and conditioner. How often you will wash your hair depends on hair thickness, scalp oiliness, and personal preference.Wash your hair with a sulfate-free shampoo every 2-3 days if you have curly hair.Wash your hair with a volumizing shampoo for finer hair, straight hair.Maintain regular washing with shampoo once or twice a week, and co-wash (use conditioner to wash only) on other days for curly, relaxed ethnic hair.;
, Pat dry with a clean towel, and comb it thoroughly. Don't brush when it is dry as it will cause more frizz.Treat your hair like you would your favorite sweater.


Keep in mind that wringing out moisture, towel drying, and blowdrying can be damaging to your hair. Do this gently.
 Even 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) a month or every six weeks makes all the difference in the health of your hair. If you are trying to let your hair grow out, nip the damaged and split ends for health just the same. You will still gain length! Hair that is allowed to grow untrimmed will eventually start to break at the ends from wear, and you will lose hair faster than it can grow.


Short hair should be trimmed every 4-8 weeks to maintain your style and cut.Medium length hair should be trimmed 6-12 weeks.Long hair should be trimmed every 8-12 weeks., Find a style that fits your face shape and your hair type, and get runway ready in 10 minutes or less!


Thicker hair types should choose to maintain long hairstyles at least below your shoulders, as short cuts can poof out and appear frizzy. You should also ask your stylist for long layers around your face to create a flattering shape.Thin hair should avoid layers and embrace an easy one length cut. Any length is fine, but make you don't add bangs!If your hair is curly, opt for an angular lob that is longer in the front than in the back. You should also ask your stylist for layers to thin out your hair.Wavy haired styles can go either any length. Just make sure to ask for layers and touch up any frizz with your favorite styling product.For straight hair, well-blended layers and long locks are your best friends., Lacking a good diet can lead to anemia, fatigue, weakness, constipation, loss of appetite, and weight loss.Drink water to hydrate yourself. Eat foods rich in in B12.


Some foods you can include are meat, fish, poultry, milk products, and eggs.
For vegetarians and vegans, your fortified breakfast cereal often includes part of the daily dietary guidelines.

