 The wedding ceremony booklet should include the full names of the bride and groom, the wedding date and time, and the city, state and venue where the wedding is being held. This information is usually on the cover of the booklet.;
, The ceremony booklet includes information about the actual ceremony so guests can follow along and participate. The booklet may list traditional parts of a wedding ceremony, such as the procession, invocation, declaration of intent, vows exchange, ring exchange, pronouncement and recession.


Include the names of musical selections, composers and performers. If the musical selections are to be sung by the wedding guests, include the words to the songs or indicate where the song selections can be found. For example, if the wedding is held in a church, the ceremony booklet may refer guests to the pew hymnals.
List the name, source and authorship of any readings, as well as the name of each reader.
Include words to all prayers or sung responses. For example, if the congregation will recite the Lord's Prayer as part of a Christian wedding ceremony, include the words to the prayer in the ceremony program. If Holy Communion will be part of a Catholic wedding ceremony, include the sung responses in the ceremony bulletin. This encourages active participation by all wedding guests.
Indicate movements guests will make during the wedding ceremony. For example, note when guests stand, sit or kneel during the ceremony.
Provide explanations for religious and cultural traditions, rituals or customs featured in the ceremony. Write a brief explanation, including the history and background of the ritual and why it is significant to your wedding, to inform guests who do not share your culture or religion. For example, explain the symbolism of jumping a broom or breaking a wine glass if your wedding ceremony includes these traditions.
 The wedding ceremony booklet provides an opportunity to share personal information about the couple.


Share the story of how you met and how your relationship grew. Include a few special memories or funny stories about your relationship.
Consider including favorite photographs, poems, song lyrics or quotes.
Include sentimental or significant information about the wedding details. List the bride's "something old, something new" accessories, or explain the significance of heirloom candlesticks, a family Bible or a bridal canopy used in the ceremony.
 Include the first and last names of all participants in the wedding ceremony, including the officiant, matron/maid of honor, best man, bridesmaids, groomsmen, ushers, flower girls, ringer bearers, vocalists, musicians, greeters and readers. Include the first and last names of parents and grandparents of the bride and groom.


Include information about the relationship of each person to the bride or groom. For example, list the best man with his full name and his relationship to the groom. (Joe Smith, Best Man and college friend of the groom) The guests will feel more included in the celebration if they know some information about the wedding party and participants.
Honor deceased loved ones with a special note in the wedding ceremony booklet.
 Many wedding ceremony booklets include a thank you note to the parents of the bride and groom, as well as one to the wedding guests. The note does not have to be lengthy, but should express sincere appreciation for being a part of the couple's wedding day.
 The ceremony bulletin provides an ideal place to include additional instructions about the wedding day. For example, remind your guests that maps to the reception are located by the doors of the venue, or reiterate that flash photography is not permitted during the ceremony.

