 Take the bacon out of the refrigerator and let it sit for five minutes. This softens the fat in the bacon. Do not fry cold bacon.If you wish, you can marinate or season your bacon at this point. To get ideas for marinades and seasoning, refer to the section in this article on adding flavor to bacon.


If the bacon is frozen, you will need to thaw it first. Don't fry frozen bacon. Instead, allow the bacon to thaw on its own while it's still in the package, or in a bowl of room-temperature water. Do not microwave the bacon to thaw it.;
, You can use a 12-inch cast-iron skillet or a 12-inch standard frying pan, so long as it is cold. Place several slices of bacon on the skillet or pan. The bacon slices should be almost touching, but not overlapping. If you overlap the bacon, it may not cook evenly.A regular frying pan will work just as well as a cast iron-skillet will, but a cast-iron skill will cook the bacon faster.
 Set the temperature to "low," and let the bacon start cooking. As the bacon begins to heat up, you will notice bacon fat pooling in the bottom of the pan. This helps cook the bacon evenly. If there is too much bacon fat, then you can consider pouring some out into a heat-safe bowl or jar. Do not pour bacon fat down the drain, or you may risk clogging the drain.If you want crispy bacon, consider filling the skillet or frying pan with just enough water to cover the bacon. Set the temperature to "high" instead of "low." When the water begins to boil, lower the heat to "medium," and when the water has simmered away, lower the heat again to "medium low." Continue cooking the bacon in its fat until it is golden-brown in color., After a few minutes, you will notice that the bacon is starting to bubble and curl. Flip the bacon using a form. You can either use the fork as a mini spatula and slide it beneath the bacon slice before flipping it over. You can also wedge the bacon slice between the fork prongs and flip it over that way; this gives you more support and control.
 The amount of time you cook your bacon depends on how well-done you like your bacon. The crispier you like your bacon, the longer you will have to cook it.
 Once the bacon has cooked to your liking, transfer each piece to a paper towel-covered plate. Allow the paper towel to soak up any excess fat before serving the bacon.


You can also drain the bacon on sheets of newspaper, cut up paper bags, or a wire baking rack places over a cookie sheet.

