 Grooming is a component of ground training, a type of training where you are standing on the ground while taking your horse through various exercises.Ground training is an important of natural horsemanship, since it allows you to bond with your horse by establishing boundaries and communicating with him using his natural body language.If you haven’t groomed him before, start by touching him all over with just your hands. Doing this everyday will get him used to your touch. Be mindful of the areas where he doesn’t feel comfortable being touched, such as his stomach and eyes.When you start grooming him, focus on the areas where he likes to be touched. Many horses enjoy being touched around their withers and mane.By grooming and touching your horse all over for just a few minutes each day, he will trust that you will touch him with gentleness and respect. When he trusts you in this way, you will know that you have established a strong bond with him.
 With the use of a lead rope attached to your horse’s halter, lead him from various positions, including in front of him, beside him, and behind him. Leading exercises will teach your horse to respect your personal space; earning this respect from your horse is another important aspect of bonding with him through natural horsemanship.Lead your horse by walking in front of him. Determine how far in front of him you want to walk, and keep that distance for the duration of your walk. If your horse tries to close the distance that you established, gently push him back. He will learn to respect that distance.Lead from the partner position (beside him). Stand next to his shoulder for this position. Just like when you walk in front of him, establish and maintain your area of personal space when walking beside him. Practice this position next to both shoulders.Lead from the drive position. Stand behind your horse’s drive line (behind the withers) and walk diagonally behind him.As an alternative, try leading your horse without the lead rope. Practice this when your horse has mastered being led with the lead rope.
No matter which lead position you practice, the goal is for your horse to see you as alpha and respect your personal space. Practice each day until your horse is comfortable being led by you.
 The key to ground training is to practice it consistently until your horse responds quickly and appropriately to your commands. When he does this, you will have established a bond with him based on mutual trust and respect. Do not do ground training for more than 30 minutes otherwise he will get bored and will not respond.