 Take the objects in your house and label them with their English equivalent. The goal is to get your mind thinking in English. When it's right there, it'll be impossible to ignore.


When you've labeled everything and find yourself thinking, "Where is my blanket?" try to think of the word (or sentence) in English. When you find your blanket, were you right?
Don't write on the objects--grab a slip of paper and tape it on sturdily.
 It's very easy to get caught up in memorizing words when pronunciation can be just as important. Unfortunately, English has exceptions to most rules. But there are still some general guidelines you can abide by:


Always say the last sounds in the word. Certain Asian dialects find this rather difficult. If you know you're guilty of this, keep it in mind. "Streets" is not pronounced stree. The "ts" is very important in retaining meaning.
Take the sentence "I project the project will end soon." Confusing, huh? Isn't English SVO? Yes, and this sentence is too. The first "project" (verb) is pronounced pro-JECT; the second (noun) is pronounced PRO-ject. The same is true for all verb-noun pairs: nouns stress the first syllable, verbs the second.
Though there are definite exceptions, most nouns in English have the first syllable stressed. Think of the nouns in your house: "BED-room," "BATH-room," "KITCH-en," "TA-ble," "WIN-dow," "SO-fa," "WA-ter," "JACK-et," "TOI-let," etc.
 There are meaningful differences between American, British, and Australian English. Before you go about increasing your vocabulary, which one appeals to you?


Sometimes it's very important to know who you're speaking to. If you tell an American, Canadian, or Australian you're not wearing pants, they might wonder if you're wearing shorts, a dress, a skirt, or just in your underwear. If you tell a British person you're not wearing pants, you're going commando!
In addition to vocabulary differences, the pronunciation differences are huge. Know these variations exist before you get confused with multiple correct pronunciations.

Certain dictionaries use British English and certain dictionaries prefer American. Choose the one that's best for you.



