 Coping with changes in the workplace can be stressful. It can be helpful to take a day off, or a few days, to spend time at home and relax. Find out whether you have any paid time off days and take advantage of them. Big changes in the workplace can cause a lot of stress, and taking some time off can help you recover from the stress and feel like yourself again.


If you can't take an actual vacation, you should take short breaks during your workday to reduce the possibility that you'll become burned out.Take a five minute break from your desk to make yourself a cup of coffee, to walk around the office, or to go outside for a breath of fresh air.
 Friendships both in and outside of work are very helpful in reducing stress. Since you spend a considerable amount of time each day with your coworkers, it is helpful to build strong and healthy relationships with the people there. These relationships should have boundaries though; you shouldn't talk about things that are inappropriate in the workplace and your friendships should never distract from your actual work., Your work is a very important part of your life, but it shouldn't be your entire life. It is unreasonable to expect that you can be on call for 24 hours every day.Setting boundaries between your work and home life, like not checking your email after 6pm or not taking work phone calls on the weekend, can help you compartmentalize your work and keep the two separate.


These boundaries can help to limit the amount of stress that this change can have on your life. Your adaption to changes in the workplace shouldn't affect your home life.
 Adapting to change can be difficult and it can wear on you, especially when the change is large and impacts a lot of different parts of your work. This can feel overwhelming at times, and you may feel like you aren't equipped to handle it. Even though it can be difficult to admit that you need help, support from other people can be very helpful.Talk to your supervisor if you are struggling with making the transition, and see if they have any recommendations about adapting that could help you. You can also talk to someone who is close to you in your personal life to see if they have an outside perspective on your situation.

