 Making steady progress on many goals requires you to be organized every day. Every morning (or the night before) decide on the tasks you want to work on that day.


Ideally, you should have at least one task related to each goal so that you make headway on all of them every day., Some days, you will not have enough time to work on every task you planned. Because of this, it's important to prioritize these tasks. That way, you are certain you are investing your time efficiently.


Your prioritized goal list and timeline will both help with this. Often, you'll want to put tasks related to the most important goals at the top of the list. Sometimes, you might need to prioritize another task that has a deadline that's fast approaching. Other times, you might want to prioritize a task that can help you make progress on more than one goal.
 Dedicating specific windows time to work on your goals is a good way to ensure steady progress. It also helps you form good work habits that will make working on your goals easier.At the same time, be prepared to be flexible with your routine. Sometimes, the tasks related to one goal may have to take priority over others for a while.For example, imagine you are working on three related goals: a bachelors degree in drama, getting paid acting work, and rehearsing for a play you have already been cast in. You might set aside the hours of 3pm to 6pm for homework. After a dinner break, you set aside 7pm to 8pm for looking for jobs and scheduling auditions. You set aside 8pm to 9pm for practicing your lines for the play. These tasks work together and have the potential to contribute to one another sometimes. Your acting classes, for example, might help you be more successful at auditions. So, this is probably a good routine. But, right before the play opens, you might need to prioritize rehearsals over looking for work. Right before an important assignment is due, you might have to prioritize class work, and so on.
 For any goal, keeping track of your achievements helps maintain motivation and steady progress.This is especially important if you are striving for several goals at once, because it may be harder to keep track of your work on all of them.


Use a journal, app, or calendar to keep track of your progress. Track the work you've put in and the tasks you've achieved, and compare this to your plan.
If you are falling behind on one of your goals, you may need to prioritize it for a while. You may also need to revise your routine to ensure that you dedicate enough time to this goal.
 When working on many goals at once, it is easy to get overwhelmed. Thus, keeping your motivation levels high is crucial. Motivation and perseverance are essential to goal achievement.Use reinforcement to help keep up your motivation. Giving yourself little rewards for achieving tasks helps build a positive associations with working toward your goal.For example, after completing a major assignment for school, you might take yourself out for fancy dessert.
Make sure to build some down-time into your plan. It's easy to get burned out if you are always working on goals and never take a break. Burnout can lead you fall behind or give up., If you find that your goals aren't working as well together as you had hoped, be prepared to change your plan.


Working on complimentary goals can boost creativity, efficiency, and success.But, trying to achieve competing goals can have the opposite effect. It can lead to none of the goals being achieved as well as you would like.If you goals end up being competing and not complimentary, use your priorities list to decide which ones to focus on.
If you decide one of your goals is actually not that important to you, drop it. You can switch it out for another on your list, or dedicate more time to the remaining goals.