 You should start as young as you can. Being older isn’t an insurmountable obstacle. You may sometimes feel like you’re not moving ahead quickly enough, but the time you put in with pay off. If you are advancing well during your training, you may be offered a place to the Royal Ballet Lower School from there. If not, you may still earn entry into a well-known ballet school that will help you move up.


Start in local ballet schools. They don’t have to be famous to provide your foundational training.
Practice pre-pointe. Before pointe, you will do pre-pointe for at least a year.
Remember that any criticism you get from your teachers or coaches is meant to help you improve. Your teachers want you to succeed.;
, Many successful ballerinas retire and choose to coach other hopefuls.Coaches work one-on-one with dancers and assist them with their weaknesses, so talk to your teachers and the director of the ballet school you’re in. They may point you to a coach that they know can work well with your style, or they may suggest holding off until you’re more advanced.Reach out to people you know in the business. Talk to guest instructors or others that you’ve met through your training so far.
Look for your local accrediting agency for ballet teachers. Depending on where you live, there will be a different agencies. Their websites can help you locate a coach who has the right credentials.
 For children between the ages of seven and eleven, the Royal Ballet offers a junior school program meant to get you started on your path to success. The program is free, and it provides training from professionals in the field. At the end of the training program, you will be invited to watch a session of Royal Ballet School students.


Find a local school that offers it. Right now, only 27 schools provide access to the program. These are located in Blackpool, Mansfield Woodhouse, Bury St Edmunds, Swindon, and Dagenham.
Contact Arts Award. If you are not in one of the areas currently being serviced, you can request information about how to get involved in programs in your area.