 Being amazing and fit means keeping your mind sharp, not just your body. As you age, you might notice yourself becoming a little more forgetful. The older you get, the more important it is to actively work your mind. Doing puzzles is a great way to exercise your brain.Brain teasers and word games are also excellent ways to train your brain. Try doing crossword puzzles or Sudoku. Download games onto your smartphone or tablet.
Play chess, bridge, or other challenging board or card games.
 As you age, your cognitive speed slows down. Research shows that reading more can actually slow the mental aging process. Reading enhances your memory and increases your attention span. So grab a book, newspaper, or magazine and start reading!Try joining a book club. Your local bookshop or neighborhood library likely has a variety of groups you can join. Turn reading into a new social experience and meet new people.
 The act of learning is a great way to keep your mind sharp as you age. Continuing your education, learning new skills or pursuing a new hobby may help maintain individual brain cells and fortify your memory.Many people suggest trying to learn a new language, but you don't have to make it that complicated. Instead, try learning a new vocabulary word each day. To help, get a word of the day calendar or download an app to your phone.You can also try learning a new skill. For example, maybe you've always wanted to learn how to knit. Teaching yourself a new hobby is a great way to keep your mind young.
 There are great benefits that come with socializing. Not only is it enjoyable, but it is good for your health. People who socialize regularly tend to have lower blood pressure and a decreased risk of diseases such as Alzheimer's.Try scheduling regular activities with your friends. For example, create a dinner club that meets once a month. You can get together with friends and try new recipes or restaurants.
Interact with your friends and family during your regular activities. For example, take your grandchild to the grocery store with you, or invite your neighbor to go on a walk. There are many ways to get more socialization into your day.
If you are looking to meet new people, try going to classes at a yoga studio and striking up conversations with other people who are looking to better themselves. Book clubs, religious meetings, and gyms are also great places to meet other people and socialize.

