 Introduce yourself as a person, a co-worker, and a resource for your trainee. Give them more than just your name. Let them know a bit about your educational and professional background, and how long you have been in your current position. Give them a chance to relate to you so that they can also start relating to the position.


Let your trainee know that you will act as a resource for them as they figure out the job. You may want to say, “I helped develop this database, so if you have any questions even after training, you can always give me a call.”

, The first day or two with your trainee, allow them to get adjusted to the company and the job by watching you work. Let them shadow you, either for the entire day or for the parts of the day where you will be handling your trainee’s eventual job functions.Assist your trainee by offering to break down a process as you’re doing it or after you complete it.
Let your trainee go over their notes with you, and help them fill in blanks or parts that they have missed.
 Much of your time in training will be spent explaining concepts and taking your trainee through tasks and duties. You want to actively engage your trainee in the position, though. Create assignments for your trainee to help them work through their job duties and review with them so that they can see their strengths as well as where they need to improve.If, for example, you had a project that involved research and a summary of your findings, have your trainee repeat the research and the synthesis. Then, go over their work with them, paying equal attention to what they did well and what needs improvement.
If you have an active project, find a task within that for your trainee to try. This not only engages them actively with the position, but prepares them for what they will actually be working on moving forward.
 As training continues, you may be spending less time daily with your trainee. You still want to check in with your trainee on a daily basis, though. This lets them feel supported and allows them to work with you for as long as possible to learn the job.Try to set aside 15 minutes every morning to talk with your trainee about what they will be working on that day, and help them set goals for the day ahead.
Set aside another 15 to 30 minutes at the end of every day to talk with your trainee about what they accomplished and to answer any questions they may have.

