 While the familiar zucchini and yellow summer squash are probably the most common, there are literally hundreds of hybrids and varieties of summer squash available at farmers markets and in gardens. The good news? While the texture and flavors differ very subtly, you can use almost all of them interchangeably. The only thing that differs is the dicing. For all the steps and recipes throughout the article, any of the following squash would be perfect:


Zucchini
Yellow crook-neck or straight-neck
Marrow squash
Scallop squash
Pattison squash, sometimes called "spaceship" or "UFO" squash
Caserta squash
Lemon squash;
, The best summer squash are bought locally and used as soon as possible after picking. When you're picking squash at the market, pick out the smallest and the firmest. Check at the stem and flower end of the squash for signs of wrinkling, which can be a sign that the squash is somewhat old.


Squash that are larger or overgrown are often mealy, but they're perfect for baking. Pro tip: scour the farmer's market right before it closes. Nobody wants to have to take those baseball-bat sized zucchinis back home. You might score them for super-cheap, and have the makings of some zucchini muffins.
 Summer squash respirate more quickly than some other vegetables, which means they expel more spoilage-promoting carbon dioxide.Point being, wrap them up and stick them in the fridge to keep them fresh, where they should be fine for 5-7 days.


Store squash in a storage bag, wrapping them tightly to keep the air out of the bag. The more the squash respirate, the more nutritional value and flavor they'll lose.
 Summer squash, whether you got them at the store or picked them from your own garden, should be rinsed gently with cold water just before using, to remove any dirt particles, or pesticides from the outer skin. Scrub very gently with a vegetable brush, if desired.


Don't rinse your squash after bringing them inside, if you don't plan on using them right away. This will promote spoilage.
 While it's perfectly fine to eat every part of a summer squash, seeds included, the seed section of some squash can get a little mealy when raw, which will be slimy when cooked, especially if the squash is slightly overgrown. It's also essential if you plan to stuff the squash with anything. If you want to remove the seeds:


Cut the squash down the center, length-wise, and scoop out the seeds with a spoon, removing the soft and jelly-like center area along with it.
 Start by removing the stem end and the flower end of the squash, then cutting up the squash however you choose. Slicing squash into discs, chopping it into even cubes, cutting it into strips, grating squash, or roasting it whole: there's really no wrong way to cut up a summer squash, and a lot of it will depend on the shape and the variety.


Leave the skin on summer squash. Unlike winter varieties, the skin of summer squash is one of the most edible and flavorsome parts of the squash. There's no need to remove it, unless you don't want it there for cosmetic reasons.
Remove some of the moisture from the squash by salting it gently before you cook with it. This will bring some of the water to the surface, which you can rinse off by running the sliced squash under the water once more. While this isn't necessary, it's a process called "disgorging," and is effective at keeping squash dishes, and especially baking, from getting too watery.