 You should only need to measure your current hard drive if you plan on upgrading it, in which case you'll need to know the exact dimensions of your hard drive to ensure a proper fit.


Removing or upgrading the hard drive on a Mac without professional help is not recommended.
 If you aren't careful while handling your hard drive, you can damage your files. Backing up your computer ensures that your files will be safe even if you accidentally harm your hard drive.
 For a desktop, you should also unplug your Central Processing Unit (CPU).
 If you don't, you can get shocked. Most laptops have a quick-release button on the casing's underside that removes the battery, although some models require you to unscrew the casing.
Mac batteries are extremely difficult to remove, which is another reason PCs are better-suited to this method.
 If you have a laptop, this will be on the underside of the computer. For a desktop, you need to open the side of the CPU.


You may need a screwdriver to open your casing.
If you aren't comfortable opening your computer's casing, take your computer to a tech department (e.g., Best Buy) and have them open the casing for you.
 Depending on your computer make and model, you may have to unscrew a bracket around your hard drive before removing it.
 There will be a ribbon attaching your hard drive to your computer--leave this attached. You should be able to measure the hard drive without disconnecting it from your computer.
 Your hard drive is fragile. Use a pillow or towel to support it.
 This will both tell you the exact dimensions of your hard drive and determine your hard drive's classification. You should measure length, width, and height.


For maximum accuracy, record your drive's dimensions in millimeters.
Pay close attention to your hard drive's height. This value dictates which types of hard drive will fit into your casing should you decide to install a new hard drive.
 Hard drives come in two main sizes--"3.5 inch", and "2.5 inch"--which are technical classifications that refer to the width of a hard drive's platter (the disk that stores your computer's memory), but not the full dimensions of the hard drive unit itself. Your hard drive's actual dimensions will determine its classification.


3.5 inch drives are 146 mm long, 101.6 mm wide, and either 19 or 25.4 mm tall.
2.5 inch drives are 100 mm long, 69.85 mm wide, and either 5, 7, 9.5 (the most common), 12.5, 15, or 19 mm tall., If you ever need to install a new hard drive, this information will help you accurately pick one.
 Now you know the size of your hard drive!

