 Now is not the time for that full sleeve of a koi fish. A smaller tattoo will be much easier to hide, as it will take less effort to cover it. If your parents surprise you and your tiny tattoo is in full view, you can even slap your hand over it so they won't see. Hiding, and taking care of, a large tattoo is much more complicated.


A small tattoo shouldn't be extremely detailed, as the fine lines will spread over time and blur the design. A simple and bold design will age better.
Think shapes like hearts and stars, arrows, crosses, musical notes, flowers, anchors, or paw prints. Or if you have major hometown pride, ask for a very simple, single-line representation of the skyline of your city.
A small tattoo might be easier to accept if they find out or you eventually show them. It might be the "ice breaker" that makes it easier for you to proceed with larger pieces.;
, There are plenty of spots on your body your parents rarely see, and these are great places to hide a tattoo. Keep the seasons in mind when you are thinking about a good spot--if you run around in a bathing suit all summer your back-of-the-shoulder tattoo will be in full-view.Conspicuous or easily hidden spots include the inside of your lower lip, behind your ear, your ribs, your ankle, your foot, the inside of your wrist, your back.
Areas like the inside of the lip and bottom of the foot, and hands will fade much faster than other areas of the body, because those areas are constantly shedding cells and regenerating skin., If you have pale, un-freckled skin, you may want to consider a white tattoo. Geometric patterns are especially striking in white, and white ink will be far less noticeable than other colors.It is imperative you get the tattoo where it will see as little sunlight as possible--even with a powerful SPF the sun can cause the white ink to disappear, just leaving some raised bumps and the memories of your rad tattoo., You may be tempted to go the stick-and-poke route, especially if you are under 18, but rethink that notion. Even if you sterilize the needles, you risk a serious infection, from skin infections to hepatitis to HIV. Plus, they rarely turn out very well.Bond with your friend not by giving each other stick-and-poke tattoos (and potentially a staph infection), but by going to the shop together and supporting each other as you get tattooed.
Check out the shop online and choose an artist you want to work with, whose style fits with your concept.Go into the shop to make an appointment and speak with the artist. The shop should be clean, and smell like soap and cleaning supplies. If not, go somewhere else.For a small piece, you may be able to get tattooed as a walk-in, but the best tattoo artists are usually booked up well in advance.