 Choose a style icon whose look you connect with most and use them as style muse inspiration. Personal style aesthetics range from hipster to chic to glam to athletic, etc, and there are many combinations that stem from that. Is it the eclectic glam stylings of Rihanna or the effortlessly suave look of David Beckham?


Make a board or collage that allows you to keep track of your inspirations. Write down outfit ideas you might have in a notebook to bookmark for later. This will allow you to keep track and stay true to your style goals.Clean your closet of anything that doesn’t align the new look you’re going for. Target items that you’ve only worn once and/or items you never wear and throw them in the trash. Starting new is often the best way to go when revamping your style., Focus on items that will act as staples in your wardrobe, start and invest there, and then build around that. The great thing about style is it does not have to have a huge price tag in order to be considered great style, instead it’s how you wear your look that truly sells an outfit.
 They are important when signing documents, but they are also important when it comes to adding punctuation to a look and elevating it even further. Choose a signature piece that represents you most. This can be done in a multitude of different ways.


If you are a hat connoisseur, incorporate hats into all of your looks. Either have a favorite that acts a mainstay, like a wide-brimmed hat, or interchange them depending on the day and outfit.
If you are into beauty, have a signature lipstick, a bright red or a deep mauve, or a signature smoky eye with a thick cat eye that everyone knows you by.
Be the guy or girl with the best frames and invest in different kinds of eyeglasses. Make nerdy chic work for you.
Mix old and new pieces and higher-end and thrifted pieces together to enhance your style while inflecting personality into your style even more.
 Are you into sneakers? Are you into heels? A lot can be told about a person by what they decide to wear on their feet. It not only gives cues about your style, but it also gives cues about you. Be on trend and wear shoes in an unexpected way.


Pair sneakers or cross trainers with your favorite dress or a suit.
Wear a pair of heels with athletic gear like sweat pants and a tank top.
Crossover the popular winter shoe over-the-knee boots for a spring time outfit of short shorts and be on trend with the latest lampshading effect., Hair has its own sense of style as well. Wear it however it feels most comfortable to wear it. It can be a lot of trial and error through different cuts, lengths, colors, and preferred ponytail holder positions – but it’s worth the effort. Sometimes it is a stamp on its own and the more freedom you have with the way you style it, the more lasting of a memory you leave on people.

