  Knowing what you'll need to accomplish for your assignment will really help you tremendously in every step of the way.


Get all of your supplies organized and have everything on hand.
Make a quick schedule to help you stay on track. If you have plenty of time before the due date, set up daily goals to help you stay on track with all of the research and writing you might have to do. Spreading out your workload will definitely help take away some of the stress.
If you have plenty of time before the due date, set up daily goals to help you stay on track with all of the research and writing you might have to do. Spreading out your workload will definitely help take away some of the stress.;
,


Obviously this step isn't anthropology-specific, but it really is one of the most important steps when it comes to writing any paper.
Try to start and finish your outline in one sitting.  You can always edit it as you move along, but having a complete outline before you start the actual writing process will help you work a lot quicker and more efficiently.



American anthropology has four distinct sub-fields: archaeological, cultural, linguistic, and biological/physical.  Knowing how you can apply one or more of these sub-fields to help support your argument is crucial to anthropological writing.
How do you know which field applies to your paper's topic?  The answer is usually all of the above.  In very basic terms, everything that has anything to do with people can be observed and analyzed anthropologically.



The Internet is a magical and wonderful place for conducting research.  Just make sure that you know where to look when it comes to credible resources.
Know the difference between scholarly and public sources.
Get familiar with your school's library system.  Many universities and colleges have free and easy-to-access websites that can access great material.



This is the official formatting guideline for the American Anthropological Association.
You can access a free PDF of it here: http://www.aaanet.org/publications/guidelines.cfm

Although you may not use this format in an introductory-level course, anyone who wishes to pursue their degree in anthropology will most certainly have to write a few papers using this.



Make sure you understand all of the vocabulary and key concepts from your notes and textbook.
Does your thesis statement makes sense and do your topic sentences support your claims?
Do you have enough sources for your assignment?  Are they credible, accurate, and relevant?

,


Remember to follow your outline and stick to your writing schedule (if you made one).
Take short breaks every hour or so to review your work, or to simply just give yourself a rest.
 Find yourself an editing buddy.


Ask them to look for things like logical flow of ideas, clarity, and get their overall opinion first.  Spelling and grammatical errors should be noted, but not the main focus of this part in the editing process.
Once you have their feedback, start working on your final masterpiece.
 You can either have someone else do this or do this yourself. Final checkpoints:


Have you completed all of the prompts or answered all of the questions that may have been listed in the rubric?
Did you meet the length requirements?
Does the format and citation style comply with the rubric as well?
Can you identify your thesis statement and topic sentences?
Did you successfully support your claim?
Did you cite your sources properly?
Are there any spelling or grammatical mistakes?
How did you apply your knowledge of anthropology in this paper?

,