 One of the best gifts you can give anyone is time well spent together. For a self-proclaimed geek or nerd, the ideal experiential gift may be watching their favorite film or film series on the big screen. They may love the gift even more if they are watching an advance screening of the film, before it hits the general public. Think about the person’s favorite film or favorite book turned film and see if you can get early release tickets as a thoughtful gift.


If there are currently no films coming out that feature their favorite characters, you may look for a film that has geeky elements you think they may enjoy. Perhaps a film is being released that showcases their favorite comic book character or their favorite sci-fi setting. Or, maybe there is a special screening of an old, nerdy film that you know they love. As long as you consider the person’s nerdy tastes, you can’t really go wrong with advanced tickets to a big screen showing.;
, A “con” is short for a convention that caters to nerds and geeks of all ages. Often, there are celebrity guests, panels, themed booths, and costume contests at the “cons”. These conventions can be fun and interactive ways to hang out with other nerds for a day or the weekend.You may treat the person to a trip to a “con” that focuses on their favorite nerdy pastime, like the popular “Comic-Con International” in San Diego or “Anime Con” in Los Angeles. Or, you may choose a gaming convention that appeals to gamer nerds, such as “PAX Prime”, or a sci-fi convention that is made for science fiction geeks, such as “Dragon Con” or “GirlGeek Con”. Try to select a convention that will appeal to the person’s interests.
You may decide to go all out and buy tickets for the con as well as plane tickets to fly to the con. Many of the larger geek conventions offer packages where you can get tickets to the convention and accommodations for a flat rate. This may be a good gift idea to mark a big event, like the person’s birthday or their graduation from college.
 This could be the new barcade that opened up downtown, where you can play arcade games and drink alcohol in a bar like space. Or, the games night at your local bar or hang out where you can play the latest board games with friends. Consider the person’s tastes and cater to them by planning a night out they will enjoy.If you are not sure where the person might want to spend a night out, you may offer to take them out to whatever nerdy spot they would prefer. Present several options that you know of and let the person choose. This will ensure they still get their night out, based on their preference.
 Another fun idea is to take them on a road trip that is geek or nerd themed. This may mean planning out an itinerary where you hit all the nerdy landmarks and spots within a certain radius. Maybe you stop at the life sized Star Trek Intrepid in the small town of Vulcan, followed by a day trip to the dinosaur museum, and a stop at a popular gaming store. The road trip could be overnight or a few days, depending on your means.You may also choose nerdy hotels or accommodations for the night to add to the road trip experience. Maybe you find the hotel where Leonard Nimoy once stayed or the motel next to where some scenes of “The X-Files” were shot. Get creative and look for accommodations that will enhance the nerdiness of the trip.

