 Fill a large saucepan with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water. Next, place a pouring pot intended for soap making into the saucepan. You can also use a large, glass measuring cup instead.

Consider placing a metal ring or metal lid in the saucepan under the pouring pot/measuring cup. This will help distribute the heat more evenly.;
, Most melt-and-pour soap bases will come in larger blocks, so you likely won't end up using all of it.

Make sure that you are using a melt-and-pour soap base and not a regular bar of soap.
Goat's milk soap is recommended for this method, but you can also use a different melt-and-pour soap base, such as shea butter.
 While the soap is melting, you can start preparing your soap making molds, if needed. If you are using silicone molds, you likely don't need to do anything. If you are using plastic molds, however, consider lightly greasing them with coconut oil. This will make the soap easier to remove once it sets up.If you are using a plain soap making mold, consider placing a soap making stamp in the bottom, design-side-up.
 Using a pot holder, carefully take the pouring pot out of the saucepan, set it down onto the heat-safe surface, then stir in your essential oil.Grapefruit essential oil is recommended for this method, but if you don't have any, or just don't like it, you can use another type of essential oil instead. You can also use sop-making fragrance, but you might want to start with a smaller amount, as they are much more potent.
If you want unscented soap, skip this step.
 It may sound luxurious, but it has too high of a mineral content, and the soap may not set properly as a result., The soap should pour smoothly. If you need to, however, use a rubber spatula to help scrape the soap out of the pouring pot, and into the molds. Don't worry if the salt sinks to the bottom of the mold.

This is enough to fill four 4-ounce (120-milliliter) soap molds. You can also use smaller molds as well; you will simply end up with more, smaller bars of soap.
 After a few hours, flip the soap over, so that the bottom can dry too. It may take a few days for the soap to finish drying.