 The Recycle Bin will hold files before deleting them, allowing you to restore them to your computer if you change your mind. To restore a file, open the Recycle Bin, right-click on the file, and select Restore. The file will be returned to its original location on the hard drive.


Large files may be permanently deleted instead of being sent to the Recycle Bin.;
, If your files are not found in the Recycle Bin, don’t save or delete anything from your computer. Your chances of recovering the file are much higher if you don’t save anything new. This is because when a file is deleted, it is actually just set to be overwritten. If no new data has overwritten the original file, then it can usually be recovered.
 Make sure that you don’t save it to the drive that you need to recover a file from, or you may overwrite the file you need to recover. Some of the more popular free programs include:


Recuva
Restoration
Glary Undelete
Puran File Recovery
Download a portable version of the recovery program if possible, so that you can run it directly from a USB drive without needing to install it. Not all file recovery programs offer portable versions., While every program is different, they all follow the same basic steps. Make sure that you don’t install the program to the same drive that you are trying to recover from.
 Point the recovery program at the disk that the file was on when it was deleted. You can also recover files from a USB drive this way. Most recovery programs will ask what type of file you are searching for. You can also specify the file name, or get a list of all recoverable files to browse through., Some programs will give you the option to perform a deep scan while looking for files. This will take significantly longer, but may result in more files found.
 Once the scan has returned results, look through the list to see if your file was recovered. Different programs will have different methods for recovery, but in general you just need to select your file and click the Restore button.


Not all files will be 100% recoverable. This is because files are often stored in multiple parts of your hard drive, and one part of the file may have been overwritten.
Some programs restore the file to its original location, others will restore it to a Recovery folder.

