 Leave space for the mature size of the tree or shrub, both in width and height.


The mature tree or shrub should not press against buildings, block windows, or intrude on driveways and paths. It should not touch overhead wires either.
Unless you are planting a hedge, the mature trees and shrubs should not touch each other.;
,


Many areas have a “Miss Dig” service that will locate buried utility lines for you. Look in your local phone book for a number.
Call your utility company to locate underground lines if there is no service to locate them in the area.
If it is your septic lines or things that weren’t put in by a utility company you may be able to check a blueprint, use a probe or even ask a neighbor if you don’t know where the underground lines run.



For bare root trees, the hole should be as deep as the dark mark on the plant stem that indicates the soil level in the nursery or 2”, (5.1 cm.), above the top root branch. It should be wide enough so the roots can be spread out and won’t be bunched up in the hole. Too wide is fine, too deep or too shallow is not.
For potted trees and shrubs, measure the pot diameter and make the hole slightly wider. Measure the depth to the top of the soil, not to the top of the pot, and make the hole that deep.
For balled and burlap plants, measure the width of the ball and make your hole slightly wider. Unwrap the top of the ball and check for the top root branch. Leave the burlap under the root ball for now. Measure from the bottom of the root ball to the top root branch. Make your hole 2” (5.1 cm) deeper than that.
 Fold back burlap coverings on root balls so you can see the roots, but let it remain under the root ball until you lift the root ball and set it into the hole.



If the roots are circling around the outside of the root ball they need to be untangled and spread out.
If they can’t be untangled completely, cut them so that the end of the root will face downward or outward.



Remove as much burlap or other wrapping material as you can after the tree or shrub is set in the hole.
Remove any wire cages, and all wires and strings from around the roots of trees and shrubs.
 Do not add fertilizer, topsoil, peat, or other amendments.
 Do not tamp the soil down with your feet. Add more soil if it settles and exposes too much of the root system.



Stake evergreens in windy locations or top heavy weeping trees so they don’t blow over before the roots establish themselves.
Remove stakes after 1 year for evergreens, some weeping trees may need a permanent stake near the trunk.
Trees develop stronger trunks if they are allowed to move in the wind so avoid staking trees if at all possible.
,, Don’t let the mulch touch the stem or trunk.

