 Being hard headed and stuck in your ways can jeopardize the happiness in a relationship. Instead of sticking to your guns, be willing to hear the other person out. Think of what they are asking you to do and whether it will have a negative or positive influence on your life. Many times our partners just want what's best for us, so getting mad at them for wanting something to change for the better is not the right way to feel.There are certain things that you shouldn't compromise on, like your physical or emotional needs.Do not compromise your moral values for your girlfriend or you may end up resenting her.
Work on compromise as a team so that you both can be happy.
 When a situation is difficult, it's likely that your girlfriend is going to need more emotional support than she normally does. When she does need help or support, make sure that you are the person that's there for her. Instead of getting angry at her and making her feel even worse, make sure that you're supportive and understanding. Make sure that you offer to listen to her, and do not judge her. Try to make her feel better throughout the day by doing kind things.If your girlfriend has done something that you don't approve of, instead of berating or criticizing her, try to understand why she did it in the first place.
Supporting her does not mean enabling her to do self-destructive behavior.
 The first step in getting through the tough times is acknowledging that they exist. Do not ignore or minimize serious issues in your relationship if they are there. Sit down and have a hard conversation with your girlfriend about how things have been and your willingness to work on them.You may not like to talk about emotions, but it's important that you do for the good of the relationship.
You can say something like, "I've noticed that ever since your Granny died that you've been pretty depressed. I'll always be here to talk, just let me know if you want to."
If you've been open, honest, and nonjudgmental, there's a good likelihood that you'll be the first person that your girlfriend will turn to when things get tough.
Even if you think something is insignificant, remember to try to understand your girlfriend's perspective.
 If your relationship has reached the point where you both can't get along, it may be time to seek professional assistance. Relationship counselors will be able to look at your relationship objectively and give you the tools and techniques that are required to rebuild it. Search online for psychologists or therapists that specialize in relationships and give them a call to make an appointment.If you think the relationship is worth saving, you may need to go to counseling to break down emotional and social barriers.
Before you see a counselor, try being a nicer, more loving and open partner.

