 While you may not want to post on social media or announce to a large crowd of people that you have a stalker, it is important to tell enough people that if something were to happen, you may have witnesses. You may want to tell your parents, your boss, a co-worker or two, your spouse, your neighbors, and the office management or doorman if you live in an apartment building.


If possible, show people a photograph of your stalker. If not, give them a detailed description.
Tell people what they should do if they see the stalker with or without you being around. Should they call you? Call the police? Tell the stalker to leave?

, Even if the stalking has been from a distance and non-violent, you may want to tell the police about it.


Be sure to include any and all signs of stalking, as many police departments need to have evidence of at least 2-3 unwanted contacts before they can charge someone with stalking.
Be aware that the authorities may not be able to do anything until the stalking has escalated to or near the point of threats or violence.
Ask them what you should do to keep track of incidents, when and how to call for help if necessary, and if they have any tips for developing a safety plan.
Call the police frequently if you feel as though they do not take your complaint seriously at first., If you are a student, you should notify campus authorities about stalking. This may be a campus police officer, administrator, counselor, or residence hall director.


If you are unsure who you should tell, start with a trusted friend or family member who can likely help you find the proper authorities.
 If you are in danger, your family may also be in danger. You need to tell them about the problem and about how to deal with the problem.


If you have children, this may be a difficult conversation to have with them, but it may save their lives.
If the stalker is a member of your family, this may cause division among other family members. While this can be difficult, remember that you are protecting yourself, and the stalker is the one who is responsible for his illegal actions.
 If you feel uncomfortable talking to friends, family, or the police, try calling a resource that deals specifically with violence prevention. There are resources, particularly for women and children, that can provide counseling and help you make a plan., If you feel that the stalking might escalate, you need to have a safety plan. This may be something as simple as keeping your phone with you 100% of the time to call for help or keeping a packed bag and a full tank of gas in your car.Try to avoid being alone in vulnerable situations, like walking to and from your workplace or home, particularly at night.Be sure you tell a trusted friend your safety plan. You may also want to have a “check-in” plan, where if she has not heard from you by a pre-arranged time, she calls you and then the police if she can’t contact you.
 Security companies or your police department may offer to carry out a security check on your home to be sure that there are no hidden recording devices or potential entry risks.


When you schedule the check, ask the person with whom you schedule the appointment to give a physical description of the individual who will be performing the check on your home.
Ask the person performing the check for his or her credentials when they arrive.

