 This is the free PDF reader developed by Adobe. The latest version is Adobe Reader DC (XI).


Before downloading the Adobe Reader installer, make sure to deselect the McAfee box, as this will install unwanted toolbars on your browser.
There are many PDF reader programs available, including your web browser, but most have very limited selection options. You'll get the best results using the free Adobe Reader.;
, When you install Adobe Reader, it makes itself the default application for PDFs, so it should open when you double-click a PDF file.
 This will allow you to select content in the PDF.
 This is the trickiest part, because your ability to select text depends on how the PDF was created:


If the PDF was created by scanning a document, you will not be able to select any text. This is because the PDF file is encoded as an image instead of a text document. You can click and drag to create a selection box, but this will copy as an image instead of as text. See the next section for tips on converting the file so that you can select the text.
If the PDF was created directly from a word processor, such as saved as a PDF in Word, you should be able to highlight text. Selecting large portions of text can be finicky, so try to make your copies in small chunks of text.
If you want to copy an image, you'll need to drag a selection box around the entire image.
 If you aren't able to copy your selection, the PDF is likely secured. See the next section for details. There are a few ways you can copy something after you've highlighted it if your PDF is unprotected:


Press Ctrl/Command+C.
Right-click the selection and choose "Copy."
Select "Copy" from the Edit menu.
 You can paste the copied text or image into anything that you could normally paste these things into. This includes any document or image editing program.
 Choose where you want to paste the content and then paste it in one of the following ways:


Press Ctrl/⌘ Command+C.
Right-click where you want to paste and select "Paste."
Select "Paste" from the Edit menu.

