 You've done the practicing you need to. Now your performance is coming up and it's time to let your voice rest. Avoid unnecessary speaking beginning the evening before a next-day performance. Sing only during warm ups.;
, Sleep is key to the brain's memory functions. Reading through the music just before bed can make it easier to remember the next day.
 A tired singer will have trouble concentrating, and may struggle to remember what she's learned. Go to bed early the night before a performance.


While sleep is important, so is relaxation during waking hours. Find an activity that distracts you from thinking about the performance, whether that's reading, television, or yoga.
 Make sure you're getting the nutrients you need. In particular, eat carbohydrates to give yourself energy, and protein to keep your brain function high. Eat plenty of fiber in the days leading up to the performance as well — nobody can sing their best when they're physically uncomfortable. Finally, consider specific foods that many singers add or minimize in their diet:


Some performers find that eating a banana half an hour before the performance reduces stage fright.
 Hydration is essential to almost every aspect of our lives, and singing is no exception. Drinking plenty of water will help keep your throat and vocal chords flexible and healthy. Make this a regular habit; a gulp before a performance won't have time to take effect. Some singers find lukewarm water helps loosen their vocal cords.


Non-caffeinated tea and low-sugar juice are decent options as well.
If your mouth is dry right before a performance, suck on a hard candy or chew gum.
 All of these can dry out your vocal cords and interfere with your voice. Avoid them for at least thirty minutes before a performance. Smoking in particular can cause long-term damage to your voice.
 Many singers minimize dairy (including chocolate) the day of a performance. While it is not true that dairy causes phlegm production, it does thicken existing saliva and phlegm.This may coat your throat and make singing uncomfortable.


High-fat dairy products (such as cream and butter) may have a more noticeable effect.
 This action puts strain on your vocal cords. Look for other ways to treat the problem if you have phlegm in your throat.
 Breathe in for four seconds, hold the air for four seconds, and exhale for eight seconds. Repeat this exercise until you feel calm and in control of your breathing.


Put your hand on your stomach as you breathe. Keep your shoulders flat and inhale through your nose. Your hand should feel your stomach going out, not your chest.
 People often hold tension in certain places without realizing it, typically their knees, jaw, or shoulders. Usually, just taking a moment to focus on these areas automatically allows them to relax. If this doesn't work, consider relaxation strategies or yoga for long term stress relief.


Relaxing your face and throat is particularly important. Give yourself a brief massage on your neck, your jaw, and the sides of your face if they feel tense.
 Mint, lavender, and other pleasing smells can help you relax. A sample bottle of essential oil is an easy way to transport this smell in a pocket or purse.
 About 30–60 minutes before your performance, begin singing scales. Slowly repeat the scale, extending slightly higher or lower each time to warm up the outer registers of your voice. You may increase your volume gradually as you go.


Many singers use additional warm up exercises. Lip and tongue trills are common tools to limber up these muscles; just buzz your lips or roll your "r"s as you go up and down the scale.
 About ten minutes before you go onstage, run through your song. Only do this one to four times, to avoid taxing your voice. Now you're ready to get out there and wow the audience.

