 If you are a citizen of a member state of the European Union, you don’t need a visa to study in Belgium. If you are a national from a country outside Belgium and the E.U., you will need to apply for one in order to enroll as a student of higher education there for a period of longer than three months.If you have questions about whether or not you need a visa based on your nationality or the duration of your stay, contact your nearest Belgian consulate. Explain your situation over the phone or in an email, and ask them directly what the visa requirements are.;
, Consulates are official offices that handle a national government’s affairs abroad. They are also the places where you will handle your application for your student visa. Do a Google search to find the one that’s closest to where you live.In the U.S., Belgium has consulates located in major cities across the country, including in New York City, NY; Los Angeles, CA; and Atlanta GA; as well as their Embassy in Washington, D.C. You should apply at the location nearest to where you reside. For example, if you live in New England, you should go through New York.
The exact application process might vary from consulate to consulate, so it’s important to visit the website of or be in direct contact with your nearest one before you apply in order to make sure you’re doing it according to their specific guidance. It’s advisable to check in with your consulate about their visa requirements as far in advance of your planned visit as possible and no later than four months before., It can take a long time not only to process your visa application but also to get all the materials together for it. Plan accordingly. For a long-stay visa, it is recommended that you make an appointment with your consulate at least two months before your planned departure date. That means you should start gathering the materials for it several months in advance of your visit., The Belgian government has four requirements (academic enrollment, sufficient financial means, medical soundness, and a spotless criminal record) that you must meet in order to apply to study there. You must meet all four prerequisites in order to qualify for a visa; your application will be denied and you will lose your fee if you do not. If you don’t currently meet the basic requirements, you should wait to apply until you do., The first requirement is that you be enrolled in a government-recognized institution of higher learning and have paid your initial registration fees. (Note: if your visa isn’t granted, you will be refunded.) You should be a regular student whose pursuit of higher education is your primary reason for being in Belgium.If you are doing a study abroad program, your home university will often handle the logistics of this for you.
 The second requirement is that you have “sufficient means of subsistence.” This means that you have to be able to show that you can financially provide for yourself while you’re there, with enough money to cover the costs of healthcare, tuition, the cost of living, and your travel back to your home country.


The Belgium government calculates the minimum amount you need for each month of your stay on an annual basis, so be sure to check what their current figure is here: https://dofi.ibz.be/sites/dvzoe/EN/Application-guides/Pages/Sufficient_means_of_subsistence_Students.aspx


, The third requirement is that you must not have an infectious disease, like tuberculosis, that is considered dangerous to public health. They will ask for a medical certificate verifying that you are free from the diseases they are currently screening for. You can ask your family doctor to supply this certificate.
 This fourth requirement only applies to those people who are over the age of 21. If you are, you cannot have any criminal convictions on your record., It’s available in Dutch, French, and German. There is also an English version that is available here: https://dofi.ibz.be/sites/dvzoe/EN/Application-guides/Pages/ApplicationforavisaforalongstayinBelgium.aspx


It will ask you for personal information and information about your intended stay in Belgium, including the main reason for your visit.
 The Belgian government only offers you a reply to your visa application in the official languages of their country. As part of your application, you must complete a form that designates which of those languages you would like to receive your response in (German, Dutch, or French).


Fill out the form with your full name as it appears on your passport, pick your language of choice, and then sign and date the bottom. The language form is available here: http://unitedstates.diplomatie.belgium.be/en/visa-belgium/higher-education-students


, You will need to submit a passport with your application that has at least two blank pages to which a visa can be affixed. Your passport also needs to be valid for more than 15 months after the date of your application. If it’s expiring soon, you’ll have to apply to a new one before you can apply for a visa.
 If you are over 21 years of age, you will need to include this as proof that you have no criminal convictions. You can obtain your record through the FBI, which refers to it as an “Identity History Summary Check.” You can apply for your report here: https://www.fbi.gov/services/cjis/identity-history-summary-checks.


Leave plenty of time for this step as the processing times are often quite long. The FBI estimates it can take 12-14 weeks to receive your personal criminal history record.
If you’re short on time, you can opt to get your record processed through an “FBI Channeler” instead. These are private organizations who perform the same function. The fees are generally higher, but the turnaround time is generally faster. There’s a list of approved FBI Channelers here: https://www.fbi.gov/services/cjis/identity-history-summary-checks/list-of-fbi-approved-channelers-for-departmental-order-submissions

This document must be dated within six months of your application date in order to be valid.
 There is a medical certificate that you will need to include with your application. The form needs to be completed by a doctor who can verify that you do not have any dangerous communicable diseases. Your consulate will provide a list of approved doctors who can perform the necessary examination for you.Some consulates require this form to be authenticated or notarized. Check with yours to see if this requirement applies to you.
This document is only valid if it is dated within three months of your application date.
 You must submit evidence of your financial solvency along with your application. This can come in the form of a sponsorship form (where another person promises the funds to cover your expenses), proof of a scholarship or grant that will cover your expenses, or proof that you have already paid for the expenses of studying abroad.


If you go with the sponsorship option, keep in mind that they will need to sign a financial support declaration, provide notarized copies of an official government-issued identification document (like a driver’s license or passport), and offer evidence (such as tax returns, pay slips and/or bank statements) that can verify they have the means to cover your costs., You will need an official letter verifying your acceptance to and full-time enrollment in a Belgian university. Some consulates may also require one or more copies of your most recent academic transcripts.
 Include a letter with your application that explains your course of desired study during your stay. You should write the supporting letter yourself, briefly outlining what you intend to study, how it will contribute towards your career, and why you want to do it in Belgium in particular.
 You will need to send two to three passport-sized photos with your application. Many local drug stores, photo centers and postal carriers can take passport photos for you and develop them very quickly. Some photobooth also do passport-sized photos, which is generally cheaper and more instantaneous.


You should dress simply for passport photos, and be sure that your hair is out of your face. You are not supposed to smile for them; try to keep your expression neutral.
 It should be big enough to include your application materials. This is a requirement, so that they can send your visa and return your supporting materials to you once they’ve processed your application.


Seek advice about the best way to handle this from the mail carrier of your choice. Some may require you to print the postage yourself so as to avoid responsibility for its contents.
 The necessary documents and number of copies may vary according to your consulate and the date your application, so be sure to double-check their specific requirements before you submit it.


In general, they require: two copies of your completed and signed visa application form, your passport, two passport-sized photos that are signed on the back, the original and two copies of your nationwide criminal history record (if you’re over 21), your medical certificate, your proof of financial solvency, your academic documents and a prepaid self-addressed envelope.Some of the supporting documents may also require duplicates or triplicates; be sure to check with your consulate’s requirements. Be sure that you always include the originals along with any copies. The originals will be returned to you.
 You can do this in person at your nearest consulate or send all the materials to them via the mail. If you choose the first option, you’ll need to call or use their electronic scheduler to make an appointment with your consulate first.If you have the option of applying for your visa in person, take it. It’s often more expensive, both in terms of the fee and the cost of travel, but it usually simplifies the process. You also generally get a decision immediately.
Always check for the latest fee amount, but expect to pay $200 or more for processing your visa application.
 It will take approximately 5-8 weeks to process your visa application. Enquire with your consulate for definite information about their average processing times. If you have not provided all the necessary materials, it may take even longer or they may deny your application altogether.


It’s not usually helpful to contact them for an update on the status of your application. It takes the time it takes, and inquiries tend to delay the process or frustrate you by not getting the information you would like. Only be in touch with your consulate if there is an emergency.
 Congratulations, you got your visa and are on your way to a wonderful European experience, but don’t forget to bring your visa and all your application materials with you. You are required to pay the local municipal administration a visit within eight days of your touch-down in Belgium. They will issue you a residence permit that allows you to stay in Belgium and travel freely around the EU during your time of residence., You've put in the effort to get there, so live it up.

