 Frizz is often caused by dryness, so it’s important to restore moisture to your hair in the shower. Try to find a sulfate-free shampoo. Sulfate is a detergent that is great at cleaning hair, but it can also strip your hair of the natural moisture it needs to remain frizz-free. If your hair is dry, sulfate in your shampoo may be the culprit.Don’t wash your hair every day. Wash your hair every other day, or only a couple times a week if you can get away with it. Even sulfate-free shampoos can be drying, so give your hair a rest and let it soak in your natural oils. Anything that removes dirt and grime from your hair is probably also removing its moisture, so use sparingly!Using dry shampoo between washes is a great way to keep your hair looking fresh without the damage of daily shampooing.;
, Unlike shampoo, conditioner is moisturizing and will help tame your locks. Look for conditioners that are specifically marketed as moisturizing, especially those that contain glycerin. On days when you are skipping the shampoo, you can still use conditioner without worrying about damage. It will gently clean your hair, but also hydrate it. If you have the time, let the conditioner sit on your hair for a couple minutes so it fully soaks into the shaft.Choose a conditioner tailored for your hair type. If your hair tends to be oily and limp, avoid conditioners that boast qualities like "moisturizing" or "hydrating," because these will only exacerbate the oiliness and limpness. Shampoos with added protein tend to work well for oily hair, as well as conditioners meant for "volumizing," balancing," and "strengthening." If your hair is extremely oily, you may want to skip conditioner all together, or apply it before shampooing.If your hair is dry, damaged, and prone to break, look for moisturizing conditioners. You may want to also try conditioners that specifically repair hair after damage. Avoid conditioners that are described as "strengthening" or "volumizing."If you are worried about your hair looking limp and flat, avoid your roots and only apply it to the ends of your hair.
 By soaking your hair in a deep conditioner or oil overnight, you give it extra time to take in all the moisture. This may be especially helpful for African American and Latina hair that may be more coarse and dry, but it can benefit anyone who needs the extra moisture. Comb the product through dry or wet hair and then wrap it in a silk scarf before bed. The silk is key, as it will keep hair from breaking from tossing and turning.Speaking of silk, invest in some silk pillowcases! Cotton pillowcases can absorb moisture from your hair, causing it to dry out and frizz., There are a lot of ways to give your hair a boost of moisture, such as doing a weekly hair mask. You can buy moisturizing hair masks from the drugstore or spend a little more on a product from a salon. Again, look for one that contains glycerin, which will hydrate the hair shaft from the inside.You can also skip the store and make your own hair mask at home. Coconut oil is a perfect, one ingredient moisturizer. Eggs, milk, and honey also have nourishing, restorative properties., Blow dryers can be extremely drying, which will just cause more frizz. If you don’t have the time to let your hair air dry completely, just let it dry as much as you possibly can before turning on the dryer.You can soak up excess water by gently pressing your hair with a soft, microfiber towel. Avoid the urge to twist your hair up with a coarse bath towel, because it will rough up the hair shaft, causing kinks and even damage., Obviously a heat protectant is critical if you are planning on using a dryer, straightener, or curler on your hair. Heat protectants create a barrier over your hair, minimizing the damage that hot tools can do to your strands. Serums and oils also protect your hair, sealing the shaft to guard it from heat, humidity, and other environmental factors. They help to smooth the shaft of the hair, making it look more sleek and shiny as it dries.


Products containing Moroccan oil or argan oil are your best bets in fighting frizz. They instantaneously give your hair shine while smoothing frizz, but also work to prevent damage throughout the day.Apply a small amount of product evenly throughout your hair, distributing it with a wide tooth comb or your fingers.
 While very thick, coarse hair may be fine with a higher heat setting, a low heat setting will be most gentle to all hair types. Wait until your hair is damp, not wet, before using your blowdryer. For African American hair, it is recommended to wait until your hair is completely or almost dry to the touch before blowing it out, as it is typically drier and more vulnerable to damage.Avoid metal brushes when you are blow drying, because the metal will heat up, causing your hair to get even hotter (and dryer) in the process.Ionic blow dryers may be a good investment for people wanting to fight the frizz. Ionic dryers emit negative ions that help to break down the water molecules more quickly than regular blow dryers. This helps hair dry faster, thus preventing unnecessary heat damage.Many blow dryers come with a cold setting. When your hair is almost completely dry, it may be helpful to do a run-through with cold air to prevent heat damage and seal the hair shaft, helping to prevent frizz from drying.
 This technique works for both naturally straight hair, or curly and wavy hair that you want to straighten with your dryer. It isn't necessary to use any sort of nozzle on your dryer. The key is to hold your dryer at a downward angle so that the shaft of the hair is smoothed down, helping your straight hair look sleek and shiny.Start at the roots and move to the ends, using the round brush to keep your hair pulled taut. When you reach the ends of your hair, slightly roll the round brush in towards your face to prevent your straight hair from flipping out., Diffusers attach to the hair dryer and disperse heat over a larger section of hair in order to prevent frizz. It's crucial to use for curly hair, because it dries it without messing up its natural wave pattern.Set your dryer to a low heat setting, and hold the diffuser near your roots. Move it all over your head until all your roots are dry. Avoid drying your ends, and they are more prone to frizz and should be left to dry naturally.Look for a diffuser that is concave in the middle, so the curls can rest inside it and dry in their natural shape.
 While the hot air from a blow dryer can increase the frizz, heat from these hot tools will work to your advantage. Both curling irons and flat irons seal the cuticle shut, helping to make it impenetrable to outside factors that can cause your hair to swell and frizz. They help smooth and shape your hair, so you can create the frizz-free style you want. However, you must use another heat protectant before using hot tools, because they can be damaging in the long run.


Use these tools to enhance the natural shape that your hair has dried in. This will simply give your style some "staying power."
Curly hair should not be brushed or combed after it dries. This will brush out their natural curl pattern, causing frizz., This will help keep your hair looking shiny and smooth. A finishing spray can also help camouflage any areas that are particularly dry or damaged. You can run a brush through straight hair to distribute the product thoroughly and evenly. Brushing your hair also helps to distribute your natural oils, which help to prevent flyaways and frizz., Look for products containing polyquaterniums, which condition and protect dry and coarse hair. These are very effective in helping your hair stay frizz-free in humid conditions. While polyquaternium may make your hair feel hard and unnatural, you can loosen it up by applying a serum afterwards. Put a dollop of the product in your palms and run your hands through your hair repeatedly until your hair feels softer and more natural.For extra hold, apply a hairspray as well. Be careful not to run your hands through your hair after applying, however, because it will cause frizz and breakage.
 Longer hair can be pulled away from the face in top knots, braids, and ponytails. If you have short hair, you can play around with headbands and bobby pins to contain the frizz. Despite using the most moisturizing conditioner and prepping with serums, oils, creams, and sprays, sometimes the frizz is inevitable. When it's extremely humid, you may want to try rocking an up-do or another style that keeps your hair out of your face. Play around with different styles! Long hair looks great in side braids, while a short pixie cut can be pulled into sweet little pigtails. Hair accessories (and hats) can be your very best friend on those days when your hair just isn't cooperating.


If you are unsure how to create a certain hairstyle, YouTube can be extremely useful. You can find hair tutorials that will walk you through a style step-by-step.
 For men struggling with frizzy hair, you may not have the option to utilize hair accessories and up-dos. Choose a product that is specifically marketed for short hair. Apply it to your hair, and then comb your hair into the desired style. You may want to add more on particularly hot and humid days.