 In order to determine the best way to get rid of your fever, it is important to know what is causing it. Make note of all the symptoms you are experiencing. If you have any symptoms that cannot be explained by a common virus, such as a sore throat or earache, see a doctor for a diagnosis.Seek immediate medical attention if you experience symptoms such as confusion, difficulty moving or breathing, blue lips or nails, seizures, stiff neck, or severe headaches.
A high fever in a child can trigger a febrile seizure, which is usually harmless and generally does not indicate a more serious health problem; however, you should take your child to the doctor as soon as possible following her first febrile seizure. Call an ambulance if the seizure lasts longer than a few minutes. Otherwise, drive your child to the emergency room as soon as the seizure is over., If you are diagnosed with a bacterial infection, such as strep throat or a urinary tract infection, your doctor will prescribe an antibiotic medication to help treat it. Take your medication as directed and your fever, along with your other symptoms, should disappear within a few days.Don't take antibiotics if you have a virus, such as the flu or a common cold. The medication will not be effective in treating the virus.
Take your antibiotics as prescribed until they are gone —even if you start feeling better. This ensures you truly eradicate the bacteria and prevents antibiotic resistance in the future.
 Fevers are usually nothing to worry about, but they can be dangerous if they run too high or if they persist for too long. Seek medical attention right away if you are worried that you or your child might have a fever that is too high.For children three months and younger, seek medical treatment for a fever of 100.4°F (38°C) or higher.
For children between three and 12 months of age, seek medical treatment for a fever of 102.2°F (39°C) or higher.
For older children and adults, seek medical treatment for a fever of 105°F (40.6°C) or higher that does not readily subside with treatment.
A prolonged fever over 107.6°F (42°C) can cause the body to start shutting down and may lead to brain damage if not treated.
You should also seek medical treatment for any fever that persists for longer than 48 to 72 hours, or longer than 24 to 48 hours for children under the age of two.
 Fevers can also be caused by chronic autoimmune and inflammatory conditions, such as lupus, vasculitis, and ulcerative colitis. The best way to treat these kinds of fevers is to work with your doctor to create a plan for treating your underlying condition.If you have any chronic medical conditions, you should contact your doctor whenever you get a fever.
A fever may also be the first sign of a serious disease, such as cancer, so be sure to see a doctor if you have a persistent fever.
 If you experience a fever after exposure to extreme heat, you may be suffering from hyperthermia or heat stroke. In this case, your body needs to be cooled down as quickly as possible.Other symptoms of hyperthermia include weakness, nausea, confusion, dizziness, and an altered mental state.
People with hyperthermia usually need to be treated at a hospital, so get emergency medical help right away.
While waiting for medical treatment, you can attempt to lower your body temperature by removing excess clothing, applying cold water to your skin, moving to a cool, well-ventilated location, and drinking lots of cool fluids.

