 Getting off to a good start on your first day back can be a challenge. Reduce overwhelm and streamline your day by focusing on just three priority tasks. This can help you feel productive and get you back in the swing of things without feeling so devastating.For instance, you might need to prioritize answering emails and phone calls, completing a past due project, and completing your expense report. Do your three priority tasks first. If nothing else gets done, you will at least have tackled the most important tasks.;
, If your vacation took you to another time zone, you might have some trouble getting back in-synch. Or, if you have been staying up late with a new baby, mornings may be a challenge. Think about the times of the day when you are likely to have the most energy, attention, and focus. Schedule your priority tasks for this time period.For instance, you might feel groggy when you first get in, so it may be best to stick to answering emails. About two hours into your day, you may have the mental acuity to get started on more challenging tasks.
 Nothing makes a first day back to work longer than trying to stick it out until lunch. Break up your workday and revive yourself by taking a short break every hour or so. During your break, you might chat with a coworker, stretch, refill your water or coffee, or go for a walk outside., If you have minor tasks that can be better completed by someone else, activate your network. Most people fail to make use of the resources they have at hand, trying to do everything on their own. Don’t make this mistake—ask for help, if you need it.You might delegate household or childcare responsibilities to a spouse or family member. Similarly, you might delegate filing, answering emails, or researching tasks to an assistant.
You might also have to delegate certain tasks that you are physically incapable of doing. For instance, if you just had a baby, you might need to avoid lifting heavy boxes for a while.
 You’ll worsen your back-to-work blues if you log onto your favorite social media outlet. Not only will you spot photos on friends’ feeds that cause vacation-envy, but you will likely lose a lot of time in the process. As a result, you’ll be in a foul mood and struggling to catch up.Power off your cellphone unless you need it for work. Log out of social media apps and shut off notifications.

