 In salsa dancing, time is kept in 8 counts. This means steps a performed over 8 beats of music. After 8 beats, you return to your original position and prepare to engage in the steps again.The type of steps you would do the 8 beats vary depending on what kind of dance routine you end up forming. However, to give you a basic idea of a dance routine here is an example. If you're the partner's who's leading in a routine, try something like this. Hold the beat for the first step, step forward with your left foot, rock back with your right foot, step back with your left foot, hold the beat, step back with your right foot, rock forward with your left foot, then step forward with your right. After engaging in these 8 steps, return to the original position and start again.For the follower in the above scenario, you would do something like this. Hold the beat, step back with the right foot, rock forward on the left foot, step back with the right foot, hold the beat, step forward with your left foot, rock back on your right foot, and then step back with your left foot. Return to the starting position and begin again., In salsa dancing, there is one leader and one follower. You'll need a partner to do a salsa dance routine. Establish who leads and who follows between yourself and your partner. The leader usually establishes the moves during the routine, giving the follower small signals via gentle tugs and pushes in the right direction. The job of the follower is to move his or her feet more or less in the opposite direction of the follower. Traditionally, a man leads and a woman follows but you of course do not have to follow this rule in your own routine., As salsa follows and 8 step, you need to learn to rely on dancing to music. It would be very hard to do a salsa routine without a song accompanying your dance. Spend some time listening carefully to music, trying to hear the beat in the back of a song. Count 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 and follow this beat as you go through the 8 moves of your salsa routine. Keep in mind, when choosing music, you'll need to pick something with a clear, distinct rhythm for your routine to work.

