 Instead of conventional noodles, use a whole grain variety. There are many whole grain pasta varieties including whole wheat pasta, as well as ancient whole grain pastas like kamut. Whole grain pastas are better for your because they have a lot of fiber content, which is an important dietary factor in reducing blood cholesterol levels.Kamut is an ancient grain that has approximately forty percent more protein than wheat and is also much richer in magnesium, zinc and selenium.Reduce the calories by going light on pasta. Simply add less pasta than is indicated on the recipe to lower the calories in your noodle soup.
 By choosing a lean protein with less fat like a skinless chicken breast or tofu, you will be able to get your protein without too much fat. Lean protein options include skinless turkey or chicken breast, pork loin, and tofu.A cup of roasted chicken breast has forty three grams of protein and five grams of fat.A cup of extra firm tofu has six grams of protein, two grams of carbohydrates, and two grams of fat., If you are making a chicken noodle soup at home, try adding more chopped zucchini. Slice the zucchini thinly, so that it will cook in good time. You could also chop it into quarter inch cubes, depending on your preference. Finally, you could replace the noodles with zucchini noodles by using a spiralizer.

Make zucchini pasta with a spiralizer. You can make pasta out of zucchini instead of wheat by using a spiralizer. A spiralizer is a tool that allows you to shred and cut your vegetables into useful shapes, including into pasta. You can purchase a spiralizer online or at your local kitchen supply store.
Zucchini is rich in vitamin A and very low in calories, with no cholesterol or saturated fats., If you are making a noodle based soup, try adding some carrots to it. Chop the carrots to your desired thickness but keep in mind that the thicker they are, the longer they will take to cook in your soup.

Carrots have a great flavor and are incredibly healthy. Carrots are rich in antioxidants, vitamin A, and are very low in calories. They also have lots of fibre.
 Maitake, reishi, cordyceps, and lion’s mane are mushrooms that are purported to boost immunity and help fight cancer.These mushrooms are also great additions to noodle soups. If you are making a soba noodle soup, ramen soup, or even a chicken noodle soup, consider adding one or more of these mushrooms to your soup. These mushrooms will add a depth of complexity and flavor to your healthy noodle soup.

Maitake is a mushroom from Japan that has been touted by the American Cancer Society for its immune boosting and anti-cancerous properties.Shiitake mushrooms grow abundantly in China and Japan and can be found in many grocery stores. They are touted for their ability to build immunity and fight inflammation.Reishi has been used for lung conditions and for prostrate cancer.Lion’s mane is known for its ability to protect and enhance nerve growth and enhance memory.Cordyceps is great for energy and endurance., If you are trying to cut the calories in your noodle soup, try avoiding the addition of croutons and cheese. In particular, if you want to cut down on your fat, carbohydrate, and sodium intake, you might consider eliminating these toppings from your noodle soup.

A cup of croutons has two grams of fat, four grams of protein and twenty-two grams of carbohydrates. It also contains nine percent of your daily sodium requirements.A cup of cheddar cheese has sixty seven percent of your daily fat requirements, including one hundred and thirty nine percent of your daily saturated fat recommended intake.