 (Note: bond-line notation and skeletal structure refer to the same thing.)


Normally you will be given an IUPAC name instead of a formula, you may want to look at How to Name a Hydrocarbon Chain Using the IUPAC Method to help you.;
, It will be made up of a few snippets of words (think "bromo", "hexa", "ane", "cyclo", and others) and some numbers. The numbers denote the location of the atom or functional group. Sometimes this will be followed by a name, for example 2-bromo (Bromine off Carbon 2) but sometimes not, for example 3-pentone, "pentone" being the name describing the main organic chain of the compound. The "one" means there is a Ketone, but the "pent" is talking about the general structure, saying it has 5 Carbons total. You would not say "3-ketone pentane".
 This will be denoted by using the prefix on the name of the chemical, see the list below. If the first 5 letters are "cyclo," this means the structure is polygonal in nature, we will cover this more in step 5.

1 carbon: Meth
2 carbons: Eth
3 carbons: Prop
4 carbons: But
5 carbons: Pent
6 carbons: Hex
7 carbons: Hept
8 carbons: Oct
9 carbons: Non
10 carbons: Dec

, For example, if you have 1-bromo 2,3 pentene (all the alkenes with chemical formula C5H10), look at the "pentene". If the first five letters of that word are "cyclo" then you have a compound that is polygonal in nature. the prefix after the "cyclo" tells you how many carbons, and by extension what shape you have. For example, "cyclohexane" is a polygonal structure with 6 carbons making up the ring, meaning it is a hexagon. If you see the word "Benzene" then you have a special polygonal structure. "Benzene" is the word that refers to a hexagon with alternating single and double bonds, it has the formula C6H6.
 You are drawing the bonds between the carbon atoms, with an atom residing at each end of the line segments you have drawn. If there are any non-carbon atoms making up the chain, do not denote them yet.
 This is done by drawing a line above or beneath the specified line segment. Skip this step if your structures name ends with "ane."

If your structure has a double bond, the last three letters of the main word will be "ene." The structure will also have two consecutive numbers with a comma separating them before the main name, for example 2,3-Hexene. The "2,3" means the double bond is between the second and third carbon.






The procedure is the same for a triple bond, except the last three letters to look for are "yne." For example 2,3-Hexyne would mean a 6 carbon molecule with a triple bond between carbons 2 and 3.
If you have a triple bond in your molecule, make sure to draw the functional groups on either side coming off at a 180 degree angle.
 Do this by either erasing the apex and drawing the atomic symbol (see the N between carbons 3 and 4 as an example) or by adding in an additional bond line and writing the symbol at the end of it. Note that the carbons in the backbone of the molecule are indirectly labelled as apexes and ends of lines. Hydrogens off of these carbons are not denoted at all, but rather implied. Any hydrogens contained in functional groups are usually written, for example NH2, OH, COOH, and others.

