 Shower every day or every other day. Wash and condition your hair as much as needed to keep it from getting oily. Brush your teeth after every meal, and wash your face twice a day. Shave your legs and underarms too.;
, If your hair doesn't look good, it will take away from the rest of your appearance. Try to decide on a signature style, whether it's pin straight and neat, curly and slightly tousled, or somewhere in the middle. Try to have your hair look the same most days, but mix it up every once in a while, like you could try out a different style for only one day every week or so.
 If you don't know how to achieve a certain style, ask a friend who knows how or look at some online videos before just wearing your style out and about. Use hair product if needed to add volume, shine, and softness and decrease frizz and breakage.
 This is essential. Drink plenty of water! It's hard to drink that recommended 8 glasses of water a day, and not many people do, but try to make a smaller goal. Even 4 or 5 glasses of water, and you will see the difference! Wash your face twice daily with a skin cleanser that works for you. If you have bad acne, get a face wash to treat it or visit a dermatologist , if you have dry skin, get a moisturizing face cleanser, etc.
 Makeup is supposed to accentuate your natural features, not cover them completely. Good makeup for school might be concealer to cover up blemishes and dark circles, a bit of shimmery eyeshadow to highlight the eyes, some mascara, light blush, and lip gloss. Also, mix it up. Don't wear exactly the same makeup everyday, try changing the color of your lip gloss, or line your eyes one day. Get good quality makeup so that it will look good and won't go bad as quickly.
 Trim your fingernails, so they are at a length that you like. Try to keep them relatively long, but not so long that you are hurting people with your fingers or having difficulties picking up things or writing. Paint them, even if they're clear, to give them extra shine, and take care of your toenails, too.  

, Fashionable doesn't necessarily mean expensive, there are a ton of cheap trendy clothes for much less than higher priced places.
 Some things that are in right now are boho dresses, strapless floral print dresses, and floral tops! Also skinny jeans with cute flats or gladiators with gems!

, Eat plenty of whole grains, fruits and vegetables and protein. Choose to eat healthy food over junk food as much as possible. Avoiding junk food will also improve the quality of your skin and hair as well. If you really think you are overweight or underweight, ask your doctor. They will be able to tell you if you are in a healthy weight range or not.
 Not only does this make your body look better, it induces endorphins, which can make hair grow faster and gives your skin an overall glow. Exercise based on the results you want. If you want more muscles, do strength training. If you want to lose some weight, do some form of exercise. There are many ways to exercise, whether you are out home, at the gym, or running in your neighborhood. Find which way works best for you.
 Remember, a smile is everything!

, Be nice and sweet to everyone. Be polite.

