 Although these are often referred to as “sugar substitutes,” recognize that label as being slightly misleading. Use these only for the added benefit of vitamins and minerals not found in regular granulated sugar. At the same time, keep in mind that “substitute” in this case only means substituting one form of sugar for another. Remember that these are “healthier” only in the sense that they contain more nutrients, while still containing sugar. The same applies to:Coconut sugar
Golden syrup
Maple syrup
Rice syrup

, Xylitol is a natural sweetener derived from trees, fruits, and vegetables. If you hate to convert measurements or want to make as few test batches as possible, use this instead of sugar. Not only does it contain fewer calories, but equal portions of xylitol and sugar are equally sweet, so simply measure an equal amount of xylitol that the recipe calls for in sugar. However, be aware that:Xylitol won’t add the same amount of coloring as sugar would when baked.
Although it works well in most recipes, it isn’t a good sugar-substitute for those who use sugar as a leavening agent.
In large amounts, xylitol works as a laxative, so don’t pig out on your finished goods.
Xylitol is toxic to dogs, so don't feed them any baked goods made with it.
 If xylitol turns you off, try this instead to reduce the number of calories in your baked goods. However, keep in mind that a little bit goes a very, very, very long way. As many as 300 parts sugar would be needed to equal 1 part stevia, so expect to use drastically smaller amounts of stevia than the recipe calls for in sugar. With this in mind:Monkeying with sugar-based recipes on your own may require a lot of trial and error.
Baked goods that utilize sugar for more than just taste may be drastically affected in terms of texture and moistness.
Searching for stevia-specific recipes may be a more effective use of time and resources.
Stevia also has a licorice-like taste, which may affect the overall flavor of your finished bake.