 All permanent life insurance policies (anything that isn’t term life insurance) accumulate a cash value the longer you pay into it. If you’ve held onto the policy long enough, , usually ten years or longer, you can borrow against the accumulated cash value of the policy.A level premium has more going for cash value in earlier years since the likelihood of death increases as one ages. As the cash value grows, it offsets the rise in mortality rates.
Each insurer has different rules about how fast the policy accumulates cash value, how much can be borrowed against, and when the policyholder can borrow against it. Check with your insurer to find out the details of your own policy.
Loans taken out against life insurance don't have to be paid back. However, any outstanding loans at death of policyholder will reduce the payout made to beneficiaries.
 Compared to many types of loans, the interest on policy loans can be low, because the policy itself is used as collateral. However, the interest rate is only one factor to consider on a policy loan, and costs can arise elsewhere.This is subject to change depending on the insurer, the creditworthiness of the borrower, and the length of time the policyholder has had the policy.
 While policy loans can have attractive interest rates, the penalties for not paying sufficient amounts can be severe.Failing to make payments on a policy loan is going to make interest add up. Unpaid interest is added to the value of the loan, and if the value of the loan equals the amount you’ve paid on the policy, your insurer will surrender the policy. Policies terminate when the amount borrowed exceeds the cash value of the policy.So, if you have paid $100k on the policy and borrowed $70k, when the interest on the loan accrues enough to reach a value of $100k, your insurance company surrenders the policy and keeps what you paid into it, making a $30k loss for the policyholder.
If a policy is terminated and the owner has received cash payments greater than the premiums paid, the difference is taxed as ordinary income.

