


On a cold day with the heat on inside your home, place your hand around the edges of all exterior doors, windows, and bathroom and kitchen air vents and fans. If you feel cold air on your hand, then you have an air leak.
You can also use the hand test to detect leaks around electrical outlets.
The hand test is best for finding large leaks of air coming into the home.;
,


Light a candle and walk around your house to places that you think may have air leaks: electrical outlets, light fixtures, around baseboards and crown molding and phone jacks.
If you are conducting the test on a warm day, turn off your central air conditioning. If it is cold outside, turn off your central heating system before conducting this test. Place the candle near the potential leak, if the light dances around slightly, you have a small leak.



Choose a day that is cold and windy to complete this test. Turn off the furnace and close all of the windows and exterior doors. Turn on all of the fans in your bathrooms and your kitchen.
Walk around your house with a lit stick of incense. Pass the incense over the edges of doors, windows, vents and other areas in your house where you suspect air leaks. If the smoke is blown into the house or sucked out, then you have a leak.



Turn the device on and point it at the areas where you suspect leaks. A small light coming from the device will scan the area you are pointing at. If there is a leak, the light will turn blue if the leaking air is cold, it will turn red if the leaking air is warm. If there are no leaks the light will not change.



The contractor will place a blower door fan in the front entrance of your house to suck out all of the air inside your home (depressurize). This allows outside air to enter the home through the leaks.
While the house is depressurized, the contractor moves through the house to detect the leaks in the air ducts, dropped ceilings, around utility and plumbing openings, and from interior wall and ceiling joints and floor joists.
A contractor can also detect air leaks around electrical and gas devices, cable and telephone lines, in air conditioners, and in basements and attics.

