 The biggest difference is the highly structured learning for the kids the cyberschool offers. This can be a blessing and a curse. While the kids can be better kept on track by the cyber school's pace and external pressure, this sometimes is detrimental and potentially very devastating to students who do not learn at the school’s pace. This is not to say cyberschooled kids are physically more structured however; they still may school in PJs around the house, sit on the floor, read in bed or whatever. Usually older cyberschooled students may spend more time online to complete their studies than homeschooled students.


Parents of cyberschooled students definitely must spend more time online for reporting and monitoring.;
, There are a variety of curriculum choices in the different cyber schools. These choices however are dependent upon the state’s education laws. So if you are in a highly regulated state, all the schools within the state are going to end up requiring kids to "jump through hoops" so that they can perform well according to the state standards. Again, this can be a blessing and a curse. Also, if you have differing faith-based views than the standard curriculum, you have to do more monitoring and re-teaching. This may end up requiring more work in the end than just homeschooling.
 This one goes without saying. Teachable moments arrive in every family. While cyberschools go on to the next lesson as usual, homeschooling allows the family to stop for a while and pursue interesting lessons and concepts or character issues. The schedule also continues even if the child has not mastered challenging content which can lead to frustration and motivation issues. Homeschooling also lends itself well to family travel and responsibilities. Cyberschools tend to be very controlling and time consuming.
 Public cyberschools are usually free, with little financial impact on the family. Homeschooling can cost quite a bit as the students get older. These paid materials, however, are usually more tailored to the students’ learning modality. They may also better reflect the faith and values of the family.
 One of the biggest potential benefits of cyberschooling is the help that the home facilitator receives from teachers and administration outside the home. This same benefit can be had to some extent with a curriculum based homeschool co-op (group of families working together & usually meeting on a weekly basis). The truth is that cyberschools vary in the support the students actually get. Some cyberschools give mostly pressure to perform and not much tutoring help while others are extremely supportive and nurturing.
 Cyberschools tend to require students to complete more busywork to create an effective paper-trail that proves learning. Homeschoolers are also required in most states to prove learning has taken place. Overall, however, homeschooling tends to require less time on the student’s part doing busywork. Busywork time then can be used to pursue the students personal electives.
 Many homeschoolers grow up outside of the traditional “school pride” and identity that is had by attending a brick-and-mortar school. This doesn’t seem to affect them later in life, especially if they go on to graduate from traditional college. Some cyberschool students engage in their own online “community” within their schools and attend their scheduled events and activities in person. This lends itself to more socialization of the child. Homeschoolers can also get a sense of school community if they grow up attending a homeschool co-op that is useful and has a lot of families.

