 When meeting a prospective employer or starting their first day at a new job, a graduate's casual college wardrobe will not be appropriate in most workplaces. In order to make a positive first impression, they'll need some help professionalizing their closet.


A versatile and stylish blazer can help a graduate upgrade their wardrobe for job interviews. A blazer, rather than a suit jacket, can lend itself to both business casual and business formal workplaces, and it can be paired with multiple outfits.Switch out the backpack for something more professional for job interviews, like a briefcase or messenger bag for men or a leather tote bag for women. Even if the graduate already has a job lined up, more than likely they’ll need a practical and professional case or bag for their new working environment., Nearly every job application requires a resume, but for first-time applicants, it can be difficult to know how to create a strong resume. A resume service can help the graduate craft a professional resume that will catch the eye of prospective employers., Without a campus dining hall or home cooked meals, graduates will have to quickly learn to prepare their own meals. Purchase a cookbook for beginners to give them a good place to start.
 A basic set of tools is a practical gift that just about everybody needs, and it’s a gift that lasts for years. Even if the graduate isn’t handy or doesn't enjoy constructing home projects, a basic set of tools provides the essentials for measuring and hanging pictures, installing TV mounts, or putting together store-bought furniture., More than likely, your college graduate has been relying on dorm furnishings or used hand-me-down furniture. Help them make a fresh start as they transition into their new home with some new furniture that fits within your budget: a couch, futon, mattress, or coffee table., It’s never too early to start planning a financially secure future, but college graduates may not know how to get started or how important early planning can be. Give gifts that will last well into their future.


If the graduate has had legitimate employment with taxable income for the past year, you can contribute to their ROTH individual retirement account up to the amount the graduate earned in the last year. This will jumpstart them to a stable financial future.If the college graduate has no idea how to start planning, pay for a first appointment with a financial advisor. This will give them the education they need to get grounded and will help them construct a plan for the future.

