 Place your hands on the bar so that they are just slightly wider than shoulder width. Make sure your fingers and thumbs wrap around the bar for a secure grip.If your hands line up too precisely with your feet, you may accidentally kick your hands during the toes-to-bar, weakening your grip as a result.
Another reason for keeping your grip at or beyond shoulder width is to minimize the distance you'll need to swing during the toes-to-bar. Keeping your hands close together will cause the body to extend further down, increasing the distance your legs will need to travel and making the exercise more difficult in the process.;
, Squeeze your abdominal muscles and the muscles in your buttocks. Your body should be flexible but fairly rigid.Your legs should be straight and your feet should be just barely in front of your torso. The toes of your feet should point downward.
If your core muscles aren't tight, you'll end up relying on your arms to support your torso and lift your legs, making the exercise nearly impossible to complete.
 Lean back a little while lifting both legs simultaneously straight forward and up. Continue lifting your legs until your toes touch the bar.


Swing your legs at the hip. Your hips should do the majority of the work, and your shoulders should move very little, if at all.Your arms and legs should remain completely straight during a strict toes-to-bar. Ideally, your motions should involve very little swinging.
If your legs do not swing up together, your coordination will be thrown off and you won't be able to complete the motion effectively.
 Gradually ease your legs back down into their resting position.


Control the descent. Do not drop your legs down too quickly since doing so can cause your body to swing and may disrupt your balance.
Your arms and legs should still remain straight as you swing your legs down.
 Do as many repetitions as desired for your workout. Pause and rest for about five seconds in between each repetition.


When you're first learning the exercise, it is a good idea to work in small sets. Doing so allows you to perfect your form and avoid developing bad habits.Strict toes-to-bar are difficult to cycle through quickly. Attempting to rush through them can wear you out and may cause muscle injury, so take your time and work at a comfortable pace.
Note that strict toes-to-bar also demands a significant amount of flexibility in the hips and hamstrings, making them more difficult for many people to complete.
Your grip may loosen in the middle of your workout. If this happens, wait until your legs point downward again, then let go of the bar. Pause for a few moments to reset. You can then grab the bar again and continue the exercise as before.

