 The Crazy Place features a riddle that must be solved before you can upgrade the ice staff. Once you arrive at the Crazy Place, you’ll see a series of stone slabs surrounding a blue beam of light, which is your portal.
 Each panel contains a series of symbols that correspond with those on the panels on the stone slabs surrounding the portal. To solve the riddle, you must match the patterns on the ceiling with those on the stone slabs, and shoot each panel in the correct order using the ice staff., After shooting the correct panel, the stone will flip around. All six panels must be flipped to solve the puzzle.After completing the puzzle, you’ll hear Samantha’s voice, and your character will be transported back to the original realm.

Recruit another player for help with battling zombies as you solve the puzzle if playing multi-player mode. This helps prevent zombies from distracting you and attacking your character as you’re trying to complete the puzzle.
 Your task is to destroy each tombstone using the ice staff. Each of the three gravestones are located in the following positions: to the right of the MP-40 near Generator 4, between the Excavation Site and a large footprint near Generator 4, and at the top of the small hill on your right when heading left out of the back exit of the bunker next to Generator 2. Each tombstone is light gray in color, and may blend in slightly with the game’s background., This will freeze each tombstone so they can be destroyed with a weapon., The tombstones will shatter and become destroyed. After destroying all three tombstones, you’ll hear Samantha’s voice and enter the third phase of your mission., You’ll see a series of floating discs near the bottom of the stairs., Two levers are located on the walkway, and two levers are located on the wood scaffoldings. When all four discs are lit up, you’ll see a blue orb floating inside the discs.,, The orb will fly up into the air, and exit the Excavation Site. Samantha will speak once again, and you’ll be ready for the last phase of the mission., To upgrade the ice staff, you must place the staff inside a blue pedestal located in the Crazy Place., The ice staff will hover and float above the pedestal., This allows the ice staff to collect souls. You must kill approximately 20 zombies to collect enough souls needed to upgrade the ice staff. When the mission is complete, Samantha will inform you that the power of ice is available, and the ice staff will now be outlined in red., The Staff of Ice will now be upgraded to Ull’s Arrow.