 It's no secret that hair will grow just where you don't want it. If you have unwanted hair that shows around your bikini in the back, try waxing or shaving to remove it.You can also use a hair removal cream to remove unwanted hair, but be sure to test it on a small patch of skin first to see if it irritates your skin.
 Use a gentle all over scrub in the shower to help remove dead skin. Removing dead skin will make your skin feel softer and appear smoother., Use a tanning lotion or cream to give your skin that sun-kissed look without actually using the sun or a tanning bed. Simply use a mirror to apply the cream evenly to your body, making sure to go lightly on problem areas such as your knees, elbows, and face. Make sure you try on your bathing suit before tanning to ensure you cover all the skin that's showing, including the area around your butt.For a glamorous-looking tan, try products like Shiseido Brilliant Bronze Tinted Self Tanning Gel or Clarins Intense Bronze Self Tanning Tint, both of which were rated highly by Total Beauty. Be warned, though, they can be a little pricey.The best tanning creams today don't use a dye or stain. Rather, they use DHA to actually change the color of your skin., Use a moisturizing lotion when you get out of the shower or before bedtime to keep your skin healthy and looking smooth., Not everyone looks good in the same bikini, so pick the right one for your body.


If you curve at your hips and thighs, opt for a bikini with a high cut, as other bikinis may cut you off strangely. In addition, this cut will add visual inches to your legs, making them appear longer. Try a string bikini, as it can accommodate your curves.If your problem area is your stomach, opt for boy shorts with stomach control. Not only will it slim down your stomach, the suite will highlight you summer-ready bikini butt.If you are larger in your butt and thighs, try a bikini with ruffles and a small skirt. A small skirt can help hide problem areas, and ruffles add length, meaning you can adjust it up or down as needed.If you're athletic, try a string bikini. String bikinis add less bulk to your already muscular body.Avoid shiny materials. Shiny material will show every bump on your body, highlighting problem areas. Opt for solid bikinis in cool colors instead., Salt can make you bloated, which can make everything look bigger in a bikini. Use herbs instead of salt at meals, and check menus for low-sodium options. Also, always read labels, as many products have added salt., Using correct posture will help your whole body look better, as it lifts up problem areas and pulls the skin tighter., You may not have the exact bikini butt you want, but that shouldn't stop you from splashing in the waves or jumping in the pool with your best girlfriends.

