 The basic idea of skating backwards is easy – you push the outsides of your skates forward and out, curve them back to the center of your body and repeat. If your skates could draw on the ice they would paint curvy waves, like a child's drawing of the ocean, across the surface.


Think of each skate making an “S” shape as you move backwards;
, You cannot skate backward if you are standing up straight. Bend your knees slightly so that your butt drops closer to the ice. Your torso should be upright like you were sitting in a chair.


As you get better at it, you should be able to lift up each skate and put it back down comfortably, but at first it's to keep them on the ice.
It is easiest to use the wall or a hockey stick for balance as you start out.
 Your skates will be pointing directly ahead of you and your shoulders in a straight line over your ankles. This is your "center" as you skate backwards. With your skates shoulder-width apart, you have the power and strength needed Hold onto the wall with both hands for balance.
 Focus on keeping your knees bent and back straight as you get used to moving backwards. If it is more comfortable for you, lean on a hockey stick for stability.


If you don't have a hockey stick, rest your hands on your knees.
 Slowly turn your toes to face each other and you’ll feel your feet start to separate as your skates move outward. Think of skating backwards as leading with your heels -- as you toes turn inward, you heels turn out to your left and right, and the rest of your skate follows.


This does not need to be a big angle. Even slightly angling your feet will work.
This is the beginning of your "S" shape.
 This is usually where people feel the most uncomfortable -- your legs are splitting apart, and they will keep moving apart as long as your toes are pointing in. Turn your skates to so that your heels point back towards your body. As you do you will feel your legs coming back together.


Again, this does not need to be a large angle. Just turn your feet enough so that you feel your legs gliding back together.
 With your heels turned back to the center, use your groin muscles to bring your skates back to the middle. While you will not actually bring them this close, imagine you are trying to click your heels together.


This is the middle point of your "S."
Focus on keeping your knees bent – this will help you with the power and flexibility needed to control your skates.
 When you reach your starting position, feet roughly shoulder-width apart, it's time to repeat your curve. Turn your feet so that your toes face inward again, then let them start to glide back out to the side. Pull them in again and repeat -- these are the "S" shaped curves that you need to make.
 One of the most common mistakes people make is leaning too far forward, with their body over their toes. Focus on keeping your athletic stance the entire time. A good tip is to put your hands on your knees, using them to support you and prevent you from leaning forward.
 The “S” curve is the simplest way to move backwards on skates. Once you have some momentum, just keep repeating the “S” shape to skate backwards, working on transitioning smoothly through each part.


Start along the wall – knees bent and back straight.
Push off the wall to gain some momentum.
Turn your toes in and move your feet apart.
Pull your legs back together by turning your toes out and pulling in.
Turn your toes to the center again as your feet approach each other.
Repeat to skate backwards.

