 You can use natural situations with older children or make a game of teaching younger children to wait and be patient for things that they want.Introducing them to fun and controlled situations where they have to control their impulses gives them practice in doing so.


For example, place a cookie or some candy on the table in front of a toddler or preschooler and see who can go the longest without eating it.
Create a situation where you older children will have to wait to get what they want. For instance, order something for them online and don’t select express shipping.
 Some research indicates that improving a child’s memory can help improve their impulse control.Regardless of age, it’s much easier for children to control their impulses when they remember how they are supposed to behave. Using games is a great way to teach children impulse control by improving their memory.


Play games like concentration. Children not only have to remember where the matches are, but they also have to patiently wait their turn, and handle it if they don’t get the match.
Try games like Simon where children have to remember and recreate a pattern of lights and sounds.
Use online memory games like those at http://www.kidsmemory.com/ or http://www.memozor.com/memory-game-online-free/for-kids.
 It can be useful for younger children like toddlers and preschoolers to use mental imagery to help them improve their impulse control.Visualizing objects and words that represent the need to slow down, wait, or stop can help children remember to control their urges.


For instance, have children picture a music player. Tell them to press ‘pause’ or ‘stop’ when they notice that they are feeling impulsive.
Or, children might visualize a stop light. When they are calm, the light’s green and they continue what they are doing. When they feel begin to get excited or upset they can visualize the light as yellow and start doing things to calm down. When they notice that they are excited, impatient, or upset, the light is red and they need to take a time-out.

