 Regardless of whether you or your loved one has a terminal diagnosis, you should talk to your doctor about hospice (end of life care) and palliative (incurable disease care) options. You should be informed of your diagnosis's timeline and what you can do to ensure your safety and comfort., This is often incredibly difficult, so take your time and think about what you would like to say in advance. It often helps to tell one person first, a trusted friend or close loved one, and ask them to help support you as you tell others. If you find it difficult to discuss with friends and family, consider starting with a councilor or support group.People will have many reactions to this news, from anger to sadness, but understand that this is because they love and care for you., Finding other people who understand you pain can be a valuable tool to help your learn about your feelings and cope with death. Know that you are not alone in your journey, and other people will have advice and perspective that might benefit you.


There are often specific groups for different types of death -- groups for those who have lost a spouse or parent, groups for those dealing with cancer, etc.
The US Health Department has a detailed list of support groups and ways to contact people on their support group website.
 Don't try to deal with your prognosis all at once, thinking constantly of how to manage the last year of your life. Instead, think of small goals over the course of a week or month, enjoying each moment to it's fullest. Don't feel like you have to tackle everything at once., Spend your days doing what you love. Talk to those your care about and spend time with your family. Even on days when you feel weak or tired, find something to do that gives you joy.Ask friends and family to help you move around if you feel weak.
Talk to your doctor about pain management solutions if you become too uncomfortable to enjoy your life.
 Make sure your will is up to date and you have made any final wishes clear to family, loved ones, and doctors. While you should certainly do this when you feel prepared, neglecting to put your life in order before death can make things difficult for your loved ones when you are gone.
 While you may feel like you can cure them or fix their disease, they best thing you can do for a terminally ill friend is be near their side. Take them to medical appointments, help with the chores, and be there to talk to them. While you will have your own emotions to deal with, you should focus on being a friend however you can.


Do not try to be a "hero." You are their to support your friend, but know that there is only so much you can do.

