 If the topic is not assigned to you, then you will have to decide what experience you will want to write about. You might want to consider a specific event that altered your attitude or actions, or an experience that you would change if you had a second chance. Try to include examples that demonstrate how you grew from that experience.Topics can range from difficult health situations to reading a book or watching a movie to issues of drugs and alcohol or even a recent trip you took.
Remember to focus on a topic that gives or incites a strong opinion.;
, Keep a journal, diary, or events log to record your ideas and descriptions of events as you create your topic and develop your thesis. Record the experience as accurately and as objectively as you can along with a brief narrative for context. As new ideas of how this experience impacted or changed you, write it down. You also want to consider things such as how the experience transformed your thoughts or helped you grow as a person.Try to reflect upon the experience before writing it down so that you do not get bogged down with information that is not important to the essay.
Talk with friends and colleagues about your experience to gain greater insight and perspective about how you feel. Be flexible, since new ideas or opinions might emerge through conversation.
Select relevant examples and materials that will illustrate the reflective process. Choose challenging or perplexing situations that pique your curiosity and motivate you to examine their lessons upon your life.
 Without concern about grammar or form, spend about twenty minutes freely writing about the experience you chose. At this point, do not worry too much about perfecting your ideas. This exercise is important to reflect on the experience and to begin generating an opinion.If you are struggling to start, consider focusing on what points you originally wanted to make about the experience, then start selecting examples that support your points.
If you're still stuck, try answering questions, such as "What is the most important thing for someone else to know about my experience?" or "What would I do differently if I could go back?"

, The thesis statement is the most important sentence in the essay because it provides a strongly-developed overview of what you are writing about. The thesis statement should always be placed in the introduction, unless your assignment says otherwise.Start a thesis statement by framing a question that focuses on your analysis of the experience and how you changed because of it.
Try keeping an open mind as your analysis develops and transforms. This process will require many revisions until you are able to completely answer the question and transform your question into a statement.
Your unique perspective on the experience you are writing about then becomes your thesis statement. The statement you develop offers thoughtful insight into how you transformed because of the experience.
For example: “My life changed on July 1, 2012, when my little sister was born. From that moment, I knew that I wanted to become an OB/GYN doctor."

, An outline follows a rather strict format, using Roman and Arabic numerals along with capital and small letters of the alphabet. This organization helps both you and your readers to clearly see your thought process. Although there are no rules for creating the best outline, this type is the most common. Organize it the best way you see fit.
 Your main topics will be located beside the roman numerals and should maintain a uniform structure. For example, if you begin with a verb in the first topic, a verb should also begin the second topic. The subtopics should follow suit. I. Choose international destination
II. Prepare travel itinerary
“Choose” and “Prepare” are both present tense verbs.
 All information should uniformly match. The main topic should be more significant than all the subtopics that follow. All subtopics should directly support the main topic. I. Visit a historical landmark facility
II. Visit a historical landmark website

A. Note important facts
B. Look for interesting stories


The “facility” and “website” share equal importance. Locating “important facts” and “interesting stories” found on the historical landmark’s website is part of the process of supporting the main topic.
 At the same time, general information should be found in the main topic. I. Describe your favorite athlete

A. Childhood role model
B. Baseball player


A “childhood role model” and “baseball player” are specific examples from the general topic of “favorite athlete” in your lifetime.
 Main topics and subtopics should contain a minimum of two entries. In other words, you should have enough main ideas and evidence to support them that is greater than just one.I. Buy a new car

A. Take credit report
B. Take driver’s license
C. Take checkbook


The heading “buy a new car” is divided into three subtopics. Although no rules exist for the number of subtopics, extensive amount of subtopics need to be combined or their significance reevaluated.
 Sound thinking and the ability to express it clearly is a practical skill that can be used in almost any circumstance. Since this ability cannot be acquired overnight, a commitment to placing intellectual standards on your thought process is the key to skillfully taking charge on your mode of thinking. The experience or event that you are writing about needs to be analyzed. Consider breaking the experience down into simpler parts and defining what the causes and effects were.
After breaking down the experience, think about how those various parts relate and react to each other or how they are impacted by change.
Once the topic has been thoroughly analyzed and synthesized, evaluate your attitude towards the subject and how you were affected. Then, you must reflect on how this event changed you or what you would have done differently if presented to you again.
 Academic writing does not often include the use of the first person, but since a reflective essay revolves around your opinion, there is no problem using the first person – I, me, my – to write about what happened to you.


Although the first person is completely acceptable, overuse is still possible.
Avoid distancing language, such as “I saw” or “I heard,” in which the “I” comes between the reader and a direct account of what happens.For example, instead of saying "I heard a loud bang," you could say "A loud bang reverberated through the parking lot." The latter is more immediate and interesting for readers.
 Since you are writing about an experience that happened in the past, you should write your essay in the past tense. What happened in the past stays in the past.There are exceptions. If you are introducing new or current thoughts into the essay, you could use present tense such as “I think” or “I believe.” If they are realizations made in the past, however, it would be more consistent to use “I realized” or “I understood.” In either case, make sure your reader is clear about the timeline or time lapse.
Use the past tense when writing about your experience since it was a particular moment in time, while it is acceptable to use the present tense when referencing contemporary theory.
 Remember to not only run spell check but also to either reread what you wrote aloud or have a friend or colleague read it for errors. Make sure the final draft is polished. Reflective essays, although they are not research papers, must still adhere to the standards of formal writing – precision, clarity, conciseness, and correctness.Check grammar, sentence flow, and tone for an easy-to-read essay.
Search for common word usage and replace them with richer, more descriptive words that you can find in an online thesaurus.
Make sure your tone and level of diction is coherent. In other words, if you start formal, stay formal, and end formal.
Avoid using slang, emotive, or subjective terms.

