 To be a Stereo girl you have to absolutely love music of different genres. The genres to which Stereo girls usually listen (but feel free to branch out) include rap, rap-metal, punk-rock, pop-punk, death metal, Christian metal, metal, heavy metal, techno, indie rock, and adult alternative. Listen to a lot of underground music and go to lots of shows. Listen to your music whenever you're not at a show. Other styles are accepted as well, even jazz, folk, new age, classical, and even pop.;
, You can hardcore dance, breakdance, and techno jump as well.
 Value your physical beauty. Not only are you the most beautiful person on earth, but you are a rockstar and should be treated like one. Wear clothes that reflect you. Wear all black or hot pink, whatever your mood is.
 Sign up for a livejournal. Write about absolutely everything in it. Use grammar correctly. Claim Myspace is overrated. If you have one, just say it's because your friends are addicts and there's no other way to keep in touch. Post blogs but never pics on live journal. Leave the link to your Myspace which should have all of pics. Buy a Sidekick, iPhone, or another music phone. Add a period after just about everything. Keep your camera with you to capture those Kodak moments with your friends. Myspace has become too preppy lately.
 Wear fingerless wrist warmers or gloves with the finger tips cut off in any color. If you're small enough, wear bandannas as belts. If not, wear them around your neck with a pair of aviators and you're good to go. Buy over-sized sunglasses in assorted colors such as black, red, white, etc. Extra points if they're aviators.
 Rock liberty spikes, dread locks, choppily layered hair, side bangs braids or fauxhawks. If this isn't your style wear your hair very long or very short. Only write in ink (unless you're taking a test which requires no. 2 pencils only). Randomly strikeout or underline your writing. Dot your 'i's with hearts, stars or heartagrams.(If you chose heartagrams know that it is the symbol of the band HIM, and not Bam Margera.)

, Use punk, skater, surfer and gangster slang. Say hella, fool, dude, gnarly, rad, tight, lame, swap, poser, etc. A lot.
 Plaid skirts are a must as well.Also wear oversized hoodies and tight fitting track jackets.
 Be friends with the popular kids, go to their parties, talk on Myspace, stay at each others houses. If someone says something about a popular kid you hang out with, stand up for them.
 Keep your GPA at 3.0 or higher.
 Always have your ponytail to the side.

