 At this point, you can also brush on some liquid latex or white school glue to the cuticle area around your nails. This way, once you are done with your manicure, all you have to do is peel off the liquid latex or glue off, and all of the excess powder, nail polish, and Sharpie will come right with it.

You can use this Sharpie-on-mirror powder technique on UV gel, non-UV gel, and regular nail polish.;
, This will protect your nails from staining and help the manicure last longer. Some people recommend applying two layers of base coat to further protect your nails from the Sharpie.Use a base coat suitable for the type of nail polish you will be using.

Gel nail polish can be a hassle to remove. If this bugs you, consider using a peel-off base coat.,

If you are new to this, or if you are using a non-UV gel (or regular nail polish), consider painting your nails silver. Nail artists find that mirror powder does not stick very well to these types of nail polish, so a silver base will help conceal any "bare" patches.
 If you are using UV gel nail polish, let it cure under a LED lamp, about 30 seconds. If you are using non-UV gel nail polish or regular nail polish, let it dry completely. You can speed up the drying process on regular nail polish by dipping them into icy water—just be sure to dry them off with a tissue afterwards!, The type of top coat you use is very important, because it is what allows the mirror powder to stick to your nails. Here are the recommended types of top coat for mirror powder manicures:

If you are using gel nail polish, apply a no-wipe top coat.If you are using regular nail polish, consider using a gel-like top coat or a quick dry top coat. Plan on doing one or two nails at a time.
 This step is very important, and you must be careful with the timing. If you don't let the top coat cure or dry long enough, it will be sticky, and you'll get a messy finish. If you wait too long, especially with the non-UV gel and regular top coat, the powder may not stick.

If you are using UV gel top coat, let it cure under an LED lamp for 30 to 60 seconds.
If you are using a non-UV gel top coat or a regular top coat, wait until it feels dry to the touch. It needs to feel rubbery, but not tacky or sticky.
 Use silver mirror powder, if you can. Sharpies are translucent, so the colors will show up the best against silver mirror powder (as opposed to other colors)., Manufacturers recommend that you use mirror powder on top of UV gel polish, but it is still possible to use it on top of non-UV and regular polish. It will not stick well at first, and it may smoosh around—just keep tapping it on., Your nail polish will still be wet and squishy underneath, so don't use a lot of pressure, or you may create dents. Every once in a while, stroke the powder downward, from the base to the tip of your nail. This will smooth the powder out and help it to lay flat against your nail.

If you are not using UV gel nail polish, this may take a while.
If the finish is not sparkly enough, apply one more coat of mirror powder using the same technique as before., Take a fluffy eyeshadow brush, and gently sweep it across your nails, from the cuticle to the tip. This will knock off any excess powder; it will also help further smooth the powder out., This will help seal in the mirror powder and protect it during the next step. Be careful with what type of top coat you are using, however; the wrong type of top coat can ruin all your hard work!

If you are using a UV gel nail polish, use a no-wipe top coat.
If you are using a non-UV or regular nail polish, use a water-based top coat and let it dry. Once it dries, brush on a layer of your usual top coat, and let it dry.
 You can use just about anything that is smooth and flat as your palette, such as a: piece of plastic, sheet of wax paper, plastic lid, or a plastic paint tray., You will be blending these colors together, so pick out colors that will blend well together. Avoid contrasting colors, as they may create a muddy effect. Here are some color samples for you:

Warm colors, such as: red, orange, yellow
Cool colors, such as: blue and purple or blue and turquoise
Analogous colors, such as: pink, blue, and purple.
 Keep some space between each color, so that they don't blend together. You will do all blending on the nail itself., You do not need a lot of rubbing alcohol. A single spritz or a drop of rubbing alcohol will be plenty., Again, do not blend the colors together. Simply swirl the brush around in the rubbing alcohol puddle to mix it into the Sharpie color. Think of it as mixing watercolor paints with water.

Keep a small jar of rubbing alcohol handy. Dip your brush into it to clean it between colors.
 You do not need a lot of color; a little bit goes a long way. Remember to clean your brush between colors, so that you don't transfer them., To create a tie dye effect, overlap the edges of the patches slightly.You can also blend and swirl the colors together., Because you used rubbing alcohol, this should not take very long; alcohol evaporates quickly. Avoid blowing on your nails, or your might spread the wet Sharpie "paint" around and mess up your design., If you are done with your manicure, be sure to extend the top coat over the tip of your nail. This will seal your manicure in, and prevent it from peeling later on., At this point, your manicure is complete, but you can also add on some extra designs. Your top coat must be dry/cured before you do them. Once you have added your designs, apply one last layer of top coat. Here are some ideas to get your started:

Place a vinyl nail stencil over your nail, then paint over it using nail polish. Peel the stencil off when you are done.Stamp on some designs using a nail stamping kit. Colors that work great include black, white, silver, or gold.Hand draw designs using black, silver, or gold Sharpie. You can also use black, white, silver, or gold nail polish and a striper brush., If you applied some white school glue or liquid latex in the beginning, now is the time to peel it off. If you didn't, use a Q-tip dipped in rubbing alcohol or acetone to wipe away any stray bits of nail polish or mirror powder.

For a super-neat finish, dip a striper brush into acetone, then trace your nail just inside the cuticle.

