 If you live with your significant other or if they live alone, the answer to this question may be obvious. But if they live with family, friends or roommates, they may already be getting the help they need. The only way to be sure is to ask. Even if someone else is caring for your loved one, you might be able to help by stopping by with food or medicine.;
, This is a good way to let your significant other know that you are concerned about their wellbeing. More importantly, talking to them about how they feel can help you figure out what kinds of symptoms they are having and what kind of help they need.


People sometimes have trouble describing how they feel when they are sick. Try asking about specific symptoms (for example, “Do you have a headache?” or “Is your throat sore?”).
One of the most important things to find out is whether or not they have a fever, and if so, how high it is. Take your significant other’s temperature with an oral thermometer. If their temperature is 105° F (40.56° C) or above, call 911 or take them to an emergency room., Depending on how they are feeling, your significant other may want or need different things at different times. The best way to find out what they need is to ask. People are not always communicative when they are sick, so help them out by asking specific questions (like “Do you want to get some sleep?” “Do you need more medicine?” or “Are you hungry?”).


Be considerate – don’t check in so often that they can’t get any rest! It doesn’t hurt to ask how often they would like you to check in. If they are sleeping or trying to get to sleep, don't bother them.
If they are taking medication for their cold symptoms, check the directions on the bottle to find out how often to give them a new dose. If it’s getting close to time for the next dose, it may be a good idea to check in and see if they would like to take some more.
 Nasal congestion is one of the most common cold symptoms. It is particularly important to treat congestion, because it causes discomfort, can aggravate or contribute to other symptoms (like sore throat and cough), and can make it difficult for the cold sufferer to sleep. One or a combination of the following remedies can help ease nasal congestion:Try an over-the-counter saline spray. Saline sprays can help clean out and soothe the nasal passages.
Use a cool mist vaporizer or a humidifier to increase the humidity in the room where your significant other is resting. Extra moisture in the air is soothing and can help clear out congestion.
Over-the-counter decongestants and cold medications can offer some relief. Be sure to follow the package directions carefully.
 A sore throat is often one of the first symptoms of a cold, and it may be aggravated by nasal congestion. Try one or more of these methods to reduce sore throat pain:Dissolve a little bit of salt (1/4-1/2 teaspoon) in warm water and ask them to gargle it.
Very hot or very cold liquids and foods can also soothe a sore or scratchy throat. Offer them hot tea with honey and lemon, ice chips, or a popsicle.
Try over-the-counter cough drops or throat sprays containing menthol or numbing agents.
 Throat irritation and congestion can cause a cough. Treating the sore throat and nasal congestion may relieve cough symptoms. You can also try over-the-counter cough medicines, like NyQuil Cough, Delsym, or Robitussin.


If the cough persists after other cold symptoms have resolved, comes with shortness of breath, or brings up yellow, green or brown mucus, then your significant other may have a secondary infection like pneumonia or bronchitis. If you notice any of these symptoms, advise them to see a doctor., Colds can cause headaches and body aches. These symptoms can be treated with over-the-counter pain killers like acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen or aspirin.


Never give aspirin to anyone under the age of 18 unless you are instructed to do so by a physician. In rare cases, children and teenagers can have a dangerous and potentially fatal reaction to aspirin., A fever is one of the body’s methods of fighting infection, but high fevers can be uncomfortable or even dangerous. If your significant other has a fever below 102° F (39.89° C), the best thing they can do is rest and stay hydrated. If their fever is higher than 102° F (39.89° C), you can reduce the fever with acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen or aspirin.Before giving your significant other acetaminophen, make sure they have not recently taken another medication that contains acetaminophen, in order to avoid an accidental overdose. Acetaminophen is a common ingredient in over-the-counter cough and cold medicines.
If their fever exceeds 105° F (40.56° C), seek medical attention immediately., It’s easy for someone with a cold to become dehydrated. Give them clear liquids like water, broth, or juice.Alcohol and caffeinated beverages like coffee and soda can make dehydration worse and interfere with sleep.
Chicken soup is a traditional cold remedy that is hydrating, nourishing, soothing on the throat, and easy on the stomach. Hot broth can also help loosen up congestion and clear stuffy nasal passages. Try this simple and comforting recipe for chicken soup.
 Rest and sleep are crucial for helping the body heal. If your significant other is having trouble sleeping, treating other cold symptoms and creating a restful and comfortable environment for them can help. Some cold medications contain ingredients that cause drowsiness and can help a cold sufferer get a good night’s sleep.
 You can help your significant other a lot just by making sure whatever they need is in reach. Keep tissues, water, medications, a thermometer, blankets, reading material, or whatever else they might want in the room where they are resting.
 Make sure they can rest on a bed or couch with clean sheets, pillows and blankets. Keep noise to a minimum. If they are trying to sleep, keep the room dark. Make sure they are not too hot or too cold.
 While rest and sleep are very important to recovery, most people will spend a lot of time feeling bored and frustrated when they are sick. While your significant other is awake, find ways to help keep their spirits up.


Put on a favorite movie or TV show.
Play music they enjoy.
Bring them books or magazines to read. If they are feeling too sick to focus on reading, offer to read to them or play an audio book.
Offer your company and conversation.

