 Scorpios love to be engaged intellectually on things that interest them. Having an intellectual conversation with him will turn him on mentally. Try to avoid mundane conversations about the weather and keep it interesting so that you will peak his interest.


Maintain a straight posture and look him in the eye.
Talk about what you do professionally with confidence.
Try steering the conversation to something that you are mutually interested in.
Some good topics for an intellectual Scorpio are politics, social issues, news, or a show they like.;
, Scorpios are able to tell when people feel insecure and it’s a huge turn off for them. As much as they like to have control, they also admire seeing other people in control, whether that be in the current situation on in their life. Scorpio men are capable of attracting many suitors, so there’s a chance you’ll have some competition if you are trying to seduce one.Because male Scorpios are also career driven, they will appreciate someone else who is career driven and independent, just make sure that your career goals do not interfere with his. Don't act overly cocky when you're with your Scorpio. Being overly aggressive will be a red flag to him as Scorpios can determine how genuine people are.
 A male Scorpio's sex drive is insatiable, so appealing to their physical desires is a perfect way to catch his attention.The attraction he has will increase as long as you have a good conversation, especially if he’s unable to be physically intimate. The longer he is visually stimulated, the more he will want you physically.


Wear dark red, as it’s been proven to enhance a male’s attraction to a woman.Wear something form fitting but not cut too short.
Try picking out an outfit that complements your best assets.
 Scorpios are passionate and sexually charged people so they love overt flirting. Being playful and funny with him will really get his attention, and may interest him enough to pursue you. Make sure to flirt with confidence and don’t give into all of a his demands. Try making soft physical contact with him, like a touch on the arm, hand, or back. Also remember to not give up too much information on yourself right up front. Make him work for it instead. Scorpios love discovering new things about people, so the more you hold back the more he’ll want to chase.


Talk dirty but don’t get physical at first. The game of cat and mouse will turn him on.
Don’t give a Scorpio a lot of hollow compliments because it will make him suspicious.
Be flirtatious but also be engaged in the conversation.
Don’t come off as forceful or desperate. Let him invite you back to his room.
 A great way to engage him is to dance with him face-to-face. Scorpios love their attention and are notorious for being jealous.When you are seducing one make sure all attention is on him. Don’t mention past relationships or talk about current male friends.


If you see someone you know, say hi briefly and then go back to giving him attention.
Don't constantly look around the room. Keep your gaze fixed on him.
 Stay in your comfort zone, but have an understanding that Scorpio men are highly sexual and love the sensation of physical passion. After you tease your Scorpio and have built up that mental attraction, it's time to get physical. Cuddle up close to him and let him take some control, as Scorpios are known to be dominant personalities. If he goes for a kiss, or more, fulfilling his physical desires will fully seduce him.


You should be able to gauge if he wants to get physical towards the end of the night, if he shows interest in you, go for it.
Since Scorpios are aggressive and dominant, you want to build up his desire for you and make it so he has no choice but to want to be with you.

