 There is no doubt that it is absolutely simple. You will need:


1 Rubber Band
1 Sheet of Paper
Scissors or Ruler (Optional);
, Take your piece of paper. Cut or tear the piece of paper into smaller pieces with your hands, scissors, ruler, etc. The small papers should be roughly near 7 cm by 1 cm. Scrunch up the small pieces of paper into a good-sized, tight and firm paper ball. This will be called a mini-paper bullet. Make a few more bullets to add to your ammo stock.
 Wrap it around your thumb and index finger. Make sure to put the rubber band on your default hand (hand that you usually use).
 Pinch it with your thumb and index finger of your other hand. Don't let go of the bullet.
 If you are pulling the closest band towards you, you are doing it correctly.
,, Pull the band that is further away from you towards you. This will overlap the band that is closest towards you. Do not pull the band closest towards you.
,,, This time, pull both bands.
, The tricky part is coming up. Although it is easy to do practically, describing it in words is a different matter.
 Pull it under the band farthest from you.
 Hold the bullet by pinching it with your thumb and index finger of your other hand.
,,, That is, wrapped around your thumb and index finger.
 Twist the band you are holding and place it in the base of your middle finger. Your middle finger should be resting near the middle of your palm.
 Pull back the rubber band with the bullet.
, Whether in school, home, or work, you've got to hide your masterpiece of fun. In school, you might shoot your bullets across the room but you should hide your weapon so that people aren't suspicious of you. You certainly don't want your enemy or other people using your weapon. The best hiding spot for your bullets is your pocket. Shorts pocket, jacket pocket, all are fine. Hiding it in a pocket is another good thing because your hand could reach it easily.
 Pretend to be writing or pretend to be doing something with your hands. The person you shot might think that your working hands means that it is too busy for games.
 The rubber band makes a twanging sound after firing the bullet so it is a good idea to hide it quickly. If you have a watch, you could use it to cover up your rubber band. Or else you put it inside a pocket or put it next to other bracelets or things on your arm to make it look like everyday stuff.

You might not get it to shoot well at first, but remember to place the bullet in the right place so the power will go into the bullet. Don't forget to read the tips below to learn more







