 Certain foods, such as those that are fatty, fried, sugary, and processed, can result in decreased blood flow throughout your body and can contribute to a vascular form of erectile dysfunction. Increase your intake of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and heart-healthy fats to improve your blood circulation and increase the amount of time you’re able to maintain an erection.


A diet high in animal fat will put pressure on your cardiovascular system, potentially damaging your blood flow.
Try to limit the amount of meat and cheese you eat.;
, There is evidence that suggests that a sedentary lifestyle can be a factor in erectile dysfunction. Aerobic exercises, such as running and swimming, can help prevent ED. The exercise can help improve blood flow and circulation, naturally help lower high blood pressure and cholesterol, and can even help improve hormonal balance and drive weight loss – all of which are factors that can help you improve ED and maintain an erection.


Be wary of exercise that puts particular pressure on your perineum (the area between your scrotum and penis).
If you like going for long bike rides, be sure you have a bike that fits. Opt for a padded seat, wear some padded shorts, and be sure to stand up on the pedals regularly., Eating a healthy diet and getting plenty of exercise will improve your overall health and help increase your blood flow. Maintaining a healthy weight by combining a healthy diet with exercise will also help you lower your risk of type diabetes, which can contribute to ED.If you are overweight you may have a heightened risk of high blood pressure and high cholesterol, both of which can damage blood vessels.
Having good blood flow is important for maintaining an erection.
If you’re overweight, losing weight can help you to tackle erectile dysfunction., Smoking can constrict your blood vessels and affect blood flow, which can lead to problems with maintaining an erection. Stop smoking as soon as possible, and practice one or more smoking cessation programs that can help you kick your habit indefinitely.


Studies have shown that smokers are much more likely to suffer from erectile dysfunction than non-smokers., Chronic heavy drinking can interfere with normal bodily functions, including your ability to maintain an erection. Consult with your healthcare provider to determine the amount of alcohol you should or should not be consuming regularly based on your health history.It is not uncommon for a man to be unable to maintain an erection if he has been drinking heavily immediately beforehand., Psychological stress can increase your body’s levels of cortisol and adrenaline, leading to hormonal imbalance and the constriction of blood vessels.If you frequently suffer from stress, look for ways to eliminate reduce stresses from your life, or find new, healthy ways to manage stress.


Practice deep breathing and yoga, listen to music, or set aside more time in which to enjoy your favourite activities.

