 People are more comfortable if they feel that they know you. You can help them get to know you by introducing yourself at the beginning of any conversation (unless the person already knows you). When you introduce yourself, look the person in the eyes, shake their hand firmly, tell them your name, and say something like “It’s nice to meet you.”It is also a good idea to repeat a person’s name back to them by saying something like “It’s nice to meet you, John.”;
, In some cultures it is disrespectful to look someone in the eye or shake their hand. In other cultures these same gestures are signs of respect. Be aware that their culture may differ from your own culture.


For example, some cultures only shake hands with the right hand because the left hand is considered unclean.
 People form their impressions about others within the first few seconds of interaction. Talk in a genuine, authentic and personable manner, and always speak with sincerity. Be sure to use their title or name when it is appropriate. Address the person in a calm and reserved tone. Avoid using nicknames unless you know the person well and know that they are comfortable with that name.If you are unsure about how to address the other person, it is okay to ask them what their preference is, especially in professional settings. You can ask, "What do you prefer to be called?"

, Jokes can often carry inappropriate or offensive undertones. Be sure that any jokes you make are friendly to anyone. Avoid making humor at the expense of people around you, since this will them feel uncomfortable., If you insult or belittle someone, they will not feel very comfortable around you. Instead, speak to them in a positive and uplifting way. Encourage the other person and say positive things about them.Instead of saying, “Your view on renewable energy is completely wrong” consider saying, “Your view on renewable energy is very interesting. I never thought of that angle before.”
You might also introduce the person and name a quality that they possess. For example, maybe they are a computer whiz or great with spreadsheets.
 Using aggressive language can cause someone to feel uncomfortable around you. Even if you are not being aggressive toward the person directly, using excessive swearing or other offensive words can give the impression that you are rude or immature. , What you say is important, but how you say it is equally important. Regardless of the words you use, speaking loudly or grumpily will make someone uncomfortable. At the other extreme, speaking too quietly can make it hard to hear you, which can be uncomfortable. Aim for an even, audible tone that does not overpower other people speaking.

