 Most people think of after-school activities as a club, sports team, or other centrally organized operation that your child has to sign up for. However, one of the most cost-effective ways to provide after-school activities for your child is to organize the activities yourself. Take your child to free (or inexpensive) events and cultural attractions like museums, zoos, and botanical gardens. If you want to stay closer to home, identify arts and crafts you think your child might enjoy and obtain the necessary materials.Visit your local library and check out some arts and crafts books with ideas for activities you and your child might enjoy doing together. Obtain arts and crafts materials on sale, if possible.
Allow your child to invite a few friends to join them if they wish.
Volunteer with your child at your local soup kitchen or homeless shelter.
You could also take your child on a nature walk with local conservation or bird-watching societies.
 Working within the organization will give you an opportunity to look for and implement cost-saving measures not only for your own child, but for everyone who participates in the after-school activity. If possible, get a job or even a volunteer position within the organization that runs the after-school activity your child is interested in. Contact the organization and inquire as to whether they have any jobs available. If they don't, follow up by asking about taking on a volunteer role. Once you join the organization, you could:solicit local businesses and wealthy philanthropists for charitable donations to cover the kids’ costs
haggle with equipment manufacturers for lower prices
identify sources of local, state, or federal grants for your after-school programs
locate venues that offer better rates for renting space
find other cost-saving measures (like energy efficiency) and pass the savings on to the children and their families in the form of reduced registration fees

, Many kids’ organizations and after-school programs require membership dues or sign-up fees. But parents are often allowed to contribute their labor in an amount equivalent to the fees that need to be covered. If you have time to work for the after-school program, get in touch with them and see if you can reach an agreement. You might be able to file paperwork, work as an event monitor, help other children sign up, or answer phone calls or emails as part of an effort to get program fees partially reduced or waived entirely.