 Before you start lathering up with soap, wet your hands with clean, running water for a few seconds. You can use warm or cold water. Make sure to turn off the faucet when you’re finished wetting your hands.Avoid using hot water because it can scald or burn your hands.;
, When your hands are wet, apply soap to them. Choose a liquid, bar, or powder soap. Lather the soap well over every surface of your hands.Choose any soap you like to lather and scrub your hands. Using antibacterial soap is no more effective than regular soap and it may contribute to the development of bacteria and germs that are resistant to antimicrobials agents.
 After you’ve lathered the soap on your hands, rub them vigorously. Twenty seconds is the proper length of time for the soap to clean your hands of germs.Get every surface of your hands when rubbing them with the soap. This includes the fronts and backs of your hands, between fingers, and under your nails. You can also extend the lather up to your wrists if necessary.Time yourself by humming or singing “Happy Birthday” to yourself twice from beginning to end.You can also say the alphabet.
Avoid washing away the lather you’ve created.
 After rubbing your hands vigorously with soap for 20 seconds, you can rinse them well under clean, running water.You can rinse with warm or cool water.


Turn the water faucet back on if you turned it off after wetting your hands.
Make sure to put each surface of your hands—front, back, between fingers, and under nails-- under the running water to get off any soap or residue from it.
 Using a clean towel or an air dryer, dry your hands thoroughly. Avoid using shared towels to dry your hands, which can spread more germs to your hands.Shake your hands dry if there aren’t any clean paper or cloth towels or air dryers.
 A faucet can also transmit germs, especially if you touched it with your hands before washing them. Avoid turning off the faucet with your clean hands. Instead, use an elbow or paper towel to turn off the water. Then dispose of the towel in the proper waste receptacle., You should wash your hands anytime they appear dirty. But there are also some situations that also require washing your hands. These include:Before, during, and after preparing food
Before eating food
Before and after caring for someone who is sick
Before and after treating a cut or wound
After using the toilet
After changing diapers or cleaning up a child who has used the toilet
After blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing
After touching an animal, its food, or animal waste
After touching garbage

, Hands that are washed frequently are prone to dryness and chapping. Rub a moisturizer liberally over your hands once you’ve finished washing them.Patting your hands dry instead of rubbing them can also help prevent chapping.

