 Oftentimes, people psych themselves out for the morning with a self-defeating attitude. You may find yourself thinking things like, "I'm just not a morning person." While you may not be a morning person right now, a solid morning routine can change that. Try to abandon the notion you're just not a morning person before beginning your morning routine.Replace negative thoughts about the morning with positive ones. For example, instead of thinking, "I'm never going to be the morning type," think something like, "I'm excited to try to change so I can be more of a morning person."
Going into the day enthusiastic about change will help you alter your mindset and better embrace the morning.;
, Waking up to a mess can make you go into the day frustrated and stressed. Before going to bed at night, tidy up a bit. This way, you'll wake up to a clean atmosphere that will help you go into the day with enthusiasm.Small things can make a big difference. Do your dishes so your kitchen isn't messy. Tidy up your bedroom a bit so the first thing you see in the morning isn't a mess.
Tiny messes can usually be cleaned up in a few minutes. This small amount of effort can make a big difference in your mentality going into the morning.
 You do not want to waste time in the morning debating what to wear. The night before, choose an outfit for the coming day. Lay it out on a desk or hang it up in your closet. When the morning comes, you'll be able to quickly throw on your clothes and greet the day., You should have three to four small goals for each day if you want to optimize your productivity. Before going to bed, make a list of goals. This way, you'll know what you want to get out of the morning. This will help you direct your focus.Set three to five goals you must accomplish before the end of the day. Write them down on a piece of paper or type them into your phone or tablet.
If you have something big to accomplish in the coming day, stick to only three goals. Goals like "Finish that report for English class" will have a variety of sub steps, so don't overwhelm yourself with a ton of other goals. If your goals are smaller and more manageable (like "Get the grocery shopping done") you can aim for five goals.
 While the extra few minutes of sleep may sound tempting when you're groggy, reaching for the snooze button is not the best way to start off your morning. It can actually make you more tired to hit snooze as you are continually disrupting your sleep cycle.When you wake up from your alarm, you're waking up from a deep, restful sleep. When you hit snooze, you return to a lighter state of sleep. This sleep will not help you get extra rest, and can actually make you more tired in the long run.
Instead of hitting snooze, set the alarm for when you actually intend to get up. Do not set the alarm for 8:30 so you can have the satisfaction of turning off the alarm and then getting up at 8:45. Instead, set the alarm for 8:45 and get up without hitting snooze.
 You want to make sure you get up with more than enough time to shower, get dressed, eat breakfast, and do anything else you need to before work or school. Aim to get up about two hours before you need to be somewhere. For example, say you need to be at work by nine. Get up at seven.Depending on things like your commute, you may need to get up earlier. If you have an hour commute to work, for example, you'll have to be out the door by eight o'clock; therefore, aim to get up at six.
 Assemble a morning playlist of upbeat songs. Music can help get you in an energetic mood going into the day. Listen to a peppy morning playlist as you do things like brush your teeth, shower, and otherwise get ready., Never skip breakfast, This will leave you groggy and tired throughout the day. For breakfast, stay away from heavily processed or sugary foods. Eat a healthy breakfast made up of protein, whole grains, and fruit.Opt for something like yogurt and fruit, a green smoothie, or oatmeal. Stay away from things like donuts, other pastries, or microwavable breakfast foods.
 You don't have to hit the gym for two hours in the morning to boost your energy. A small amount of exercise shortly after you get up can help you go into the day energized and stress-free.As little as 10 minutes of morning exercise can make a big difference on your energy levels throughout the day.
You can go for a brief walk around the block, do some yoga in your living room, or do a gentle 10 minute jog on your treadmill.
 Put away your phone and laptop until you've done everything you need to do to get ready. Have a set rule for yourself about when you can check social media. You can, for example, agree not to look at your phone until you're at work and have completed at least three tasks.Things like social media can be upsetting. Many people feel worse about themselves looking at social media posts online, as you're likely to compare yourself to others. Try logging out of things like Twitter and Facebook the night before.
You should also stay away from things like news websites. You don't want to go into the day having just read a depressing news story.
 As you go through your morning routine, keep your eye on the clock. Give yourself a set amount of time to complete the basic tasks of getting ready. It's easy to lose track of time lingering in the shower or taking too long to eat your breakfast.Figure out how long you have to complete tasks in the morning. Divide up your time wisely. Maybe you only have about 10 minutes to do things like shower, eat breakfast, do your hair, and so on.
Keep track of time as you proceed through your day. Have an eye on the clock to make sure you don't lose track of time. You can even set a timer for yourself to keep on track.
 When you begin your work for the day, adopt the mantra, "One thing at a time." Multitasking does not help you get done with work faster. You will actually end up being less productive than you would have been if you had done one thing at a time.When completing one task, focus all your energy on that job. Do not let your mind wander to the next item on your to-do list.
If you feel your mind wandering, make a conscious effort to bring your focus back to the task at hand.

