 Congratulations! You've just created your first email account. In this section, you'll write and send your first email. After you create your account, most email services will start you at a "home screen" that shows the emails in your inbox (usually in the middle of the screen) and gives you various options for managing your emails (usually along the top and sides of the screen). Look for a button that says something like "Compose Email" or "New Email" to get started.


In a Gmail account, the button you're looking for is the red "Compose" button in the top left.
 You should now be looking at a large text box with several small, blank fields at the top and a big, blank field at the bottom. The big space at the bottom is where you want to write your message. There aren't any real "rules" for what or how you write your email, but, in general, most emails read very similarly to physical correspondence like letters, cards, business messages, etc. See our letter-writing article for tips on how to write great letters or this Forbes guide for email-specific tips.In Gmail, the field you'll want to type in it the big white box beneath the "To" and "Subject" fields.
 When you're finished with your message, you need to specify who you want to send the message to. Click the "To" or "Recipient" field, then type in the email address of the person you want to send your message to. This will always contain an "@" sign and end with the recipient's email domain, like this: JaneDoe123@emailservice.com.
 Sending the same email to multiple people at once is easy. You will generally have three options:Simply list multiple addresses under the "To" field, separated by commas, like this: JaneDoe123@emailservice.com, JohnSmith456@superemail.com. Every email you list will receive the email

Cc: This stands for "carbon copy." List email addresses here to have copies of the email sent to these addresses. Cc: is usually used for people that are not the intended target of the email but who would benefit from seeing it.

Bcc: This stands for "blind carbon copy." List email addresses here to have copies of the email sent to these addresses without anyone else knowing. In other words, people listed under the Bcc: will get the email, but won't appear on other recipients' copies.
In Gmail, when you click the "To" field, buttons for "Cc" and "Bcc" will appear in the top right corner.
 Under the "Subject" header, write a brief description of your email. You don't have to do this, but it's nice to give your recipient some idea of what they're about to read.


It's common to use the abbreviation "re:" here. For instance, if you're emailing a customer about a refund request, you might give your email the subject "re: Refund request."

, Just like letters aren't the only thing you can send in the mail, text isn't the only thing you can say with email. You can send pictures, spreadsheets, slideshows, and much more with your email account — basically, if you can find it on your computer, you can usually send it. To add an attachment, most email services have an "Add attachment" option or else an icon that looks like a paper clip.


On Gmail, the attachment button is the small paper clip button at the bottom of the email box. To attach a file, click this, then locate the file on your computer that you want to attach and click "Open" or "OK" to attach it. You may proceed to send your email normally after this.
Note that most email services have limits to the size of the attachment you can use. For Gmail, this is 25 megabytes, though you can get much more if you use Google Drive.
 When your email is written and you've filled out all of the necessary fields, it's ready to be sent. Usually, the button for sending an email says "Send" or looks like an envelope with an arrow extending from it.


In Gmail, the button you're looking for is the blue "Send" button in the bottom left corner.
After you send your email, your message will appear in the recipient's inbox (usually within a minute or two).

