 If you stop focusing on the people who don't care about you, you can focus instead on establishing healthy relationships with people who do care about you very much.


If you need to meet people, see if you can go outside your present social circle at the moment.
If you're in high school, look for activities you can join that you will enjoy and that will give you an opportunity to meet people.
 Once you determine that you must cease contact with someone who has hurt you, you may need to find ways to take your mind off them, or activities to help fill the void left by their absence (if it was a close relationship, for instance).


Almost as if you are quitting smoking or another vice, think of this as a chance to start a healthy habit in place of a bad relationship. For instance, if you like art, you can try joining a pottery or a painting class. Or, you can try something you've always wanted to do, like rock climbing. Jogging, cycling, or yoga can be good for the body and mind. A gourmet cooking class or family history project can be an enlightening distraction.
Another classic saying is appropriate here: life is short. Consider this an opportunity to pursue your passion, freed perhaps from someone who was holding you back or shutting down your dreams. Take your shot at becoming an actor or sculptor; go back to school for that degree you never finished; see the Great Wall of China., Many, if not most, people notice and hold onto negatives more than positives, so it can be easy to let one hurtful relationship cloud all the caring relationships in your life. Let removing the bad be an opportunity to cherish the good.It is easy to say you’re not going to care what anyone thinks of you anymore, but in reality we all desire at least some amount of validation from others. Be selective in whose opinions should really matter to you.Take the time to thank a good friend for always being there for you, or your sister for standing by your side in difficult times. Use the time you gain by ignoring a hurtful person to spend more with those who truly care.
 As much as we like to think it so, we cannot change other people, only ourselves. You can’t make someone care about you if they don’t want to. The most you can do in situations where you are dealing with people who don't care about you is to find out why it bugs you so much. It's an opportunity for you to grow from it.


Examine how you feel about the uncaring person’s lack of concern. This will provide insights into your needs, and what adaptations you may be able to make to move past feeling a need for acceptance from that person.It’s a simple and old axiom, but it is still as true as ever: you can’t please everyone. Some people aren’t going to like you no matter what, so focus on caring about yourself by being true to yourself.