 Many malls have areas with sound equipment and a stage set up for musicians to play live shows. Some malls have large, dedicated spaces where actual concerts are staged, while others have small stages open to amateur musicians or musicians playing background music.If you play music yourself, watching amateurs perform can help you cultivate your stage presence.
If possible, bring a few dollars along to tip the musician, if you like what you hear.
 Most malls contain at least one bookstore, so see if you can find a book or poetry reading. The authors of books complete some readings themselves, but many bookstores also host readings from and for the public. These can include readings of other artists’ work, or can be readings from amateur writers of their own work.Book and poetry readings can expose you to authors you’d not heard of previously, or can inspire you to create your own work.
Make sure you are kind and respectful of others at a book reading. Be quiet, and try to stay seated until the reading has finished.
 People watching is a simple, enjoyable activity, and a mall is a great place to do it. Because most malls are high-traffic areas, you can see a wide variety of lifestyles, clothing choices, behaviors, and habits, not to mention interesting accents and conversations. Take a few minutes to people watch the next time you are at the mall on your own.People watching is great for people who like to draw or write, as you can glean ideas for personalities, characters, and faces to recreate.
Even if you are not artistically inclined, people watching can be entertaining and provide insight into how people work.
 Strike up a conversation with a stranger over a shared interest in books, a common interest in a certain clothing store, or even about the hassle of long lines in the bathroom. You do not have to become instant friends or carry on a memorable conversation. The goal is to step out of your comfort zone and enjoy an interaction with a stranger., Many malls are equipped with movie theatres, so take some time out of your day to visit a movie by yourself. You can go all out and order a large popcorn, a drink, and a lap full of snacks and see a movie. This is a particularly great idea if there is a movie you’ve been dying to see, but don’t have any friends with an interest in going.Enjoy the silence inherent in watching a movie alone. No chatting during interesting parts, or noisy slurping--you can be fully immersed in the film.
 Although arcades have fallen out of vogue to some degree, many malls still have small spaces set aside for games. Visit your mall’s arcade and try your hand at any new games they might have, or enjoy the classics such as Pac-Man.