 Literally meaning "strange skin inflammation", the cause for this common condition appears to be a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Many patients develop symptoms before age 5, and in many cases symptoms lessen or disappear in adulthood.Symptoms of atopic dermatitis include intense itching (especially at night); dry, scaly patches on the elbows, knees, hands, upper torso, face, and ankles; small bumps that might ooze fluid; and swollen, sensitive skin.If you or anyone in your genetic family has had similar rashes, asthma, or hay fever, a diagnosis of atopic dermatitis is more likely., Atopic dermatitis episodes can be triggered by any number of things. A doctor can conduct tests to narrow down specific causes, but as this condition is not as simple as contact dermatitis, it's wise to minimize your exposure to all of the following:Perfumes, dyes, and cosmetics
Dust, sand, and dust mites
Chlorine, mineral oil, solvents, and other strong chemicals
Animal fur or dander
Cigarette smoke
Pollen
Food you or your doctor suspect you may be allergic to
Excessive bathing without moisturizing
Low humidity
Emotional stress
Overheating of skin, Wool and other rough material can exacerbate atopic dermatitis, as can clothing that fits poorly or clothing that makes you sweat.Be sure that your clothing is loose and can promote air flow to the skin.Wash any fabrics that come into contact with the skin regularly using fragrance-free detergent. Dust mites can exacerbate eczema, so you want your clothing, towels, sheets, and pillows to be as clean and irritant-free as possible.
 Bathing, showering, or swimming more than 2–3 times a week can dry out the skin and trigger a rash. If this isn't the cause of your episode, you may wash more frequently, but it's still important to follow a skin care regimen.Stay away from any harsh or scented soaps and cleansers to keep your skin from acting up.


You may add a 1/2 cup of household bleach to disinfect the skin during these baths.Be sure that you do not submerge your head during a bleach bath.Other soothing things to add to a bath include uncooked oatmeal, colloidal oatmeal, or baking soda.Gently pat dry with a towel after bathing. Don't rub hard or vigorously, and only dry off after you've applied some moisturizer.
 Apply a moisturizing ointment or cream immediately after bathing, before bed, and throughout the day if necessary.Pay particular attention to your back, chest, and legs, as well as any other affected areas on your body. Ask your doctor for recommendations for thick, soothing moisturizers that will not aggravate your condition.


Use a low water content lotion, such as Eucerin, Cetaphil, and Nutraderm, or a zero water content option such as petroleum jelly, Vaseline, and Aquaphor. These protect against water evaporation on your skin and have a lower chance of triggering a flare of the disease compared with high water content lotions.
 Itching can be severe in atopic dermatitis cases. However, scratching your itchy patches will make your condition worse and might also lead to skin infections. Some ways to resist the urge to scratch include:Take an antihistamine pill (not a cream) to reduce itching.Apply an anti-itch cream such as calamine lotion or an over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream.Cut your fingernails short to minimize damage from scratching.
Wear gloves at night if you scratch yourself while sleeping.
Take a sleep aid. Some antihistamines (such as Benadryl) already have a soporific effect, so read the label to make sure you don't double up.
 Stay cool to avoid sweating, which can irritate your skin. Use a humidifier at night to prevent cold, dry air making your dermatitis worse., Stress has been proven to worsen the symptoms of atopic dermatitis.If you find that stress exacerbates your condition, be sure that you find effective treatments. These might include regular exercise, talk therapy, meditation, or deep breathing exercises. Keep your mind healthy to keep your skin healthy.
 Sometimes eczema can be treated at home. However, more severe and chronic cases might require formal medical intervention. There are a number of therapies available on a prescription basis. Talk to your doctor about what would be a good fit for you. Some of these treatments include:


Corticosteroid creams. A prescription-strength cream can be used for severe cases to reduce inflammation and scaling. Some examples include desonide or hydrocortisone cream for mild eczema, or triamcinolone, fluocinolone, or betamethasone for moderate eczema. Often these are applied twice a day for up to two weeks. Be aware that extended use of the medications can thin the skin or increase your risk of infection.
Oral antibiotics can help treat skin infections as well as reduce the skin bacteria that can worsen atopic dermatitis.UV Phototherapy can help treat atopic dermatitis. However, it can also cause side effects such as premature skin aging.Wet dressings. A combination of moisturizers and corticosteroids can be applied to the skin using wrapped bandages.The treatment is effective but often requires a skilled medical practitioner in order to apply the bandages and wrappings correctly.
For atopic dermatitis on your face or that is not controlled by topical corticosteroids, ask your doctor about the possibility of being treated with topical calcineurin inhibitors, such as tacrolimus or pimecrolimus. You should only use these agents for short periods of time and only use the minimum amount to control your symptoms.