 It takes at least two people to have a great conversation. Make sure to do your part and actively participate in the discussion. One of the best ways to do this is to ask questions that will allow the discussion to develop naturally.Ask open-ended questions. Instead of saying, "It's a nice day, isn't it?" Say, "How are you planning to enjoy this beautiful weather?". The first example only requires a yes or no answer, which could be a dead end for the conversation. Ask questions that require more than one word.
Ask questions that clarify what the other person is saying. If you are having a talk about rules with your teenager, try saying, "I hear you saying that you're frustrated because you feel like you don't have enough freedom. What can we do to find a solution that works for both of us?"

, Being an active listener means that you are responding to your conversation partner and demonstrating that you are engaged in the discussion. You can indicate that you are actively listening through both physical and verbal cues. Active listening makes the other person feel valued and respected, which is very important when trying to develop effective conversations.You can let someone know that you are listening by using positive body language. Make sure to make eye contact throughout the conversation. Also, try nodding or shaking your head at appropriate times.
You can provide verbal cues to let someone know that you are engaged in the conversation. They can be as simple as "That's interesting!" or more substantial, such as "I didn't know that. Can you tell me more about what it physically feels like when you're running a marathon?"
Another way to indicate that you are actively listen is to restate some of the conversation. Try paraphrasing. For example, you can say, "How interesting that you are exploring some new volunteer opportunities. It sounds like you are really excited about trying something new."
Remember that actively listening is about retaining and thinking about what the other person is saying. Instead of trying to formulate your response, focus on hearing what they are saying and absorb the information.
 When having a conversation, try to demonstrate that your interest in the other person is sincere. For example, maybe you want to get to know your boss better. She probably has a lot of demands on her time, and does not have a lot of time to make small talk with her. Instead of chit chat, try to make an actual connection. If you're working on a project for her, ask for her advice on dealing with that client. Be sincere and show that you value her opinion.Maybe your neighbor has a college flag hanging outside of their house, and you're curious about why. You could sincerely say, "I notice you have a Kansas flag outside your house. Are you a fan of college basketball?" This is an organic, genuine way to start a conversation. You can branch off into other topics once you get to know the person.
 Having a great conversation requires you to think about the other person's interests. If you can find something that you have in common, that can be an excellent "getting to know you topic". You might have to ask several questions to find your common ground, but it will be worth your efforts.Maybe you are trying to relate to your new sister-in-law, but you are very different people. Try talking about a new television show you've seen or a book you've read. Maybe you'll find that you have similar tastes. If all else fails, go for something that people typically like. For example, most people like good food. Ask what her favorite dinner is, and go from there.
 Try to be aware of what is going on in the world. This will help you be prepared if someone tries to talk to you about current events. Take a few minutes each morning to scan the headlines. Being knowledgeable will allow you to be a much better participant in conversations.Another technique is to be aware of what is happening in pop culture. Talking about the latest books, movies, and music is a great way to have fun chats with your friends, co-workers, or even the other travelers on your morning commute.
 Your physical behavior is an important component of any face to face conversation. Eye contact is particularly significant. Holding someone's gaze indicates that you are engaged in the conversation and that you are paying attention.Remember that eye contact doesn't mean you should just stare at someone. Instead, try to maintain eye contact for 50% of the time when you are talking and 70% of the time when you are listening.
You can use other non-verbal cues when participating in a conversation. Try nodding your head to show understanding, or smiling when a positive response is called for.
Also remember never to just stand there as still as a statue during a conversation. Move your body around (not like a maniac, as this'll be unexpected and cause the other person to have uncomfortable thoughts about you). Cross your legs if you have to, but also make sure your body stays moving in a way it's interested in the conversation! Remember: your body is a more powerful form of communication than words!

, Over-sharing means that you are saying something that either embarrasses you as the speaker or worse, your listener. It can be awkward. There are many times when people blurt something out and then almost instantly regret it. Offering too much information can make both you and the person that you are talking to feel awkward. To prevent over-sharing, try to be aware of situations where it most often occurs.Over-sharing happens a lot when you are nervous or especially eager to make a good impression. For example, if you are going to an important job interview, take a few deep, calming breaths before you enter the room. Also take a moment to think about what you're going to say before actually verbalizing your thoughts.
Evaluate your relationship to the other person. Before sharing information, ask yourself, "Is this the appropriate person to discuss this with?" For example, you probably don't want to discuss your hemorrhoid flare-up with the person in line behind you at the coffee shop. They don't need that information, and will likely be uncomfortable hearing about it.

