 As noted above, when you use frozen berries in baking recipes, you'll almost never want to thaw them before adding them to the recipe. Doing this creates extra moisture in the recipe and can lead to a final product that's mushy or watery.


Some people find that thawing their berries about halfway in the microwave before baking produces great-tasting results without adding too much moisture.If you want to try this, note that the exact amount of time you'll need to keep your berries in the microwave for will vary based on the number of berries you have and the power of your microwave.
 Sometimes, when using frozen berries in baking recipes, the berries can "bleed", producing discolorations throughout the batter.Though this won't effect their taste, it can make the finished products a little less appealing to look at. To minimize the effects of bleeding, try gently rolling your frozen berries in flower before adding them to your baking recipe. This helps contain the berries' moisture, minimizing bleeding.
 There are some instances where you'll want to thaw your berries before using them in your recipe. Usually, these are cases where the extra moisture that comes from thawing is a benefit to the dish, like blackberry sauces and toppings for ice cream, shortcake, and so on. To quickly thaw blackberries, place them in an airtight plastic bag (or keep them in their original freezer bag) and submerge them in cold water for about 10-15 minutes.


To keep the bag of blackberries from floating and thawing unevenly, you may want to weigh it down with a heavy dish or bowl.
 Another situation in which you'll want to thaw your blackberries is if you intend to eat them raw. Though frozen berries make a great summertime treat, sometimes there's nothing like ordinary berries. For raw berries, you may want to use the quick thawing method above, or simply leave them on the kitchen counter overnight. Dumping your berries in a container of cool, clean water after thawing them to wash away any frost or debris leftover from freezing. At this point, you may also want to sift through your berries and remove any crushed or damaged ones.


Don't be put off by the soft, juicy appearance of thawed blackberries. Though they may not look as pristine as fresh berries, if they were fresh when they were frozen, they're safe to eat.

