 Encourage your audience to think actively about the subject you're presenting by asking questions. This will help to engage your audience and make the presentation more fun. Make sure that the questions you ask either promote discussion or critical thinking. For example, asking an audience: "Does anyone have any questions?" is good manners, but is often met with silence. Try asking your audience open-ended questions like "What's the most difficult or frustrating aspect of this new software for you?" Try out these fun ways to encourage audience participation in your next presentation:Ask questions that people can answer by raising their hand. For example, you could ask “how many people in the audience are bloggers?” This will engage the audience without putting them on the spot to talk and is a great way to ask questions when you have a large audience.
Give out treats when people answer questions correctly. For example, you could hand out a lollipop or chocolate bar each time some answers a question correctly. This may motivate people to engage with the material and participate frequently.
Put questions in a bowl at the front of the room and have audience members pick them out at random. This is a creative way to ask questions and helps to involve audience members in the presentation.
 Depending on the type of presentation you are giving you may be able to ask some of the audience members for help at different points. This will allow you to actively engage audience members and will ensure that your presentation is both fun and memorable. A few ways to allow the audience to actively engage with your presentation include.Having audience members read out information or explain certain points.
Asking audience members to help hand out additional material.
Allowing audience members to help with a demonstration.
 If you need to provide the audience with a handout or any additional material you can come up with creative ways to include the audience. For example, you could hide material under their chairs so that the audience members have to move around in order to access the material. During a more informal presentation you could create a scavenger hunt for the audience to find materials hidden throughout the room. Be creative and come up with a fun way to distribute material and make your presentation stand out.
 If you are giving a long presentation, regardless of how fun you are making it people will get tired and their minds will start to wonder. By giving a 10 to 15 minute break you will allow the audience a chance to go to the washroom, get a coffee, socialize, and stretch their legs. This will help you keep their attention for the remainder of the presentation.
 Some audience members may want to ask questions during the presentation. Make sure that you set aside time to allow your audience to make comments and ask questions about the material. This will help them engage with the presentation. Here are a few suggestions for incorporating a Q and A section into your talk:Allow audience members to raise their hand and ask questions at any point.
Periodically ask the audience if anyone has a question. Typically this should be done at the end of a specific section or segment of the presentation.
Set aside time for questions at the very end of the presentation.

