 Anytime you venture into an area without phones, police, or infrastructure you need to inform someone of exactly where you will be and how long you plan to be there. This includes family, friends, and local authorities like rangers or police. Also inform them when you return safely. Leave a note in your car explaining who it belongs to and how long you plan to be out.;
, The Boy Scout motto is a wise, time tested method of any form of travel. Preparation includes not only what you carry but what you know about where you will be. So do some research, find out the weather conditions, what kind of hazards to expect.What is the purpose of the trip? Are you day hiking, camping, or heading for a destination?

, If you are unsure of the area or just want to learn more about where you're going a guide can be well worth the money and are invaluable sources of information.
 Depending on the length of your trip and what you want to do there here are some basic things you should have with you.
 Most jungles are hot, humid, and wet places. They are also full of things which bite, sting, stab, scratch or otherwise make you uncomfortable so dress for protection.
 The zip-off style trekking pants are a great option if you want to cool off in a river or in an area without leeches or other hazards you can have instant shorts.
 Synthetic fabrics will dry faster and since you will get wet, yes you will get wet... From sweating, rain, stream crossing and dripping leaves when you stop to rest. So synthetics or very light cotton will dry much faster than a T shirt and jeans.
,, A pack sized for the length of the trip is a good way to carry what you need. Get one with a ventilated back and a rain cover. Even if the material is "waterproof" the jungle has a way of defeating most waterproof fabrics so the cover gives an extra layer of protection as well as other uses.
 First is your Brain. If you get lost or stuck out in the jungle Keep Your Head! Stop, Think, Be positive! If people are expecting you back they will be looking for you when you don't return. With a calm mind and clear thinking you will get through it.
, In hot humid climates you will sweat and dehydrate quickly. Make sure you drink plenty of water, remember when your thirsty it's too late.
 A water filter, purification tablets, or a way of boiling water. Never trust water in a stream or river is safe to drink!

,, A fire is good for a lot of reasons, boiling water, signaling and just making you feel better. You should have a least 2 or 3 methods of starting a fire.
 Even waterproof matches will likely fail in the jungle. A butane lighter or two, a flint/steel sparking device (blast match, Spark-Lite™, permanent match, etc.) or what ever you can carry.
 Most likely the wood you find will be damp if not wet, so something that will light and stay lit is a good way to start a fire in the jungle. A butane lighter and some strips of old bicycle inner tube work well even wet! Candles work well too.
, Apart from air and water if you spend any time out in the bush you will need to eat. If you are not familiar with what you can and can't eat in the jungle it's a good idea to carry some "survival rations" A few "energy bars" are a convenient way to carry a bit of food. The jungle provides a lot of stuff like; bananas, coconuts, and other fruit. The streams are full of small fish and crayfish. As well as lots and lots of insects (just be careful with bugs, if its really colorful, it's not good to eat!)

, A knife is a very, very useful tool. We've all seen the movies with guys in the jungle hacking away with big machetes or Rambo with his huge pig sticker. You don't need a huge knife, they're heavy and hard to use.. Try cleaning a small fish with a machete! That being said the Malaysian "Orang Asli" (original people) carry a parang which is about the length of your forearm with most of the weight at the front. It is indispensable for constructing shelter or if you do need to clear a trail, It's the Jungle "camp axe" and if you spend any time there like camping it's very useful.
 But even a small fixed blade knife is a great choice.
 A small LED light is a good thing to have if you need to do anything at night (think urinating) you will welcome a light!

, A small well made compass and if available a map. Navigating in the jungle is very difficult, often you can't see more than a few yards in any direction. If follow a stream or river downstream there's a good chance it'll lead you out.
 Tie it around your neck, wet it occasionally to keep you cool. Or drape it down your neck to protect it from sun and bugs.
 All of these things should be on your person! In your pockets or on a cord around your neck. A commercially available survival kit will have a lot of this stuff, or you can make your own. Remember to do your research read reviews of the kits. Just remember it won't do you any good if it's not on you!

, Now some things to carry in your pack. If you're on a day hike you can leave some of this out.
 7' x 10' is a good size, with some cordage (rope, string, dental floss or vines) you can rig a roof over you. Better yet, practice making a lean to shelter.



If all you have is a tarp and it's not raining, with some rope you can make a hammock from the tarp. If your really industrious you can make a roof from bamboo and palm/banana leaves. The jungle has lots of useful stuff bamboo, wide leaves, vines etc. With a bit of imagination and work you can make anything!
Rope. Some small diameter rope, or strong string is really useful. If you can get 550 paracord it's the best.
Water container
Wire. Thin stainless steel wire for snares, repairs, and making things.
Mosquito head net and good insect repellent. Also a mosquito net to use while sleeping is nice and it can be used to trap fish.
A one pound coffee can makes a good, cheap cook pot, and with the lid you have a watertight container to keep things dry in your pack.
A small first aid/repair kit, with bandages, tape, antibiotic ointment, needles, thread etc.
A pair of sandals to give your feet and walking shoes a break if you are going to camp.
Talcum powder, to help you get and stay dry at night.
Soap!

, It's good for your health and peace of mind.
,,, Learn how to use it...easier than a compass...Mark your position when you start and "backtrack" to get out.
,,, Even if you don't smoke you can use tobacco as a leech repellent. Make "tea" from the loose leaves and soak the cotton portion of the leech socks. You can also apply it to cotton clothing (it may stain). Leeches don't like the nicotine. Jungle natives rub tobacco on their skin.
 Remember the jungle isn't good or bad it just is...

