 To start your project, you will need to chain a multiple of five stitches. You can make your chain as long or as short as you would like it to be as long as it is a multiple of five.For example, you could make a chain of 25, 50, or 100 stitches.









To chain, yarn over twice, and pull the first loop through the second loop. Yarn over your hook again and pull through. Repeat until your chain is the desired length.;
, Skip the first three chains and then double crochet once into each of the next two stitches.








To double crochet, loop the yarn over the hook, insert the hook through the chain, and then yarn over. Pull the yarn through the first stitch, and then yarn over. Pull through the next two loops and yarn over. Then, pull through the last two loops on the hook., For your next stitch, you will need to skip the next four chains and double crochet twice into the fifth chain of your last double crochet stitch. Double crochet into this chain twice.
 Next, chain one stitch and then double crochet into the same stitch that you were just double crocheting into. This means you will have total of four double crochet stitches in the same space.








You will be working into the single chain space in your next row, so it is very important to chain one between the two sets of two double crochet stitches.
 After you finish your last two double crochet stitches in the same space, skip four and repeat the process of double crocheting two (DC2), chaining 1 (CH1), and double crocheting two again (DC2) into the same space. Then skip four and do it again. Keep repeating this process until you get to the second to last chain in your row.
 To finish your foundation row, double crochet once into each of the last two stitches in the row. This will complete your foundation row.
 To begin your next row, chain two stitches. This is your turning chain, which will provide some slack to begin working your first double crochet stitch.
 Work a double crochet stitch into the third stitch from the hook and the one after that one.
 Next, you will begin your first shell for this row. Skip over to the first chain one space from your previous row. Work two double crochet stitches into the chain one space. Then, chain one and work two more double crochet stitches into the chain one space. 








After you finish this shell, move over to the next chain one space and make another shell. You do not need to chain any stitches to move over because the shell will provide enough slack.
 Keep repeating the process of double crocheting two (DC2), chaining 1 (CH1), and double crocheting two again (DC2). Always work this pattern into the chain one space from the previous row.
 To finish your row, double crochet once into each of the last two double crochet stitches.
 Start your third row with a chain of two stitches to provide enough slack to begin your work.
 Next, double crochet one time into the next double crochet stitch.
 Follow the double crochet stitch with a dropstitch. This is a stitch that requires you to stretch the yarn out and make the loops longer than you normally would.You will be working this drop stitch into the space between your first two shell stitches from the first row. To work the drop stitch:








Yarn over.
Insert the yarn into the space between the two shell stitches you made two rows ago.
Yarn over again and pull up the loop.
Repeat this four more times so that you have a total of five stitches on the hook.
 After you complete your first dropstitch, you will need to make a shell in the next chain one space in row three. Move over to the chain one space, and then double crochet twice into the space. Chain one and then double crochet twice again.
 Continue to work a dropstitch into the space between shells from the first row and then work 2DC, CH1, and 2DC, into the next chain one space. Do this until you reach the second to last stitch in the row.
 Your last stitch for the row will be a dropstitch. Work this last dropstitch before the last two double crochet stitches from the previous row.
 Your fourth and fifth rows will follow the same pattern. Start your fourth and fifth rows with a turning chain of two chain stitches.
 Work one double crochet stitch into the first double crochet stitch from the previous row.
 Follow the double crochet stitch with another shell. Work this shell into the first chain one space from the previous row.








To make a shell, work 2DC, CH1, and 2DC into the next chain one space.
 Keep repeating the process of making shells in each of the chain one spaces to the end of the row. Do this for rows four and five., When you reach the end of the row, double crochet one time into each of the last two double crochet stitches.
 To finish your project, keep repeating rows three, four, and five in sequence. Do this until your project is the desired length.









Make sure that you change colors after every fifth row to differentiate the abstract cat design.

