 Sometimes, a little bit of water and elbow grease is all you need. Simply spray some warm water onto the grout, then scrub it with a stiff-bristled brush using a circular motion. This might be enough to get rid of light surface dirt, and reveal the white grout underneath.


For heavier stains, add a few drops of dish soap into the warm water.
Try to get a brush made specifically for cleaning grout. If you can't find one, an old toothbrush or a manicure brush will also work. Don't use a wire brush, however, as it can ruin the grout.;
, Fill a spray bottle with 1 part white vinegar, and 1 part warm water. Spray this mixture onto the strained areas, wait 5 minutes, then scrub it off using a stiff-bristled brush. If needed, rinse the area with warm water.


Don't use this if your tiles are made out of vinegar or other natural stones. Vinegar can damage these materials.
 Mix enough water into some baking soda to form a thick paste. Spread this paste onto the affected area. Scrub the area with a stiff-bristled brush, then rinse with warm water.You can also spray the baking soda paste with a mixture of one part water, and one part white vinegar mixture. Once it stops fizzing and foaming, scrub the area using a stiff bristled brush.
 You can spray hydrogen peroxide straight onto the stained area, or you can made a paste using baking soda.Once you have the hydrogen peroxide on the grout, wait a few minutes, then scrub it using a stiff-bristled brush. Rinse the area using water when you are done.Hydrogen peroxide works great on blood.
 Look for products that say they will work on grout, or that say "oxygen bleach" on them. Turn on the bathroom fan or open a window, and put on a pair of rubber gloves. Use the product according to the instructions. Most will need to sit on the grout for 10 to 15 minutes, and scrubbed using a stiff-bristled brush. When you are done, rinse the cleaner off using warm water.


Common brands include: Biokleen Oxygen Bleach Plus, Clorox, OxiClean, and OxiMagic.
 Begin with the steam pressure set to the lowest setting, and work up to a higher setting if necessary. Use the brush attachment for stubborn stains.


Steam cleaning does not use any cleaners at all. Instead, it uses steam and pressure to "blast" dirt and grime away.
 Turn on the bathroom fan or open up a window. Put on a pair of rubber gloves, safety goggles, and some old clothes. Next, fill a spray bottle with 1 part bleach and 10 parts water. Spray the mixture onto the dirty grout and wait 2 minutes. Scrub the area using a stiff-bristled brush, then rinse with water.


Use bleach with care if your bathtub is made from porcelain. Bleach can cause porcelain to turn yellow or become pitted., Mix 2 parts baking soda and 1 part bleach to make a thick paste. Spread this paste onto the dirty grout and wait 5 to 10 minutes. Scrub the grout using a stiff-bristled brush, then wait another 5 to 10 minutes. Once the time is up, rinse the paste off using water.While mixing bleach with other chemicals is a bad idea, mixing bleach with baking soda is considered safe. Many people find that this actually helps improve the cleaning properties of both the bleach and the baking soda.

