 Whether you are creating a blog or using YouTube, you need to have an attention-grabbing moniker. This can be something simple, such as your given name and “video game reviews” after your name, or you can build a brand from the ground up, creating an entirely new name, website graphics, and even a theme song or jingle.
 You can use YouTube or start a blog to create an online presence, but having some sort of venue online with which to provide your review is essential. If you start a YouTube channel, make sure you have a decent video camera and a place to set up.Some people make great money via YouTube, and have even gone so far as to make it their full-time job. This is rare, and can take years of hard work, so don’t expect a quick payout.
 Start reviewing new games; most people will not be interested in older ones. When a new game comes out, you can either buy it or rent it, though buying it will make making a profit difficult. When you review, touch on what makes the game great, what it is lacking in, and what type of audience it is best suited for.Know your audience. If you are targeting videogame players directly, speak or write as though you are talking to players. If you are targeting parents of videogame players, use language that explains games clearly to a novice.
 Encourage them to share with others if they like what they see. The best way to build your business is to get your name out there. Even if you feel embarrassed or silly, tell your family and friends what you are doing, and ask them to please share your website or channel if they like what they see. This is a simple, easy way to garner more interest in your site., In social media, hashtags are quite useful in linking your name to the names of others who are doing similar work. Whether you are using Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter to talk about your new venture, make sure you are using hashtags., Although you might hope for sponsorships in the future, these programs are a great way to start out making a little bit of cash., Once you have established your presence online (think at least a few hundred followers and 6 months of consistent posting), reach out to various video game companies and offer your services as a reviewer. While you might not hear back from large-scale companies, smaller or up-and-coming companies may be just as eager to get their name out as you are.

When reaching out to companies, use formal language, and always be polite. Give them links to your site or channel, and explain how many pageviews or video views you receive on a monthly basis. These numbers are important in determining how effective you would be as a means of advertisement.

