 If you find that you have too much energy during the day, you may be consuming some form of a stimulant.


Try to reduce your coffee intake. This is the most popular stimulant used by adults. You may think that you need your morning coffee in order to power through the day. Chances are, if you feel really hyper throughout the day, you may be overloading. Try cutting back on your coffee. Go from 3 to 2 cups a day and see if there is a change. If you are more of a tea drinker, do the same for tea.Caffeinated sodas can also be the culprit. Reduce the amount of soda you drink in a day. Drink water instead.
Eat less chocolate. Just like with coffees, teas, and sodas, chocolate won’t necessarily lead to hyperactivity, but it can certainly give you a rush of energy that may be interpreted as such. ;
, The primary concern with sugars is that they get into your bloodstream quickly. So if you eat a lot of sugary foods, you are constantly feeding your body a source of quick-burning energy. If you normally get really hyper after lunch, reduce the amount of sugar you take in at lunch. See if this helps., Many parents and medical practitioners agree that lab created colors and additives may lead to slightly higher levels of hyperactivity in children.


There is no definitive study that points to artificial coloring or additives as a cause of hyperactivity. Studies that do exist rely on subjective findings, in part, because they have to rely on parents to describe the changes in their own children. Other opponents point to the fact that most food items with artificial ingredients are also loaded down with sugar. The stimulant sugar may be the cause of the increased hyperactivity., Eat a lot of fish, like salmon and tuna. Many leafy green vegetables also contain fatty acids.These fatty acids facilitate the transfer of neurotransmitters in the brain. When your neurotransmitters function improperly, it can cause hyperactivity and loss of concentration. Oftentimes, omega-3 fatty acid deficiency and ADHD are mistaken for one another. Since your body cannot create these fatty acids, it is necessary for you to include them in your diet. , Since nicotine is a stimulant, you may be getting an unneeded energy boost during your smoke breaks. Try skipping cigarette breaks at points in the day when you might otherwise feel hyper., If the above steps don’t help to alleviate hyperactivity, see a nutritionist. They can examine your particular diet and then suggest specific alterations to help your hyperactivity, energy crises.

