 Observation is the first and foremost step in acting. Observe everything around you. It may be the beggar beside your road or the business person who is always on a call. It is important to view ordinary people doing everyday things, so that you can try to "get into their skin" so to speak and truly find what might motivate or drive that person.;
, For example, think about how a person is reacting such a way because he or she is going through a certain phase in their life. What might that phase be? It could be transitioning from one job to another, from teen years to adulthood, from middle age to old age, from school to college, from feeling sorry for themselves to seizing opportunities, from having a loved one in their life to losing that person, and so forth. Trying to figure out what is behind the things people are going through will help to increase your empathy and your ability to understand that people, and the things they do in life, are complex but also fundamentally observable.
 It is perfectly fine to ask questions to get more facts, but try to do a lot more observing, regarding and watching. Learn to spot the things that are giveaways about a person's mood, such as tears, sniffling with a handkerchief, eating quickly or slowly, rushing somewhere or dawdling, hugging or withdrawing from a kiss, doodling or staring out of a window, always on the phone or switching it off when it rings, and so on. There are many signs people show about their mood and intentions if you care to look closely.
 By doing this, you will understand what is your own way of doing things.


Put yourself in the same situations as the people you've observed. Observe what you do, what is driving or motivating you and how you respond to particular situations.
Reflect what you did after every minor action.
Try to put yourself in various situations and see how you would react.
 This is one of the most effective exercises to do in acting.


Stand in front of the mirror. Observe how your face looks, put yourself in the third person's point of view and imagine how XYZ would probably see you.
Imagine the situation which you saw and try to do the same actions in front of the mirror.
Try reading a text or a poem in a dramatic tone, describing a story maybe.
 Keep a camera on, recording your actions at all times in a chosen private space. The recording device could be a smartphone, even. In this space, act out in front of nobody, then watch the recording later. This will help you to see what you do naturally and what you do by way of acting out, allowing you to continue to improvise and make changes in your style as you go. This can be a really good way to improve on your acting techniques and to learn how to capture the personalities and styles of other persons, building on your observations from above and your empathetic translations.

