 Find a go-to spot where you can know you can go and focus on your studies. This applies to getting quality study time in general, which is all the more important if you’re working as well. Whether it’s a particular nook in the library or a clean desk in your bedroom, make sure the time you spend studying is productive by placing yourself in an environment free of distraction.Make sure to avoid rooms with televisions or other things that may draw your attention.
Turn your phone off, and put on headphones if other people are around. If you listen to music, choose music without lyrics to help you focus.
Get in the practice of keeping everything you need to study all together, perhaps in the place you study or in a backpack.
 It may be tempting to get all of your school work done in one or two marathon sessions each week. However, your memory and focus will work better in one or two hour sessions. Accordingly, avoid trying to get all of your schoolwork done in one sitting.To keep sessions consistent, get in the habit of studying at the same time four or five days a week.
The regularity that results from a consistent study schedule will also make your study sessions more productive. Your mental focus will be improved, as your brain will anticipate focusing on schoolwork for that part of the day.
Having regularly scheduled study sessions also means you can occasionally miss a study session as long as you get back into the routine as quickly as you’re able.
 This will help you avoid procrastinating, and it will make your study sessions more productive. Sitting down with a specific task or goal in mind will provide direction that can help you get right to work. Further, if you have multiple tasks to complete, you should start with the most challenging or most important task first.Since more emotional and mental effort will be required to comprehend challenging material, address it first while your mind and body are fresh and focused. More routine, busy work can be accomplished as you coast through the later part of a study session.
Revisit your class notes before starting an assignment. It’s very important to fully understand the specific requirements, as well as the learning objective, or assignments before you begin.

