 If you suffer from respiratory ailments, there are a number of breathing positions and relaxation techniques that can be used to assist you when you find yourself feeling short of breath. Talk to your doctor or a qualified respiratory therapist about controlled breathing techniques to help you improve your lung function.Sit upright. This can help increase the capacity of your lungs, which may be invaluable during times when you are short of breath.Breathe in through the nose and out through pursed lips. This can help you find a slow, steady rhythm to regulate your breath.Use your diaphragm to breathe. That means taking deeper, more substantial breaths, rather than the shallow breaths associated with the upper chest.Using your diaphragm to breathe will also have the added benefit of activating the parasympathetic nervous system and relaxing you. When you are short of breath you may feel very anxious.
Relax your neck, shoulders, and upper torso while breathing. If at all possible, have a friend or relative stand behind you and gently rub your shoulders while you sit and breathe., Coughing is a side-effect that some people may experience in the weeks or months after giving up smoking. It may seem counter-intuitive, but coughing is actually good for your body once you've quit smoking. It helps clear irritants (including mucus) out of your lungs, which is often considered a sign that the lungs are healing.If your coughing persists for more than a month or is accompanied by any blood, call your doctor right away, as this may be a sign of a more serious respiratory condition., Many current and former smokers experience elevated levels of mucus in the lungs. To combat this, you may need to cough more frequently (unless it is painful to do so). You can also help combat mucus and airway irritation by using a humidifier in your home to moisturize the airways. You should also drink plenty of water to help keep your body hydrated each day., For some people with respiratory problems, exercise is exhausting and difficult; however, regular exercise — especially cardiovascular exercise — has been shown to improve the respiratory muscles and provide you with stronger lungs.Just don't overdo your workout or push yourself too hard.


According to the President’s Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition you should aim 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise each week.This is equivalent to working out for 30 minutes five time a week.
You can further break down your exercise into 10-minute increments. Any shorter than that, however, and you won't receive all the benefits.
Moderate intensity exercise includes walking, biking slowly, gardening, using a wheelchair, and water aerobics.
 Some people may not think of diet as a factor in respiratory health, but being overweight can put an additional strain on the lungs and may restrict breathing. Being underweight also puts you at risk of missing vital nutrients. Ask your doctor whether a healthier, more-balanced diet may help your respiratory condition.Dietary guidelines for Americans include consuming more healthy foods like vegetables, fruits, whole grains, low fat dairy products, lean meats, and seafood. Limit sodium, saturated and trans fatty acids, and simple sugars.

