 Your desk is where all of your work will get done, so you want to make sure that it will provide you with enough room to spread out and be comfortable.


Ideally, you should be able to fit your computer, a notebook, and a reference book across the width of your desk, so you can work from multiple sources at once.
Choose a desk that reaches a comfortable height when you sit in your office chair with your feet firmly supported on the ground.
The desk should come to about elbow-level on you when you’re sitting. This will help reduce the prospect of shoulder pain.Make sure there is comfortable leg space under the writing surface.
Look for a desk that has enough storage for any files and paperwork you need to keep on hand.
If the desk that seems most suited to your work lacks drawers for storage, you can purchase a file cabinet as supplemental storage.
 Instead of buying an office chair online, go to the store and try out the chairs you’re considering.


The backrest should mold into the S-shaped curve of your spine and provide lumbar support throughout.
It shouldn’t be overly rigid — there should be a slight amount of give to it if you want to lean back. However, you should not be able to lean back considerably.
The chair should have adjustable height settings to allow you to find your perfect height. Your feet should be firmly on the ground when you sit in the chair.
Armrests should be at a comfortable height. You should be able to rest your elbows comfortably on them without slouching (too low) or hunching up your shoulders (too high).
When you place your elbows on the armrests, they should be comfortably close to your body; if they are splayed out to your sides, the armrests are too wide.
 Research has suggested that sitting at a desk for several hours a day contributes not only to back and shoulder pain, but also to increased risk of obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and even cancer.To combat the unwelcome effects of a sitting, sedentary lifestyle, you might buy a standing desk converter that allows you to transform your desk into a standing work station.


A converter gives you the option of using either desk setup — sitting or standing — without having to commit to either full-time.
Standing desk converters can be purchased at many office supply stores.
Measure the height of your work desk in the studio and try to match the standing desk converter to that height to see how it will actually work with your desk.
Look for an adjustable converter that you allow you to find the precise, perfect height for your standing desk.
The appropriate height will depend on your personal preference to some degree, so experiment a little. The lowest the desk height should go is elbow level; any lower and you may experience neck pain from looking down at your desk all the time., This may seem like a simple decision — “just put it wherever it fits!” — but anyone who’s spent a significant amount of time chained to desk knows that placement is important. Do a self-evaluation to determine what your strengths and weaknesses are in terms of ability to focus on tasks.


If you are easily distracted, don’t face your desk toward a window that will allow you to daydream or people-watch when you should be working.
If you have trouble finding inspiration, maybe you should face your desk toward a window. A little people-watching might knock an idea loose and get you back to work.
 Depending on what type of writing you’re doing, you may need a variety of books in your studio with you. If you’re a grant writer, you may need thick reference books at your disposal to make sure documents are formatted properly. If you’re a poet, you may simply want to read a few poems from your favorite volume to get your creative juices flowing again. Either way, you want your books to be right there in your studio with you, not off-site and unavailable.
 Many people find it useful to have a place where they can relax for a few minutes when they need to recharge. A comfortable chair or sofa can provide a nice spot to curl up and read that favorite volume of poetry while waiting for inspiration to strike.


Know yourself before placing a comfortable chair in your studio. If you think you’ll spend all your time lounging in it instead of getting your work done, don’t put one in your studio.
 Again, you have to be honest with yourself about the things that will prevent you from focusing on the task at hand. If you can’t work without background music, by all means, put a speaker in your studio. But if background music will distract you, don’t bring a speaker into your workspace. The same goes for television, snacks — anything that will keep you from meeting your goals.
 On the flip side of the previous step, you should provide yourself with everything you need to keep you going. Depriving yourself will only frustrate you, so keep your favorite brand of tea on hand, or a coffee maker. Decorate the studio to your liking so you feel comfortable and at home in the space.

