 Hygrometers measure humidity from 0% (dry) to 100% (when any more moisture comes out as precipitation or fog.)


Relative Humidity (RH) can change throughout the day. Colder air holds less moisture, so the RH level will normally be higher at night. This is why Air Conditioned environments tend to be so dry.
Prices of Hygrometers can range from very cheap, to very expensive.

You would want a more expensive Hygrometer if you are using it for care of expensive things or need a more precise reading. When purchasing a hygrometer, you get what you pay for, within reason. Weather forecasters, museum curators, cigar collectors, tropical lizard owners, technicians working on HVAC systems, acoustic guitar collectors, and owners of antique Stradivarius Violins want a high quality hygrometer to protect their investments.
If you simply want to make sure your basement is not too wet, or someone's room is comfortable when they have a cold, a cheap hygrometer will do.
Even if you are OK with the inaccuracy of a cheaper hygrometer, there is another problem: cheap hygrometers can break, and you might not notice. For example, if you are measuring humidity in your basement, and you never go in your basement, a broken hygrometer would be a problem.


There are both digital and analog hygrometers.

If you need to create a system where a humidifier turns on when the humidity hits a certain level, you want a digital one.
Many guitar players will buy a nice analog hygrometer to put in their guitar case. The digital ones would not look nice paired with an acoustic guitar.

;
, Simply wrap a damp cloth around it and leave it for a few hours. It should read ~95%.


Note for cheaper electronic hygrometers, the damp cloth test can make readings incorrect for hours or days afterwards. Higher quality gauges will have a very short time till they are accurate.
 The Salt Test is more accurate, but not appropriate for the most demanding applications.


Take a ziplock bag and place your hygrometer(s) into the bag, face up. Then you will take a bottle cap (plastic 2 liter cap works well) and pour some standard table salt into the cap. Next you will add a small amount of distilled water, until the salt is the consistency of slushy snow. Close the bag very tightly. After twelve hours, it should read 75%.

If your hygrometer reads 80%, for example, that means its calibrated 5% too high.
You may need to take more than one reading to confirm it is consistent.



For example, you can also use Magnesium Chloride and Lithium Chloride rather than Table Salt (Sodium Chloride.). Magnesium Chloride hits equilibrium at 33%, Lithium Chloride at 11%. Additional ingredients mentioned should be used based on your experience with chemistry.
 For more advanced applications, you may choose an electronic psychrometer, or even a DewCheck instead. For educational purposes, Sling Psychrometers are recommended because they are fun for students.


Field-piece and General Tools are two reputable electronic psychrometer manufacturers.



Get two thermometers.
Use one of the thermometers to take the current temperature and write it down.
Put something wet like wet cotton on the bulb (the bottom bit of the thermometer).
Turn the fan on to blow against the thermometer, wait till the temperature stops falling then record it.
You can also use these plans here: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/langley/pdf/245887main_MeteorologyTeacherRes-Ch11.r3.pdf


, It is often using in painting and epoxy, to prevent issues from humidity levels being too high.
 It also has analysis software.
 Depending on your application, they may differ.

