 Many rental or fleet aircraft have one which may have all recent service, inspection, and maintenance information updated for each aircraft. Here are some things you may see:


Flight hours. Because aircraft maintenance is usually scheduled at flight hour intervals, the actual hours flown are logged to accommodate scheduling service dates for these activities.
Pilot observations. When more than one pilot is likely to operate an aircraft, it is beneficial to have input from each pilot as to the flight characteristics of the plane. One pilot may notice a vibration, shudder, or other physical anomaly, or unusual readouts from gauges while in flight, that the next pilot should be aware of.
Service schedule. If a component (airframe, engine, etc) has a scheduled 100 hrs inspection due after 5 more flight hours, a longer flight could be postponed until the service is performed, or another aircraft utilized.;
,


Make sure the aircraft registration, certification, and other paperwork is in the cabin and up to date.
Make sure the ignition switch is in the off position.
Turn on the master power switch.
Check the fuel gauges. If the fuel is low, call for the service truck to bring your fuel out while you continue to do the rest of your checks.
Listen to the sounds of equipment powering on. Radio cooling fans, instrument gyros, and other equipment make noticeable sounds, and when unusual sounds are heard, it may be a warning an instrument or radio could fail in-flight.
Check flaps, landing gear lockdown levers, and other flight controllers for smooth, normal function.



As you climb out of the cabin, take a look at the seat support rails (on small aircraft) to make sure the seat is anchored securely and all fasteners are in place.
Check the cabin door to be sure it operates smoothly and shuts securely. Worn hinges or latches that do not secure properly can cause an inflight emergency. If the door does not move smoothly into open and closed positions, it may indicate the airframe and internal structure are damaged.
, Look at the flight control surfaces, flaps, and ailerons. Make sure that items are secure and have no loose fasteners.
 Replace the fuel cap securely.
, Continue looking at the aircraft surface. Be particularly careful to observe defects or loose fasteners in the aircraft surface.
 While at the tail, you may remove the wheel chock or tail tie-down. Look at the elevators and the rudder. As with all control surfaces, these should be tight, with no loose motion or free play.
 Give the gear suspension a once-over, too, making sure any boots or covers are in place, and that all support cables are tight.
 Remove the fuel cap and look into the tank to be sure it is fueled, replace the tank cap securely, and check out the control surfaces (again, the ailerons and flaps).
, Look at the alternator belt to make sure it is tight, and the air intake to be sure it is not obstructed.
 Never place your body in the swing radius of an airplane propeller. Check the "spinner" for lubricant leaks, missing bolts and pins, or other problems. Look at the propeller itself, to be sure the blades are not cracked, bent, delaminated, or damaged in other ways.
 Any leaks or appearance of fluid on the aircraft skin should be inspected by a trained maintenance person prior to flight.
 Look for loose fittings, tires which may have tread separation, low inflation pressure, and other defects.
