 Come is a basic, useful command every dog should know. To train your Manchester Terrier to "come," start off by squatting to get on your terrier's level. Then, urge your dog to come to you. Use the command "Come" in between calling your dog's name so it will get used responding to this command.At first, you may have to attach a leash to your dog and gradually lead it to you while you say "Come." If you consistently train each day, your dog will begin commanding to "Come" without the leash.
Eventually, you can stop squatting and lessen use of calling and coaxing your dog. Transition gradually into just using the command "Come."
Reward your dog as soon as they complete the behavior. At first, even small steps should be rewarded. Reward your dog the second it takes a step towards you, for example. As time goes by, require more of the command be completed before granting your dog a reward.
 Sit is another vital command every dog should learn. To start training "Sit," sit down next to your Manchester Terrier and get its attention by holding up a treat. Say "sit" and slowly lift the treat up. Many dogs will sit on their own as they follow the treat with their head. If your dog does not, gently guide its rear down to get it into the sitting position.Praise your dog as soon as it sits and reward it with a treat.
Train every day for about five to ten minutes. As time goes by, your dog will sit on its own with less coaxing.
 A Manchester Terrier should learn to "stay" when commanded. To teach your dog to "stay," start by putting your dog on a leash and instructing it to sit. Hold the leash slack and face your dog. While commanding the dog to "stay," take a few steps back. If your dog tries to move, place your palm before its head to get it to stop. If your dog moves anyway, walk it back to the original spot and repeat the process until your dog stops following you.Practice the "stay" command every day, eventually learning to phase out the leash and take bigger steps away from your dog. Eventually, your dog should know to remain in place when you say "Stay."

, To teach your Manchester Terrier to lie down, first command the dog to "sit." Then, gently press down on its back while you repeat the "lie down" command. You can also try lowering the treat towards the ground to coax your dog into lying down. As soon the dog is lying down, reward it with a treat and praise.Train your dog to lie down in short sessions each day. Eventually, your dog should learn to lie down without you having to push down on its back.

