 Rudeness isn't a cute trait and should be destroyed; like that frown on your face! Smiling immediately makes a person seem warmer and more inviting to talk to. Work on smiling in public until it comes naturally! Not a huge, toothy grin, but a quaint curve of the lips.;
, When you accept something from another person (be it an object or even a compliment), say 'Thank you' with a warm smile. When you do the same to another person and they say it to you, return them a 'You're welcome'. These are basic mannerisms, but are important to remember. Good manners are essential. Not only are they cute, but give a good impression too!

, Cussing simply isn't lady-like. If it's become a habit, you can try replacing certain curse words with things like "Fiddlesticks!" or "Bother!". Not only are they fun and old-timey, but they can be cute too; when used sparingly.
 Innocence means not knowing of impure things. This doesn't mean you can't laugh at a joke or two, nor does it mean that you have to flush your mind of everything you already know. All you have to do is involve yourself less if possible.
 It's polite and makes a person feel special if you've only bumped into them a couple of times. If you honestly can't remember, don't guess! If you say the wrong name, it can be extremely awkward and make the person feel unimportant.
 A selfless attitude tells you a lot about a person. Become willing to share things with friends to make them feel special. Food (especially snacks such as potato chips), clothes and video games are ideal to friends who may be in need or simply ask. Sometimes, people don't understand that loan doesn't mean donation. If a person has kept an item of yours longer than you believe is necessary, politely ask them about it. You have the right to do so.
 This article is not going to go into detail on how to specifically do 'cute' make-up, simply because everyone has their individual preferences, skin tones and budgets. Some people believe they have to cake their face with make-up to look good, but that simply isn't true. Some 'nude' lip gloss (which blends with your actual skin) can make for a very cute look; simply because it's natural - which is what should be achieved. For a fresh look, try applying pink blush to the apples of your cheeks!

, If you're an adolescent, you should wear antiperspirant deodorant for obvious reasons. But if you choose not to, perfume or a sweetly scented body spray make for the perfect replacement. Fruity fragrances work well for an odor that isn't too strong and they fit the cuteness theme!

, The first thing that comes to many peoples' minds when it comes to cute ways to hold up hair is in pigtails, which can suit some people, but it can make you seem like you're trying too hard. A ponytail accessorized with a ribbon tied around it, side ponytail, messy bun and plaits are traditionally cute ways to tie up hair! Headbands, scrunchies and barrettes are especially good. Anything with bows or chibi cartoon characters is perfect.
 Making your voice high-pitched and squeaky to mimic little kids or anime characters is obvious and gets annoying quickly. No matter how you sound, your voice is fine the way it is. This also applies to height. Short people aren't the only cute ones; many tall girls are adorable!

