 Make a list of all the letters found in the first name, then make a separate list of all the letters found in the second name. Put the lists side-by-side but keep them both separate and distinct from one another.


This method is a good way to mix the names of two parents when choosing a baby name, but you can technically use this method with any two names. You can even use this method when you have more than two names to mix.
You can write out the letters in the order they appear within each name, or you can rearrange the letters alphabetically. The latter may help you view the letters as separate letters instead of a name.

Example: Consider the names "William" and "Sarah."

The former name uses the letters "a, i, i, l, l, m, w."
The latter name uses the letters "a, a, h, r, s."

;
, Treat your two name lists like an unscramble puzzle or a game of Boggle. Pull letters from both lists to create a name. Continue until you have formed as many different names as possible.You do not need to use all of the letters in both names. In fact, you will be able to create far more combinations if you only use a few letters.
It may help to have a book of baby names nearby as you do this. There are many names you may not think of when doing this exercise on your own.

Example: Using the letters from “William” and “Sarah,” you could form: Alisa, Iris, Isaiah, Larisa, Lars, Lisa, Liam, Maria, Mariah, Miriam, Wallis, Wilma

, You may not spot every name possible the first time you run through your two lists. It is a good idea to return to your lists multiple times to see if you can find any new names hidden inside.


Consider asking other people for help, too. Someone else might be able to spot a combination you hadn't noticed yet.
If you struggle to form names from your lists, you can also search online for “free name mixers.” When you find a result you like, input both names into the mixer and allow the website to generate a list of possible names from those two original names.Example: Upon further inspection, you could also use “William” and “Sarah” to form: Silas, Shaw, Rai, Mars, Lia, Ash

