 While cosmetic dentists can fill cavities and do other basic dental procedures, their main focus is on how your teeth look.If you have serious health or functional issues related to your teeth, don’t start with cosmetic dentistry.;
, In addition to whitening, cosmetic dentists use a variety of techniques to produce an even, white smile.Bonding involves applying tooth-colored resins to your teeth in order to fill in chips or excess spaces and to cover stains.
Veneers are porcelain or plastic covers that last longer than bonding and cost less than crowns. They also improve the appearance of chipped, stained, or misshapen teeth and create a perfect smile offering the same contour, shape and color. The dentist will take an impression of your tooth and then have a custom veneer made in a laboratory.
Crowns cover an entire tooth. In addition to cosmetic improvement, crowns are used to restore or protect a broken or weak tooth and in order to stabilize large fillings.
Implants replace the root of a tooth by fusing to the jawbone. Then, the implant will require a crown similar to the natural tooth. This is a surgical procedure which must be done by a specialist.
Inlays/Onlays are indirect fillings made from porcelain or other composite materials used to treat tooth decay or structural damage. They are created in a dental laboratory and then fitted and bonded into the damaged tooth.
Smile makeovers involve one or more cosmetic treatments, such as dental implants, dental veneers, teeth whitening to improve the overall appearance of your mouth.
Full mouth reconstruction is needed to correct functional problems of your teeth, muscles, bite and bone structure.
 If whitening your teeth is your main concern, you can start by trying at-home treatments, which may be significantly less expensive than professional whitening. Purchase whitening toothpastes, strips, or brush-on formulas from the drug store. However, before you use a kit with a strong bleaching agent such as peroxide, you should check with your regular dentist to be sure that there isn’t an underlying issue such as decay or disease, such as hypomineralization of the enamel, that should be addressed first., Cosmetic dentists can address uneven teeth using veneers and reshaping. However, if you have seriously misaligned teeth, you may do better with an orthodontist who can straighten teeth with braces. If you are not sure, consult with both a cosmetic dentist and an orthodontist and compare their answers.
 He may be able to undertake some basic cosmetic procedures himself. In addition, he should be able to refer you to specific recommended cosmetic dentists. Even if your dentist offers to do a cosmetic procedure, don’t hesitate to get a second opinion from a dentist whose practice focuses on cosmetic dentistry before making a final decision.
 The American Dental Association has state and local organizations that maintain lists of dentists by specialty, for example.Cross-check with your state’s licensing body to assure yourself that your prospective dentist in good standing., Accreditation requires further education and demonstration of knowledge and clinical experience.The qualifications for being accredited will vary depending on your location, but your dentist should be a member of a major national organization, such as the American Academy of Cosmetic Dentistry. Such organizations may allow you to search their members., Dental training programs often offer low-cost services to local residents in order to allow their students to practice their skills under the supervision of experienced dentists., You want to be able to compare approaches, prices, and overall impressions. While one dentist might be a very compelling salesperson, another dentist might be able to address your major concerns with a less complicated or expensive approach. A consultation does not commit you to working with a dentist.


Pay attention to the surroundings as well as to the dentist herself. The waiting room and office should be clean and pleasant, and the dentist’s staff should be professional and courteous.
 Whitening can be done through one or two longer in-office visits, or by means of an at-home process that takes about a month, for example. Which method does the dentist prefer? If she uses both approaches, how does she advise her patients on selecting one?

, A good cosmetic dentist should be happy to let you see and speak with his satisfied clients. Ask references about the quality of the care they received as well as the results., Cosmetic dentistry is a constantly-evolving field. You want to choose a dentist who is up-to-date on new methods and trends, as well as in good standing in her state and professional organizations.
 Not all cosmetic dentistry procedures provide permanent solutions. For instance, whitening will be affected by the food and drink you subsequently consume. Dental bonding, although quicker and less expensive than veneers, may stain, chip, or break.Ask the dentist about how long the effects of whitening or other treatments can be expected to last.
 The prospective dentist should be willing to offer a detailed list of fees and an estimate of what his recommended treatments will cost you. He should also be open about the availability of appointments and the likely length of the course of treatment.
 Since most of the cosmetic dental treatments are not covered under the insurance plans, check whether the dentist offers flexible payment options or not.

