 Although everyone grieves differently, you will likely experience some or most of the common stages of grief (denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance). These stages are fluid, and people can move back and forth between them for a while before they resolve. Understand that these are natural responses to loss and let yourself experience these feelings.Working through these emotions will help you fully deal with the suicide.



Keep a daily journal about your feelings and emotions about the suicide. Review your journal every couple of days and try to notice as you move through the stages of grief.
You might feel angry at the person for choosing suicide or angry with yourself for not stopping it. If so, try writing a letter expressing your anger (either to the person or write it to yourself).
Remember that it is okay to cry and don’t judge yourself for having any of these feelings. They are all normal reactions.
Be patient with yourself. There is no time limit for grieving, so don’t rush yourself.;
, There will be days that it is really hard to handle your grief from the suicide.Learn some coping strategies that you can use to calm yourself when you are feeling anxious, depressed, or upset. These coping mechanisms will help you deal with the suicide.


Be aware of triggers like birthdays or holidays, that may cause strong feelings of loss, so that you aren’t emotionally unprepared.
Try deep breathing when you find yourself getting upset. Inhale deeply, hold it, and then exhale slowly. Repeat this a few times.
Getting some exercise (although it's often the last thing you want to do) can help wonders by flushing out increased stress hormones in your body.
Make time to do something you enjoy like painting, singing, cooking, or playing the guitar.

Use mindfulness techniques to acknowledge your feelings without letting them overwhelm you.
 Although there will be times that you need to be alone, don’t completely isolate yourself. You can’t deal with the suicide of a loved one on your own. Seek out those close to you and allow your friends, family, and community to support you.When people offer to help, think about saying yes. Give them a task that they can take off your plate to make your life easier. You need to focus on grieving and not daily responsibilities.
Try saying, “You can help me right now by just listening to me talk right now.” Let them know the best way to support you.
It’s okay to tell them when you need to be alone. You might say, “Right now, I need to be alone. Would you call and check on me later tonight?”
Join a support group or forum so that you can connect with people that have been or are going through what you are. Try to give the support group at least three tries. Many people hate the first visit because it is so emotional. After the third visit, if you see no benefit or feel worse, it may not be for you.
 Specialists such as grief counselors as well as professionals like family therapists can help you cope with the suicide of a loved one. They can help you work through the stages of grief and help you address the feelings you have specific to suicide. They can also teach you effective coping strategies.


If you witnessed the suicide or found the body, you have experienced a serious trauma and should seek professional help.If your grief is preventing you from functioning normally for an extended period of time, may want to discuss medication with a professional as an option to help you deal with it.
Check with your physician, guidance counselor, or another trusted person for referrals to professionals that can help you.
You may also want to visit with a spiritual advisor, as suicide can often result in a spiritual crisis.
 The grief caused by losing someone can be even stronger if that person died by suicide. It can be easy to not eat or sleep, but this can cause you to be more emotional, tired, and weaken your immune system in general. In order to effectively cope with the suicide of a loved one, you have to take care of your health.


Eat balanced meals throughout the day. Make sure you are not bingeing or skipping meals. Try to eat lots of fruits and vegetables, as well as drink water.
Go to bed at the same time each night. Develop a bedtime routine to let your body know it is time to rest.
Get physical activity. Running, swimming, playing basketball, or doing tai chi are excellent ways to be healthy, as well as release some of the mental and emotional stress you are feeling.

