 Like many drugs, LSD causes a person’s pupils to dilate or become enlarged.This effect is known as mydriasis and occurs when your sympathetic nervous system is affected and this is a direct result of LSD use.Look into the person’s eyes to see if his or her pupils appear larger than normal.
 Pay attention to the sound and appearance of the person’s mouth to check for dry mouth or excess saliva.


For example, you may hear dry smacking sounds when the person speaks, or notice a little drool running down the corner of his or her mouth.
 Tingling fingers and toes are also common in people who use LSD. Ask the person who you believe is a user if he or she is experiencing any unusual tingling sensations.You might also notice that the person is rubbing his or her toes or fingers. This might be due to the discomfort of the tingling sensations.
 People on acid may also experience an increased heart rate.You can determine if the person’s heart rate is normal by taking his or her pulse. Try taking the person’s pulse if he or she will let you.


To check the person’s pulse, place your index and middle finger on the inside of the person’s wrist just below his or her thumb. Hold your fingers there until you can feel the pulse and then set a timer for 60 seconds. Count the person’s heartbeats until the timer beeps.
A normal pulse is between 60 to 100 beats per minute. If the person’s pulse is higher than this number, then he or she has a rapid heart rate., LSD changes your body’s ability to regulate internal temperature properly and as a result you may become sweaty or chilled.


Look for beads of sweat on the person’s forehead or see if the person is shivering.
 People on acid often have reduced strength and may report feeling weak.For example, the person might be unable to carry items that are not very heavy and have a difficult time standing for long periods of time because he or she suddenly feels tired and feeble.


Watch for changes in the person’s strength and listen to what he or she says as well. For example, the person might say that he or she is too tired to walk a short distance or that something he or she can usually lift with ease feels way too heavy to lift.

