 In addition to keeping you entertained, music can motivate you to push yourself harder during your workout routine.


Play music on your stereo if you work out at home, or listen to music using your portable or digital music player and headphones.
Select a variety of rock or dance songs for your playlist that fall between 120 and 140 beats per minute (BPM). Songs with fast tempos that fall within this BPM range will help maintain your energy and motivation during your workout.;
, Examples of entertainment you can listen to while on the treadmill are audiobooks, talk radio, comedy routines, and educational materials.
 Many gyms are equipped with suspended televisions you can watch from afar, or have televisions that are directly mounted to the treadmills.


Position your treadmill in front of a television if you work out at home.
Watch your favorite movies or television shows. You can even schedule your workout around your favorite television programs, which can also help maintain your daily workout routine.
 Reading a novel or story can be an ideal way to stay entertained on the treadmill, but this method should only be practiced if the book or magazine can be safely secured to the treadmill, for safety purposes.


Verify that the treadmill has a tray that supports the book or magazine, or use clips or clothespins to secure the book or magazine to the dashboard of the treadmill.
Read using a digital e-reader or tablet so that you can read and turn pages with the quick push of a button or by briefly touching the screen of the device.
 This method can be especially entertaining if you are at a gym or community center that is frequented by other people.


Play variations of counting games during every workout. For example, count the number of people wearing a certain brand of athletic shoes throughout your workout, or count the number of people wearing a specific shirt color.
Designate certain songs or artists on your music playlist that require you to run or walk faster when they are played. For example, when songs by a specific artist are played, increase your treadmill speed for the duration of those particular songs.

