 Although correction fluid does not erase ink, it can cover ink as if it were erased. Correction fluid, often known by the brand names "Liquid Paper" or "Wite-Out", is a dense liquid, often white in color, that is intended to cover accidental marks or errors on paper. Correction fluid is commonly applied with a small, sponge-tipped applicator.Correction fluid may become dry, clogged or flaky. Make sure that your correction fluid is the proper consistency before applying.
Correction fluid will be wet after applying. Make sure you don't touch the wet fluid to any other surface.
 If you need to erase ink in vertical or horizontal strips, correction tape might be best to cover your errors. One side of the tape is meant to mimic the appearance of paper, the other is adhesive and sticks to your original paper. Correction tape is usually white, but other colors are available to match your paper.You'll likely be able to see correction tape on your original page if you look closely.
If you scan or copy a paper with correction tape on it, the reader may not be able to detect the correction tape.
 If you want to erase or change a section of an ink drawing, sometimes the easiest solution is to cover it with a small piece of paper. Find a blank paper that matches your original paper, and cut out a section large enough to cover the mistake. Glue the new paper over the mistake. Redraw your artwork or lettering on the restored surface.Make sure that the edges of the paper are pressed against the surface, not curled up or bent from the original surface.
The careful observer will be able to discern your correction in the original, depending on how closely they are looking at it.
If you want to copy or scan it from the original, it may be more difficult to notice your correction.
 If you are working in pen and ink, and make a mistake or spill some ink, your first thought might be to erase the mistake. If none of the above methods are practical for your spilled ink, you might try camouflaging your error by adding elements to your artwork, such as background or color.Using opaque color over the ink can also hide the error.
If you've accidentally drawn outside your original design, consider adding ornamentation to your design. If you do this will, it will look like you've intended to draw it this way from the beginning!

, Of course, this isn't erasing the ink, but it functions exactly the same as erasing an error would. If none of the above methods work for erasing ink from your page, lay a fresh page on top of your original. Trace the entire paper, leaving out the part you'd like to erase. Finish by making the correction on the new page.This method is intensive, but if you're working on a pen and ink artwork it may be the best way to go.
Correcting your page this way results in a brand new page, as if the mistake never happened.

