 If you’d like to jump directly into the world of stock trading but do not have a large amount of money to invest, you can begin by investing in a handful of individual stocks. You can do this inexpensively through discount brokerage firms, including E*Trade, TD Ameritrade, and TradeKing. These firms will charge a $5–10 trade fee, and then allow you to purchase any stocks whose share price is less than your total capital.For example, if you’re investing $1,000, the trade fee will decrease your capital to $990. Buying 50 shares of a $15/share stock and 24 shares of a $10/share stock would invest the rest of your cash.
Of course, you’ll need to watch the stocks closely as they rise and fall, since investing directly in stocks is a higher-risk method than investing in mutual funds. Look for large, well-known companies to begin investing in, and buy a handful of shares each.
 A DRP will give you an opportunity for a small financial investment. If you have extremely limited funds to invest (less than $100), this is a good place to start. These plans allow you to avoid going through a stock broker, and let you purchase stocks directly from the offering company. For a small monthly contribution—even as little as $10—you can continually invest in the stock of a specific company.“Reinvestment” means that dividends paid by the company to the stockholders will automatically be reinvested in the DRP plan.
DRP funds also charge low fees (or have no fees), unlike some other fee-heavy methods of investment.
You can begin investing in DRP funds with large companies, including GE, Coca Cola, Verizon, and Home Depot., While not a traditional method of investment, P2P lending provides an opportunity to assist individuals who have a financial need by providing a loan outside of an established bank or credit union. Once you’re provided the cash for a loan, the recipient will begin returning your investment with interest. Interest rates commonly fluctuate between 5 and 9 percent.Sites like Prosper and Lending Club provide a peer-to-peer lending platform service, in which individuals can provide one another with small loans. Investors (those who provide the money for a loan) are then paid back with interest. You can start your investment with these sites by providing a loan of as little as $25.P2P lending involves risk that does not exist when establishing, say, a bank CD. All loans risk going into default on the payments, and you should use caution when investing in higher-risk loans (the P2P site should make clear the risk level on each loan).To minimize your personal risk, spread your investment over as many loans as possible. With most P2P services, you can invest in increments as small as $25, so diversify the types of loans that you’re investing in. This way, should one individual default on loan payments, you won’t lose the entirety of your loan.