 One of the best food groups for a no-cook and nutritious breakfast is the dairy group. High in protein and calcium, many of these foods work perfectly for rushed mornings.


Dairy products are great for breakfast because of their protein content. A high-protein breakfast will give you the energy you need to fuel your day, but also helps keep your appetite in check throughout the day.Dairy foods are also great for breakfast, because most of them do not require any preparation or cooking to eat.
The best items are yogurts, cottage cheese, regular cheese, kefir and milk. To make breakfast even quicker, purchase individual servings of these items (for example an individual yogurt).
To make sure you stick to the right calories and serving size, measure your portions. For dairy, measure out 8 oz or about 1 cup per serving.;
, Dairy products aren't the only food group that can make for a no-cooking required breakfast. Grains are another easy food to make your mornings easy.


To keep in line with a healthier and more nutritious breakfast, make sure to choose more nutritious grains. 100% whole grains are the best choice compared to refined grains. Look at the ingredients list — the first ingredient should say 100% whole wheat.
Whole grains are minimally processed and contain higher levels of protein and fiber compared to more refined grains (like white bread).Most breakfast grains are ready-to-eat. The best options for a no-cook breakfast include: whole grain cereals, whole grain bread, whole wheat frozen waffles, whole grain bagels, whole wheat English muffins or whole grain tortillas.
Keep servings in check with these foods as well. Measure out 1/2 cup of cereal, 1 oz of grains, one slice of bread, one English muffin or 1/2 bagel per serving., The two food groups that are the best when it comes to no-cook meals are fruits and vegetables. Both can be eaten raw so they're perfect for a nutritious and no-cook breakfast.


Fruits and vegetables are great if you want to increase the nutrient content of any meal. Both of these food groups are exceptionally high in nutrients — especially fiber, vitamins and antioxidants.The best fruits and vegetables for a no-cook breakfast include: individual canned fruit cups, small whole fruit (like an apple, orange or banana), avocado, tomatoes, or onions.
Measure out your serving sizes of these foods as well — even though they're low in calories. Fruits should be 1/2 cup or one small piece per serving and vegetables should be about 1 cup or 2 cups of greens per serving.If you're choosing canned fruit, look for choices that are not in heavy syrup. They should be in water or fruit juice.
 A common breakfast food is the protein group. Although many of these foods need to be cooked, there are some tricks to incorporate these foods without spending your morning cooking.


Like dairy foods, other protein-based foods (like eggs, bacon or sausage) have high amounts of protein that will help fuel your morning.
However, many of these common breakfast meats are high in fat, sodium and additives. Although they do have protein, these generally aren't considered the most nutritious breakfast item.Instead, stick to leaner, more nutritious protein sources at breakfast. These are the best options for a no-cook meal: pre-cooked turkey bacon, pre-cooked turkey sausage, Canadian bacon, hard boiled eggs, lox or smoked salmon, nuts and nut butters and ham.
Always measure the portion size of these foods as well. Measure out 3 – 4 oz per serving or about 1/2 cup., Whenever your goal is to make quick meals or do little to no cooking, you need to make sure your kitchen is stocked with the right type of foods.


Keeping your refrigerator, pantry and freezer stocked makes meal prepping and mealtime a lot easier.
Every week, set aside some time to evaluate your stock. Take a look through your refrigerator, pantry and freezer to see what you need. Then write up a corresponding grocery list to help you at the supermarket.
 If you don't want to spend time each morning cooking breakfast, you'll need to do meal prep in your free time. Doing this regularly will help make mornings a lot easier.


In addition to having a stocked kitchen, carve out some time from your weekly schedule to do meal prep.
Meal prepping can be very minimal or more extensive depending on what you want to eat through the week and how much work you want to get done ahead of time.
For example, meal prepping could consist of just washing your produce. Or, it could consistent of making a full breakfast meal (like yogurt parfaits or oatmeal) a few days before so all you have to do is serve them. Another example would be to put the ingredients of a smoothie in a blender the night before and keep refrigerated. Then, the next morning you can quickly blend it up for an on-the go, no-cook breakfast.
Egg dishes can be prepared in muffin tins and then frozen. You can microwave them in the morning right out of the freezer.
Plan an hour or two each week to have set aside to do your meal prep. You'll see after just a week or two how helpful this will be.
 If you want to, consider making your breakfasts completely ahead of time. So instead of just doing a little prep, your breakfasts are already done and ready to eat every morning.There are a variety of breakfast meals that you can make 100% in advance.


You can make anything ahead of time. For example you can make: oatmeal, muffins, egg sandwiches, yogurt parfaits or homemade granola in advance. Normally, these foods would require you to cook them the day of.
If you do want to make foods in advance, you need to make sure you store everything correctly. Keep most items in a sealed airtight container in the refrigerator.
Also, don't prep for more than one week a time if you're only refrigerating items. If needed, freeze items so you can have multiple weeks of meals ready.
 Don't think that the only nutritious or healthy breakfast meal is one that you make from scratch everyday. There are plenty of nutritious items that you can get right from the store.


Food manufacturers are making mealtime a lot easier by having complete, frozen or refrigerated meals ready for you. If you don't enjoy cooking and don't want to do a lot of meal prep, take some help from the store.
Consider some of the following frozen or refrigerated meals: frozen individual breakfast sandwiches, frozen breakfast bowls, frozen breakfast burritos, frozen and cooked breakfast sausage or bacon, pre made yogurt parfaits, individual yogurts or cottage cheese cups or frozen waffles.
 Overnight oatmeal is the perfect no-cook breakfast meal. Prepare this meal the night or weekend before so you have a high-fiber meal ready to go the next morning.In a tupperware container, bowl, or mason jar, add the following ingredients: 1/2 cup of rolled oats, 1/4 cup of milk, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, 1/2 cup of your favorite sliced fruit and 1 teaspoon of chia seeds.
Mix together, cover, and place in the refrigerator for at least 4 – 6 hours, but preferably overnight.
Serve cold the next day. You can add a drizzle of honey or add a dash of cinnamon if you'd like.
 Another nutritious no-cook breakfast meal is yogurt parfaits. You can make these the night before or the morning of depending on your time.


In a small bowl or mason jar, place 1/4 cup of vanilla greek yogurt. You can use regular yogurt, but greek yogurt has more protein.
On top of the yogurt, drop in a few raspberries and blueberries. On top of the berries, sprinkle on 1 tablespoon of chopped nuts. Repeat these layers two to three times depending on the size of your jar.
Place yogurt parfait in the refrigerator and cover it if you're not going to eat it right away. Once you're ready to eat, top the parfait with 1/4 cup of granola for some extra crunch.
 If you really want to do minimal work when preparing a breakfast meal, nothing is quicker or easier than a peanut butter bagel. Plus, this can be eaten on the go.


To keep this meal nutritious, look for bagel thins. Also, try to go for the 100% whole wheat bagel thins if you can find them. If you like, you can toast the bagel, but this is especially good with a softer bagel.
Spread 1 tablespoon of all natural peanut or almond butter on each half of the bagel.
Then, slice a banana into 1/4 inch rounds. Place one half of the banana rounds on each half of the bagel thin. Sprinkle on a dash of cinnamon for extra flavor. Enjoy.
 Similar to overnight oats, this chia pudding is a great no-cook and make ahead breakfast meal. Plus, the chia seeds provide a nice source of protein and fiber.In a small bowl or mason jar, mix together the following ingredients: 1 cup of milk, 1/4 cup of chia seeds, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract and 1 tablespoon of honey.
Transfer your chia seed pudding to the refrigerator for at least 8 hours, however overnight is best.
When you're ready to eat, take out your chia seed pudding and give it a thorough stir. Sometimes a few of the seeds stick together.
Top your pudding with 1/2 cup of your favorite sliced fruit, an extra drizzle of honey and a dash of cinnamon if desired. Enjoy cold.
 If you want to get some healthy fats and omega-3 fatty acids into your morning meal, trying putting together this open-faced smoked salmon sandwich.To start, toast one piece of whole grain, dark rye bread. You can serve this on non-toasted bread, but a little crunch as the base is tasty.
Spread on 1 – 2 tablespoons of light whipped cream cheese. Press 1 teaspoon of capers into the cream cheese so they don't roll off your sandwich.
If you like, you can top the cream cheese layer with a few thin slices of tomato and red onion.
Lastly, layer on 3 oz of thinly sliced smoked salmon or lox. Grind a little fresh black pepper on top and serve.

