 Gender identity is often confused with biological sex, but they are not the same thing. Biological sex is what sex organs a person was born with, while gender identity is the gender that a person identifies as and wishes to be addressed by. For example, a person could be assigned female at birth, but have a male gender identity and would be referred to as a boy. In this case, he would be referred to as a transgender boy. A transgender girl would be someone who is assigned male at birth and identifies as female.


There are different gender identities than just cisgender (non-transgender) and transgender. A person can be agender, meaning they identify with no gender; bigender, meaning they identify as two genders simultaneously; genderfluid, meaning that their gender identity shifts between genders, and some people just don't care about gender identity!
Gender identity and sexuality are two different things, and they do not correspond. There are many transgender boys who like boys, and many transgender girls who like girls. Just because someone is transgender doesn't mean they automatically like one gender - sexuality and gender are not related.
Crossdressing does not mean your character is transgender, as crossdressing is just that - crossdressing. If a male character is wearing a skirt, he's crossdressing. If a character assigned male at birth is wearing a skirt because she identifies as female, she's transgender.
 Your character's gender identity may or may not be important to the story. Regardless, if you're writing a character with a different gender identity, you'll need to choose their gender identity.



Cisgender means that a character identifies with the gender that corresponds with their birth sex - in other words, someone who's female identifying as a girl would be cisgender.

Transgender means that a character identifies with a gender that does not correspond with their birth sex. For example, a male-sexed person identifying as female would be a transgender girl, and would be referred to as a girl.
A character that is agender doesn't identify with gender labels. This doesn't mean they're completely androgynous, however!

Bigender isn't limited to just male and female. A character can feel both like a boy and like no gender at the same time. These characters tend to pick their preferred gender pronouns (PGP's), and some choose to be referred to as "they".
Someone who is genderfluid can alter between feeling like a boy, a girl, genderless, or bigender. These characters also tend to pick preferred gender pronouns, and can also be referred to as "they".

Demi boys and demi girls only partially fit onto the gender binary.
There are also more obscure identities which you can research.
 This is a little bit more tricky than just designing a character who isn't straight, since you will need to decide on your character's gender identity, and therefore, their sex. Their DNA influences their body and shape, as well as their voice and some other characteristics not immediately seen by the reader.


Consider if and when they were able to have access to hormones and other treatments. A twenty-year-old who started estrogen two months ago will look different from a twenty-year-old who transitioned at age five and had puberty blockers.
Without puberty blockers, puberty can be quite traumatic for trans people. Even if they have since gotten hormones and look great, they will probably have many bad memories.
 There are many misconceptions about transgender people that cisgender people come up with. Common ones to be ruled out are:



It's just a phase!: While some people explore around with gender identity in their childhood and teens, just because they're young when determining their gender doesn't mean it's something they'll grow out of or decide isn't them.

Transgender people are just gay!: Transgender people can be gay, but gender identity and sexual orientation don't correlate!

Bigender/Genderfluid/Agender isn't real!: Gender identity is a spectrum, not a binary. There's more to gender than just "male" and "female".

Don't all trans people have surgery/take hormones?: Many transgender people are not comfortable with having surgery or taking hormones. Even if they are comfortable with it, other factors can make it impossible to have hormones/surgery, such as health problems, financial issues, or unsupportive/unsafe environment.
 Living in a cis-centric world is difficult for a trans person, especially depending on how accepting the environment is. What tricks have they developed to stay safe? How do they cope? What have they faced in the past, and has it impacted their ability to trust others or feel safe? Common issues faced include...


Public restroom safety
Picking "male" or "female" on documents
Street harassment
Trying to look "presentable enough" to avoid discrimination (When? How much? Are they a bad person for doing this?)
Cruel family members
Mental health issues, suicidal thoughts
Discrimination

