 Did you know that appliances and electronics continue sapping electricity as long as they're plugged in, even when their switches are turned off?Making a habit of unplugging these items when they aren't in use saves a lot of energy over time.


Power down your computer and unplug it when you aren't using it. Computers are one of the main culprits when it comes to using a lot of energy in a household, so unplugging them when you're finished checking your email for the night is worth the hassle.
Unplug your TVs, radios and sound systems. Leaving these plugged in day in and day out is a waste of electricity and money.
Don't forget smaller appliances like coffee makers, toasters, hair dryers and phone chargers. These use small amounts of energy, but it really adds up over time.
 What appliances do you really need to use on a daily basis? Think about your routine and determine where you might be able to save some energy. In some cases it might mean spending extra time on certain chores, but the reward is saving energy, money, and having the satisfaction that comes with being more self-sufficient. For example:


Dry your laundry on a clothesline outside instead of using the dryer. This saves a lot of energy, and many find the old-fashioned task of hanging clothes on the line to be among the more relaxing of chores.
Fill your dishwasher to the brim instead of doing a partially-empty load.You could also wash dishes by hand using a water conservation method rather than relying on the dishwasher to do the job.
Sweep instead of vacuuming. If you have carpets you'll still have to vacuum once in a while, but you can sweep up large crumbs and clots of dirt with a broom in between sessions. Pulling out the vacuum every day uses up a lot of energy.
Do all of your baking on the same day of the week. Heating the oven requires a lot of electricity (unless your oven is powered by gas), so it makes sense to heat it once and bake more than one thing, rather than spacing out your baking over the course of the week.
Reduce your reliance on small appliances, too. Let your hair air dry more often than you blow dry it, throw out that plug-in air freshener, and chop food by hand instead of using a food processor.
 Many are made to be more energy efficient, and some include settings that allow you to choose how much energy to use in a given cycle. Next time you need to replace a large appliance, do some research to find a model that doesn't use too much electricity. If purchasing appliances made and distributed in the United States, look for an "Energy Star" certification. This certification means the appliance was tested by the United States Department of Energy and it outperforms federal requirements for energy efficiency.

