 Do you have to have the latest iPhone? If the answer is "Yes", this article isn't for you. If the answer is either "No" or "Yes, but I can't afford one" then there are ways to prolong the life of your iPhone until you can afford to buy a new one or it dies. You have to be comfortable, patient and disciplined in using an older iPhone. Comfortable with yourself, patient with the iPhone and disciplined on how you use the iPhone. You won't be able to download the newest apps after a while. It will become slower without an upgrade. But it can still do the basic things when you first got it out of the box. After all, if you remove the 'i' it's still just a phone. If you're ok with this, read on.;
, What do you use you iPhone for? Gaming? Social Media? Business? Lifestyle? It's going to come to a point when your iPhone won't be able to upgrade these apps because the developer has decided to no longer support your iPhone. So, if you're planning on keeping your iPhone, you're going to have let go of these apps. Banking apps are tricky because it's convenient to see on your phone if your pay has gone in or transferring money into another account when you're caught at the shops. You can do phone banking or go online, but it's not practical. You quickly see how much we rely on technology, so how much can you do without? Look at your priorities. An app that you use a lot for your business is more taxing than say 'Angry Birds'. Delete the apps you don't really need and keep upgrading the ones you do.
 How much more time have you got left on it? If your contract is up, then upgrade if you must. But it is nice to have that extra cash in your pocket now you own the phone, isn't it? It's your choice. But remember to measure up the differences. An iPhone 5C is similar to an iPhone 5, except for that pretty coloured plastic case. Are the exit fees in your contract worth that pretty coloured case? Didn't think so. Unless you're carelessly wealthy, there isn't enough reasons to upgrade to the latest when you bought the latest last year. And don't fall for marketing hype. Fingerprint technology is great for security... but then so is putting a pin number on your phone. An A7 processor is only as good as the app it is built for... which is probably in the process of development.
 Have you been looking after your iPhone? Is there any signs of wear, have you got a broken screen, maybe need a new cover or some screen covers or cables? Buy them now. Get them fixed. It's good to have everything working and in fresh condition. Buy your hardware items as soon as possible. Some items may already be in clearance due to the public release of a new iPhone, but better to get them now when you can't at all.
 Have you upgraded your iPhone recently? Get the closest upgrade you can get for your phone model ASAP. Obviously you are reading this because your phone no longer supports the new iOS 7,8,9, etc. But have the confidence and preparation knowing your iPhone can do it's best with what it has. Ideally do it before the new release of the latest iPhone comes out, or on the upgrade date iTunes recommends. A word on speed: Over time your iPhone will get slower. Most say around 18-24 months of the life of the iPhone. There is some theories as to why. Conspiracy with Apple that they programmed them that way and so on. A simpler explanation is that everything you do on your little phone is logged in it's processor and over time it makes it harder to retain all this information while trying to run 'Call of Duty'. It's too hard on the poor thing. If this does happen, it may be a good idea to restore your iPhone back to its factory settings, then load all your stuff back on the phone. Use this link from Apple for help. Remember to look after your little iPhone and in turn should give you years back. **Note: If you do choose to restore your iPhone, remember to back up all your information on your computer first, especially photos (which isn't backed up via iTunes) and other information that could be stored in apps, like passwords or pictures. If you have a favourite gaming app, be aware that there is the potential of losing your level in the game.

