 Make sure you aren’t allergic to hamsters or its bedding before you decide to house one. You can see if you have any reactions at the pet store near the hamster or rodent area. Hamster habitat can produce a lot of dust due to bedding so make sure you can handle this prior to committing.
 Ask yourself if you have the time and energy to take care of your new friend. Hamster are relatively low maintenance, but they still need fresh water and food daily. They also need their cages cleaned frequently and should be monitored for their health and well-being.
 You want to make sure your hamster has the proper amount of food and water each day. Do not underfeed your friend. Hamsters, if overfed, will hide their food in their cheeks or in their habitat.
 Having a pet is not necessarily cheap. Make sure you have the necessary funds to pay for things such as vet visits, food, toys, bedding, and other needs.
 Make sure you have everything you need before you bring home your furry friend. You should have:


Plenty of room -- hamsters like to burrow, hide, and explore. Your cage should be spacious enough for these activities.
Escape proof housing -- hamsters can be like little Houdinis. If your cage has bars, they should be sturdy and narrow enough that the hamster can not destroy or escape. All cages should have study lids.
Water and food bins -- You should feed and give fresh water to your hamster daily. Hamsters do well drinking from water bottles, which may save space in the enclosure.
Items to chew on -- Rodent’s teeth will grow continuously unless they are able to grind them down. Make sure you provide safe material (toys, like hamster-friendly sticks, that can be purchased at any pet store) to provide this much needed activity.
Bedding -- Hamsters like to burrow and also need something to relieve themselves on. Use aspen or other soft material to create a happy home for your new housemate. Never use cedar or pine wood bedding because it is bad for your hamster's respiratory system.

