 Try these subtle ways to reduce the height difference:

If you’re short, get a boost. Take advantage of curbs, steps, slopes, stools, and even chairs to correct for the height difference. Wear heeled shoes if possible. High heels are an obvious choice, but heeled boots can be useful for men and women.
If you’re tall, give your shorter partner the advantage by standing on lower terrain whenever possible. If you’re in the early stages of a relationship and/or your partner is self-conscious, try to do this inconspicuously.
For a sexy pose, spread your legs and lower yourself on a wall, letting your feet grip the ground and your partner stand between your legs. This will let both of you interact on more or less even footing. However this should only be done when you feel that you are in an intimate enough relationship. Alternatively, rest your weight on one foot away from the wall, lean back, and bend the other knee to strike a cool, James Dean pose. Note that this will leave your partner to do most of the work.
You might also want to have a seat. A bar stool or other tallish object is ideal for this. (Most normal chairs are so low that this will create a height discrepancy in the other direction, but then again, at least your partner will get to feel tall for a change.) If the situation is appropriate, pull your partner onto your lap and kiss each other sitting.;
, If your partner is a little bit taller, if they're comfortable they may let you stand on their feet. If you’re shorter, lean back a bit and reach up. Stand on your tiptoes if it's comfortable. If you’re taller, bend forward; while you’re at it, spread your feet apart a bit to not only make yourself shorter, but also give the other person a place to stand., Holding each other close will give you both leverage, making it easier to stay balanced and gauge which height to aim for.

When not kissing, the shorter partner in a hug may turn his or her head to the side and rest it on the taller partner's chest or shoulders.
 If it's appropriate to do so, kiss your partner on the forehead, neck, chest, arms, shoulders, hands, or belly. Not all good kisses land on the lips or cheeks!, Gone With the Wind contains some of the most famous onscreen kisses precisely due to the fact that Rhett was significantly taller than Scarlett; instead of trying to compensate for the discrepancy, he pulled her close, tilted her head back, and kissed her from above like an eagle swooping in on its prey. If you do this, make sure to hold the back of your partner’s head to make sure his/her neck doesn’t start aching. (Since this is an aggressive pose, tall gals might not want to do this to guys who are self-conscious about their height.)

If you’re short and your partner is strong enough, jump into their arms so that your faces are level, or do the "Notebook” position by wrapping your legs around your partner’s waist and kissing them from above. This usually applies to a girl jumping into a boy's arms, but if the girl is strong enough, it might work the other way around with a bit of luck!






If you’re tall, lift your partner. While you’re at it, spin them around as an extra romantic way to kiss. You can also raise your partner slightly above you, allowing them to wrap their legs around you if necessary.

