 Most police departments should have a form you can complete. You should stop in or call and request it. Many police departments have a special “Office of Police Accountability” or its equivalent, which is charged with investigating allegations of police misconduct.You can find this office by looking at the police department’s website.


Typically, you can complete the form by writing in the information, although you may want to think about using a typewriter if your handwriting isn’t neat.
Some forms can be completed entirely online.;
, All forms will request that you provide your personal information, unless you are reporting anonymously. You should provide the following information:name
date of birth
age
gender
race or ethnicity
home address and telephone number
work address and telephone number
any other means of contacting you

, You need to give the police sufficient detail about the incident so that they can properly investigate. Each complaint form will be a little different, but generally you will be asked to provide the following:location of the incident
incident date and time
general nature of the incident (such as “excessive force” or “insulting language”)
detailed description of the incident

, The form should also ask that you identify the officers involved in the incident. Go through the notes you took after the incident and find the following information:name
rank
race
sex
other identifying physical attributes (hair color, eye color, height, etc.)
vehicle ID
badge number
unit number

, Some forms will request that you provide information about anyone who witnessed the incident. Be sure to provide as much identifying information as possible, including:name
address
phone number

, Some complaint forms will request that you suggest how you want the dispute resolved.For example, you might be willing to go to mediation with the officer to try and come to an agreement about money compensation for your injuries.
 You will have to certify, under penalty of perjury, that the statements you made in the affidavit are true and correct.For this reason, you should closely reread your complaint and double-check the information.


You may also have to sign in front of a notary public. Check your form.You can find notaries at the courthouse, town office, or at many large banks.
Be sure to bring acceptable methods of identification to show the notary, such as a driver’s license or a passport.
 You should make at least one copy of the affidavit for your own records. If you think you want to bring a lawsuit later on against law enforcement, then make a couple more copies for your attorney and others.


If you completed an online affidavit, then print off the screen after you have entered all of the information.
 You should look at the form to see how to file the form. If it doesn’t list a specific method of filing, then you can generally file the form using any of the following methods:email it to the appropriate department
mail it to the police department
fax the complaint
hand deliver it to the police department

, As the department investigates, they may contact you for additional information. You should provide all requested information promptly. Each department sets its own timetable for investigating a claim.


Generally, you will hear back sooner if the alleged police misconduct was less serious (such as failure to show a police badge). More serious allegations might require more investigation.
Typically, the department should respond in writing or by calling you., You can file an affidavit against law enforcement if you believe they have mistreated you. Police mistreatment can take many forms. Some of the more common include the following:harassment
use of excessive force
language or conduct that is insulting or demeaning
discriminatory treatment
failure to display identification
refusal to identify themselves by name and badge number
retaliation against you for reporting prior mistreatment

, As best as you can, you should document the police mistreatment. As soon as possible, you should sit down and write out a description of the events that took place. You should also find the following, if possible:


Witnesses. Many confrontations with the police happen in public. Bystanders might have seen the incident. Try to get their names and contact information.
Video. Most smart phones have video recording capabilities. If someone witnessed the incident, they might have videotaped it.
Pictures. If the police used excessive force, then you might have sustained injuries. Take vivid color photographs of your injuries. You can provide the police with copies when you submit your complaint., Some police departments let you complain anonymously. You should carefully weigh the pros and cons of anonymous reporting. For example, consider the following:


You might want to report anonymously if you are afraid of the police officers involved in the incident. By reporting anonymously, you can protect yourself. However, refusing to give your name could make it harder for the police to investigate the incident, especially if you were the victim and not a bystander.
You might want to give your name if you are thinking about filing a lawsuit against the police.
You also should give your name if you were a bystander but you want to testify against the police should they be prosecuted.
 Your police department might set a deadline for filing complaints against law enforcement. For example, the District of Columbia gives you only 90 days to report complaints.As soon as you feel comfortable, you should reach out to the police department and get an affidavit form to complete.

