 This is not a how-to-hide-yourself article. All stereotypes have things in common. We all drool over that hot babe, love our new clothes, cry, laugh, smile etc. We're all people, and there is no reason to categorize ourselves any more than what has been done.;
, Yes, there is meditation and kick boxing. But there is music, reading, anything that clears your mind.
 If you don't like the way you look, you can change the way you look. Don't like your hair? Get a new style. Don't like your weight? Change your diet, but ask a doctor or parent first.
 Or, find something you haven't tried before and go do it! Fancy dancing classes? Join a salsa club, or a tap club.
 This will show how you improved on your new personality.
 Don't be too energetic all the time, but be positive.
 If you do that, they will get scared and not want to be with you. Treat them nicely and and be yourself.
 No one wants to be friends with the person who spreads rumors or makes fun of everyone.
 If you're not satisfied with your wardrobe and how it looks on you, change it up. Go with a friend to the mall and pick out some clothes, and ask her to give you her honest opinion.
 If you really want to impress your date, style your hair nicely. Guys, don't put in too much gel. Girls, don't spend hours on your hair. It might turn out well but there's also a good chance you will end up looking like a person who is obsessed with their looks. Plus, if you are going on a date, then your date should like you for you, not some person hidden behind makeup, hairspray, perfume, and high heels.
 It shouldn't matter, as long as you like who you are. Also, stress can lead to breakouts or bad habits that are hard to break.
 This makes it greasy, which makes your face greasy, which gives you breakouts like crazy. No one likes a person who looks like they haven't showered in a week.
 Paint your nails, hold the door for them, complement them, text them with a smiley face, send them a message on facebook, ask how their day was, start a conversation about something you have in common like a class or a band you both like.

