 If you're not currently involved with someone monogamously, you may be dating two people at once. You may have feelings of love for both people, but want a monogamous relationship. Figure out which party to choose. There are several factors you can use to decide who is best for you.Think about your goals. Compatible romantic partners have similar goals and values. Choose the person whose goals more closely align with yours. You and this person should have similar moral values, and want similar things for the future.
Think about how much each person influences you. In a romantic relationship, you are heavily influenced by another person. You'll find yourself adopting their tastes and interests. If you find one person influences your personality more, that person may be right for you.
You should also consider your feelings for someone. People tend to feel more infatuated with compatible romantic matches. You may find yourself putting one person on more of pedestal. You may play up one person's good qualities slightly more.
 If you make a choice, you should let the other party know. It's best to have the conversation face-to-face, if you feel comfortable doing so, so give the person a head's up you would like to have a serous discussion.For example, you could send a text that says something like, "Hey, there's something that's been on my mind. I would really like to talk to you as soon as possible. Are you free for coffee tomorrow?"

, You want to end things in a clean fashion. Do not leave any ambiguity in the breakup. Make sure you state things are over on no uncertain terms. For example, "I've decided I want to end the romantic portion of our relationship."Avoid phrases like, "I think we should..." and "I feel..." Such statements can make you sound uncertain.
 Many people crave closure after a breakup. If you feel comfortable giving a reason, do so. However, it can get tricky when you're leaving for someone else. If you feel like this information would be best left out, give other reasons that contributed to you choosing the other person without explicitly mentioning there's someone else.If you feel comfortable mentioning the other person, say something like, "As you know, I've also been dating Ryan. While I value the time you and I have spent together, I think Ryan is a more compatible match for me longterm. I would like to start seeing him exclusively."
For many reasons, you may rather leave the other person out. Instead of explicitly mentioning you've chosen someone else, mention the factors that contributed to your choice. For example, "I just feel like, longterm, we don't have the same goals and values. I think we would both be better off with someone who's on the same path."

, Once you've broken up with the other party, move forward. Work on establishing a new relationship with someone you love. You may have some lingering feelings for the other person, but limit contact with that person as you focus on your new romance. With time and distance, those feelings will fade.

