 You can report fraud to the FTC by visiting their Complaint Assistant website at www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov. If you are a United States citizen, you should report to the FTC if you have been the victim of identity theft, even if you reported the international fraud to EConsumer or to the IC3.
 Look at the categories listed on the left-hand side of the page. Pick the one that most accurately describes the type of fraud you are reporting. The categories are:Scams and rip-offs
Unwanted telemarketing, text, or SPAM
Mobile devices or telephones
Internet Services, Online Shopping, or Computers
Education, Jobs, and Making Money
Credit and Debit
Other

, After you click a category, you will be presented with several options for sub-categories. Pick the subcategory that most closely matches your complaint. For example, if you click on “Scams and Rip-offs,” the following subcategories appear:Counterfeit Checks
Impostor Scams
Prizes, Sweepstakes or Lotteries
Romance Scams

, To help the FTC investigate the fraud, provide as much information as possible. You will be prompted to provide the following information:How you were contacted.
The amount of money the scammer wanted you to pay.
How much you ended up paying and the method of payment (such as credit card, wire, check, etc.)
The dates of your first contact with the scammer.
The name and position of the person who contacted you.
Your personal information.
Any comments.
 If you were also the victim of identity theft, then you should report your identity theft to the FTC as well, also using the complaint assistant. Click on “Identity Theft” from the categories listed on the homepage. You will be directed to the www.identitytheft.gov website.


Click “Get Started” and then report what the identity thief used your information for: credit cards, telephone or utility accounts, debit or checking accounts, etc.Provide additional details about the theft.
After entering all requested information, you should review it and then print off your Identity Theft Affidavit. You will take this with you when you go to the police to report your identity theft.
 Someone at the FTC will be able to answer your questions if you click on the chat icon. Tech Support is available to chat Monday through Friday, 9:00 am to 8:00 pm Eastern Standard Time.