 There is no right or wrong way to grieve. There is also no right or wrong type of ritual or ceremony to have to help you overcome your grief. Doing what feels comfortable to you will feel more authentic and help you work through your loss.Don’t let anyone tell you what type of ceremony or ritual you should have to overcome your grief.
For example, your family may tell you that you should have a private ceremony for your fish. But if a public burial is what feels right to you, then do that.
Think about what will help you move through the grieving process. Write down what you want to get out of the ritual.
For instance, you might write, “I want to do something that will celebrate my friend’s life and help me remember him.”;
, Depending on the type of loss, you may want to have a formal ceremony or ritual to overcome your grief. The formal aspects, such as specific clothing, a set order of activities, etc. can provide you with structure and set some limits for your grief.There are religious and community leaders that can help you or even hold a formal event for you. This can reduce some of your stress.
For example, you might say to your rabbi, “I’d like to have a ritual for my uncle. Could you help me?”
If your loss is due to the death of a loved one, you may want to have a formal memorial ceremony.
You can also have a formal event when you are grieving for other reasons like a community center closing or a local natural disaster.
 They don’t have to be formal events held in specific settings or on specific days. A ritual or a ceremony can be anything you do to help cope with your grief.If you don’t feel up to a formal ritual or ceremony, then consider informal and more casual activities you can use to overcome your grief.


Think of activities that represent your loss. Use that activity as the ritual or part of it.
For instance, if your dog recently died but used to love walking to the store, then make a ritual of walking to the store once a day for a while.
Or, for example, you might make a ritual of writing a daily letter to your ex in your journal until you’ve gotten out all your emotions about the breakup.

