 Measure the basement area where you'll be installing the floors in order to determine the number of panels required.


Each panel is 8 sq. ft in size (24” x 48”), so to calculate how many panels you'll need, divide the total square footage of the room by 8.;
, To prepare the floor surface for installation, sweep and/or vacuum all loose debris off of your basement floor.
 In the selected starting corner, place ½” spacers at each side of the starting corner, then lay the first panel.
 Cut a connector at 22 ½” for the short end (this will allow for the 3/8” connector insert in the long side panel on either side).
 Place the 22 ½” connector in the first laid panel - this can be inserted easily by hand and a light tap with the rubber mallet will ensure a tight connection.
 Place 2 more spacers at the side of the wall and slide the second panel into the connector of the first panel. Continue on with this process until you come to the end of the wall. It may be necessary to cut the last panel of each row to fit the room size.


Remember to include the ½” spacer at the end of each row.
 Place the 4’ connectors on the long side of the panels that have just been installed.
 It's recommended that you stagger the panels in each row to provide added strength. To install the panels in a staggered pattern:


Cut a 2’ x 4’ panel in half
Measure the panel at 24” and place a mark on either side, using the straight edge to mark the center of the panel
Place a piece of 2x4 under the panel at either end, and cut the panel using a circular saw with a plywood blade

, For the second row, start back at the original starting point beside the first panel placed. Place 2 spacers at the wall, then slide the 2’ x 2’ cut panel into the long end side connector of the first panel. Tap with a mallet to secure, then continue to lay the rest of the second row using 2’ x 4’ panels. Once finished, place the 4’ connector into the second row of installed panels.
 Continue to install the panels, working from one side of the room to the other, one row at a time. The connectors will ensure a snug and tight fit.


Remember to fully insert the connectors into the groove of the panel.
For tight areas, or the last panel and row, the use of a pull bar and mallet will be required to connect the panels together.
 Once you have completed your basement subfloor installation, the ½” spacers that were placed around the room to allow proper air movement for drying may need to be left in place depending on the finished flooring options that you are planning on installing. Check the information regarding your finished flooring to see whether or not you can remove the spacers.

