 Your personal health and habits are for you and your well being, not for anyone else's. Don't get dragged down or caught up in the opinions of others. If you know you are healthy, you will feel good about yourself. So be positive and believe in yourself!



Think positive thoughts. What you tell yourself in your head can really affect how you feel and perceive the world around you. If you make a mistake, think “I’m human,” instead of, “I’m such a loser.”Don't compare yourself to others. That can get you down and then you won’t remember everything that makes you amazing!
Don’t believe that everyone on the internet is as happy as they seem. Sure, everyone on Facebook and Twitter seem to have amazing, glamorous lives. Remember that everyone has problems and struggles, and probably try to appear happier than they really are.
 Journaling, music, art – do something to express yourself in a creative way. This can help you reduce stress, learn to value your positive attributes, and feel accomplished. Experiment with hobbies and skills, and remember it doesn’t matter if you’re naturally talented – this is just for you.


Everyone can do something creative. Learn a musical instrument, draw, paint, craft, build something, or create a lovely garden.
 Body image, how you view your physical self and if you feel attractive, can be closely linked to self esteem for many people.Having positive body image is extremely important for you as a teen, since you might feel pressured by peers or media to look different than you do. Work on having positive body image by remembering these tips:Remember that your body is your own, no matter what it looks like. This is your vessel through an exciting life! Treat it with respect and appreciate it for all its uniqueness.
Recognize which elements of your appearance you can change, and which you can’t. Let go of the things you can’t change. Remember that everyone has something about themselves they don’t like very much.

Set goals to change the things you can change. If you want to lose weight, create a diet and exercise plan. If you feel like your hair is boring, experiment with a new cut.
Compliment yourself every day, at least three times per day. Tell yourself something nice and honest, something you truly feel.
 Between school, homework, friends, family, work, a partner, and personal time, you have a lot to juggle! Developing time management skills will help you get everything done you need to do and not feel overwhelmed. Develop a system that works well for you by trying some of these ideas:Make a To-Do list for the week with three columns: Have to do, Would like to accomplish (but could wait a little longer), and Want to do (leisure).
Use calendar updates on your phone or GoogleDocs for easy access to your schedule.
Break up big tasks into smaller tasks. Clean the house could break down into clean the toilets, tidy up my bedroom, and “do the dishes.”
Get ready for your day the night before. This way you won’t be scrambling in the morning and maybe forget something.
Keep your items organized by having a place for everything; it’s much harder to lose things that way.
Time yourself to learn how long things really take, versus how long you think they take. Use an app like 30/30.
 You might be stressed out if you feel edgy, tired, depressed, or guilty. Other signs that you’re too stressed are if you get headaches or have stomach trouble, can’t sleep well, often think negative thoughts, don’t enjoy things you used to, resent other people or the things you have to do, or blame other people for things that happen to you.Minimize stress by trying some of these ideas:


List the things that are stressing you out. Divide them into things you can control and things you can’t. Accept the things that you can’t change.
Make changes where you can. If you feel like you’re too busy to accomplish everything you need to, stop doing your least important activity.
Say “no” to doing things you don’t want to do or don’t have time to do. You’re not obligated to help others if it interferes with your own wellbeing.
Talk to someone, including friends, family, or a counselor. Try journaling just to vent your frustrations.
Try acupuncture, massage, relaxation techniques, or yoga. Though there is limited scientific data on how teens use complementary medicine, some people find them very beneficial., “Healthy” is not necessarily synonymous with “skinny.” Teen obesity is a major concern in some countries, especially the United States, but being underweight and malnourished is unhealthy in other ways.Many teens struggle with eating disorders like bulimia and anorexia, or unhealthy habits like over-exercising to lose weight.If you’re struggling with body image issues, seek help.


Do you avoid eating even when you’re hungry because you’re afraid to gain weight? Do you make yourself throw up after eating, use laxatives, or exercise more than one hour 5 days a week? Have you stopped having your period because you’ve lost so much weight? Eating disorders are serious and often require professional help – teens with eating disorders are more likely to get sick, die from complications, or commit suicide.For help, talk to your doctor, family, friends, school counselor, coach – anyone you trust. No one who cares about you will judge you; they’ll just want to get you help. Research symptoms and support online in your community., It’s common for teens to struggle with questions of sexuality and identity, so don’t feel alone. You might realize you’re gay, bisexual, or an alternate sexuality. Being gay isn’t a disease or something you choose to be – it’s the way you’re born.Embrace what makes you you, educate yourself about your questions, and get support from loved ones and professionals if you need it.


It might feel like a struggle to tell other people you're not heterosexual, depending on your culture, values, or fear of others’ response. Confide in a parent, friend, counselor, doctor, coach, or other person you trust. You will feel relieved and happy to be yourself, and can start to explore intimate relationships with those who interest you.
Some teens struggle with gender and identity issues – feeling like you were born as a girl but inside really feel like a boy. This is usually called being transgender, or just trans. It can be very helpful to work with a therapist or counselor who specializes in questions of gender, and stick with supportive friends and family as you learn about yourself.
 Many teens struggle with depression, anxiety, abuse, and other troubling concerns.Family problems, physical or sexual abuse, and mental health issues might make you think about self-harm or suicide.You are not alone, and it can get better!


If you are thinking about hurting yourself, talk to someone you trust immediately.
You can also call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline any time of day or night at 1-800-273-8255.
Resources about teen mental health are available online. Educate yourself about what you’re feeling, and talk to your doctor right away.

