 Explain why your family might have different rules, and why they are important. Non-autistic children might not intuitively realize why some things are upsetting or painful to an autistic family member, so it's important for you to explain.

For example, "Because Mommy is autistic, loud noises can hurt her when she is stressed. When this happens, she'll go to her room to relax. If Mommy is in her room, it's important to leave her alone, so she can feel better faster."
Encourage all children to set boundaries like "I don't want to be touched" or "I need quiet time." It's essential for autistic children to know how to assert themselves, and non-autistic children could also benefit from this skill (and learn to take the autistic family member seriously).
 Non-autistic children may get frustrated or jealous if their autistic sibling does not have to help as much with chores. If they get upset, explain why this happens.

Emphasize that chores are based on ability, not age. It may take a lot of effort for an autistic child to do chores, so it's normal for them to have less or none at all.
Explain to your other children that therapy is work, and is different from play. For example, "I know it looks like your sister's just playing, but it's actually quite hard for her. She's trying to learn certain skills that do not come easy to her. This is a chore for her, just like you have to clean your room. It's just different."
Always reassure your autistic child that they are important. Remind them that being a family member isn't dependent on doing certain things, and that the child contributes in their own, important way.
 This can be difficult sometimes. Autistic children may often need special attention. Make sure to share your time as equally as possible. Provide positive one-on-one time with all of your children.

Make a habit of giving small gestures of affection to all your children. Say things like, "I'm really proud of you" and "You did a great job on that assignment."
When you have the time, spend one-on-one time with each of your children, especially ones who haven't gotten as much attention from you lately. This can sometimes be hard to schedule, but try to get in some one-on-one time a few times per week.
 Autistic children might fear being a burden, or worry that they aren't good enough. This can especially be a problem if everyone is focusing on their flaws. Avoid making your child's current inabilities into a big deal, and work on their strengths as well as their weaknesses.

Don't make a big deal out of your child's needs. If your child can't handle something, calmly offer an alternative. This way, they're less likely to feel guilty for being disabled.
Consider whether your child has any one-on-one time that isn't taken up by therapy goals. Are you ever having fun with them, or is every interaction spent working on something?
Give your child free time to just play, without being pushed to meet predefined goals. They should be able to enjoy childhood too. (And you don't need to spend the next decade transporting your child between therapies. You also can relax.)
Encourage your child to develop their strengths and special interests.
 Your non-autistic children may sometimes be frustrated or confused. They may feel their sibling gets more attention. Reassure them regularly they are valued, but have different needs. Say something like, "We love you all the same. Lucy sometimes needs extra help when you don't. We help people when they need it, and Lucy often needs more.", Some family activities may be off limits for an autistic family member. If loud noises bother your autistic loved one, for example, going to the movies can be stressful. Try to compromise and find activities everyone can enjoy.

For example, if loud movie theaters frighten your autistic family member, home movie nights might be a lot more comfortable.

