 An over-the-counter pain killer such as aspirin, ibuprofen or antiseptic gel can be used to help numb toothaches caused by injury, decay or abscesses. It may take up to half an hour or more for the beneficial effects to be noticed. However, you should ask your doctor about potential side-effects that may be associated with the medication or any interactions it may have with herbs, foods or other medicines you may be using.Do not take painkillers on an empty stomach as this can cause stomach acid reflux.
Avoid placing aspirin or another painkiller directly against your gum as it can damage gum tissue.
Follow the manufacturer's guidelines and do not exceed the stated doses for each (usually one tablet every four hours).
Ask your dentist or doctor if your medicine contains benzocaine. Benzocaine has been linked to a rare and serious condition called methemoglobinemia, which decreases the amount of oxygen carried by the blood. If absolutely necessary, use benzocaine only as prescribed. Never use more than the recommended dose and avoid giving it to children and people with a heart or lung condition., If you frequently experience toothaches or bleeding gums, an X-ray can help your dentist understand the cause better. A dental X-ray can help your dentist detect any signs of damage or disease in your teeth that may not be visible during a regular check-up.


If you are a new patient in a dental office, your dentist may recommend getting an X-ray to determine the current status of your oral health.
Additional X-rays may be needed every few years to help your dentist detect any cavities, analyze your gum health or evaluate the growth and development of your teeth.
Tell your dentist if you are pregnant so that you can use a special apron that protects you and your child from any radiation exposure.
 Gingivitis is a form of periodontal disease, which can cause inflammation and infection of gums and tooth sockets, along with tooth decay and toothaches. It is a result of long-term plaque deposits on your teeth caused by poor dental hygiene, misaligned teeth, and ill-fitting or unclean mouth appliances, such as braces.Pregnancy, uncontrolled diabetes, and the use of certain medications may increase your risk of gingivitis.
Symptoms of gingivitis include bleeding gums (such as blood on toothbrush even when gently brushing teeth), bright red or red-purple appearance to gums, gums that are tender when touched but otherwise painless, mouth sores, swollen gums, plaque and tartar that can been seen at the base of the teeth.
If you suspect gingivitis, schedule a checkup with your dentist as soon as possible.
 See your dentist immediately if you experience any of the following with a toothache:Trouble breathing or swallowing
Fever
Pain that persists for a day or two
Signs and symptoms of infection, such as swelling, pain when you close or open your mouth, red gums, or a foul-tasting discharge.
A sinus or ear infection can also be felt as pain in the teeth. Discharge from the ears or nose may be signs of an infection.

