 To start, bring 2 cups of water to a full boil. Remove the pan from the heat, add 1 cup of dry, instant coffee, 3 1/2 cups of white sugar, and stir until everything is completely dissolved.


If your diet restricts you from consuming processed, white sugar, you can easily substitute brown sugar or your favorite type of refined sugar substitute. There are dozens of recipes out there and plenty use other varieties of sugar.;
, While water boils at 212 degrees F (100 degrees C), alcohol boils at around 172 degrees F (78 degrees C). Wait for your temperature to drop below 172 degrees before adding rum or you will be very disappointed by your Kahlua.If you don't have a cooking thermometer, your best bet is to wait about 15 or 20 minutes for it to cool down. Always err on the safer, cooler side in this situation and wait longer if you're unsure (and it still seems hot).
 What kind of rum? Well, that's up to you. Generally, it's safe to go middle-of-the-road on this part. You don't want to waste your top-shelf rum on making a Kahlua substitute, but you also don't want it to taste like mouthwash either. Any generic rum will do the trick.


You'll notice that the next recipe contains vodka. If you're a bigger vodka fan, you could keep to this recipe if you'd like and switch out the rum for the vodka, no problem. And if you have time and the supplies, why not try both and see which you like better?

, Add the vanilla bean to the container and store in the fridge for at least 30 days to age the flavor. You read that right – to make Kahlua that way your mouth pictures it, it has to be aged. That being said, recipe #3 on this guide is an instant Kahlua you can use right away, though it won't taste the same.


The vanilla needs time to infuse in to give it that essential Kahlua flavor. Vanilla extract can be substituted, but do note that the Kahlua won’t have the same rich, aged flavor.
 Attach a label to the container identifying its contents and the date it was made. That way no one mistakes it for soda! What's more, you may not remember when the 30 days is up, and a note keeps you from guessing.

