 Before selling any product online, you have to know what you're up against. If you're offering a not-so-unique product, only yours is twice as expensive, takes twice as long to ship, and your website isn't nearly as easily navigable, the customers just won't come. And, to top it off, it'll help you find your niche. You'll see what void is out there in cyberspace just waiting to be filled by you.


Where is your competition based? Are they congregating in a specific part of the web?
How much are they charging? What's the range?
Who or what is the most popular? Can you see why?
What's missing? How could the buying process for the customer be better?
Which ones would you use? Which ones would you not? Why?;
, The most amazing storefront without a good product to sell means nothing. What do you have to offer the people? How is it different than what's already out there? The customers you're dealing with have access to literally hundreds of options that are similar to yours. Why is yours best? Here's a few things to consider:


Is your product easily sold without being seen? How can you make it so that it is?
What's the lowest price you can feasibly offer?
Who's your audience? What do they expect? How can they most easily be reached online?

, It may seem a bit superfluous or a waste of time, but it's the opposite of that. Without a business plan, you're going to wind up in your mother's basement with 100 orders to be processed by tomorrow, no supplies, and in the red due to shipping fees. These things need to be sussed out in the beginning to avoid the breakdown in the system later. Start thinking along these lines:


How will you handle demand? Do you have a wholesaler? Are you creating everything yourself? What can you and can you not handle?
How will you ship your products to your customers (Hint: more on that shortly.)
What about taxes and federal regulations?
What about unaccounted-for fees? A domain name, web hosting service, marketing, advertising, etc.? Have you thought of everything?

, Online businesses are the same as brick and mortar businesses; you'll need to file tax and registration paperwork with your area (state, country --- however your region works) to make sure everything you're doing is legal.If you don't, you run serious risks of fines or even jail time. No government is fond of people running businesses under the radar, so make sure you're doing yours right.


It varies region to region. To make sure you're doing yours right, talk to friends and family members or local business owners for the inside scoop.
If you're doing work internationally, there may be additional regulations to consider.
 Social networks are the preferred way of communication for many people around the world and by having a presence on these networks, you have a way of building relationships with prospective customers. However, not all social networks are created equally, and if you're just starting out, it's important not to stretch yourself too thin by being on every network. Instead, figure out where the majority of your audience hangs out, and work on growing your presence there. As an example, if you're a women's fashion boutique, you may find that Pinterest, Instagram and Facebook are the networks you should focus on, whereas if you're a B2B eCommerce site, perhaps LinkedIn, Google+, Twitter and FB would make more sense.


And on those social networks, promote yourself. Talk about your shop. Showcase your products. Tweet photos. Update your status about promotions. Get the word out however possible.
 This is a daunting process, so let's break it down. Here are your three basic options when it comes to the format of your online business:


Use an established marketplace. This is like eBay, Amazon, or Etsy. You don't have to do much of anything but have a product you can deliver on; the rest is done for you.
Use an ecommerce site to set up your own storefront. This is an open source project or hosting solution that's basically your own site but everything (analytics, templates, payment processes, etc.) is taken care of for you. It's a happy medium between doing nothing and doing everything.
Design your own site. If you know HTML and CSS (or know someone who does who can be prodded to help), this is a highly rewarding option.

We'll cover these three scenarios in more detail in the next section.
 BigCommerce, 3dcart, Shopify, Yahoo! Merchant Solutions or osCommerce (just to name a few) are third-parties that can set up a storefront for you (this was the 2nd option we discussed above). For a fee, they'll set up your site (loads of templates to choose from with varying prices) and basically get rid of the formatting headache. All you have to do is choose your design, upload your product, choose your payment preferences, and market yourself.


In other words, if you don't know HTML or CSS and don't want the hassle of hiring a designer, this may be the way to go. It offers you more control than, say, subjecting yourself to Amazon, Etsy, or eBay.
You may want to consider this as a risk mitigation tactic. If anything were to go wrong, it's on their shoulders and not yours.
 Alright, it's a little outdated, sure. But if you're selling super unique things for a bargain price, eBay can still be your go-to. You can set your prices, watch the bids, and develop a nice reputation quite easily. It's a trusted site that's been around for ages.


But it's also been around for ages...meaning it's not exactly hip anymore. If you're looking for a constant stream of income, eBay may not be your best bet.
 Etsy is an online marketplace for arts, crafts, and vintage items. If any of those words describes your product, Etsy is the place for you. It's very simple to set up your own shop and correspond with customers -- and the website is booming, to boot.


Etsy is a community as well -- if you have any questions, they'll all be happy to help. You can join teams of buyers and sellers and become as engrossed as you like.
 Perhaps the quickest way to make a buck online is through Craigslist (if you have something people want, of course). All you have to do is write a brief post in the right section and wait for responses. However, it's not viewed as the most credible of sources. Keep this in mind if you're weighing your options.


Craigslist works best in large, metropolitan areas. If you live in a small town, it's more likely your post(s) will go unnoticed.
 Amazon isn't just for huge businesses. Who knew? All you have to do is create a seller account, list your products, and wait for the orders to roll in. Well, that's the gist of it at least.


Amazon is huge. Be sure to offer competitive pricing and bargain shipping rates to begin with. You'll be better off once you have tons of high ratings and positive feedback.
 That's a site where you design your own goods. You have templates and when someone orders something, it's made-to-order. You can post everything you're capable of creating on the site. If you're not familiar, go explore! Is what you have to offer not there?


A basic shop is free! You can, however, receive additional features for an additional monthly fee.
 Yep, Internet infomercials. Talk Market believes that if they work on TV, they can work on the Internet.It's just what it sounds like: videos promoting products (and you thought you had heard of everything). Why not?!


And as for YouTube, that's probably pretty self-explanatory. If you have a face the camera loves and a good sales pitch, create your own channel. Maybe you'll go viral!

, If you've decided to go your own route (congrats! This can be a lot easier in the long run), you'll need a domain name. A few pointers:


Go for a .com site. It's everyone's default.
Avoid long words, misspelled words, foreign words, and any words that could at all be confusing. TheabsolutebestsiteeverbecauseImsohursuit.com is not a good idea.
Try to avoid hyphens or other unnecessary symbols. Potential customers might leave them out and get confused and deterred.
 You need a web host that can give you the proper tools, provide you with adequate bandwidth and storage, and support you when you need help. It'll cost around $5-$10 a month and can be great or not so great. Some good ones to consider are DreamHost, HostGator, Bluehost, Linode, and A Small Orange. Be sure to do your research before you commit!


You'll probably want to install a "shopping cart script." They're free and the right webhost will provide the option for you. In choosing your web host, make sure it offers "cPanel" with Fantastico scripts or, if you're a Windows aficionado, Ensim Power Tools. This way, third-party scripts won't be a hassle., Remember when we said this is a good move in the long run? That's because at the end of the day, you have ultimate control. You can make nitpicky changes, you can take care of updates, you can change web hosts if you're unhappy -- in short, you can do whatever the heck you want. Excellent.


You could also hire a designer if you don't trust yourself. Be sure that you get the product you have in mind though -- don't settle for whatever they hand you just to get it over with.
 Your web host will provide this for you, but most likely at an additional cost. A designated IP address will just be the change you can find in your sofa, but an SSL certificate might run around $50 a year. Why is it necessary? Well, for starters it's a "Secure Sockets Layer." In other words, it encrypts the data, protecting your customer's information. Definitely not something you want to skip.


Domain name registrars, like NameCheap, offer certificates, too. If your web host is asking for a pretty penny, look around and to some comparison shopping. You may be able to find a cheaper one elsewhere.
 You are your own boss. You're self-employed and now your job is to get yourself and your business out there. It's great, but it's sort of a 24/7 gig. In order to get that steady flow of customers, you gotta push. Here are a few ideas:


Stay up on your social media. Do you really have to tweet again today? Yes. The answer is yes.
Get in touch with other bloggers. Getting active in a community will start establishing your credit and reputation. Especially if it's bloggers within a niche community.
Get into Google Analytics. It's totally free, too. You'll see where your customers are coming from and what they're looking for.
Consider advertising on other sites. Hey, it takes money to make money, after all.
 Unless your customers are all old blue hairs who live in the ages of P.O boxes and checks, you'll need some type of payment gateway. This is usually a fancy term for PayPal. Depending on the volume of your sales, they'll take 2.2% to 2.9% from each transaction. A pittance to pay with how easy they make it.


You could get a credit card merchant account yourself, yes. You could also use a different gateway like 2Checkout or Authorize.net. Do a little searching on the Internet to see who skims the least off the top and what's best for your business needs if you're not comfortable using PayPal.
 You have your shop and you have your product and the orders are coming in -- now how do you fill them? Turns out you don't have to keep making trips to the post office every half hour! Here are two options to consider:


You can hire out a third-party provider to store your inventory in its warehouses. They'll then get you the cheapest rates for shipping and you just have to let them know when the orders need to be fulfilled.Then there's this magic called "drop shipping." You get a wholesale shipper who takes on the inventory risk, keeps their own inventory, and you just transfer over customer orders when they come in. You have significantly less control, but it's less money down., More specifically, Google Analytics. Since technology is amazing, you might as well take advantage of it. You can see where your customers are from, what they're looking for, how much time they're spending where -- basically, what can make you successful. And since it's free, why not?


Let's be honest: the odds of your shop starting out as completely and utterly awesome from the get-go aren't great. Google Analytics will help you refine your page, making it better and better as you analyze and analyze.
 Your store will only last if you have more than just a product. So many people have a product -- you need a personality behind it, too. What's yours like?


Here's a good example:
"Thanks for your order! We hope your experience on our site was easy and almost as awesome as sunrises, breakfast in bed, and free donuts. If you experience any issues, don't hesitate to send me an email at youremail@wikiHow.com. Thanks again!"
--You, the Best Business Owner Ever

Here's a bad example:
"Your order has been completed. It's processing now and will be shipped eventually. If you have any questions, please fill out an inquiry form under the 'Contact Us' tab and it will be maybe answered eventually. Fingers crossed."
--Your Totally Non-personalized, Run-by-Robots Company

See the difference? This kind of personable, trustworthy, we-know-you're-a-real-person attitude makes you memorable and, most importantly, gets your customers to return.
 You want to stay on your customer's brains first and foremost. You want them to come back before they realize they need to come back. How do you do that? Email lists and newsletters! When your customers sign up with your site, you'll get their email, and they'll get updates and deals whetting their appetite for more of your product. Win, win, really.


Of course, if you do that, you've gotta have deals for them to hear about! It's a good idea to periodically run specials and bargains to keep the buzz going.
Make them feel special, too. Give them offers just for them based on their previous orders. This'll be an added bonus to your site that few suppliers do.
 Once the order has been placed, your job isn't over. It's in your best interest to develop a relationship with your customers. Keep a few things in mind:


Send a confirmation email for every placed order. Be sure to also send an email when everything has been shipped. If there are any additional issues, keep them informed through additional emails even still.
Ask for feedback! When all is said and done, send a quick email asking them how their experience was. The more feedback you have, the better your business will be -- and the more word of mouth you can spread yourself!
Feel free to follow up with a deal after their first purchase. This can often turn one-time customers into frequent buyers. Show them you're paying attention!

, Though it's not 100% necessary, it's definitely a good idea. If you have the skills to manage your own storefront's design, you'll be able to take charge. If you don't, you leave everything else up to other people. Learning these things will help you create a product you believe in that you think your customers want. With no middleman, things go a lot faster.


Knowing the ins and the outs of the Internet will only do you good. You'll be able to keep up on the next hottest thing and stay on the cutting edge. When you have to rely on others, that's not so easy to do. Learning HTML and CSS is a surefire way to make sure you're ahead of the curve.

