 Usually pink tights are requested, but sometimes studios will want black or tan tights. Some studios don't have any preference. Check with your studio to see which color of tights they prefer. Also, check which style they prefer. There are many styles, from simple no-seam footed, to convertible foot with seam and mesh! Again, some studios may not have any preference, and you can choose which you think is most comfortable. If you are doing pointe work, you may want convertibles for your feet—these have holes on the bottom of the foot. This will make it easier to put on toe pads if you put them inside your tights.;
, Black is most commonly preferred, but dress codes differ between studios. Some studios don't have a preference. Check to see which color and style your studio prefers, whether it be camisole, tank, short-sleeved, or any other style they have out there.
 You can do this by pulling the hair back into a neat high ponytail, then twisting the hair until it coils around the elastic. Add bobby pins, U pins, and a hair-net. Use hairspray or clips if you have any whispy bits of hair that need taming. If the hair is too short to create a bun, just pull it back into a ponytail. If you have questions about hair, you can ask your studio's instructor.
 Most studios want pink, but some have different preferences. Go to a dance wear retailer and have them fit you for shoes. Ask your studio for which color and model they prefer. Most will not have a specific model that they require, but it is always good to ask. Make sure they fit your feet well: if they are too big, your foot will look flat. If they are too small, your feet will be crammed and dancing will be harder.
 Other studios want students to wear a colored hip-alignment belt to differentiate between levels. Ask you studio about additional uniform pieces.
 They will tell you what they want in a shoe, and can help you choose what is best for your feet! DO NOT buy pointe shoes before they give you the ok. These are quite dangerous and can badly injure you if you are not ready.

