 Looking somewhat like an upside down "L," the Ojibwa Bird Pole has been a staple of indigenous hunters in Canada for centuries. Birds perch on a small horizontal branch, which you rig to fall under their weight. They are then caught in a noose positioned underneath before they can fly away. You'll need:



The Pole: A large branch, roughly the width of a few fingers and 5-6 feet long.

The Perch: A pencil-thin stick, roughly six inches long.
A rock, roughly the size of your fist.
A 3-4 foot cord or rope, shoestrings and sleeping bag chords will work.
A knife.;
, You drive the bottom side into the ground, so it needs to be sharp enough to plant. The sharpened top end prevents a bird from landing on the top, not your perch.
 It should be as wide as your smaller stick. Your perch is inserted into this hole, as well as the string.
 You just want the rock secured to one end of the string. You can use any knot that will keep the rock in place.
 The knot should be small enough that the string can still move freely through the post hole. The stick will jam in next to the string, creating the perch and also holding the string, and thus the rock, in place.


The knot should be able to move freely through the hole in the pole when the stick isn't jammed in.
Some trappers tie the small knot first, then put the stick in. Others put the stick in first. Experiment with what works for you.
 The perch should be right next to the string, though the string should still move freely. This "perch" needs to fall under the weight of the bird in order to snare it, so don't jam it in too tightly.


You should have two feet of string or more on the other side of your knot., Make a noose big enough to fit your fist through. If you're unfamiliar with the slip noose knot, you can still make one easily with some practice:


Double the string back on itself to make a U-shaped loop.
Run the end of the string back towards the top of the loop. It will look a bit like a flattened "S."
Wrap the end of the rope around the doubled line 2-3 times.
Pull the rope tight, cinching the wrap around the doubled string., You'll be left with a circle of rope draped over your perch. The end of the noose will be at the end of the perch, and the noose knot itself will be close to the pole. You should have two semi-circles of rope draped off of the stick.
 An overhand knot is simply when you create a loop and pull the string through. All you have to do is wrap the end around the rope near your hole, creating a circle, then run the end through that circle. This should be right at the point where your two sticks meet., As you do, the weight of the rock should pull the rope through the hole, which will quickly tighten the noose and grab your finger. Note, however, that these traps are very variable. Play with the size of the noose and the perch -- the closer they are to the same size, the more effective your trap will be. Also, try and tie the smallest knot possible in the beginning so that the rope can move freely through the hole -- you want it to snap shut quickly once the stick is removed.
 These traps are effective in open fields, where it is the best place for the bird to land. In the forest, most birds will choose tree branches.For more effective traps, place a little birdseed on the trap, adhering it with peanut butter.
 Small birds, which are about all this trap can handled only provide about 100 calories apiece. Unless you have 4-5 successful traps, there are much better ways to look for food, including insects and game traps for rabbits and squirrels. Still, especially in the winter, these traps can be a viable source of nutrition when paired with other survival methods.