 Shock is a serious medical condition that can quickly worsen, so if you suspect a person might be experiencing shock, call 911 or your local emergency number as soon as possible. Medical and emergency professionals will know what to look for and how to effectively treat shock.;
, Although any injury, illness, or disease that restricts blood flow can lead to shock, some medical problems are more likely to produce this condition than others. To evaluate whether someone might be suffering from shock, check the following list of some of the common causes of this condition and the terms for the type of shock that results:Heart problems, including heart attack or heart failure, can cause cardiogenic shock.A severe allergic reaction may lead to anaphylactic shock.If someone has low blood volume due to heavy bleeding (external or internal) or even dehydration, he might experience hypovolemic shock.When someone has a major infection, he might experience septic shock.In the event of a brain or spinal injury that damages the nervous system, neurogenic shock can occur.
Traumatic events such as accidents, disasters or assaults can lead to physiological shock

, The symptoms of shock vary depending on the type of shock and the condition that caused the body to experience shock. Refer to the list below so that you can recognize some of the common symptoms associated with shock.Low blood pressure
Rapid pulse and breathing
Sweating
Shallow breathing
Nausea or vomiting
Dilated or enlarged pupils
Weakness or fatigue
Dizziness or fainting
Skin that is cool, clammy, or pale
Bluish lips and fingernails
Anxiety, agitation, confusion, or changes in a person’s behavior or mental status

, Remember, if you suspect someone is experiencing shock, it is best to seek medical help as soon as possible. Don’t wait for symptoms to get more severe, as shock symptoms can progress rapidly.
 If the person is not showing signs of life (ie: no breathing, no carotid pulse), start CPR. An untrained person should only attempt chest compressions, not rescue breathing. Ask the 911 operator to talk you through the process if you don't already know how.


You might find this wikiHow article on how to perform CPR helpful.
 Depending on your location, it might be some time before emergency services are available to help. Taking the following steps will help stabilize the person experiencing shock if her condition appears to deteriorate and it is taking time for medical help to arrive.



Offer first aid for visible wounds and injuries.
Make the person comfortable. Provide her with a blanket and loosen restrictive clothing.Keep her from eating or drinking. Since the person may be unable to swallow, it’s best to avoid giving her anything to eat or drink to reduce the risk of choking.

Turn her onto her side if she vomits or begins bleeding from the mouth. This will help prevent choking. Proceed with caution if you think the person might have a spinal injury.
If a person with a possible spinal injury is choking, try to keep her head, neck, and back in line while rolling both the body and head together., Only attempt this if the person does not have an injury to the head, neck, leg, or spine. This position helps improve blood flow to vital organs.Lay him on his back and elevate his legs above the heart (about 8 – 12 inches).
Do not elevate his head or place a pillow under his head.
If you think this position might cause the person any pain, it’s best to leave him lying flat and wait for emergency help to arrive.
 Even if the person seems to be breathing normally, continue to monitor her condition until help arrives. You can provide this information to emergency services when they arrive.
 You can help reassure and comfort the individual who might be experiencing shock. In addition, you can also monitor the person's condition until help arrives and provide valuable information to the paramedics.
 One of the most effective ways to prevent shock is to understand who is at risk. The conditions and situations listed below increase the likelihood of shock: Severe injury
Blood loss
Allergic reactions
Anemia
Infections
Dehydration
Heart problems
Drug and alcohol use

, While you can’t anticipate all injuries, accidents, or diseases that might lead to shock, you can take some preparatory measures against this medical condition.For example, if you or someone you know has a known allergy, make sure to carry an epinephrine pen to reduce the risk of anaphylactic shock or a severe allergic reaction.
Stay hydrated to prevent the body from going into hypovolemic shock.Research ways to reduce the risks of heart disease and cardiogenic shock and what activities and situations can increase risk of shock in these individuals., Regular exercise and a healthy diet prevent some of the major diseases that increase risk of shock. You should also schedule regular physicals and talk with your doctor or a medical professional about any underlying conditions that might lead to shock.
 Taking a first-aid class will help you get the training you need to assess whether someone might be experiencing shock and offer advice on how to care for that person until medical professionals can take over.


Local hospitals and community centers often organize these classes or can direct you to resources in your area.
You can also find courses through the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, St. John Ambulance and the National Safety Council.

