 Visit the appropriate court (county, state, appellate, supreme, etc.) and ask an employee to show you to the court record archives. The archives might be organized by year, by case type, or by both. Ask the person who directs you to the archives how to find the record you need.


You can view the record for free, but will need to pay a fee if you want to make copies.
Depending on how much space they have, the court may have moved older records to a different location. If so, ask whether you should visit that location or submit a request for the clerk to have the file sent back to the court archives.
 If you don’t want to search the archives yourself, you can fill out paperwork to have the clerk’s office do the work for you. The process may vary from court to court, so read through the instructions carefully. While some courts will ask you to send your request through the mail, others might ask you to visit the clerk in person.
 The court’s website might say that you must mail your records request to them. Copy the address carefully to ensure your request reaches the right office. Include a self-addressed, stamped envelope so they can mail the record back to you. Make sure it’s big enough to hold the entire document! The website might ask you to download and print off a request form, or just to write a letter asking for a criminal record. Look first for a form, but if you’re writing a letter, include the following information:


The defendant's full, legal name
His or her date of birth
The specific documents you would like to see. For example:

A trial docket (all the materials filed during a trial)The minutes for a specific court date
The sentencing document



, If the court doesn’t allow mailed requests, visit the clerk’s office in person. You can either fill out the request form there or deliver your request letter. Bring as much information as possible with you, so you don't have to come back for a second trip with more information.


The benefit of submitting your request in person is that you can ask questions to the person helping you out. Don't be shy! If you have any questions, ask them before you leave the office.
 Some courts are now allowing access to digital records, but these records are not free. You will most likely have to pay for downloads. The clerk’s office will likely charge you for every page they have to copy for you. Estimate how many pages the record will be, and include that amount with the request.


If you are mailing your request, search the website for a "fee schedule" that tells you how much it costs to print each page.
If you are submitting your request in person, ask the person at the desk to help you figure out how much you owe.
Some offices only ask you to cover the costs up to a certain amount. They might ask you to write "Not to exceed $10" or "Not to exceed $35" on the check you write., If you provided a self-addressed, stamped envelope, the clerk's office will send you the records in the mail. If not, they will call you to let you know when you can pick the records up in person.

