 Ovulation charts are useful for combining results from your vaginal discharge and basal body temperature (BBT) that can be used to identify trends in your cycle. Although you are having irregular periods, start the tracking on the first day of your period.The first day of your period is day one. If your menstrual cycle is irregular, then you may bleed every 21-35 days for 2-7 days, perhaps with some spotting.Number each of the days preceding your period. When you start a new period, then that is your new day one.
Figure out the number of days your cycles approximately last for a few months. Then try to see if there is an average number that emerges as time passes.
 Create a chart that has temperatures ranging from 97.0 to 98.0 degrees Fahrenheit in increasing increments of 0.1 degrees on the X-axis and the days of your cycle on the Y-axis.Put a dot on the temperature that corresponds your BBT reading under the corresponding day of your cycle. This way you can see if there are fluctuations from day to day in your BBT.
Connecting the dots allows you to track trends more easily from a visual perspective.
There is a drop and then a dramatic spike in your BBT when you ovulate, indicating the two most fertile days of your cycle.
You can find a sample chart at BabyCenter.com., Create an easy to understand key describing your vaginal discharge. For example, D can indicate the dryness that occurs after your menstrual cycle, B can stand for a period, R can stand for regular white discharge, and F can stand for stringy, clear fertile discharge. Compare your descriptions of your discharge against observations from previous cycles and see if your discharge changes consistency within an average range of dates. This can give you a better idea of how your irregular cycle lengths may vary.
 With irregular periods, it can be frustrating and hard to find patterns that indicate when you are most fertile. Your ovulation chart helps you see if there are certain trends that emerge.With irregular menstrual cycles, it can be hard to get a clear cut average, but you can at least better estimate when you evaluate within a range of a few days.
 A frustrating aspect of having an irregular menstrual cycle is being unprepared for your period. You can use an ovulation chart to get a better idea about your cycle length based on averages from previous cycles.You can also see an average of bleeding days emerge from your data, helping you to better prepare for your period when it comes.

