 You most likely won’t win a battle with a toddler who is at the height of enjoying her playtime if you start telling her its bath time. Instead, create a routine for your toddler so that she develops an understanding of when bath time will occur.


Stick to this schedule and have bath time at the same time each day. For example, your toddler’s routine could involve playing outside, eating dinner, and then taking a bath. If you were to have your toddler take a bath before eating dinner, she will be less inclined to do it because it will disrupt the regular schedule.
 Once you have created a routine for your toddler, try to stick to it as much as possible. Toddlers rely heavily on routines, which means that if something gets done out of order, your toddler is more likely to feel uncomfortable with the activities she has to do, like taking a bath.


Of course, there are days where a change in routine is unavoidable. What to do in these situations is discussed in the next step.
 If there is no way to avoid a change in the schedule, sit your child down when she is in her best possible mood. Calmly explain to her the reason that the schedule is being changed and what will happen (ie. she needs to take a bath right after dinner so there’s a chance she will have to miss playing with her doll after dinner, and before going to bed).


However, you should also remind her that if she takes a bath quickly and does not put up a fight, there still may be time to play with her doll before bed.
 Tell your toddler that you expect her to be clean all that time, and that in order to be clean she has to take a bath. Explaining your expectations to your child will help her to understand the importance of bathtime.
 To make bath time run as efficiently as possible, prepare for it before bathtime actually begins. Have the tub ready and waiting for your toddler. Other ways to prepare include:


Fill the tub with warm water that is the right temperature for your toddler
Have a washcloth nearby, as well as your toddler’s body wash and shampoo. Keep these last two items out of your toddler’s reach.
Hang your toddler’s towel near by so that you can be ready to rub her down when she gets out of the tub.
Make sure that her diapers and pajamas or day clothes are set and ready so that you can help her get dressed immediately.
Place a mat that you can kneel on next to the tub. This will help keep your knees from getting hurt.






Place a no-slip grip on the bottom of the bathtub so that your child cannot slip while standing in the tub.

