 If you do not know for certain whether or not your version of Adobe Flash is up to date, check it by visiting the "Find Version" page on the Adobe site. This page will automatically tell you which version you have and whether or not it needs an update.


This page can be found at: http://helpx.adobe.com/flash-player/kb/find-version-flash-player.html

Chances are, if you are wondering about how to update your version of Adobe Flash, the issue has been brought to your attention because your Internet browser notified you that of a “Blocked Plug-in” when you tried viewing Flash content.Click on this notice to bring up a window stating “'Adobe Flash Player' is out of date.”
In this alert box, click on the button that reads "Download Flash.”



, Close all open applications to prevent anything from interfering with the download and installation processes. The only program you should have open is your Internet browser, and you should not have any tabs open within the browser other than the tab used to download the installation file.


The installation process will make several changes to your computer, so it is always recommended that you close out all applications, folders, and files not needed to complete the process. Doing so can help prevent installation errors and the loss of information.
 If you do not click on a "Download Flash" button in an alert box, you will need to navigate to the Adobe download page to download the correct file.


Access the page at: http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/

Choose your operating system and the version of flash you want to download from the corresponding drop-down menus.
Click on the "Download Now" button to start the download.
 A Flash Player window should appear in the Finder after the installation file finishes its download. Click on the disk image to open the installer, and follow the on-screen instructions to finish installing the update.If asked whether or not you want to open the installer, click on the "Open" button in the alert box.
When prompted, enter the user name and password you use to log into your computer. This is necessary since Adobe Flash Player will be making changes to your computer.
When asked to update your Flash Player Preferences, check the "Allow Adobe to install updates" option and click on the "Next" button in the window.
Let the installation process finish on its own from this point. When done, you should see a message that says "Installation succeeded." Click on the "Finish" button to complete the process.
 Once the process is done, you should restart your browser by closing out of it and opening it back up again. You can check your version to verify that the update took hold by visiting the same “Find Version” page listed earlier in these instructions.


Note that in some cases, this quick process will not work. If the update fails, you should try a clean update of Adobe Flash, in which you will uninstall any old version manually before re-installing a new version.

