 It is important to go into the websites to change your account settings, because if you only unsubscribe in an email, it will only stop you from receiving one type of email notification. In addition, you will continue to receive other emails from the website. For example, Twitter and Facebook are examples of websites that will send you multiple notices.
 On Facebook, Twitter, and many other sites, the settings tab is in a drop down menu located in the top right corner of your home or profile page. Click on the small profile picture in the upper right hand corner of the screen. Then click on the Settings tab in the drop down menu .
 The notifications tab will most likely be on the left hand panel of your screen. It is halfway down the list of notifications options listed on both Twitter and Facebook.
 You will see other other notifications settings, for example, you can also change the web notifications settings. Ignore those and go to your email notifications.
 You can turn off the more frequent notifications. For example, when someone comments on posts you are tagged in. On the other hand, you can choose to keep notifications that you do want to receive. For example, you can choose to keep some notifications turned on, like when someone adds you as a friend.


Turn off all notifications. If you want to turn them all off at once, you can also do that. At the top of your Notifications page, check the box to only receive emails about your account, security and privacy. To turn off all emails on Twitter, click on the blue button that says Turn off.
 If you are also receiving spam on your phone, unsubscribe from the notifications you are receiving. Either above or below the tab Email Notifications you will see a tab for Mobile.


If you want to continue receiving particular notifications, do not click on the notifications you like to continue to receive.
If the mobile notification page asks for your phone number, do not enter your number. You are not receiving their notifications through your mobile phone. Even though your email notifications may appear on your phone, those have now been handled.

