 If a product contains this label, then you can have reasonable confidence that this product is hypoallergenic. However, be aware that the label “hypoallergenic” is not regulated by the FDA in the U.S. Therefore, any company can define hypoallergenic for itself, which means that these products may still contain ingredients that your cat is allergic to., Because hypoallergenic products may still contain irritating or harmful ingredients, you should examine the ingredient lists of all products before purchasing them. In general, avoid products that contain artificial dyes, fragrances, mineral oils, parabens, petrochemicals, and sodium laurel sulphate.Avoid products that contain essential oils, as cats are often sensitive to them.
Many “natural” products may still contain harmful chemicals, so be sure to check these products’ ingredient lists as well.
 Many flea and tick products contain harmful chemicals for cats. Avoid flea products that contain pyrethrins/pyrethroids, organophosphate pesticides (OPs), and carbamates. Instead, choose flea products that contain safer chemicals like pyriproxyfen and s-methoprene. Oral flea medications may be a better option.Avoid products that contain permethrin, pyrethrin, or other pyrethroids. If a chemical on the ingredients list ends in “-thrin” that is a sign that the product contains pyrethroids. These are common in flea shampoos, dips, and spot-on products labeled for dogs. Some cat products contain pyrethroids in low concentrations. Cats are sensitive to these compounds, which can cause tremors, seizures, and even death.
Avoid products that contain OPs like tetrachlorvinphos.
Avoid products that contain carbamates like carbaryl and propoxur.
Your veterinarian will have the best idea about what flea and tick products work well in your area, and will be able to recommend a product that is less likely to cause a reaction in your cat.
 If you are unsure about a product, you can always double-check with your veterinarian. Your veterinarian can recommend hypoallergenic products that cater specifically to your cat’s allergies. Additionally, your veterinarian can recommend grooming products that are safe and non-toxic.