 Take all of your ideas, and write each one down on a notecard. On a clean table, lay out each notecard facing up so that you can see all of your ideas spread out. Move around ideas into a logical order. Remove any cards that are no longer productive, and add new cards to fill in gaps. This will help you visually order your ideas. When you are done, stack the cards in their proper order, and keep them safe until you are ready to make your ideas reality.
 Write your main idea down in the middle of a sheet of paper. Trace a circle around it. Draw related themes, ideas, or solutions around the central idea. Next to these smaller ideas, write other concepts, thoughts, or word associations. As more ideas comes to you, connect the ideas with lines. Lines can interconnect, zigzag, or even branch off into other circles., You may know where you want to end up, but you may not know how to get there. If you are struggling to fill in the gaps, try thinking of the major steps that will help you get to your goal. Next, divide those big ideas into more manageable tasks. Continue to become more and more specific in your steps until you have a plan of action.For example, if you are brainstorming ways to make your office environmentally friendly, your first steps may be to identify office waste, educate your employees, and invest in clean energy products. You will then want to come up with four or five steps for each category. To invest in clean products, you may decide to buy LED lightbulbs, install solar panels, put in low-flow toilets, and recycle your paper.
 Cubing is a process where you sit down with a general idea or problem and write about it from six different angles. Cubing can help you flesh out weak ideas or develop strong supporting evidence. Write down the following six headings, and answer each prompt with at least a paragraph.Describe the problem.
Compare it to other situations.
Associate the problem with similar topics.
Analyze the problem and its solutions.
Apply it to real world situations.
Argue for and against it.

