 Cluttered counter space is a major contributor to a messy and unorganized kitchen. Store everything that normally goes in a cupboard or the pantry back to its rightful place. Consider adding backsplash storage above your countertops. Instead of storing your coffee, sugar, cooking oils and whatever else on the counter, you can install rods or rails to hang baskets or caddies from. This not only adds a nice organized look but makes cleaning regularly much simpler. You can also add a floating shelf to store spices and such, keeping your counter space free.
Store appliances you don't use every day in a cupboard. If you don’t toast bread every day, you can store your toaster to free up counter space.
Clear as you cook. Keeping a clean kitchen is easiest when you don’t let a mess build up. When cooking, make sure to clean and clear your ingredients, pots, pans, and utensils when you’re done with these items.
Put your spices and ingredients back where these items belong when you finish. If you use a bowl to mix something, clean it or throw it in the dishwasher as soon as you can.
Do your dishes right after your meal. Whatever you didn’t get to before you finished cooking should be taken care of right after your meal. It will take you less time and keep you more organized than if you wait until there’s a huge pile of dishes.
 Go through your cabinets and drawers and throw out anything you don’t use.


If you have six spatulas and you only ever use three, get rid of the other three.
Reach to the back of your cupboards and find the coffee mugs you haven’t used and toss those as well. The more mugs, cups, and utensils you have, the easier it is to let dishes pile up.
Go through your Tupperware and any older appliances. Check to make sure that every component is there. If something is missing a piece or part, get rid of it. Throw out grimy Tupperware and appliances you never use.
Clean out any miscellaneous items you have like ketchup packets, powders, and plastic silverware.
 Similar items should go near each other for the best organization.


Mugs and glasses should be near each other. Plates and bowls together. And Silverware near cooking utensils.
Store items close to where you use these items. It’s a good idea to keep your plates and glasses close to your sink and dishwasher area. Doing this helps you to stay on top of cleaning.
Store your lids for your Tupperware in one large container and stack your Tupperware bowls inside one another next to it.
 Go through your fridge and pantry and take everything out. Throw away any food that is stale or gone bad.


Before you put anything back in, give both areas a good wipe down with disinfectant and water. You want to clean off any stains and bacteria.
Store like food items together strategically. In your pantry, put all the cereals together. Put the snacks in another area. See if you can have a healthy area and a snack area. Or, separate items by meal. Put your breakfast stuff at the top, lunch in the middle, and dinner at the bottom.
In your fridge, put your milk and other perishable liquids in the actual fridge, not the door. The opening of the door can cause liquids to splash around, sometimes leaking out. And the warm air can get to your items easier. Store food of like colors together. And keep your meats on the bottom shelf. Meats will sometimes leak juices. Place meat on the bottom so nothing leaks on anything else.
 Now it’s time to clean your cleared off surfaces, stovetop, and the floor. Dust first and wipe off every surface, then sweep, vacuum, and mop.


Dusting with a dust rag or dust wipes will pick up most of the dust from your surfaces but also cause some to flutter down to the floor. Don’t forget the tops of your cabinets.
Sweep next to remove any fallen dust and get the dirt off the floor. Make sure to get every corner and under all your appliances like your fridge, dishwasher, and oven.
Once you’ve swept away the cobwebs, vacuum to pick up anything else, and then mop the area to really clean it. You should also wipe down your sink and cabinets.
 Your kitchen gets a lot of traffic. Spending five minutes each day will keep it clean and organized.


Wipe down the stove top after you cook on it to keep grime from building up.
Don’t go to bed with any dishes in the sink.
Check your expiration dates every day. Before turning in for the night, do a once over in your fridge to make sure you don’t have any spoiled food. This keeps your fridge uncluttered and clean.

