 Remove all the things that are unnecessary from your living area. If possible, make a habit of keeping all possessions in their own places.


You can keep your things at one certain place in your living area. So, you always know where to get them. For example, have a small container to always put your keys there. This way you can keep things organized.;
, A clean space gives you much more inspiration than an uncleared one. Keep a schedule to clean your space with cleaner once or twice a week.


To keep yourself reminded, keep the note of your routine where you can always see it. For example, hang it on your fridge so that you won't forget!

, This will not only add beautiful decoration in your living area but also will create a difference with the presence of mild smell. The smell can be soothing, calming or refreshing as you prefer your favorite type of scented candles. It never goes wrong in case of lifting up one's mood.


If you want to approach natural aroma then you can defuse essential oils. If you don't want to spend the money to buy diffuser then make brew to fill your house with beautiful smell. Recipes of brews are available on many popular websites.
 If you embrace artistic paintings then you can have one in your living area or you may like to have some bright colored pillows. If you prefer something natural then plants can be a great option too!

, Having beautiful flowers around you can be refreshing and calming. You don't always need to get outside to enjoy the beauty of flowers!

, Regardless of how tired you feel when you come back home from work, soothing music in the background can always cheer you up. Lay back on your couch and relax for a moment with gratitude. You will be amazed to see how the slow music is healing you up from your weariness.
 To feel special you really don't need anything dramatic. Somethings the simplest things in our daily lives can make us feel special.


For example, you can make a special dessert or treat for you loved one. Put a note on the fridge about it. Let them discover it.
You can also keep some treats available on your kitchen counter. Such as, spa water, detox water (whatever you name it) which doesn't take time to make. You can always look up for ideas on the web.







