 For many people wealth means vacations, second houses, and the latest gadgets. For some wealth means the freedom not to worry about money any more. Either way, you need to have a clear picture in your head of "retiring rich" so that you can take proactive steps to make this happen.


Your definition of "rich" will change throughout your life, but you should plan for your retirement regardless.
 Start by calculating how much money you spend currently per month. Factor in any loans or payments you owe as well as any incoming costs such as home repair, medical bills, or children's education. Generally, you need 80% of the money you currently earn to live an equivalent lifestyle when you stop working. Ask yourself a few questions to find out how much more or less you'll need:


How much do I need to live per month?
How much do I want to travel during retirement?
What age do I want to retire at?

, Once you know what you want to spend, compare that too how much you have saved up already. If you want to retire on $1,000,000 but you only have $800,000 saved up, then you will need to take steps to save an extra $200,000 before you retire.


Having this number is crucial for accurate financial planning, as it gives you a tangible goal to reach.
 After the age of 50 you are eligible to invest an extra $5,000 to your 401(k) and $1,000 to your IRA each year. Keep saving your money and reap the return investment when you are ready to stop working.
 At the age of 62 you are eligible for Social Security, and you may also be eligible for your work pension. Be sure to file for government benefits and Talk to your HR department to see if you are entitled to any retirement money.


If you wait to file for SS until age 66, you can make almost 33% more. , Once you've been saving for a long time you have a lot more options for your money, and a wide variety of investments gives you more opportunities for profit and leaves you less susceptible to crashes. Some options to consider are:


Stocks
Bonds
Property
Houses
Foreign Currency
401(k)s, IRA's, Savings Accounts

, As you grow closer to retirement, a market crash could leave you with a fraction of the money you expected. Though you still want a balanced portfolio, moving money to low-risk investments like bonds and savings accounts will ensure that you don't lose your nest egg suddenly.


For a general guideline return to the "Rule of 100" discussed in early sections.
Consider handing your portfolio over to a financial adviser who, for a fee, will manage your investments for you to make a potentially larger profit.

