 The only way you can keep up is to have a good handle on his/her essence and understand what exactly makes him/her a hipster. However, avoid direct copying--doing so will only make you look crazy and a little creepy.


Find out what’s not trending and follow that. As crazy as it sounds, a true hipster acts like he/she marches to the beat of a solo drummer. If a certain style is popular, steer clear of that particular style. The same goes for music, art and pop culture. Look for the most obscure entity and dig that.
Study his/her appearance and style. Outward appearance will give you the first indication that you are dealing with a hipster. How does your hipster friend dress from day to day? Most likely you are surprised on an ongoing basis with the outfits he/she emerges in daily so be ready to search for a pattern. Also, hair and makeup or skin is another important feature to study. Does this person wear a popular style or is it something far out of the ordinary?
Write down certain catch phrases and habits. Not only is appearance importance, but also mannerisms are equally as vital. Also, hipsters seem to have certain catch phrases they like to use. Figure out what they are and keep them in mind ( but avoid dropping them too often or else you’ll look like a copycat).;
, Typically most hipsters may not overtly say they are smarter than the rest of the population, but usually think this to be true. If you really want to keep up with your hipster friend, you’ll have to know what’s going on in the world so you can contribute some smart facts during a conversation.


Read the global headlines. Glean the front page of a reliable news resource such as CNN or MSNBC for the latest on world events. Look for articles that surround politics and policy, which could most likely be brought up during dinner or drinks.
Don’t neglect local news. The notion of “think globally, act locally” applies especially for hipsters. Read news about local elections and hot topics. Try to draw a correlation from local to national and then global in order to make you look even smarter.
Troll local event rags. In addition to mainstream media, check out the local, hipster papers that discuss controversial and alternative ideas and events. Find out when the hot bands are playing in your area and discover where the newest, “impossible to get into” restaurant is located.
 Keeping up with your hipster friend means that you will need to be well rounded not only on serious and world events, but also pop culture. Making a Kim Kardashian joke takes finesse and even a little background knowledge so know what you are talking about (and what’s being discussed at the hipster table) by taking a trip down tabloid lane.


Consider following pop culture comedians. People like Kathy Griffin or Bill Maher, who dish solely on celebrity or political faux pas may be helpful in arming you with good insight into stardom ridiculousness.
Check out the tabloids--but only for fodder. Don’t take the headlines seriously, but at least if the notion is raised about a certain celebrity’s breast augmentation, you’ll know what people mean.
Listen to alternative music. Avoid mainstream radio and hit the alternative satellite radio bandwidth. Get into an obscure (hopefully up and coming) band, which you can encourage your hipster friend to listen to as well.
 In a society so married to their electronics, hipsters act as though they don’t require mainstream media to sustain their interest.


Buy a lot of books. Hipsters proclaim to be fans of the written word, however not “Fifty Shades of Grey” books, but great works or deep political or award winning works of fiction. If at all possible, purchase books that most people would never attempt to read on their own such as “Ulysses” where you’ll need a book to translate what’s in the book.
No TV. No sitcoms or (gasp) reality TV for the true hipster. In fact you won’t find a single television set in many hipster’s homes. It’s just not cool to watch the boob tube.
No land line. Land lines are for old people. A real hipster only uses a cell phone because he/she is always on the move and too busy to be lolly-gagging at home. Pick up an iPhone or Android--something that will allow you to accomplish just about anything via phone.
Only watch podcasts or foreign films and then discuss them at length during dinner. Obscure or foreign films are a favorite amongst hipsters. The more surreal the better so check out the Sundance Channel or IFC (but don’t tell anyone you are actually watching TV) to find out what’s being watched. Also, podcasts are pretty popular if they surround science or the environment. Check one out on your laptop and take notes while it’s on.

