 Sketch a sideways cone with a rounded point. Leave the base of the cone open.


The two slanted edges do not need to mirror one another. The bottom edge should be fairly horizontal, but the upper edge should slant upward at an approximate 45-degree angle.
Both lines should stop at the same imaginary vertical boundary, however.
 Draw a vertical triangle at the end of top muzzle line. Draw another vertical triangle just behind the first, but make it slightly smaller and partially hidden behind the first.


The sides of the "front" ear should be roughly two-thirds the length of the upward muzzle line.
Leave the bottom for the "front" ear open and the bottom of the "rear" ear closed.
 Draw a slightly curved line that comes down from the end point of the "front" ear triangle. This will be the back of the neck.


Draw a straight line coming down from the end of the bottom muzzle line. This will be the front of the neck.
The two lines should be nearly parallel, but the front neck line should be nearly twice as long as the back neck line.
 Sketch a downward-pointing arc starting at the bottom of the back neck. This arc should extend downward and away from the head.


The first arc will only be the back of the kangaroo.
To attach the tail, draw a straight line from the end of the back arc, keeping the connecting point smooth instead of sharp.

Draw a second line from the tip of the tail, extending back toward the body. This second line should end where the first began, and the two combined should form a slightly curved triangle.
 Draw the front leg just beside the end point of the front neck line. Sketch a gently curved line for the stomach on the opposite side of the front leg.


The top part of the front leg should angle back and away from the head; the middle part should be twice as long and should angle down and forward, gradually becoming more narrow near the bottom; the final part should be an enclosed-half circle for the paw.
Note that the belly line should be roughly the same size as the middle part of the front leg.
 The back leg has the shape of a capital "L," and both the top and bottom of the leg should be the same size. Position the back leg at the end of the belly line.


Sketch an arc at the front of the back leg (where it connects to the belly). This arc should open toward the back leg itself.
Sketch another arc from the back of the back leg. This arc should open toward the first and will create the rear of the animal. Make sure that it connects the leg to the bottom opening of the tail.
 The existing legs are those "nearest" the viewer. Draw two slightly smaller but otherwise identical legs along the underside of the body to represent the "furthest" legs.


Position the second front leg to the inside of the first, somewhere near the top of the belly.
Position the second back leg just a little above the first.
 Draw a small arc from the front of the muzzle to represent the nose. Place a dot just beneath the top muzzle line, halfway between the nose and the ear; this represents the eye.


The kangaroo is finished once you finish drawing the face.

