 You need to first realize that the decision to have sex is personal. You have every right to choose when, where, how, and with whom that takes place.If you decide to have sex, determine and analyze your reasons. Make sure they don't include pleasing others while disregarding your own comfort with the decision.


Respect your needs and insist that others respect your needs too.
Having sex is a decision that you and your partner should make together.;
, No matter what your social group or media messages say, if you want to wait before having sex, trust those feelings. Knowing yourself gives you self-confidence and the ability to stand your ground against peer pressure. Although your peers will tell you that everyone is having sex, don't believe them. Your body belongs to you, not your peers, so the decision to have sex belongs to you, not your peers.


Some tips for countering peer pressure include spending time with friends who are like-minded when it comes to sex and always having a backup plan should you find yourself in a situation where you feel pressured., “Ready” isn’t just about the first time you have sex in your life, and it isn’t just about the first time with a particular person. It is always an active choice, and it's always your choice. Never forget that you can change your mind at any time. , Make sure you're ready. Be patient, and don’t put pressure on yourself. Having sex is a big decision, and rushing it without thinking it through or to only please someone else can cause regret afterward. Trust that having sex will happen in its own time. , Write down your reasons on a piece of paper and rehearse them ahead of time in front of a mirror, to your friends, or to yourself. Then when your partner asks, you'll have a ready answer. The following are some reasons you may want to include:


Preventing pregnancy.Possessing religious reasons.Going against personal beliefs.Ensuring legality.Preventing a STI (sexually transmitted infection).Needing more emotional connection.Wanting a committed relationship.Making sure each person is monogamous.Knowing that all partners are STI-free.Needing to build safety and trust.Feeling that it’s not the right time for you.Not wanting to have sex with someone., If your partner brings up a reason why you should have sex, have a response waiting for him. Your partner can sound convincing, so remember your reasons. Keep in mind that his reasons are a form of manipulation and need to be handled as such.


If he says, "If you loved me, you would." A good response to this would be "If you loved me, you wouldn't want me to do something I'm not ready to do."
If he says, "Everyone else is doing it," you can say, "I'm part of everybody, and I'm not having sex."
Learn the common lines people use to try to get sex.Be prepared with statements you can make to counter them., Period. You have the final and only vote as to when you will have sex. Don't get defensive with your decision. You don’t need a good reason not to want to have sex just like you don’t need a good reason not to eat ice cream.
 That way your partner can clearly understand your boundaries and why you’re making your choice. If you're getting physically intimate and feel things are going too far, you may want to say, "Things are going too fast. Let's slow down. I'm not ready for this."


If you're together but not physically intimate, you can say, "I really like being with you. See, we don't need to have sex for our time together to be special. I'm not ready for sex, and I like things just the way they are."
If you're talking on the phone, you could say, "I don't want to have sex now. I'm not ready. I don't need to have sex with you to show you that I care for you. Sex doesn't necessarily mean no to other kinds of intimacy. There are other ways to show you I care.", That way, he's not left guessing why you don’t want to have sex. Practicing good communication fosters intimacy and emotional safety.Be open and honest with your partner unless doing so would put you in danger. If you don't feel comfortable enough talking with him about sex, then that's a clear sign that you shouldn't be engaging in it.


Tell him what you do want as well as what you don't want. This helps him know the ways you want to be close to him.
Although you will have several reasons as to why you don't want to have sex, such as fear of pregnancy or not wanting to betray your moral and/or religious beliefs, don't underestimate simply saying, "I'm not ready."

, Listen to what he says because you'll understand him more, his feelings, and his motives. You may want to wait until after your conversation to think about what he says and does. You'll then have more time to process your own feelings about it.
 Someone who really respects you will also respect your boundaries about sex and as well as other preferences. However, if his responses are unacceptable, then consider rethinking the relationship and possibly leaving him. Sex is powerful, but it doesn't always bring emotional intimacy. The foundation of emotional intimacy is trust, respect, and good communication. If a person responds positively and respectfully to you saying what you want and don't want to do, then that’s a good sign. You're on the road to having a healthy relationship with that person.
On the other hand, if he is disrespectful, if he tries to manipulate you, or if he keeps pressuring you to have sex, then this is a sign that he's more interested in getting his own needs met than he is about engaging in a balanced, healthy relationship.
It's important to learn more about what to look for in a partner.It's also just as important to know what healthy relationships look like., Don’t let yourself be cornered, bullied, or manipulated. If you sense the person might violate your boundaries or harm you in any way, leave the situation and go to a safe place immediately. Trust your instinct. If you feel unsafe with your partner, then some tips are:


Only meet him in public.
Make sure you're not being followed.
Ask trusted friends or family to help.
Have a safety plan., A healthy relationship respects each other's boundaries. Your partner will listen to you without criticism, and he will support you. On the other hand, pressure to have sex can be one sign of an abusive relationship. Your partner may tell you what to do without consideration to your feelings. Read about the warning signs of abuse so that you can determine whether you're in an unsafe or abusive situation., Closeness comes from respect, and respect comes from honoring each other's boundaries whether or not we agree with them. Keep in mind that you always get to choose what you share with your partner. Only stay in relationships where your boundaries are respected, and make sure you’re in a relationship that always practices consentThere are many people out there who will also respect your needs and boundaries and with whom you can find intimacy. Those are the relationships worth having., If you’re worried that your partner might become angry, violent, or abusive, then you may want to consider breaking up over the phone or via email or a text. This may seem unfeeling, but it may be the only way in a potentially abusive situation. Your priority should be your safety. If you have to talk to him face to face, then make sure you're in a public place., There are lots of ways to be close to someone, and sex is only one of them. Sex can wait and be engaged in only when it's the right time for you. Celebrate your choice to wait, and enjoy those activities you do choose, knowing that it’s always your decision when to have sex.

