 Wood is the ultimate staple of rustic chic style. It’s sturdy, idyllic and, best of all, goes with everything. Oak, cedar, mahogany and walnut are all excellent choices for wood furnishings. To complete the rustic aesthetic, look for pieces with attractive staining, irregular angles and other unique touches like bits of preserved bark.You can find almost every major piece of furniture for your household in one type of wood or another.
Choose paints and stains that don’t distract from the innate beauty of the wood.
 On the flipside of sleek, contemporary styles, old-fashioned metals, such as wrought iron, copper and even artificially-rusted tin can instantly give your surroundings an air of dignified antiquity. Because of their shabby chic characteristics, raw and distressed metals are best used sparingly to offset woods and other finishes.Lamps, bookends and table legs are good places to weave in metal accents.
Use vintage metal containers in the kitchen in place of traditional ceramic jars.
 When it comes time to cover the walls or fill up blank space, take cues from the great outdoors. Accentuate end tables and alcoves with decorations made from stone, fur or even faux ivory or tortoise shell. Your living space will have just the right amount of wildness while still looking like it leapt off the pages of a storybook.If you live near scenic surroundings, switch to a more “exposed” layout with uncovered windows and natural lighting to bring a glimpse of the outside in.Make sure you’re buying from humane sources. Imitation fur and other materials look like the real thing, but are both ethical and sustainable.
 Put the finishing touches on a room with the same types of items you would ordinarily use to ornament your home, but with a twist—here is where unique fabrics and designs will come into play. Smaller accessories are also the best place to work fanciful designs into the room’s furnishings.Instead of ordinary throw blankets and pillowcases, go with more eye-catching variations like Navajo or wove saddle blankets and beadwork pillows.
A beeswax candle or wind-up clock will make for a tasteful nightstand display, while blown glass bowls and vases can be substituted for a lifeless dining room centerpiece.

