 If you feel coldness or distance in the relationship, chances are she feels it, too. Don’t let resentment build up between the two of you. After all, you may be in each other’s lives for a while. Do your part to clear the air.


For example, you could say, “Cindy, I think we got off to a bad start. I respect you and want to have a good relationship with you. Could we try again?”

, Take responsibility for your behavior. If you did something to fall out of favor with your boyfriend’s mother, own up to it and apologize. Make sure you acknowledge the pain or anger you caused.For example, “I know I was rude when I was making fun of your driving. I know it wasn’t funny to you and it hurt your feelings. I’m so sorry.”

, Figure out what you can do to improve the relationship. It may be changing a small behavior, or it may mean changing up your environment.


For example, If you got drunk and were obnoxious around her, do not drink around her anymore. Do your best to curb an annoying behavior.
Maybe she is a picky eater and isn’t impressed by your culinary skills or restaurant choices. Maybe she has cat allergies and your cat was climbing all over her when she came over. You may find that her grievance disappears if she is simply in a more comfortable place.
 You may want to have a conversation with her without your boyfriend present. This will help keep the two of you from trying to get him to choose sides.
 Have your boyfriend address the problem if you do not feel like you are getting through to her. He may find it easier to talk to her, given his history and better understanding of her personality.This is something you should do only if you have not been successful in talking to her yourself. It is much better to handle things with her directly if you can.
 If all else fails, you don’t need to bend over backwards to placate her. Changing who you are for her will only make you resentful.It’s okay if you do not become best buds. Just make sure you always remain polite and respectful to her; she is still an important part of your boyfriend’s life.

