 Water aids in digestion by helping break down food so your body can absorb nutrients more efficiently, and can also soften stools to help prevent constipation. Swap out sodas, coffee, juices, and energy drinks for water, and consult with your healthcare provider to determine how much water you should be drinking daily based on your health and activity level., Eating too quickly and failing to chew food thoroughly can cause you to swallow too much air, which can lead to gas and indigestion. Schedule time in your day to sit down and eat instead of eating quickly on the go to improve your digestive health.
 Skipping meals or not eating enough when you’re hungry can lead to a growling stomach, which often signifies your body needs nourishment in the form of food. Avoid skipping meals, and consume healthy snacks in between meals such as nuts, fruits, and vegetables that can help improve digestion.
 Coffee is highly acidic and will increase your stomach’s acidity level. An excessive amount of coffee can lead to a growling stomach -- especially when your stomach is empty. Limit your coffee intake as much as possible, and switch to drinking green, white, or black teas. Tea contains caffeine, as well as compounds and antioxidants that are more soothing for your stomach and digestive system than coffee., Most fruits and vegetables are high in water content, and contain vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants that can naturally help improve digestion and lower the risk for a growling stomach. Make a conscious effort to eat more fruits and vegetables throughout the day, and lower your intake of boxed and packaged processed foods that contain sugar, preservatives, and additives.
 Candies, pastries, sodas, fruit drinks, alcoholic beverages, and other food and drink high in sugar, fat, and artificial sweeteners can lead to gas and indigestion because they slow down the digestion process. Avoid eating these foods as much as possible, or consume them in moderation to improve your digestive health.
 Certain high-fiber foods can increase the risk for gas because they force your digestive system to work harder and longer at breaking down these foods; however, most high-fiber foods are good for your health and shouldn’t be avoided completely. Examples of gas-inducing, high-fiber foods are beans, cabbage, broccoli, onions, asparagus, whole grains, apples, pears, and peaches. If you plan on sitting in a quiet classroom or attending an important meeting, avoid eating these foods immediately beforehand to prevent your stomach from growling., Smoking and using straws are activities that can cause you to swallow too much air, which can result in gas and a growling stomach. Quit smoking as soon as possible to improve your digestive and overall health, and drink beverages straight from the cup without using a straw.
 Exercising regularly encourages healthy bowel movements by keeping food moving through your digestive system, which can help prevent your stomach from growling. Engage in moderate-intensity aerobic activity on most days of the week, and do strength-training exercises two or three days per week to improve your digestion and overall health., Feelings of stress, anxiety, and nervousness can cause your stomach to growl and negatively impact your digestive health. Start practicing yoga or deep breathing, or engage in other activities that help you relax in times of stress, such as listening to soothing music, taking a warm bath, or reading a book.

