 Since you will be staying in the same general area for hours at a time, make it as comfortable as possible for everyone. Choose the biggest room available, or the room that can comfortably hold all of your friends. Get out extra blankets and pillows for everyone. Ask your friends to bring along their own pillows and blankets, too, so the extras can be for creating extra fluff.


Watch the movies on the largest screen you have at your house, so that everyone can see easily from anywhere in the room.
You could push all of the furniture up against the walls and create one large pallet for everyone on the living room floor.
 Ask your friends about their preferences and get what you can. You can also have general stuff like chips, pretzels, candy and popcorn. Keep some healthy options on hand, as well, like veggie trays and sliced fruits. For drinks, try to cater to everyone by offering an assortment of soft drinks, juices, sugar-free beverages and bottled water.You will most likely need to eat at least one meal during the marathon, so do something super easy that everyone can share, like ordering pizza.
Talk to all of your friends before the sleepover and find out if anyone has any food allergies or dietary restrictions.
If you want to have a little fun with refreshments, consider doing themed snacks that go along with the movies!

, Create a little atmosphere before your friends arrive. For example, if you’re going to have a horror marathon, you could get out some Halloween decorations or hang up red Christmas lights to create an eerie mood. For a Harry Potter marathon, you could buy plastic wands for everyone and order a cake shaped like Dumbledore or a Golden Snitch. Or you could buy several pairs of round costume glasses (like Harry’s) and hand them out to everyone when they arrive. Get creative!


For a Star Wars marathon you could hang up strings of white lights and put glow-in-the-dark stars on the walls. Make the room very dark when the movie starts so it will feel like you’re in space! Or you could buy plastic light sabers for everyone.
If you’re having a princess-themed marathon, you could get everyone a tiara to wear and order a cake shaped like a castle., Brief breaks will occur naturally whenever someone gets up to use the bathroom or get more snacks, but it’s a good idea to take a few mandatory breaks during the marathon. Everyone can get up, stretch their legs, get their blood circulating and spend a few minutes outside in the fresh air and sunlight.Between movies is a natural place to have intermissions, so let everyone know that at the end of each movie there will be a 15 minute break.
Encourage everyone to get up and walk around or go outside for a brief change of scenery. If going outside isn't an option because it's late at night, you could play a game like 20 Questions so that everyone's minds can switch gears for a few minutes.

