 Many fertility scams will advertise that “research” has proven that a certain treatment will help you get pregnant with no side effects. Whenever you see statements about proven research, you should always look into the actual studies behind the research to make sure that the claims are not false. For instance, check websites for direct references to medical studies. If the claims are true then the site will likely provide adequate referencing.Look to see if the study was published in a peer reviewed medical journal.
If there is no reference to a study, it is probably false.
Determine who published the study. For example, if the study was published by the company selling the product, it is likely a scam.;
, If you see a product that advertises a 100% guaranteed pregnancy, it is most likely a fertility scam. Even the best fertility physicians and clinics in the world cannot provide a guarantee that their patients will become pregnant. There are so many factors that can lead to infertility, and in some instances it is just not possible for a woman to get pregnant. As a result, you should never trust a product that comes with a money back guarantee on fertility treatments.Typically, these scams work because people will purchase the products and then forget or not bother to claim the refund.
 Some fertility treatments will claim to be endorsed by a physician. In order to ensure that this endorsement is meaningful, you can conduct your own research. For instance, find out who the doctor is that has endorsed the product and see if they are a legitimate physician. You can also call the doctor listed and verify that they have actually endorsed this product. If the endorsements are fake then it is likely a fertility scam.


Another way to avoid a scam is to seek out previous patients and ask them about their experiences using this treatment or clinic. Getting a first hand account can also help you avoid scams.
 Fertility treatments, such as in vitro fertilization (IVF) and surrogacy, are not cheap. As a result, many people will look to find cheaper alternatives. These alternatives can often be fertility scams. For instance, a book or supplement that is sold to help cure infertility is likely just a scam to make money off of individuals who are looking for a cheap fix. Be wary of all cost-saving alternatives.