 Acknowledging your own strengths and weaknesses and your expectations for the business are essential elements for knowing what you want from a business coach. Consider the following questions:


What are your personality traits and what are your habits? Are you more laid-back in your approach to business, or are you an active go-getter? Do you manage time well or do you need a better schedule?
What are your aims for your business? Do you want to have lots of free time for family, have lots of fun, lots of travel, lots of money, lots of clients? What else is important to you?
What are your strengths? Are you making the most of these in your business at the moment? Or, are you constantly trying to do too many things, some of which are not the best use of your time? Mapping this out in advance can be helpful, to allow your coach to quickly spot where changes can be made for the better.;
, What are you prepared to give in return? Some coaches will require a minimum commitment of your time (possibly one to two hours a week for 12 weeks). Moreover, some coaches may have a minimum spend (business coaches rates can vary from a few hundred dollars to several thousand).
 The coach's job is to push you a little, or encourage you to greater heights, and you may not feel inclined to "go the extra mile" for someone whose personality is vastly different from yours, or someone whom you would not wish to have in your circle of friends. Your initial get-together should be about assessing whether the two of you "click" or not; if you don't, it's important to keep looking for the right person and not settle for second best.

Search online for business coaches in your local area, or in the area of your business operations. You may choose a coach outside of your town (or choose a coach from outside of your country), if they have experience in your kind of business, or if they specialise in your type of business.
Search Facebook, Google+ or LinkedIn for business coaches who may already have mutual friends in common with you.
On Facebook, LinkedIn or Google+, you can send a message to your friend and ask them what they think of the coach, before you contact the coach. Just be aware that your friend may have had a different experience with the coach, as they have a different personality to you ––your experience may be better or worse, so try to gather a few different viewpoints to allow you to get a bigger picture.
Check on Google, Youtube, local TedTalks or the coach's own website to see if the coach has created video content. By watching a video, you will be able to see how they speak, and imagine whether you'd like to have a conversation with that person. Are they warm and gentle, or loud and obnoxious? Do they sound friendly or fierce? Do they appear to be pushy and demanding or encouraging and inspiring? Most of all, does the coach's personality seem like it'd be a good fit for your own?

, When assessing the material on the website, ask yourself the following:|Seeking a holistic or healthy business coach?]]

Is their website overly complex and crowded, or is it clearly laid-out and easy to understand? Is the information provided useful and authentic or does it seem like simplistic marketing and nothing much else? The website design can be an indicator that the person who designed the site may be exactly like their site layout! Choose one that resonates with you.
Does the coach have other products and services, such as books and DVDs? The existence of other products and services can indicate that the coach is in the role for the long-term and has specialised; if they have created their own content, this is a sign of being dedicated and thorough. A coach who does not have other products and services could have just started business recently and may not be as established or as reliable (in which case, their fees should reflect their inexperience).
Does the business coaching site include video testimonials (or links to testimonials on Youtube or Vimeo)? Written testimonials can sometimes be faked, falsified or selectively edited. A video testimonial is generally more credible and reliable, particularly if the person identifies their name &/or their business name. Find a coach who has 10 or more video testimonials and watch a minimum of three to four clips of what other people have done with this coach, to get an idea of what is possible for you to achieve.
 This will give you an indicator of how long the coach has been around, and how active they are in their field.|Measurement is the key to fulfillment]]


A brand new website will have very few "site" links; an established business coaching website should have hundreds of site links (or thousands).
Do a Google "site:" search. This is done by typing in the word "site" (without quotes), then a (:) colon, a space, and then quote marks around the website name. For example: Inputting the phrase site: "www.24hourwealthcoach.com" to Google brings a result of over 16,000 websites that link to or point back to this coaching site. If you input the search term site: "www.mybusinesscoach.com" there are only ten matches.
 Ask them some pointed questions. You are trusting your business with this coach, and it is a lot like trusting your internal organs to a surgeon––you want to make sure they are experienced and did not just receive their credentials last week! Some good questions to ask include:
Diff'rent coaches for diff'rent folks]]


How long have you been a coach? (Aim for an experience of 2-10+ years.)
How long have you had your own company/business? (Again, 2-10+ years is great, anything less may be unreliable.)
What types of businesses have you owned, separate to this coaching business? This is a very important question––aim for someone with a broad variety of experience in several of their own businesses, as this will give you the best outcome. Look for someone with experience in Retail Goods (for example, department stores), as well as Professional Services (for example, accounting, financial planning, sales, legal) or Personal Services (for example, hospitality, plumbing, real estate, etc.).


Be wary of the weekend workshop coach. There are numerous coaches who have not operated their own businesses before, and simply did a "weekend workshop" to become a coach. By now, you should have already seen that the newly-qualified business coaches with zero-experience have been weeded out (due to not having video testimonials, online sales of books, DVDs, a poorly-constructed or poorly-linked website, etc.). If the coach has experience in two to three different industries, then they will be best able to have a "birds-eye view" across your industry and across other industries or markets that may relate to your industry.
 For example, some of the "extras" that you might receive include:

#*Does the coach offer a complimentary 15-minute introductory call, to see if you are a "match" for personality?

Does the coach offer a guarantee? (Most do not, some do.)
Does the coach provide additional services aside from the standard coaching calls? For example, they may be able to supply referrals to other service providers which you may require, such as logo design, taxation services, outsourcing, IT support and so on.


Always look for something extra. If you cannot find this by searching their promotional material, ask them directly.
 Your business is not just your cashflow for day-to-day income––your business may someday be sold as part of your retirement strategy. Seek out a business coach who has sold a business previously, and you will be best positioned for your cashflow both now, and in the future.


Be aware that many coaches have purchased a business before, and run it and have started a business from scratch and run it. On the other hand, very few business coaches have managed to sell a business for a profit and then do something else. The ones who have sold a business are rare and should be highly valued.

