 Each state has own guidelines regarding when juvenile records can be sealed.


A few states automatically seal some juvenile records after a specific period of time has passed. However, in most cases you must petition the court to seal your records – it will not be done otherwise.Generally, you must be at least 18 years old and have no pending charges. Many states won't grant your request to seal your records if you've had any arrests or convictions as an adult.Even if you're over 18, you typically won't be eligible to have your records sealed until a certain period of time has passed. This length of time varies among states, but often is five years from the date of the offense.Thus, if you were convicted of a juvenile offense when you were 15 years old, you wouldn't be eligible to have those records sealed until you were 20 years old.
However, in some jurisdictions such as California, you can have a particular record sealed after five years have passed before you turn 18. Again, you can't have had any other offenses since the one you want sealed.If you have an open civil case related to the incident for which you have a juvenile record, you typically aren't eligible to have the record sealed until that case is concluded., Most states have pre-printed forms you can use to ask the court to seal your records.If the form includes instructions on how to fill it out, make sure you read those carefully before you begin filling out your forms.
You generally must go to the clerk of court in the county where your juvenile delinquency proceeding took place and ask for the form. In some jurisdictions you may be able to find the form online at the court's website, or call and request the form be mailed to you.The forms generally require you to enter personal information, including contact and identifying information, as well as details about the arrests and charges that you want to get sealed., You may need to get a copy of your arrest record or other documents to fill out the form completely and accurately.


To get your arrest record, you typically must appear in person at the clerk's office of the juvenile court. The clerk will have to check your government-issued photo ID before he or she will release your records to you.Keep in mind that you may be charged a fee for retrieving or copying arrest or court records., Once you've completed your forms, you must file them with the juvenile court where your proceeding occurred.Before you file your petition, make copies of it and any other documents you're filing. You will need at least one copy for your own records, and you also will need copies for any other individuals or agencies that are required to be notified of your request.
In most states, you must pay a fee when you file your petition.The amount of the fee varies from state to state and even among counties in each state, so you may want to call the clerk's office in advance and find out the amount of the fee and the methods of payment accepted. You can generally expect it to be around $100.If you cannot afford the fee, you may be able to apply for a waiver. Your income and assets must be below a certain threshold for the court to permit you to proceed without paying fees., Certain individuals and agencies with an interest in your case must have notice that you've requested the records be sealed.


The prosecutor or district attorney typically gets a copy of your petition, as well as your probation officer.In some jurisdictions, any victims of the offenses you committed also must be notified.
 The juvenile court will hold a hearing to determine whether your request should be granted.


You may have to wait several months before your hearing is scheduled. You will receive a notice of hearing in the mail that provides the date, time, and location of your hearing.At the hearing, you may present evidence of your rehabilitation and your eligibility to have your records sealed. You also can bring witnesses, such as a teacher or a religious leader, to testify on your behalf.If your records are sealed, all documents held by the court, the probation department, and any law enforcement agency will be closed and treated as though they never took place. If you're asked if you were previously arrested or convicted of a crime, you can legally answer "no" if your juvenile record contains the only criminal charges or convictions against you.Certain serious felonies may remain available in certain situations, such as if an employer does a criminal background check.Keep in mind that even if your juvenile records are sealed, they still can be accessed in certain situations. For example, the conviction can serve as a strike under your state's Three Strikes statute if you are convicted again of the same crime, which would result in a stiffer punishment.Additionally, traffic violations or parking offenses typically can't be sealed.