 Protein is an essential nutrient to your diet. Going for more than a day or two without protein is unwise and can cause unwanted weight loss or loss of muscle mass.Consuming adequate protein on an all liquid or soft diet may be difficult or unappetizing depending on your diet restrictions or required modifications.


If you need to consume a completely liquid or pureed diet, try to incorporate proteins such as: beans pureed into a soup (like black bean soup), pureed tofu in soups, hummus, or puree canned soups and stews to a completely liquid consistency.You can also process meats (ground meat, chicken, or seafood) into a smooth consistency. Adding a little broth or sauce can turn these foods into a more liquid texture.If you can consume soft or tender foods and do not need a liquid or pureed diet, try foods like: meatloaf or meatballs mashed with a sauce or gravy, soft baked fish (like tilapia or salmon), tuna/egg salad, mashed tofu, scrambled eggs, mashed beans, stews or soups, and braised or roasted meats like brisket or pot roast that are fall apart tender., Many dairy products work well with restricted or modified diets. Dairy is full of protein, calcium, and Vitamin D and can help you maintain a balanced diet more easily.


Add regular or greek yogurt to your day. Yogurts are great smooth foods that are appropriate on a pureed or soft/mushy diet. Regular yogurt may be easier to chew and swallow as it has a thinner consistency compared to greek yogurt. Choose which type is more appropriate for you.
Cottage cheese is another very high protein dairy food that will fit into a liquid or soft diet. If you need your foods completely pureed, add cottage cheese to a blender or food processor for a pureed consistency.
Drinking milk or adding milk to different foods (soups, stews or smoothies) can offer you another easily swallowed protein source.
If you are lactose intolerant or have a milk allergy, try dairy alternatives like soy or almond based milks, yogurts, and cheeses.
 Many fruits and vegetables, especially when raw or lightly steamed, are much too hard and dense to chew or swallow. Most times, these foods will need to be altered to the appropriate consistency by cooking.


Try frozen fruits and vegetables. Many times, when defrosted or cooked/warmed through, these foods are really soft and mushy. Examples include: frozen broccoli, frozen cauliflower, frozen Brussels sprouts, or frozen berries.
Steam vegetables until you can mash them with the back of your fork or they are easily pureed into the correct consistency. Many times, over-steaming vegetables (like broccoli) can get them into a soft consistency. Examples include: mashed potatoes or squash, steamed carrots or peas or over-steamed vegetables.
 Grain-based foods like bread, rice or pasta don't always work well on a soft or pureed diet. These foods can be a little sticky or squishy and require more chewing compared to other foods. Choose wisely when incorporating grain-based foods.


Oatmeal, cream of wheat, or other hot cereals can be a great option on either a soft or liquid diet. You may need to puree some of these items to get them to a runnier or smooth consistency.
You can also blend some grains (like oats) into smoothies.
 Making homemade soups and smoothies is a great idea for those needing a pureed or even a soft diet. You can customize them to include a wide range of foods and nutrients.


When making either a soup or a smoothie, try adding in different fruits or vegetables. Blending them in will help you get a few servings of these nutrient dense foods into your diet.
Soups are a great vehicle for lean protein and vegetables. Cook everything until soft and puree if needed.
Smoothies can be made from a wide range of foods including dairy, fruits, vegetables and even nut butters. Blend together for a smooth, liquid consistency.
You can also try mixing in unflavored protein powder into both soups and smoothies for an extra dose of protein.
 If you're in a pinch or need a few quick meals, consider purchasing a few meal replacement shakes. Many of these supplements contain adequate protein, calories and vitamins.


There are a variety of meal replacement shake options. Look for drinks that will fit into your calorie and protein goals.
Many meal replacements come either pre-made or in a powdered form. You can add the powder to smoothies to increase the nutrient level.
Be wary of drinks that contain a lot of added sugars or are high in calories. They could cause weight gain if you're not careful.
 Depending on how long you're on a modified or restricted diet you may want to consider taking a liquid multi-vitamin supplement. This may help you meet your nutritional goals when you're on a diet long-term.Look for a liquid supplement that is a 100% complete multi-vitamin and multi-mineral for the most comprehensive supplement.
You can add your vitamins to your meals or drinks or just take them as is.
Always check with you doctor prior to starting any supplements.

