 Look for a molehill.A molehill will be indicated by fresh piles of dirt around your property. Tunnels will lead away from the molehill, so feel for grass areas extending away from the molehill that are softer to the touch or step. Moles like to dig their tunnels along structures like fences or other barriers, so look around any such structures in your yard to find their tunnels., Step on top of the tunnel to collapse it in one section on both sides. Dirt should be covering the tunnel way. Leave the collapsed tunnel for a day and then check to see if the collapsed dirt has been dug out again.If it has, you know that that tunnel is active.
 Use a gardening tool to carve out a section of the tunnel.Before you place the trap in the exposed section, pack down the dirt at the bottom of the tunnel so the mole can’t dig underneath the trap.You should also loosely cover the tunnel back up with dirt, so the mole will continue to dig through the loose dirt, and get captured by the trap., There are many kinds of mole catching traps out there. Most of the traps vary in the way they capture the mole, but nearly all are lethal. There are scissor jaw traps, harpoon traps, and choker loop traps just to name a few.Read the trap instructions very carefully to figure out the best way to set the device. Change the settings on your chosen trap to make the trigger apparatus really sensitive.Once you know how to open and set the trap, place the trap into the cut out section of tunnel.


For a scissor trap, place the jaws around loosely packed dirt in the middle of the tunnel. Leave the area between the jaws open and clear. The jaws should span across the runway of the tunnel and be pushed into the ground about 1 inch (2.5 cm) down.Cock the trap according to the included instructions.
For a harpoon trap, set and straddle the trap over the runway of the mole tunnel with both legs of the trap pushed down into the ground on each side of the tunnel.Gently push the legs of the trap into the ground, positioning the trigger pan (the square, flat piece of metal) just above the soil.Pull up the setting tee to set the trap.
For a choker loop trap, use a garden tool to dig a hole into the tunnel from the top. Dig the hole a tad deeper than the actual depth of the tunnel, but the same width as the tunnel.Place the loop into the tunnel so it follows the exact direction and angle of the tunnel. Pack the open area of the trap (in front of the loop) firmly with soil, so the mole will continue to dig through the tunnel and get caught in the trap., Cover the trap with some sort of large bucket to protect children and pets from coming near the area.The bucket will also help block out any light which will let the mole continue digging.
 Check on the trap every day to see if you have caught a mole. When the trap has finally been set off and has caught the mole, remove the trap and mole.If you have not caught a mole after two days, try moving your trap to a new area.There are many reasons a trap can fail (changed burrowing habits, too much tunnel disturbance, improperly set trap), but you will have to find out through trial and error, and consider setting your trap in a new location., Grab the mole with a plastic bag around you hand. Turn the bag inside out as you continue to hold onto the mole, and let the mole fall into the inside of the bag.Tie the bag to seal it, and place the mole in with your garbage.

