 You have to be willing to stand up to him. If you don't find the courage to let go of your fears, then you may never get over that. Since it's highly doubtful that you'll ever meet him, remind yourself that the real fear is fear itself. You know he's not real, you're just paranoid that he is. Is there something else you're actually afraid of? Do a little self-analysis. You're probably not scared of suits, tall people, or skinny people. What's the bigger issue at hand?


That's definitely easier said than done. To start facing your demons, grab a notebook and start analyzing your fear. When did it start? What's the root of it? What times of day is it worse? When does it spring up (when you're alone, when you're sad, etc.)? Seeing your own patterns will force you to realize how much of this is just in your head and is truly groundless.
 Let's say you're afraid of spiders. One day, you put yourself in a room 12 feet (3.7 m) away from a spider until you're okay with it. The next day, it's 10 feet (3.0 m). A week later, you're sitting next to it. Eventually, the spider is on your hand and you're okay. Anything can be gotten used to with enough time. That's why that Taylor Swift song you initially hated is sort of tolerable now.


This process is called deconditioning. It's a thing and it works. So open up the game. When you face Slenderman, sit there. Look at him. Don't run away. Just stand there until your heart beat slows down. You may not believe it, but slowly you'll grow bored of him. You'll wonder what ever frightened you in the first place.

Start doing this gradually. Monday, do it for 5 minutes. Tuesday, for 10. Eventually you'll be unmoved by him completely.
 If you freak out and run through the house whenever you think he's there, don't let yourself. If you think he's behind you in the basement, take a deep breath, sing your favorite song and calmly walk up the stairs. Your body often cues your mind (and not the other way around), so if your body stays calm, your mind may too.



Breathe. Breathe slowly and deeply. It gets your heart rate down, your mind on other things, and a little more reassurance that he's not after you. When you take controlled, relaxed breaths, your anxiety will automatically lessen.
 Alright, so a lot of this article has been poking fun at Slenderman. But if you're truly scared of him, all the jokes in the world won't be helpful. The only thing that will be helpful will be empowering yourself. You're afraid of what he represents to you. Not what he is, or what he's capable of. If you change your image of him, you won't be afraid of him anymore. Realize that you have the power.


You know how some people are afraid of heights, closed spaces, or clowns? And how other people aren't? Fear is in everyone's head. When you start imaging Slenderman in his tighty- whities, sleeping like a baby in the fetal position, you start giving yourself control and taking it away from him. Next time you run into him, don't even offer him the Doritos. You have all the power.

