 If you aren't already signed into your Google account in your Chrome browser, sign in now by clicking the person-shaped icon (it's to the left of the minimize button in the top right corner of your webpage) and entering your Google account email address and password.;
, This is in the top right corner of the Chrome window.
 It's toward the bottom of the drop-down menu here.
 It should be near the top of the settings page.
 While this is optional, the New Tab page will become your homepage due to its customizability. Therefore, having Google Chrome open to the New Tab page means your browser will always open to your homepage.
 It's below the "On Startup" section.
 Your Home button is in the top left corner of your Chrome window, and clicking it will take you to your homepage.
 This is a link to the right of the site listed below Show Home Button.
 The New Tab page is the most easily customized page in Google Chrome, so it will be your personalized page.
 It's immediately below the "Appearance" area.
 For example, if you use Google search, you'd click the box that says Google.
 You have quite a few options available to you here:


Google Search
Babylon Search
AVG Secure Search
Delta Search
Live Search
SweetIM Search
YouTube Video Search
Yahoo!
Bing
AOL
Ask

, Once you've finished looking over your changes, you can move on to changing the homepage background.
 From here, you can install anything from new backgrounds to task managers to video downloaders.
 The following are a few easy-to-install types of personalization items:



Dashboards - A New Tab page makeover that drastically changes the background, bookmarks bar, search engine appearance, and more. Most dashboards allow you to swap back and forth between their interface and the New Tab interface with the click of a button.

Backgrounds - Changes the white New Tab background to a different theme.

Speed Dial - A customizable page with links to your favorite pages that replaces you New Tab page.
 The search bar is on the left side of the screen. For example:


Type dashboard in if you want to change the appearance of your homepage.
Type new tab background in if you want to change the background your homepage uses.
Type weather app to view an add-on program. Note that apps themselves don't display on your homepage.
 You may need to wait for a few seconds for your search results to load.
 Depending on what you searched, your results will vary; however, you'll likely see three headings: "Extensions", "Themes", and "Apps".


You can narrow down your search to display only one of these categories.
 These are on the left side of the screen. For example, if you you were searching for a background, you'd check the Theme box.


You'd click Extension for a dashboard or weather widget.
You'd click App for an add-on program (e.g., a video downloader).
 This blue button will be either to the right of your selected item or directly below it.
 This will likely say Add Extension or Add App.
 This may take a few minutes. If you're adding a new theme or a dashboard, you may need to restart your Chrome browser to view the changes.
 It's in the top left side of your Chrome window, directly to the right of the refresh button. Doing so will take you to your personalized homepage.


You can also access your apps from the homepage by clicking the Apps button below the Back arrow in the top left side of the window.

