 If you suffer from EDS, Classical Type, you can expect to see the following.


Skin hyperextensibility.This means the skin is very elastic, stretching very easily and then snapping back into place. The skin of someone with this condition is also often particularly smooth and velvety to the touch.
Easily being cut and bruised. People with EDS, Classical Type both bruise and bleed much more easily than the average person, due to the fragility of their tissue, even though they may be able to clot normally.People with EDS, Classical Type also find that wounds take longer to heal and are more likely to scar.Joint hypermobility. Depending on age, gender, and ethnicity, many people with EDS, Classical Type find they are unusually flexible.Specifically, people with this condition have loose and unstable joints that dislocate easily.Because of this, people with Classical EDS are often more prone to sprains and other joint injuries.
Absence of muscle tone. Young children with EDS often show a lack of muscle tone, as the development of their muscles is often delayed.This weakness can also lead to a delay in motor skills such standing or walking.Chronic pain or fatigue. Unrelenting pain (especially around the joints) and/or exhaustion are also common in people who suffer from Classical EDS.;
, EDS makes your body more fragile, so you'll need to take appropriate steps to avoid situations in which you could be injured. You'll also want to use your clothing to shield yourself from harm.


Because they are easily injured, people with Ehlers Danlos Classical Type should avoid all contact sports, as well as other situations in which they are likely to be bumped or jostled with any force.Activities like football, boxing, and even running (due to the strain it can place on the joints) are best avoided to reduce the risk of injury.
In day-to-day life, dress yourself in such a way as to reduce the risk of injury. Limit the exposure of your skin and when possible wear multiple layers to prevent scrapes and cushion your body.Always wear a helmet when cycling.
Wear elbow, knee, and shin pads when participating in outdoor activities. Soccer pads and ski stockings work well. Children with this condition may need to wear pads at all times., Certain foods can help your body better cope with problems created by Ehlers Danlos Classical Type. Specifically:


Take vitamin C (ascorbic acid). It can reduce bruising when taken regularly.A dose of two grams per day is recommended for adults, though there is no upper limit on how much you can take.
Glucosamine, magnesium, calcium, Methyl sulphonyl methane (MSM), silica, pycnogenol, carnitine, Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), and vitamin K are also thought to be helpful in alleviating the joint problems often caused by EDS.All of these are available in supplement form.Consult a physician before making any major changes in your diet or before taking supplements.
 People with EDS, Classical Type should not take Acetylsalicylate, more commonly known as aspirin.Many people with this disorder are sensitive to aspirin, and it can worsen bleeding problems.


Other anti-inflammatory drugs may useful in treating joint pain and can be taken to treat discomfort., Specifically, do non-weight bearing exercises. Exercise is important for people with EDS, Classical Type. It helps build muscle strength and coordination that can otherwise be difficult to maintain given the joint problems that often result from this condition.Activities that don't require lifting heavy weight or the risk being struck with hard objects should be undertaken in moderation.


Swimming, badminton, table tennis, and walking are all good options.At the gym, you can use the incline treadmill, elliptical machine, stationary bike, or stepper.
Core strength can be built by doing Thera-ball, yoga, ballroom dancing, or Tai Chi.Try doing bodyweight exercises or using a resistance band. Do not lift weights.
Avoid cross-fit and Olympic style lifting. Always consult your doctor to find an exercise plan that is right for you.

