 If you are not supportive on even the most trivial issues, they will spin out and not feel validated. How to be supportive? Listen, Listen, and Listen. Do mirror listening. Don't text while they are giving you their undivided attention. Don't surf the computer.;
, A passionate kiss. The kind that is firm, french, with a snuggle hug like you won't see her for a long time.
 At least 3-5 times a day. This is only going to help make her feel loved. If you don't, she thinks you don't even care or that you aren't thinking about her. Do it even if you have to set 3 alarms on your iPhone and send them at the same time everyday, do it!

, "What feels good to you?" This helps her know that you care about how she feels.
 You must fill your minds with light. This will help you to have common goals. If she likes girlie mags, ask her which article she wants read while she is doing her makeup in the morning. Could be fun if the article is about love.
 Her hair! Her fashion! Her sweet comments to strangers! Her cooking! (Even if you hate it! Do it!) Her thoughtful several calls that you can't stand. Pick up the phone and tell her that you love her but that you are buried but that you didn't want to miss hearing her sweet voice and wanted to make sure there wasn't anything urgent.
 Tell her you love watching her smile and her laugh!

, If you want to stay together long term you have to have a spiritual foundation.
 This is the best way to contact her.
 She was made by them.
 Some women need certain friends. If you come down on one of her closest friends, it could drive a wedge between you and your sweetie.
 If you feel like it initiate it! If you have to ask then the answer is no! Because you aren't feeling it either. No one likes to feel pressure to perform. If you initiate it, it will happen naturally.
 Chances are she is already hard enough on herself and those negative comments are going to come back to haunt you in some way.
 Do it! Not asking for anything in return!

, When Men express anger with Men, they generally don't get intimidated. When Men express anger or unhappiness with Women, they can get super intimidated with our basic authority and they feel like we are bullying. This is often not the intention. No Name calling! No saying your acting crazy! A women hears, "You are a crazy *****" Say something like, "I feel like .......when you are expressing yourself like this. Say, "Honey, I sense you are having a tough time, Will you please share your thoughts or feelings with me?" The reason why she could be freaking out may have nothing to do with what she is presenting. It's like having an electrical issue on a car and you can't find the source, so you jump the fuse box with metal and the wire fries completely at the spot that it is grounded out. You don't want to do that because it is a pain to rewire the problem. When you feel the pressure build, go take a break before you say something you will regret.
 Don't call your buddies and ask for advice. They don't have a clue. And chances are they will say just dump her, she's crazy. Well ya know what, they are all the same in varying shades of grey. Work with what you have got instead of trying to change nature.
 Like Harmony! Or Like Sunshine! Like Your first date location...What ever your word. Means either of you have had enough arguing about the current topic. And that you are feeling attacked. This word should remind you of why you are together. Stop the damage by sharing one thing that you love about each other. Focus on happiness vs fighting. No one likes to feel bad. So if they say the magical word. Think, she is crashing or he is crashing. Pressure is going to make it worse. Tell her you love her and work on recovering her emotions. This is were her foundation is. Not in the core of the comfort that we enjoy by knowing she is there and that we are committed. It is the opposite. They feel the relationship is on the rocks if emotionally they are threatened.
 Don't keep track. You should always feel like to give is the blessing.

