 Squeeze some acrylic paint or tempera paint onto a paper plate, then dip your cookie cutter into it. Press the cookie cutter against a sheet of blank wrapping paper to create a delicate, outlined design., Get a brand-new pencil with an unused eraser. Press the eraser into an ink pad, then tap the eraser against a sheet of blank wrapping paper. Do this over and over to create a polka dot design., If you are using flat leaves, like maple leaves, apply the paint directly to the leaf using a paintbrush. If you are using a dimensional leaf, such as a spring of pine, squeeze some paint onto a paper plate first, then dip the pine sprig into the paint. Press the leaf against your wrapping paper, then pull it away.


Acrylic paint or tempera paint would work best for this.
 Choose a hard, textured fruit, such as an apple or lemon, and cut it in half. Squeeze some acrylic or tempera paint out onto a paper plate, then dip the fruit into the paint. Press the fruit against your wrapping paper, then pull it away.


Some vegetables may also work for this. For example, a bunch of celery cut in half will give you a rose-like design.
 Get a plain, thin sponge and cut it into an interesting shape. Squeeze some acrylic or tempera paint onto a paper plate, then dip your sponge into it. Press the sponge against your wrapping paper, then pull it away.


Be careful not to press the sponge too hard against the paper, or the paint may smudge.
 Squeeze some acrylic or tempera paint out onto a paper plate, then dip your stamp into it. Gently press your stamp against your wrapping paper, then pull it away. The options for creating a wood-block stamp are endless. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Wrap a piece of string a few times around a block of wood to create a striped design.
Glue a piece of bubble wrap to a block of wood for a polka dot design.
Glue a lace doily to a block of wood for a fancy design.
 There is nothing wrong with using store-bought stamps. They come in all sorts of shapes and sizes. Simply buy a stamp and an ink pad, press the stamp against the ink pad, then tap it against your paper.

