 In order to use this service, you must be an employer with a valid employer identification number (EIN). In order to get an EIN, you need to contact the IRS.More information about EINs and how to apply is available online at irs.gov.You can apply for an EIN directly on the irs.gov site at https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/apply-for-an-employer-identification-number-ein-online.
 This is federal form SSA-200. To complete the form, you will need to provide detailed information on how you will use the service, including:identification of the company name, address, email, and phone number
identification of the officer completing the form on behalf of the company
the reason for using CBSV. Typical reasons are that your company is a mortgage service or banking service, provides background checks or credit checks, or that it is a licensing requirement. If you have another reason, you may provide that.
estimate your annual usage
You can find a link to form SSA-200 at https://www.ssa.gov/cbsv/enrollment.html#&sb=0.
 There is a one-time enrollment fee of $5,000 for the business to be eligible to use the CBSV service. There is an additional fee that you will pay each time you use CBSV, based on the number of SSNs that you are verifying at the time. The amount of the fee varies periodically.You will pay the enrollment fee, by check or credit card, when you submit your application form., The CBSV is only available for use by certain authorized employees in your company. You need to complete Form SSA-88 in order to provide CBSV with the names of those authorized individuals.You can find a link to form SSA-88 at https://www.ssa.gov/cbsv/enrollment.html#&sb=0.
 The CBSV is a “consent-based” service. This means that you must have your employees’ consent in order to check their SSNs. Use Form SSA-89 to obtain your new employee’s consent to perform the search.You can find a link to form SSA-89 at https://www.ssa.gov/cbsv/enrollment.html#&sb=0.
As an employer, you are required to keep copies of the SSA-89s. You may keep the actual paper copy, in a locked, fireproof safe with restricted access, or as a copy in a password protected computer file saved on some removable format (flashdrive or CD), which is kept in a secure location., If the report from CBSV says that an employee’s SSN is invalid, you first need to check with the employee that the number you submitted was correct.


If the number was incorrect, then correct the error and resubmit. If the error was the employee’s fault, then the employee should bear the cost of the new search. If the error was the employer’s fault, then the employer should bear the cost of the new search.
If the number was correctly submitted, then the employer is required to report the employee to the Social Security Administration for further investigation.