 The American Reflexology Certification Board produces reflexology charts.You can also find charts online, although you should try to make sure they are from a reputable source., (On the chart it is the oblong area indicated on the outside edge of your foot between your diaphragm line and your waistline.) Stimulation of the spleen reduces hunger.
 Cradle your left foot with your right hand and press each point with your left thumb. When you reach the outside limit of the reflex area, switch hands and work the reflex points back in the opposite direction. Stimulating these points improves your digestion.Your stomach point is on the inside arch of your foot, just under the ball of your sole.Your pancreas point is in the center of the inside arch of your foot., Your gall bladder stores bile, the digestive liquid continually secreted by your liver. The bile emulsifies fats in partly digested food, which is conducive to weight loss. Stimulating the gallbladder can also improve digestion.Your gall bladder point is a small point in the larger liver reflex area on your right foot. This is just below the ball of your sole, toward the outside of your foot., This will promote balanced hormone secretion and appropriate appetite. Your endocrine glands are responsible for your response to stress, so applying pressure to the reflex points for your thyroid (at the base of your big toe), pituitary gland (in the center of the bottom of your big toe) and your adrenals (between your waistline and your diaphragm line) will help balance your emotional and physiological stress. The less stress you have, the better chance you have to stay on your diet.While many weight loss functions of reflexology are not supported by clinical research, reflexology has an excellent track record at reducing stress.Stimulating your adrenals can help you feel motivated to exercise as well., Studies suggest that reflexology can be very helpful for improving your sleep quality.Work your right thumb across the diaphragm line, from the inside to the outside edge of your left foot.
While you are doing this, rock your toes back and forth across your left thumb.
Edge your right thumb along your diaphragm line each time you bend your toes over.

