 Doing pink and white nails requires some special materials and knowledge. However, it is easy to learn how to do them. Before you get started, you will need:nail polish remover
nail file
cuticle pusher
acrylic liquid
pink and white acrylic powders
acrylic nail brush
acrylic nail forms
clear topcoat
paper towels;
, Before you start doing a pink and white manicure, make sure that the nails are ready to go. To prepare your nails for a pink and white manicure, you will need to:








Wash your hands.
Remove any old nail polish.
File and buff the nails.
Push back the cuticles.
 Nail forms fit over the finger tip and natural nails. The forms make it possible to easily create natural looking nail tips with the acrylic powder and liquid. Place a nail form on each of the nails before you get started.








The open portions of the nail forms go over the tops of the nails.
The nail forms have adhesive that will help to hold them in place.
 To create your nail tips, you will need to create small balls made up of acrylic liquid and powder. Start by taking your brush and dipping it into the acrylic liquid. Then, dip the brush into the acrylic powder.








You should now have a small ball of acrylic on your brush. Take the ball and place it on your nail form near the tip
Wipe your brush on a paper towel after you place the ball on the nail form.
 Use your brush to start shaping the ball of acrylic into a nail tip on the nail form. Create a rounded line where the nail tip will meet with the natural nail and round out the tip of the nail as well. This rounded area is known as the smile line and it is crucial for a quality pink and white manicure.








Start shaping the smile line so that the edge of it begins at about the middle of the nail bed.The center of the smile line should be further away from the cuticle and closer to the tip of the nail.
You can use the natural nail as your guide. Follow the curve of the nail to help you create the smile line. The nail form can also help you to get the right shape.
After you finish shaping the smile line, straighten out the sides of the tip. These are known as the sidewalls.They should appear to extend straight out from the nail bed.
Finish shaping the nail tip by creating a flat edge along the tip of the nail.
 Next, you will need to use the acrylic liquid and pink acrylic powder to make the pink part of the pink and white nails. Dip your brush into the acrylic liquid and then dip it into the pink acrylic powder. Then, take this pink acrylic ball and place it right next to the edge of the white acrylic nail tip you have created.








Place the pink ball in the area that will overlap the natural nail. The pink acrylic should be flush against the smile line of the white acrylic.
You may need to create multiple pink acrylic balls to fill in the area that will overlap the natural nail.
 After you have finished creating all of the pink and white nails and they have had a chance to dry, you can remove the nail forms. The acrylic dries quickly, so most of the nails should be dry by the time you finish your set.








You can remove the nail forms by sliding each one forward and sliding the nail through the opening on the top of each form.
 Next, you will need to file the tips to make them all uniform. Start by filing along one edge of each of the nails. File so that the sidewalls are extending straight out from the natural nail.Then, repeat this for each of the nails on the other side. After that you can begin to shape the nails.








Remember to check the nail bed to determine what type of nail shape will look best. If the nail bed is curved along the cuticle, then an oval tip might look best. If the nail bed is square along the cuticle, then a square tipped nail might look best.
 After you have filed the nails into a pleasing shape, you can apply a clear topcoat to each of the nails. This will help to protect the nails and give them a pleasing shine. Apply two or three layers for maximum shine and protection.
 People who have dry brittle nails may want to wait a while before getting acrylics done. If you have dry, brittle nails or if the person who you are giving acrylics to has dry brittle nails, then waiting until the nails improve might be a good idea.Try waiting a few days for the nails to repair themselves. During this time, do not apply any polish to the nails. Allow them to breath and grow.
 Acrylic nails require regular upkeep to continue looking great and to keep your nails healthy. Try not to go too long without getting a fill or you may end up with separated nails or even an infection.




For best results, go for a fill once every two to three weeks.
 Acrylic nails can get dirty more easily than short nails, so you will need to make sure that you clean them daily. Wash your hands with a nails brush once per day or any time they get dirty.To use a nail brush, apply a bit of soap and warm water to your hands. Then, use the nail brush to clean around the edges of your nails and under the tips.
Dry your hands and nails thoroughly after you wash them.Inspect all of the nails daily as well to check for any signs of infection, such as redness, warmth or puffiness.
 Whenever you have to do something that might damage your nails or expose them to excess water or dirt, put on a pair of vinyl or latex gloves. This will help to protect the nails from damage.