 Tamagotchi cases, regardless of the version, come in a variety of shades. While the color coating on the game does not tell you what kind of tamagotchi monster will hatch inside your game, it can be fun to select a color you like. You can find tamagotchi in colors like pink, blue, red, green, and so on.If you're going for an older tamagotchi, these can be difficult to find as they're typically sold only on auction sites like eBay. You may have to settle for whatever color you can find.;
, Some tamagotchi cases come in unique patterns, like stripes, polka dogs, and leopard print. Like the color of the case, pattern does not make a big difference when it comes to game play. However, if you'd prefer a particular pattern, keep this in mind when deciding on your tamagotchi. If you're getting a tamagotchi as a gift, you may also want to think about pattern. If you're getting a tamagotchi for your niece, who loves polka dots, a polka dot tamagotchi case may be a good choice., The classic tamagotchi was a popular toy in the mid-1990's. You may be longing for the original tamagotchi. While tamagotchis are still sold today, the original tamagotchi can be hard to find. However, some people have nostalgia for the original design.If you're getting a tamagotchi for a child, you probably don't need to worry about looking for the original. The original version will not be fondly remembered by young children, and they'll quickly adapt to the new size and features.
However, if you're getting a tamagotchi for someone older, or for yourself if you're older, you are probably seeking out the original version. You'll have to use sites like eBay to find an original tamagotchi and the prices will vary greatly. It is not impossible to find an original tamagotchi, and it can be a great bit of nostalgia. However, you may have to do a lot of searching and settle for the color/pattern you find., New tamagotchis, called Tamagotchi Friends, are still sold today. You can find them in many places, such as sites like Amazon and toy stores. Tamagotchi Friends are much easier to find, and you can choose from a variety of colors and patterns.


One of the biggest differences is size. New tamagotchis are about twice the size of the original. This may make them more difficult to carry as keychains, but it's also easier to see the graphics.Death is also different in the newer version. In the older version, tamagotchis would die if not properly cared for and would also eventually die of old age. In the newer version, tamagotchis may die on occasion. However, they may also simply choose to leave if not properly cared for, and may be more likely to run away than die in response to inadequate care. As one of the complaints of the original tamagotchi was that the death factor could be upsetting, a new tamagotchi may be right for you if you're more sensitive., If you're buying a new tamagotchi, you can expect to pay around $20. You can purchase tamagotchis online, or at a local store. Tamagotchis may cost more or less than this, but should hover around this price range.Like all popular toys, knock offs of tamagotchis can be found on occasion. There have been many virtual pets released on the market since tamagotchi was released. These pets can be fun, and may be cheaper than tamagotchis. However, if you have your heart set on a tamagotchi, make sure the brand name Tamagotchi is written on the label, and spelled correctly. If you're paying well under $20, examine the game closely to make sure it's a legitimate tamagotchi. Check to make sure that Bandai's logo is on the package.
If you buy a tamagotchi online, keep in mind you may need to pay shipping and handling. Keep this cost in mind and plan to spend a few dollars more than you were planning.
 Original tamagotchis can be trickier to find. However, users on auction sites like eBay occasionally sell original tamagotchis. You may also stumble upon someone selling a tamagotchi on another similar site, like Craig's List.


Tamagotchis were often sold as Nintendo or computer games in the '90's, so you'll want to search for "original tamagotchi" when you're looking at an auction site. This will assure you'll mostly find links to the original keychain version of the game.
As stated, there have been many virtual pets on the market since tamagotchi was popular. You'll want to make sure that you're getting an original tamagotchi, and not another virtual pet. Examine images closely, looking for the tamagotchi label. Do not purchase anything online without seeing pictures first.
Prices will vary greatly, especially on sites where users can bargain. Some tamagotchis may sell for as cheap as $10, but a competitive auction can raise the price up to $50 or $60.
 If you're buying a tamagotchi with your own money, you may have to save. Save up your allowance or money from chores or school. You can try setting a small amount of money, like $5, aside each week until it adds up for enough money for a tamagotchi.
 Tamagotchis can be purchased for smart phones. If you have an iPhone, a tamagotchi app is available for purchase for just 99 cents. This is much cheaper than buying a tamagotchi that comes in its own shell, and the app is similar to the original version. It can be downloaded on an Apple watch, an iPhone, or an iPad., If you have an Android phone, you can buy a tamagotchi app for $3.99.Like the iPhone version, the Android version is similar to the original game.With the Android version, you can look at the tamagotchi in "toy view" or "app view." In "toy view," you look at the tamagotchi through an egg-shape. In "app view" your tamagotchi appears on the screen of your phone without barriers.
Like original versions, tamagotchis send notifications when they're hungry, sick, or need to be cleaned. They can also die from improper care. If you care for your tamagotchi correctly, you can unlock rewards like special backgrounds for the game.
 You may want to get a phone app instead of an actual tamagotchi. However, before making this decision, weigh the benefits and drawbacks.


The main benefit of a phone application is the cost. It's much cheaper to get the application than the actual tamagotchi. It also may be easier to care for tamagotchi, as many people are on their phones a lot. This will make it easier to see when your tamagotchi needs care.
With a phone app, you cannot pick a special color or pattern for your case. You also may dislike being connected to your phone while playing. You may want to play with your tamagotchi without the annoyance of checking texts, e-mails, and other phone notifications.

