 It's okay if you don't get to 100, it's your choice. There is one or two articles on how to get high levels. This will make a important first impression! Premium members tend to buddy players with high levels.;
, Most Premium Members have glamorously designed IDFones. You will want to choose wallpapers, skins, stickers, and accessories that match and look cool/pretty. Decorate your IDFone with the items you selected. If you have extra eCoins or stars, buy more IDFone items and switch your items out regularly.
 If you stop by populated areas, you will see that all the cool girls and boys tend to wear a certain style. It may be helpful to model your looks off of theirs. You will find that their looks are either beautiful and stand out, or dull and pretty. Choose which ever style you like the most. In addition, the outfits on the front page of the catalog are often considered cool. Now look through the catalog for clothing and hair. Do any of these items follow the style you choose? If so, buy it.
 You will find that cool girls and boys don't tend to visit your house. It is important, however, that it looks cool. If there is any reason someone wants to come, you want to make a good impression. For houses, you can choose your own style of home as long as it is a luxury home. Now, on to the furniture. For this, it is best to use your own judgement. Before purchasing, ask yourself, "Would a cool girl(boy) want this in her(his) home?" If the answer is yes, buy it. If not, wait till later., There are many ways to do this, even in the game itself. Try opening tryouts for something cool, like lacrosse. If you have the ability to, try to make a blog or a YouTube channel about Fantage. Get you Fantage username on social media., Aside from your real friends, try to only buddy people who look cool, have a premium membership, and have a high level., Most cool kids avoid talking on Fantage unless they need/want to. If they do have to talk, they try to shorten their words as short as possible. They use abbreviations like "lol" and "omg". They also use emojis a lot.