 This is most often an issue with younger children, but can also be a concern with some older children. They may have fears about being away from you or you coming back. The best thing you can do to deal with a child that doesn’t want to go to school because of separation anxiety is to constantly reassure them and do things to help them feel more secure.Talk with the child about how the day will go. For example, you might tell them, “First, we'll walk to your class so you can have fun learning. I’ll go to work. Then, at 3 o’clock I'll come to your classroom to pick you up.“
If you're a teacher, reassure the child that their parent will return at the end of the day. You might say, “After we have fun together learning, your dad will pick you up.”
If you’re the child’s parent, always be on time for dismissal. If you're going to be late, call the school and let the child know.
Children may exhibit school refusal following a family illness or death. Take stock of any recent upsets or losses in the family.
If needed, consider getting therapy to help the child overcome their anxiety., Bullying has, unfortunately, become an everyday reality for many children. In many cases, children refuse to go to school because they're being bullied and may not have reported it or know how to handle it.If you discover that this is the reason, you should talk to the child about what's going on as well as report it to the appropriate authorities.


Ask the child directly if they're being bullied. You could try, “Is there someone at school or something going on at school that's bothering you?”
Let the child know that you are there to support them. You might say something like, “I know that it can be hard going to school when you’re being bullied. I'm here for you and we'll get through this.”
Talk to the school counselor, principal, and other appropriate authorities about what is happening to the child.
 Refusal to attend school and difficulties at school are sometimes signs of child abuse or child neglect.Look at other areas of the child’s behavior and life to determine if abuse or neglect might be an issue. If you have any concerns about the child’s safety, you should contact authorities immediately.


Review the list of signs and symptoms of child abuse provided by Mayo Clinic at http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/child-abuse/basics/symptoms/con-20033789.
Report your concerns to the school counselor, the child’s pediatrician, or other appropriate authorities.
 Children are abusing drugs and alcohol at earlier ages than ever before. In some instances, a child’s refusal to go to school may be a sign of substance abuse.If you suspect that this is the case, look for other signs that the child may have a substance abuse problem and seek treatment for it immediately.


Review the list of signs and symptoms provided by DrugFree.org at http://www.drugfree.org/resources/is-your-teen-using-signs-and-symptoms-of-substance-abuse/.
Let the child know you're concerned. You can say, “I think you have a substance abuse problem and its interfering with you going to school. I'm concerned and want to help you.”
Talk to the child’s pediatrician about age-appropriate substance abuse services in the area.
 Sometimes issues like depression, anxiety, or other disorders can cause a child to refuse to go to school. Consider the child’s mental health when you plan ways to address their school refusal. In some cases, treating the mental health issues can eliminate their refusal to go to school.If the child has a diagnosed mental illness, check to see how their treatment is going or if there have been changes in treatment. For instance, you might ask their parent, “If you don’t mind me asking, how is treatment going right now?”
If you suspect a mental illness, you should contact their school counselor or pediatrician as soon as possible. For example, if the child is withdrawing, moody, or seems hopeless, in addition to refusing to go to school, it might be a sign of depression and you should seek help.

