 A roux (pronounced “roo”) is where you cook flour and butter together until it’s a perfect, smooth consistency – then you’ll be adding cold stock and cooking it until it has thickened into a sumptuous gravy. Here’s how to begin:Cut up 8 tablespoons (½ cup) of ‘’un’’salted butter into chunks (salted will make your gravy too salty). Then add the chunks to a medium-sized saucepan.
With the pan on low heat, melt the butter until it’s foamy. If the butter starts burning, the oven is on too high.
Add ½ cup of white flour to the pan.
 At first it will look like an unappetizing, buttery, gloopy paste, and then slowly it will transform into something smooth and silky. Keep whisking while it’s on low so the air circulates and the mixture thickens.


Eventually (6-12 minutes) it’ll start to smell like a pie is baking in the oven. It won't happen immediately. At this point, your flour has cooked and your gravy won’t taste flour-y.
 Chicken, beef, or vegetable stock all work. Keep whisking as you’re adding the stock, until it all gets absorbed. Once that cup is absorbed, add in another and then whisk until that one is absorbed, and another and then whisk, and another and then whisk, and eventually you will have one smooth, but thin, gravy.


Again, it will be thin – don't be alarmed if it looks more like soup at this juncture; that's totally normal. That's what it's supposed to look like.
 Your gravy is done when it coats a spoon and comes off in drips – not a steady, thin stream. This could take around 10-15 minutes.


Stir it regularly so it doesn't film over, the bottom doesn't overheat, and the air and heat circulate evenly. It will take a while, so be patient.
It's not done yet! Don't be alarmed if it still seems like it's in the works, because it is!

, Whisk it for 2-3 minutes, giving it the spoon test once more. It should thickly coat the back of a spoon and resemble the gravy you have pictured in your mind. All done!

, Though your gravy doesn't necessarily need any more additions, salt and pepper are a favorite of many. However, you may consider a few of these more off-the-beaten-track family traditions:Ketchup
Soy sauce
Coffee
Sugar
Cream of mushroom soup
Sour cream


