 Check if all the important accessories are inside. The Razer Hydra package typically includes:


Two motion-sensing controllers
A base station
A USB cable
A Quick Start Guide;
, Take the cable coming from the controller and plug it in to the dedicated port on the base station. There are two ports on the base station; the controller should be connected to the right-hand port.
 Take the USB cable and plug the smaller end into the left-hand port on the base station. Take the other end of the USB cable and connect it to any available USB port on your computer.
 Open a web browser on your computer and download the Razer Hydra driver installer here:



http://www.razersupport.com/gaming-controllers/razer-hydra/.
 Once the download has finished, double-click on the downloaded file to start installing the driver then wait for it to finish installing.


A pop-up message will appear on the bottom-right corner of your computer screen notifying you that the Razer Hydra has been detected by your PC.
 Double-click the Razer icon on the desktop to launch the Hydra driver.
 This will automatically set the functions of the controller and its buttons with the game you’re playing.
 Click the “OK” button to save the changes and resume playing the game.
 These buttons are located on the face of each of the two controllers. These buttons are given numerical values for compatibility purposes, and the functions will depend on the game you’re playing.


The numerical buttons on the left-hand controller are usually used as directional keys while the buttons on the right are used as action keys.
 This button can be found on both controllers and is placed in between the numerical buttons 1, 2, 3, and 4. The 5 button usually works as the “Select” or “Start” button, or a way to access the game menu.
 The analog sticks are located right at the middle and can be found on both controllers. The analog sticks are used as substitute to the 1 to 4 buttons, but its functions may still depend on the kind of game you’re playing.
 These buttons can be found on the front side of the controllers, and just like the keys mentioned above, its functions will depend the on the game you’re playing.
 At the lower part of the base station you’ll see a Razer logo. To properly use the motion-sense feature of the controller, the logo should be facing you. The logo must be in line right between the two controllers.


This serves as a basic rule of thumb to properly align the base station, accurately using the motion sensing controllers.

