 Set your alarm an hour to an hour or an hour and a half before your ordinary waking time. Go to bed at your usual time. If you don't have an ordinary wake time, try to estimate how many hours you normally sleep. When you go to bed, set an alarm for that number of hours, minus an hour to an hour and a half. , When you wake up early, stay awake for 90 minutes. You can do what you want with this time, but there are certain activities that may help you have a lucid dream. Spending time reading about lucid dreams or reading your dream journal can be helpful. Some people report reading, writing, or meditating of any sort is effective, while others might eat breakfast or snack and have an ordinary morning., You can lie back down in bed or wherever you wish to dream. Try lying in corpse pose, or however you feel most relaxed. Take ten deep, slow breaths. Remember, your goal is to ease yourself into a dream while remaining conscious of the process of falling asleep., Once you have been awake for at least an hour, return to bed or to the place you would like to have your lucid dream. There, you may recite something to yourself such as "I will have a lucid dream" or "I am about to enter my dream again." Imagine a recent dream, or slowly invent a dream you would like to have. Picture it in layers, starting with the outline and filling in the details.Alternatively, try counting yourself to sleep. Say to yourself "One, I'm dreaming, two, I'm dreaming, three…"Another method is to relax each part of your body systematically. Start with one hand or foot and slowly relax each muscle., As you start to sleep, you might see flashing and color. Watch it dimly, without focusing, as focusing might wake you up. Keep your eyes gently closed. Scenes may form. Let them go by you., As you drift off, your goal is to remain conscious of the transition to sleep. Be attentive to the auditory and physical phenomena of falling asleep. You may feel vibrations, which mean that your limbs are beginning to sleep. You may hear a buzzing.Keep your eyes lightly closed and continue to be attentive to images and sounds from within.
 As scenes form, try picturing more details, or interacting physically with the elements you are seeing. Imagine doing something active, such as riding a bike, climbing stairs, or swimming. Involving your senses in the dream will help you move from your physical body into your dream body., Perform a reality check, such as turning the lights on or off, checking the time, or pushing your fingers softly through something that should be solid. If the time is impossible to read or is inconsistent, or if you can't change the lighting, but can poke your fingers though your hand or the wall, you are in your lucid dream.