 You may be trying to sell a product or service, recruit followers for your blog, promote your business or convince readers of a cause's worthiness. Only once you identify what it is you want your web copy to accomplish will you be able to write effectively.;
, Your goals will determine your targeted visitors, and your web writing should speak directly to them. Determine your target's age, gender, socioeconomic status, interests and concerns, and customize your content accordingly.
 Write as if you are speaking to your site visitors and use the word "you" often. Remember that writing copy for the web is about developing relationships, and that your site's content is your chance to have a virtual conversation with visitors.



The heading is the first thing site visitors look at. It should grab the reader's attention and clearly state the subject of the page's content. Keep the heading short (less than 8 words) and concise, and try to stay away from prepositions (and, of, the, a) and adjectives.
Write a summary to follow the main heading. The summary should cover the who, where, why and what of the web copy, and should be less than 50 words.
When writing copy for the body of a web page, keep in mind that most people scan over a page in order to determine if it is a worthwhile read before they commit to reading it completely. Use bulleted or numbered lists, along with bold heading and subheadings, to create a visual outline of the page's content.



Begin each paragraph with an opening sentence that will get and keep the reader's attention, and limit paragraphs to between 4 and 5 sentences and 40 to 70 words long.
Avoid using large or obscure words that readers may not be familiar with.
Sentences should be between 15 to 20 words long.



Choose keywords that you feel best represent the subject of your web writing, and that people searching the web are likely to use. Plant these keywords in your page headings, subheadings and body in a way that is undetectable to the reader.
Use title tags that are keyword-rich and content specific. Title tags are HTML code that search engines use to assess the quality of the content on a website, and are 1 of the most important factors in achieving higher search engine rankings. Your headings should include relevant keyword phrases, and should be bracketed by title tag HTML code.
Include links in the content that lead to relevant outside sources, and make sure those outside sources also link back to your page.
 When writing copy for a home page, it is important that you stand out from the competition. Illustrate 2 or 3 reasons readers should stay on your page and further engage in receiving the message you are trying to communicate to them.
 Rather than outline the features of whatever it is you are trying to promote to readers, write about the benefits. For example, rather than tell readers your blog is informative, explain to readers how they will be better informed for reading your blog.
 Mistakes in web copy make you look unprofessional, and when readers assume you are not a professional, you lose your credibility and your site visitors.

