 Unfortunately, little is known about Lao-Tzu – even the years in which he lived are debated – but we do know he lived around the 6th to 4th centuries BCE.At this time, China was torn apart by the six warring states. In your quest for understanding Lao-Tzu's times, research the six warring states and the effects this constant warring had on Chinese society. Many Chinese elders believed morals had fallen at this time, which may be a reason why the warring arose.
 Confucianism is a moral philosophy and religion that focuses on society as a whole, hierarchy, and obedience to superiors. Some people believe Taoism arose as a reaction to Confucianism. By understanding the reasons behind the ascent of Confucianism and the beliefs of Confucianism, you’ll be in a good position to compare and contrast the elements of each.
 Both these Chinese philosophies arose at the time of Taoism. Each advocated philosophies opposed to Taoism. Research both of these philosophies in order to understand some of the hidden meanings in Taoism, which are often attacks on certain tenets of these philosophies, in similar vein to making a joke about Qin Shi Huang Di and not knowing who he is. (Qin Shi Huang Di was the first emperor who gave China its name and beat the other five family clans.)

, Ancestral worship was very important in China in this time and was seen as something forgotten by the people of the day. Lao-Tzu and the Tao Te Ching might have been influenced by ancestral worship and local gods and goddesses.
 Taoism is completely against culture and civilization, instead believing people should cultivate a simple, ascetic lifestyle in tune with nature and the universe, which is naturally harmonious, perhaps working to a goal. To understand why the Tao Te Ching is anti-civilization, one must know what Chinese civilization was like at the time, particularly the immorality of certain sections like the elite, and worst of all, tax-collectors, who are definite signs of civilization.
 Make sure you have a variety of books on each topic, ensuring that you have access to well-rounded opinions and many different angles.


It is best if the books are written by reputable people, such as professors of Chinese religions or renowned historians. However, make sure you buy books from both Chinese and foreign professors of these subjects, (for example, British or German professors), as doing so will give you both an insider's opinion and an outsider's.
It is preferable that most of your books are not written by Chinese professors, only some, as the Chinese government have tried to suppress Taoism. Professors from China may be under pressure to write defamatory things on Taoism, which is often seen as too sexually liberal, even by Western standards.
 Many artists, poets, authors, calligraphers, and gardeners have been inspired by it.Their interpretations might inform your own understanding.
 As you read it, make notes in a journal about your questions, thoughts, and impressions. Come back to your notes regularly to keep trying to work through your own ideas of the meanings in the text.


Be aware that the style of the Tao Te Ching is poetic and the ideas are singular; the Tao Te Ching purposefully encourages contradictory interpretations through use of vague and ambiguous words.Your interpretations and understandings of the Tao Te Ching may change over time. There is no one right way of interpreting it and no single reader can claim to have the upper hand in understanding its "real essence". Perhaps its ambiguity is its real beauty, allowing you to reassess yourself, through varying stages of life.

