 Make a checklist of essential items, and pack your bag at least a week before your baby is due. You may not have time to pack when the time comes. Pack all the clothing you will need while you are at the hospital or birthing center. Planning ahead will help ensure that you are well-prepared when the time comes., Pack a robe that breathes well and will not cling to you. Cotton and terrycloth are popular fabric choices for postpartum robes. These fabrics will keep you warm, but they won't cling to your body too tightly.


Avoid silk or satin robes. They are slippery, so they allow you to slide around while you are in bed. Hospital rooms can get cool at night, and the sheer material may not be enough to keep you warm.
Avoid fleece and other heavy materials. You want to stay warm, but you don’t want to overheat.
 It's best not to pack anything for the baby besides their going-home outfit and a car seat. The hospital will take care of the rest.
 Choose slippers that will keep your feet warm and offer you good support. You may have to take walks during certain stages of your labor, so you want to stay warm and well-supported while walking. Avoid loose-fitting slippers that could lead you to slip or fall while you are walking.


Slipper socks can be a lifesaver while you are confined to the bed during the early stages of your labor, as well as immediately after you give birth. They will keep your feet warm without being bulky or getting in the way.Slipper socks are also great for keeping your feet warm during your delivery, as you will have to place your feet in stirrups. Most stirrups are fitted with covers, but they can still feel cold and uncomfortable.
 If you wear contacts, don’t forget your glasses and your contact solution. Bring your toothbrush and your hair brush. If your labor is prolonged, you may end up walking down to the cafeteria or around the hospital, so bring anything that you will need to feel presentable.Most hospitals carry pads or tampons, but consider bringing your own just in case. You don't need to use your own, but it can't hurt to have them., Above all, make sure that this outfit is comfortable.

