 Dealing with deep snow will be easier if you've got the right skis, and the type of skis will depend on where you're headed. For deep snow in back country areas, use wide overland touring skis, although narrow versions can be good if you tend to ski both deep snow and set ski tracks.In recent years, as well as the extra-wide skis for deep powder, all-mountain super-sidecut or shaped skis make deep snow skiing a lot easier than earlier types of skis, due to the extra-wide tips and tails.The greater the surface area, the better the skis on deep snow.


Be aware that extra-fat skis are not much good for anything other than deep powder and they're not useful when you're on a crowded ski field. If you don't want to go to the expense of buying such skis for the rare deep powder chances on uncrowded mountainsides, consider renting them for the day. If you want to buy skis that work for both the deep powder and the usual slope, go for the the super-sidecut shaped skis.
Talk to the retailer in depth about your needs. They may be able to make specific suggestions that are tailored to your needs.;
, Powder, or deep snow, isn't found at all resorts, and obviously some resorts get more deep snow than others. It is advisable to learn which resorts have the best consistently deep snow in your region (or wherever you're able to get to) and to do this, you can keep an eye on the websites of each resort as well as weather reports. Tony Crocker's site "Your Guide to Snowfall" is another good place to keep an eye on. Do note a tendency of some resorts to over-report the snowfall levels, although with Twitter, Facebook, and iPhone apps now reporting snow levels, this exaggeration tendency is tapering off.Learn as much as you can about the route and the resort before setting out. If there are paper maps, study them and take one with you.
Heed back country restrictions. Some places are closed off to protect nature, others are to protect you. Not heeding this puts not only your own life in danger, but potentially the lives of buddies accompanying you and rescuers. Even if you do get through safely, if you're caught, you risk fines and loss of passes for the season, etc.
Be aware that not all snow is created equal. Although deep, snow can be unpleasant when powder is impacted by rain, wind, spring thaw, other skiers recently having skied over it, etc. Technically it's no longer powder but it can take the novice a while to spot the hazards and changes. Learn how to spot snow changes, and how to adapt your ski method to the different types of snow, in order to avoid breaking your legs or having other accidents.
 Deep snow comes with its own dangers and it's important to be aware of safety issues before heading out onto it. Things to keep in mind include:


Never ski alone. No matter how tempting, don't. Always have a ski buddy; things happen and if you're alone, there will be nobody to notice you're missing in time. And if your buddy is inexperienced and doesn't know the slope, take along a guide who does. Mountain conditions can change dramatically and rapidly.
Know how to spot avalanche risks and how to avoid them. Read Stay Safe in Avalanche Country for more instructions.
Be aware of the hazards of deep snow. Falling into deep snow can result in suffocation. One way this can occur is when a skier falls into a "tree well". Tree wells are hollow spaces created around trees; they form because the lower branches prevent snow from packing close to the tree and instead create pockets of loose air or snow when there is a build-up of snow. They're common in forested areas where deep snow falls, such as Colorado. On falling in a tree well (usually head first), the loose snow begins to quickly pack in around you and you can't always be seen by other skiers. Long-time ski instructor Craig McNeil advises never to ski close to evergreens on gladed runs in order to avoid tree wells. Read How to escape a tree well when skiing for more instructions.
Don't assume that following a previous skier's tracks will keep you safe. They may have been a stronger skier than you, or worse, they may be lost!

, Deep snow doesn't behave like other snow. It is deep, it isn't firm under your skis, and you need to get used to the feeling of "floating" on what feels like a cushion of powder. Getting used to skiing on deep snow takes time, and you'll get better at it with experience. For starters, deep powder requires very good balance to prevent you from having one foot sink deeper into the snow and the other foot ending up in the air. The aim is to get both skis behaving as one, to enable you to "float" over the deep snow rather than to sink into it.


Take opportunities to practice on deep snow in less intimidating places at first. For example, cut into the powder alongside a shallow piste or groomed run and let yourself feel the bouncier effect as you glide down. Use this opportunity to test your balance and find the differences between deep snow and groomed snow balance requirements (such as not leaning too far back).
 Aim to keep even weight on both skis as much as possible. This enables both skis to act as one, providing a "platform" for your body as you glide over the snow.Keep your skis parallel and balanced evenly.
Do not lean back. This is a common mistake made by many skiers; doing so will cause you to lose your balance and you will fall over, and you won't be able to turn or slow down.
Distribute pressure much more evenly than you would normally do on skis for any other skiing surface. If you place all your weight on your outside ski, you'll sink.
Keep your skis a little closer together than you'd normally have them.
Lift your outside hand and push your feet forwards as you unweight. Doing this will make it smoother and access more powder.
On groomed snow, you're used to using the edges; avoid this on deep snow. Instead, push against the soles of your feet completely. And, at the end of a turn, push down through your heels.
 With practice, you should start to feel more comfortable and to feel as if you're bouncing out of the snow at each turn. Speed is your friend in deep snow; allow yourself to get a little speed and push down on your skis with slight steering to control the speed. First left, and then right, or alternatively right, and then left. Repeat.


Think about turning as a means of controlling speed. Anticipate the next turn as you finish the last. Flex down and apply the pressure needed to create the platform under your skis.
Plant the pole and extend to up-unweight.
Steer your skis into the fall line. As you make each turn, continue to steer your skis.
Each finished turn will regulate your speed.
 The rest of what you know about skiing applies to deep snow skiing too, such as bending your knees, keeping your upper body stable, and keeping your hands out in front. Stay balanced front and back, and at all times, maintain an even pressure on both skis.


Repeat. Once you've started and experienced the thrill of deep powder, it'll keep calling you back. While basic instructions can get you enthused, nothing can compare with getting out there and actually trying it. Just be sure to keep skiing with others to ensure safety, and to observe weather, snow, and other relevant conditions to minimize all hazards.

