 Aside from changing your name because of marriage or divorce, you can change your name for personal reasons, provided you have court approval to do so. These include: if you dislike your current name, if you want to change for religious reasons, or if you want to take a partner's name without marrying. These are all common reasons for electing to change your name, but the court will decide to approve or deny the request.
 Not all forms will be accepted in all Arizona counties, and different counties may require different steps.Check with the court of the county that you live in to verify the steps and forms that are required to legally change your name, or your child’s, or family’s, etc.


You can find information about the individual county courts via the Arizona Judicial Branch’s website.The process for changing a name has many steps, requires a number of official documents, and is not the same in all counties in Arizona. While you can complete the process on your own, if you do not fully understand or know how to complete each of the steps, you should contact an attorney for advice and representation., The general “Application for Change of Name” is available for download via the Arizona Judicial Branch’s website.Some counties will have a different, equivalent form; Coconino, for instance, requires you to complete a “Petition for Name Change.” You will need to have certain information ready to complete the “Application for Change of Name,” including:


Your birth name (as it appears on your birth certificate), date of birth, and place of birth
Your current legal name and address
Any other names you have gone by (for example, from a previous marriage, a name change, or an alias)
The name you would like to change to
Information on any prior or outstanding criminal charges (felony and misdemeanor) against you

, If you are also applying to change the name of another person (such as your child), you will need equivalent information on this person. Depending on the county you live in, you may also need a separate form requesting a name change for a minor or family.


You must be 18 years or older in order to apply for a name change. If you are younger than that, a parent or legal guardian will have to request the name change on your behalf.If you are applying to change your name and you have a child, the other parent must complete and sign a form consenting to the name change. This form must also be signed by a deputy of the court or notary public., You will need to sign an oath on the “Application for Change of Name” attesting that the information on the document is correct. You will also need to have the document witnessed and signed by a deputy of the court or a notary public.


You can find a notary public near you via the Arizona Secretary of State's website.The cost for notarization, if any, should be low. Under most circumstances, Arizona law limits the fee a notary public can charge for a signature to $2 or less.
 In some Arizona counties, you will need to supply a Civil Cover Sheet with your “Application for Change of Name” or equivalent document. This simply tells the court clearly what your application is in regards to. You can download this sheet from the website of your local county court., Include the original application, plus two copies. The court will keep the original and return the stamped (“conformed”) copies to you.You can also mail the original application and two copies to the Arizona court nearest you. If you mail the papers, included a self-addressed stamped envelope so the court can return conformed copies of the “Application for Name Change” to you.
To find the court nearest to you, check the Arizona Judicial Branch’s website, which maintains the most current information about the addresses and contact information for the various courts in each county.
 You will receive a “Notice of Hearing Regarding Application for Change of Name” from the court you filed your application with.This shows that your application was received, and will provide information about when and where you are to appear in court to have your name change request heard. You will need to fill out and return this “Notice of Hearing” to the court to confirm., This is available via the Arizona Judicial Branch's website. You will need to include your name and contact details on it.Bring two copies of this form to court with you. They will be signed by a judge (one is for the court and one will be certified and returned to you).
 Depending on the county that you live in, you may need to notify your spouse that you are requesting a name change. If your spouse agrees with the name change, provide him or her with a stamped copy of the “Notice of Hearing Regarding Application for Change of Name.” In addition, your spouse must sign and have notarized a form called “Consent of Spouse to Name Change of an Adult and Waiver of Notice.” Bring this form to your court hearing.If your spouse does not agree with your request (or if you are not sure if he or she does), then you should still provide him or her with a stamped copy of the “Notice of Hearing Regarding Application for Change of Name.” In addition, have your spouse sign and notarize a form called “Acceptance of Service,” and bring this form to your hearing.Your spouse can also sign a form called “Affidavit of Service by Certified Mail” to confirm notice of the name change request via mail.
If you do not know where your spouse lives, then you must advertise a “Notice of Hearing” in your local newspaper (and in a newspaper in the last known Arizona county of residence, if this is known and if it differs from the county you currently live in).You must run this advertisement at least once a week for four consecutive weeks before your hearing. Contact your newspaper’s classifieds section for information about how to place a legal notice classified. After these four weeks, you must obtain and file an “Affidavit of Publication” from the newspaper.
All forms needed for this step are available via the Arizona Judicial Branch’s website, and/or via the website of your county court.
 Make sure to appear in court on the right date and at the right time for your hearing. You must be present in court to request a name change. If the request is approved, the court will then complete a form declaring the name change and making it official. You will need to bring various documents with you to court:


Two copies of “Order Changing Name for an Adult” to be signed by the judge (one for the court and one to be certified and returned to you)
Government-issued photo identification (passport, driver’s license, etc.)
If you are not a citizen of the United States, then you must also bring your passport or proof of immigration status.
A copy of your Arizona birth certificate (if you were born in the state).
Court-certified copies of all documents that you had to file in the process of requesting the name change
Your Divorce Decree (if applicable)
Any previous Name Change orders you may have
Proof of naturalization or resident alien status (if applicable)
A copy of any Orders of Protection and/or Injunctions Against Harassment that are in effect (if applicable)
Payment for any court fees or requests for certified copies (if applicable)

, To legally change a name in Arizona, you must pay court and document fees associated with the process. These will vary by county, with the fees in many counties totaling more than $200.Typically, you can pay by cash, credit card (Visa, Mastercard, Discover, or American Express), check (in-state), or money order. Checks or money orders should be made out to “Clerk of Superior Court,” unless directed otherwise by your local court.In many cases, you can request a deferred payment plan if you cannot afford these fees right away., If your request to change your name is legally approved, then you must notify all public and private institutions that require your name for business or operations of the fact that your name has changed.


Go to your local Social Security office and get a new card by showing proof of your legal name change (your court documents), proof of your identity, and proof of U.S. citizenship (government issued documents like a passport, birth certificate, and driver's license can establish this).Take your name change documents, your new social security card, and your current driver's license to the MVD and request a new driver's license with your new name. Do so within 10 days of changing your name.There is a $12 fee for a replacement license with your new name.Send copies of your name change documents and an application to amend your birth certificate to the Arizona Department of Health Service's Office of Vital Records (forms and instructions are available via its website).If you were born in a different state, you will need to contact the Bureau of Vital Records in that state in order to change your name on your birth certificate, as there may be different requirements.
Change your name on all other documents and accounts. Some accounts you will need to change include (but are not limited to): bank and credit card accounts, mortgages, car titles, voter registration, passport, and doctor's offices. Contact the relevant offices or agencies for instructions on changing your name in their records.

