 Pour the chicken broth into a large stockpot. Place it on your stove over medium-high to high heat and let it reach a rolling boil.


Use chicken broth to make the soup more flavorful. If you don't have chicken broth, you can use water. Cooking the chicken in the water will allow some of the flavor to seep into the liquid, creating a mild chicken stock in the process.;
, Add the chicken to the boiling broth. Cover the stockpot and allow the chicken to simmer for 20 minutes, or until the meat is fully cooked and tender.


If you have mildly seasoned leftover chicken from another meal, you can skip this part. Simply shred or dice the leftover chicken and boil the broth in preparation for the macaroni.
 Remove the chicken from the broth and allow it to cool slightly. When it is cool enough to handle, use two forks to separate the chicken into thick shreds.


Alternatively, you can chop the cooked chicken into small, bite-sized cubes instead of shredding it. Either option should work well, so it's mainly a matter of personal preference.
Set aside the prepared chicken, keeping it warm by covering it with a loose sheet of aluminum foil.
 If the chicken left any fat in the broth, use a strainer spoon to scoop away the bits of floating fat. Retain the remainder of the broth.


You'll use this leftover broth to cook the macaroni and vegetables. Doing so should result in more flavorful sopas.
 Place the macaroni in the stockpot of boiling broth. Allow it to cook for approximately 3 minutes.


Elbow macaroni is the most conventional option, but any small pasta can be used. Check the cooking time for the pasta you use and adjust accordingly to prevent it from becoming undercooked or overcooked.
 Place the chopped carrots and celery in the stockpot with the broth and elbow macaroni. Boil everything together for another 5 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender and the macaroni has reached an “al dente” state.The pasta should be tender enough to bite into at this point, but it should still retain some firmness. If you allow the macaroni to completely cook during this stage, it will be mushy and overcooked by the end of the entire process.
 While the macaroni and vegetables are cooking, pour the olive oil into a separate skillet and set it on your stove over medium to medium-high heat.


Ideally, the macaroni-vegetable mixture should finish at the same approximate time as the aromatic-hotdog mixture, but you'll need to start them both at the same time to accomplish this task. If either one finishes before the other, remove the pan from the heat while the other mixture continues to cook.
 Place all three chopped ingredients in the hot oil and cook, stirring frequently, for 2 to 3 minutes.


The onion and garlic should both become more aromatic. Allow the onion to turn slightly translucent. The garlic should deepen in color but should not be allowed to burn.
 Place the shredded chicken in the skillet with the hotdog and aromatic vegetables. Add the salt, pepper, and fish sauce. Stir to combine, then cook for another 3 to 4 minutes.
 Drain the fat from the chicken mixture, then scoop the entire chicken mixture into the stockpot with the macaroni, vegetables, and broth.


Stir well to combine the ingredients evenly. Reduce the heat to medium, if necessary, so that the sopas can cook at a gentle simmer instead of a rolling boil.
 Mix the evaporated milk into the rest of the soup. Cook for another 2 minutes, or until everything has heated through., Remove the stockpot from the heat and ladle the soup into individual serving bowls. Enjoy it while it's still hot.


For an added splash of color and flavor, consider serving the sopas with a garnish of chopped green onion.

