 All but eight states – Hawaii, Illinois, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina, South Dakota, and Utah – have abolished alienation of affection lawsuits.Generally, an alienation of affection claim requires proof that your marriage included love between you and your spouse, that the love was destroyed, and that the destruction came about because of the defendant's malicious conduct.The "malicious" requirement typically is presumed if you can prove the person had sexual intercourse with your spouse. It's not necessary to prove sexual intercourse, however.In states such as North Carolina, you don't have to prove the defendant had sexual intercourse with your spouse, or even that the two had a romantic or sexual relationship. You simply must prove that the defendant played an active role in alienating your spouse from you.You don't have to prove that the defendant intended to destroy your marriage. You only have to prove that he or she engaged in acts that would likely have a negative impact on the relationship.You also don't have to prove that the defendant initiated the affair. The fact that he or she was an active participant and encouraged your spouse's actions despite knowledge of the marriage generally is sufficient.If you and your spouse were already physically separated with the intention of remaining permanently separated or filing for divorce, you typically can't file an alienation of affection lawsuit for any acts that occurred after that separation.;
, Your state's law includes a deadline for filing your claim. If the law itself does not include a specific deadline, look at the statute of limitations for personal injury cases generally.


For example, in North Carolina you must file any alienation of affection lawsuit within three years of the date the most recent act occurred.This law does not require you to prove that your spouse actually engaged in any sexual conduct.For example, if you found a hotel charge on your spouse's credit card bill dated June 15, 2013, and you know your spouse was with the defendant on that date, you would have until June 15, 2016 to file your lawsuit if the statute of limitations was three years as it is in North Carolina.
 The court in which you file your lawsuit must have power over the subject matter of your claim as well as over the person you're suing.


Generally speaking, the court in the county where the conduct took place that gave rise to your lawsuit will have jurisdiction over your case.For example, if you and your spouse live in New Hampshire, which recognizes the tort of alienation of affection, but the defendant lives in Vermont, you could sue in a county court in New Hampshire provided you can prove that the act happened there.
Since alienation of affection is something that happens over time, and generally includes many acts or a pattern of conduct rather than a specific event, it can be somewhat difficult to determine which court has jurisdiction.If you're not sure – especially if the defendant lives in another state – you should consider consulting an attorney to find out which court you should use.
 Keeping in mind what you have to prove in your lawsuit, compile any documents or other evidence you might have of each element of the offense.


Videos or photos of you and your spouse together, sweet phone messages, emails, or cards can be used to prove that you and your spouse were happily married with genuine love and affection for each other.
Keep in mind that you don't have to prove that you had a perfect marriage – just that some degree of love and affection existed.For example, if your husband cheated on you with another woman, and that woman is now pregnant with your husband's child, that fact can provide evidence that the two of them engaged in sexual intercourse.
 An attorney with experience in family law or personal injury law may be best able to protect your rights and interests.


Even if you live in a state where alienation of affection claims are still allowed, judges often are reluctant to hear these cases. Having an attorney may increase the odds your case actually will be heard., The rules of procedure vary from state to state, and even among different courts within states, and you want to make sure your lawsuit isn't dismissed because you failed to follow the rules.


You typically can find a copy of the state rules of civil procedure as well as any local rules at the clerk's office or on the state court system's website.
 The caption identifies the case before the court and will be used as a heading on the first page of every document filed in your lawsuit.


Each court has a particular format for its caption and title. If you can't find a complaint form, you should be able to get a copy of a complaint filed for another case in the same court that you can use as a guide.The caption identifies the name of the court, the state and county where the court is located, and the name of the parties in the case.The caption also includes the file number for the case, which is a unique number assigned by the clerk to identify all documents filed in your case. Since you haven't filed your complaint yet, you won't have a file number, but you should leave space for one to be filled in by the clerk., The beginning of your complaint should identify both you and the person you're suing and state the reason for your lawsuit.


If you've found a complaint to use as a guide, you can borrow the introductory language from that document and adapt it to suit your needs.
Begin by identifying yourself as the plaintiff and listing your residence including a street address. Then identify the defendant by name and provide a state of residence and street address for them., You can use the elements of the lawsuit in your state's law as an outline for each factual allegation you present.


Generally, each fact or statement should be a separate paragraph. When the defendant answers your complaint, he or she will accept or deny each of your allegations, so it's important to only have one independent allegation per numbered paragraph., You must calculate an exact amount of monetary damages and explain the basis for those damages.


Your damages will be based primarily on loss of consortium, mental anguish, and any injury to your health or loss of support from your spouse.For example, if you're seeing a therapist to deal with the stress and mental anguish that accompanied your marital breakdown, the amount you pay for your therapy visits would be one portion of your damages.
If you're in the process of filing for divorce or already have filed for divorce, you may be able to include your attorney's fees and court costs for the divorce in the damages of your alienation of affection lawsuit.All states where you can file an alienation of affection lawsuit except Illinois allow you also to request punitive damages – a sort of civil fine that punishes the defendant for wrongdoing.Illinois places a cap on damages, so if you're filing in Illinois you'll need to check state law and find out what the caps are before you draft this section of your complaint., In the closing paragraph of your complaint you should state again the reason for your lawsuit, and ask the court to award the damages you've asked for as well as any other relief the court views as just and proper.


This paragraph (although it's typically no more than a single sentence) is often called the "wherefore" clause because the sentence typically begins with that word., You'll need to leave room to sign your complaint, then type your full legal name and contact information.


If you're not represented by an attorney, you must sign your complaint and provide sufficient contact information that both the court can contact you if necessary and the defendant can serve you with his or her answer to your complaint.
Generally you need at least a street address, but you might also include your phone number and email address if you're comfortable being contacted that way and don't mind that information being a part of the court's public record of the case., The summons tells the person they're being sued, and provides information on how they can be properly served and how long they have to respond to the complaint.


Typically the court clerk will have a form you can fill out to create a summons, rather than having to draft this document from scratch yourself. This document is the same for all civil cases initiated in that court., You can find out from the clerk if the court requires any additional form such as a cover sheet to process your complaint.


For example, all civil actions filed in North Carolina courts, including alienation of affection lawsuits, must be accompanied by a civil cover sheet. The cover sheet provides a summary of the case and the issues presented. You can get this form from the clerk of court., Some jurisdictions require you to sign your complaint in front of the clerk or in the presence of a notary.


If you are required to have your complaint verified, you must be sworn in and sign under penalty of perjury that the contents of the complaint are true to the best of your knowledge.Once you've signed your complaint, make copies so you have one to deliver to the defendant and at least one to keep for your own records. The court will keep your originals when you file., The clerk will stamp "filed" on your original documents as well as your copies and assign your case to a judge.


To file your complaint and initiate your lawsuit, you generally have to pay filing fees, typically around $200.If you cannot afford the filing fees, you can ask the clerk for an application to have them waived. The court will decide to waive filing fees for you after reviewing information you provide on your application about your income and assets., You can't proceed with your lawsuit until you can provide the court with proof that the defendant has sufficient legal notice.


You can get the sheriff's department to serve the defendant in person, or use a private process serving company. You'll have to pay a small fee, usually around $30, for these service options., If the defendant included any counterclaims against you in her answer to your complaint, you must file an answer to them, typically within 20 days of the date you were served with her answer.


Invasion of privacy and malicious prosecution are examples of counterclaims the defendant might raise against you., Through the discovery process, you and the defendant have the opportunity to ask each other questions and exchange documents or other information about the lawsuit.


Keep in mind that the process of litigating an alienation of affection claim may be emotionally challenging. The defendant may try to defeat your claim by showing that your spouse was so unhappy in your marriage that your claims of love and affection are false.Many of the details you may learn through the discovery process could have the effect of re-opening old wounds and making relations with your spouse more difficult. This could be especially problematic if you're attempting to reconcile with your spouse.
 A neutral, third-party mediator can help you resolve the lawsuit and avoid the stress and difficulty of a trial.


Additionally, your spouse may encourage settlement as a way to keep his or her personal business private. Since court records are public, an alienation of affection lawsuit potentially could cause great damage to your spouse's reputation as well as the defendant's.An alienation of affection claim also could provide you additional leverage in any divorce proceeding, especially in regard to division of assets. Your spouse may be willing to accept fewer marital assets if you're willing to make the lawsuit go away., If you were unable to settle your lawsuit out of court, the matter will be heard by a judge or jury.

