 Say hello and strike up a conversation. Introduce yourself and ask questions about her. If things don't go well, try sparking up another conversation with her later. Do your best to keep her engaged.


Getting to know her is the first step. Some people say that you should ask for a girl's number before they've even spoken with her for more than two minutes. However, this usually only works well if you know that you won't see her again for a long while.
Spend some time with her and befriend her, but don't hang around her all the time and abandon your friends (or keep her from hers). If she feels like she's giving her number to a (non-clingy) friend and not a potential boyfriend/girlfriend, she may feel more comfortable about giving you her number. Be careful about setting up too much of a platonic relationship.;
, If she thinks you're creepy or dangerous, she won't want to give you her number. Be genuine and kind. If she gives you her number, she's giving you a key to her life, and she's giving you the chance to get to contact her anywhere – so make sure that you are worthy of that trust., The more deeply you talk with her, the more likely she will be to want to give you her number. Try to find out more about her: who she is, what she likes to do, why she likes to do it. Before you ask for her number, you should find out if the two of you even like to talk to each other.


One way to keep things going is to ask if you can walk with her; another is to sit next to her in class. Whatever tactic you use, make sure she's enjoying the conversation as much as you are.
If she isn't responsive, take a hint and leave her alone for a while. See if she comes to you. If she doesn't engage, then don't force it. Don't worry if she doesn't talk to you; it happens to everyone.
 Most girls will appreciate it if you have the courage to talk to them. Confidence does not mean that you must put girls down, or act like you're better – it means simply that you are able to treat them as people rather than placing them on a pedestal.
 You don't need to ask for a girl's number right away. Asking her for her number immediately when you meet her—or even after just a couple days of talking in class—could come across as too forward, and you might turn her off. Learn to feel when the time is right.


It may be time to ask for her number if you're talking a lot, she seems interested, and you're beginning to make plans to hang out together. If you're making a plan to hang out in a casual setting (outside of school, work, church, or any group), it's the perfect opportunity to ask for her number so that you can coordinate more easily.
You may want to hold off on asking for her number if she seems hesitant, or if you haven't been talking to her for very long. Find a good reason to ask, whether that reason is to continue a conversation or to invite her to hang out. Don't ask for her number just for the sake of having her number.
 Tell her you would like to meet up and get to know her better. If you're feeling cool and confident, and she's enjoying herself with you, chances are she'll say yes and give you her number.


Try to be clear about it. Don't stutter, don't hesitate, and don't beat around the bush. Just say, "Hey, can I have your number?"
Don't have anyone else do it for you. Don't ask her friend for her number. If you're going to impress her and do it right, you need to work up the courage to ask her yourself.
 Asking for a girl's number should not feel like a big deal; it should feel natural. Don't build it up in your head beforehand. A phone number isn't automatically going to change everything: it's possible to date a girl without ever getting her number, and it's possible to get a girl's number when she doesn't terribly want to date you. Try not to draw the process out or make it more complicated than it needs to be. Don't make her think twice about giving you her number.
 If you're uncomfortable asking for her number, try to find a legitimate purpose for asking. "Hey, can I have your number so that we can ____?" Having someone's phone number makes planning and coordinating things much easier. Even if you're making plans to hang out with her in a group, having her number might help. Once you have her number, you can always text her about other things – like hanging out.


If you've made plans to study with her, ask for her number to make it easier. Say, "Hey, can I get your number so that we can make plans to study?"
If you're going somewhere with a big group, ask for her number to help get together with the group. Say, "Tonight seems like it's going to be pretty hectic, and I might be a bit late. Can I get your number so that I can find you guys if I have any trouble?"

, If you're in a class together and a school project comes up, partner up with her and give her your number if you need to work on it outside of class. This is a somewhat smooth way to go about this; even if she suspects what you're trying to do, she might not do anything about it because you really do need to talk about the project outside of class. Make sure to actually talk about the project, especially at first. Don't immediately just go, "Hey, what's up?", or she'll get what you're trying to do and may not appreciate it.
 As part of your suggestion, ask for her number so you two can discuss plans later. Make sure you've been friends with her for a while before you do this! There isn't necessarily a set "right time" for this; just request her number when you feel like she's comfortable with you. It really depends on how well you connect.
 If at the end of the conversation, she hesitates and seems to not know what to say, ask her politely if it's okay that you get her number. She may be waiting for you to ask and may be a bit shy. It's always better to ask and not to demand it; she may not want to be rude, and asking politely gives her an acceptable way to say no. Women don't usually like to feel as though they must give their number just to be polite.


Chances are that if you force her, your feelings will get hurt when she avoids your calls or texts. It's better to just to be open and let things flow as they should.
 Don't be rude and brush her off. Say something like "Okay, that's no problem. I'll see you around." Girls don't like it if they feel you are being too pushy – so just be friendly. This makes the girl think you are easy-going, and so she might give you her number some other time.


A lot of the time girls just want to figure out what kind of person you are. If you can, strike up a polite and friendly conversation about something that she's into (or a teacher, a club, or a particular subject).
Consider simply invite her and her friends out with you and your friends. You could go bowling and get an ice cream after, or you could go to a movie, or hang out in the park. This way, she can see what kind of person you are, and it may inspire her to give you her number.
 If you succeed in getting her number, she is probably pretty excited to talk to you as well – unless she felt pressured to give her number away. The old rule about waiting three days to call isn't really relevant in a society that is connected 24/7. It is okay to contact her later that day or the next, but keep it short and sweet. Something like "How is your day going?" Is a good way to start., Ask her how she's doing, but don't feel the need to get her entire life story from the first text conversation. Don't start sending novels on how everything is going for you, and don't start asking multiple questions at once. There is no need to rush things! You have plenty of time to get to know each other, and you may as well enjoy the journey.Consider finding a reason to cut the conversation short. If you've gotten a good talk going, and you find a natural lull, you can say, "It's been great talking to you, but I need to go to practice now. I'll talk to you later :)" If things were going well, then this might leave her wanting more.
If the first few texts naturally bloom into a huge, days-long conversation over multiple messaging media – let it happen. This almost certainly means that she likes you.
 With the rise of texting and instant messaging, it isn't as common to call girls as it used to be. Call her if you're planning to meet somewhere, but you can't find her; call her if you feel confident asking her a question about something over the phone; or call her to talk once you know her much better. Texting should be more than enough to start you off.
 If you text her a lot, and she seems to engage with the conversation, then you don't need to think twice about continuing to text her. If she's giving short, one-word answers to everything you say, then it's a good indication that she isn't really interested. In this case, texting her more won't make her like you more; indeed, it may make her want to avoid you.


If you ask her a question and she sends you a long answer—at least a few sentences—then you should definitely keep asking questions. If she asks you questions back, that's even better.
If you ask her a (deeper than yes-or-no) question and she responds with "yeah" or "idk" or anything along those lines – she is probably either shy or uninterested.

