 Find a few (2-4) friends in orchestra who will help you with your campaign. You are going to need their help! Choose people who you trust, who are willing to help you, and who other people in the orchestra like. Make sure to have at least 1 person of the opposite gender.
 You need to determine your "platform". In any campaign there are issues which people will have differing opinions about. Think about issues and things that you and your fellow orchestra members like and dislike about orchestra right now. Get together with your friends from Step 1 to discuss these things. You all have been in the orchestra, so you know what changes they need the most.
Answer the following questions:


What have past Presidents, Vice Presidents or teachers done in past years that you and your fellow orchestra members have enjoyed and benefited from?
What have past Presidents, Vice Presidents or teachers done in past years that you and your fellow orchestra members have not enjoyed?
If you were elected as Vice-President, what specific things would you change that would benefit the orchestra as a whole? Especially, you want to have a couple key points that are unique from the rest of the people running. Make them popular, fun and interesting.


The answers to those three questions will become the issues that make up your running platform.
 Keep in mind that school elections are more of a popularity contest than anything. The more friends you have and the more people who like you, the more likely you will get elected.
If you are not the most popular candidate, have no fear, there are plenty of things you can do to make you become the one everybody likes the most. The poster alone is not going to get you elected. You and your helpers are going to have to talk to each person in orchestra and convince them to vote for you. Here's 3 sure-fire strategies that are sure to help you win them over:(You need to start doing these things as soon as possible, at least a week or two before the election. Get together with your friends after school one day or on the weekend and do all these things.)

