 By compatible, this means that your HTC Sense device is running on KitKat (4.4.2) or a later version of the Android OS.;
, An HTC Sense rooted-device (superuser) access is also a must. Rooting is basically “hacking” into your Android device. In other words, getting complete access to your Android’s file system and being able to command it as a superuser (think “admin”).


Once rooted, the Android device user will have much more control over more settings, and can essentially change or modify any of the software code on the device.
You also need the newest version of Xposed framework apk.
 You can download it to your smartphone from xposed.info. Go to the website using your device’s browser and click on the download link of the installer.
 Locate the downloaded file using your device’s file manager, and tap on it to install it.
 Find the app on our home screen or app drawer, and tap on it to launch it.
 Select the “Framework” option on the main screen. Tap on the “Install/Update” button. This will effectively update your Xposed framework to the latest version just in case if you’re still using an older version of it.
 Reboot your HTC Sense device in order to save the changes.
 Once you have restarted your device, run Xposed framework again. Then look for the “Download” section and select it. Click on “OK Google for 3rd party launchers” to download the “OK Google” feature on your smartphone.
 Just click on “Install,” select “Next,” and tap on “Done” to successfully install the “OK Google” feature to your smartphone.
 Once you complete the “OK Google” installation process, go back to main menu of Xposed framework and select the “Modules” option. Afterwards, look for “OK Google” Module and enable it by checking it.
 Right after enabling the “OK Google” module, restart your HTC Sense smartphone to save the changes you made.
 Make sure that your launcher is set to the one supported by the “OK Google” module. Opt for Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Launcher or Google Now Launcher.


Launcher refers to the Android user interface, which basically means the device’s home screen and app drawer (which you can also customize according to your design aesthetic).
 As clearly as you can, say “OK Google” and your question into your OEM Launcher, Google Now Launcher, or your device’s home screen.


For example, say “OK Google, when was Winston Churchill prime minister of Britain?”
On the search box, look for the microphone icon to make sure your device is “listening” to your voice commands.

