 The first thing you will need to do is decide what kind of garbage truck you are looking to buy. This will be based primarily by how you will be using the truck. If you are doing commercial waste removal you will likely need either a front loader or rear loader to be able to accommodate the large volume of trash. If you will be using the truck for residential waste removal, a side loader will serve you best because of its ability to quickly pick up a large number of relatively small containers of trash from the curbside.;
, The next thing you must decide after choosing the right truck is the right dealership you want to purchase the truck from. Find a dealership that has a large selection of the type of truck you are looking for and try to find references or reviews for the dealer. Reading reviews and speaking to people who have worked with dealers before is a good way to find a reputable source to buy your next truck.
 You really don’t want to buy a used truck that you will constantly need to be fixing and spending money on just to keep it on the road. Buying a used refuse truck can become a bad investment if you don’t look for quality used garbage trucks for sale. It is a general rule that a truck that has low mileage and is well maintained will be a better truck. The location where the truck was used is also critical due to rust and corrosion concerns. Trucks from dry and temperate locations are typically in better condition. Some dealerships also provide complete reconditioning and painting options for their customers.
 Never spend more than you can afford. It is imperative that you remain within your budget regardless of what you are being told by the dealer. It is in your best interest to stay within your financial means when looking to buy a truck. A good dealer will be able to accommodate your needs without having to break the bank.
 Financing a garbage truck purchase can make great financial sense. It frees up capital that can be used in other aspects of your business. With interest rates at historical lows, keeping your down payment and monthly payments low is easier than ever.
 A big mistake that buyers make sometimes is purchasing a vehicle from a private seller. Private sellers generally do not have to follow strict laws and regulations that licensed dealers must adhere to which can mean that you will not have any recourse if you make a bad purchase. Dealerships are able to offer warranties and have financing programs in place that you will simplify your buying experience and give you peace of mind.
 It is imperative that you understand everything throughout the process of purchasing a used garbage truck. Make sure that all of your questions are being answered so that you can make an informed purchase. Take your time and do your homework. If you follow these tips, you can find a great used truck that will serve you well for years to come.

