 This means being assertive with those who are bullying you. Avoid being passive or suffering in silence. The person who is bullying you may be looking for a reaction. If you react by crying or getting upset, the person may continue the bullying. Being assertive means telling other people how you feel and what you need without being disrespectful or aggressive.


Think of ways to counter verbal attacks. For example, if the person who bullies you picks on you because you are quiet or shy, and says things like, “Why don’t you ever talk, stupid,” you can think of ways to positively respond. You could say, “Well, I don’t appreciate you calling me stupid, because I’m not. I don’t talk that much because that’s the way I am. I like how I am.” This way you are keeping the bully in check and showing you are confident about who you are.
You can also clearly respond with something simple, such as "Stop," and calmly walk away.Be sure to use assertive body language, such as standing up tall and keep your arms loose and relaxed. Look the bully right in the eye as you communicate to show him that you are not afraid of his bullying.Try using humor or laughing off a bully's comment to show him that he has no control over your emotions and can't push your buttons. For example, if the bully calls you stupid, a humorous response might be, "Hmm, I guess I enjoy the 'simple' things in life."Avoid passive-aggressive ways of communication like spreading rumors about people.
 Another part of communicating is being clear and concise. Let the person know that you will not tolerate being bullied.


One way to use assertiveness is to use “I-statements.” This is a way to talk about how you feel without being directly aggressive toward the person who bullies you. An example would be, “I feel angry when you tease me and say that I am strange.” The key is to focus on how you feel (angry, sad, disrespected), instead of on the person’s actions. This can help reduce the defensiveness of the person you are confronting.
 Do not get aggressive with people who bully others, this can fuel their fire.


Try using deep-breathing techniques when you are feeling angry or sad. Breathe in deeply through your nose, and let it out slowly through your mouth. Do this for at least a few minutes and you should feel calmer in your body.
 Do not fight. It can get you injured and you may end up in trouble, too. If you find yourself in a fight, don't hit back. A lot of teachers and staff don't look too kindly on people who fight back. If you really need to, self-defend - push them away or use your hands to block, or use your legs.


Say things like, “I don’t want to fight you. It won’t solve anything.” Or, you can take a more subtle approach by saying, “Fighting just isn’t my thing.”

