 Some training methods advocate out-and-out dominance of the dog, and whilst it's good to be a leader to your dog, it should be based on encouragement rather than harsh correction. Think of your dog as a junior family member who needs to live by the house rules for everyone's benefit.


Reward based training works on the principle of rewarding good behaviors so that the dog wants to repeat them in order to get a treat, whilst bad behavior is ignored, so the dog gets not benefit from it and the behavior eventually stops as a result., This is covered in depth at How to Clicker Train your Dog . The principle is to teach the dog to associate the click-clack of the clicker with a reward or treat. Then you give a cue word and use the clicker to mark the exact moment a desired behavior takes place,, and then reward.


The advantage of using the clicker is that it's a down-payment on a treat, and so can exactly mark the desired behavior in a way that's difficult to do otherwise., They're cruel and not only will your dog probably not like you very much, the choke chain could do irreparable damage to your dog's neck. In fact, dogs have died as a result of wearing choke chains.


A choke chain, prong collar, or electric collar represent lazy or shoddy training. They rely on fear of pain to subdue a dog and make it fearful, rather than encourage it to chose the correct behavior upon request., Borrow and buy books on dog training from your local library and your local bookshop. Read books and articles about dog training, behavior, and psychology so that you understand how dogs think, which gives you a vital edge when training them.
 Be aware that scolding a dog rarely has a place in dog training. Dogs live in the present and if you scold a dog it just links the negativity to you, and becomes wary of you, rather than learning a lesson, which can damage your relationship. On occasions when you are present and wish to correct behavior, such as the dog on the sofa, use a disapproving facial expression and a disapproving noise, to show you are not happy, but punishing by shouting or physical violence achieves nothing other than to damage your bond.


Aggression often incites a fear response in dogs, not a true trained response. If you hit a dog too much or too harshly, he or she can become nervous of hands approaching it. So when a child goes to stroke the dog, all the dog sees is the same hand that hit it approaching. He or she is scared and thinks "Is this person going to hit me today?" So the dog bites out of fear.

