 Your fiancé is going to wear this ring every day, so choose one that will mesh with his daily routine. A guy who works a lot with his hands, for example, would appreciate a slim ring with round edges so he can easily take it on and off.Men with active lifestyles might prefer a platinum ring, which is especially heavy-duty and not easily scratched."Comfort fit" wedding rings are especially recommended for men because they are easily slipped on over larger knuckles.;
, Because wedding bands are worn constantly, you'll want to choose a ring that fits your partner's hand. Schedule a professional ring fitting with your partner, preferably in the mid-afternoon. This is when your fingers will be at their largest stable size of the day.While you can find your partner's ring size at home, a professional fitting will be more accurate.
 You and your fiancé do not need to have matching rings, but their styles should be harmonious. Maybe you could choose a wedding band made of the same metal as your ring. Or, if your wedding ring is an infinity ring, you could choose an infinity band for your partner.

Although men's rings don't always have stones, you could choose a wedding band with gemstone accents that match your own., When you're looking at rings, think of what adjectives you'd use to describe it. Compare these adjectives to how you'd describe your fiancé. If the two don't match up, choose another ring. Buying a wedding band is an intimate choice, and you'll want one that reflects his best qualities.Suppose, for example, you describe a wedding band as unassuming, mature, and bright. If this is also how you'd describe your partner, you may have found the right band.
If your fiancé belongs to a certain religion or culture, you might consider a ring with symbolic meaning. Irish couples, for example, often choose Celtic knot bands., Some couples prefer their wedding ring choices to be a surprise. Your partner might not want to see his ring until the special day. But, if you want to be sure, you could have him accompany you to the jeweler's. After all, he'll be the one wearing this ring. He can help advise you on style, metal, possible gemstones, and fit.If desired, he could pick out bands he likes and you could choose a band later on to keep it a surprise.

