 Macchiato is made with espresso, and each standard double shot will require 0.6 to 0.7 ounces (18 to 21 g) of coffee beans, depending on how strong you want the shot.Measure the beans and transfer them to a coffee grinder. Grind the beans until they're finely ground.

Finely ground coffee beans are about the size of salt grains. This is the ideal grind for espresso.
You can also buy pre-ground espresso beans from grocery stores and coffee shops if you don’t have a grinder.;
, On a professional or home espresso maker, remove the portafilter from the group head. Fill the clean portafilter with the freshly ground coffee. Tap the portafilter against your hand to distribute the grounds, and then tamp the grounds to compact them.If you don’t have access to a professional or home espresso maker, you can use a stovetop espresso maker. Pour the grounds into the inner basket and spread them around evenly with your finger.
Use strong coffee in place of the espresso if you don’t have any means of making espresso.
 Return the portafilter to the position in the group head and turn it to lock it in place. Place a demitasse cup under the portafilter and turn on the water to pull the shot. Let the water run for about 30 seconds to fully extract the shot. Stir the espresso to distribute the crema, which is the foam that builds up on top.

With a stovetop espresso maker, fill the reservoir with water to the maximum fill line. Place the filter inside the reservoir and screw on the top. Heat the espresso over medium heat until it bubbles over into the top reservoir. Pour the espresso into a demitasse.
 Transfer cold milk to a tall metal container. Hold the container at a 45-degree angle to the steam wand. Insert the steam wand into the milk and turn on the steam. Steam until the milk has increased in volume and the container is hot to the touch. Remove the container and clean the wand with a damp towel.The ideal temperature for steamed milk is 140 F (60 C).
 When the milk is ready, pour the steamed milk onto the espresso. Use a spoon to scoop a dollop of foam on top.Serve the macchiato immediately. You can add sugar, garnish the top with cinnamon, or drink the macchiato as is.

