 Strength and resistance training exercises will help tighten and tone the muscles underneath your skin, lending to an overall tighter physical appearance. Do strength training exercises at least two to three times per week that target all major muscle groups, including stubborn areas with loose skin. For example, if the majority of your loose, excess skin lies in your abdominal region, focus on doing strength training exercises that strengthen your core and tighten your abs.;
, Water will help keep your body hydrated and naturally improve the elasticity of your skin. Aim to drink at least 0.5 gallons (2 liters) of water per day or more as needed based on your environment and activity level. For example, those who spend more time outdoors in warmer temperatures may need to consume more than the daily recommended amount of water.


Swap out sodas, sugary fruit drinks, energy drinks, coffee, and alcohol for water as much as possible. These types of beverages contain high amounts of sugar, caffeine, additives, and other compounds that can result in further dehydration and worsen the elasticity of your skin.
 Healthy whole foods such as fruits, vegetables, sources of lean protein, nuts, seeds, and legumes contain vitamins and antioxidants that support and boost your body’s production of elastin and collagen, and are crucial to maintaining tight, healthy skin. Lower your intake of processed foods and foods high in sugar and fat, and consume more healthy, whole foods to help tighten loose skin., Exfoliating will help eliminate dead and unhealthy skin cells, and promote the growth of new, healthy skin cells that contain ample amounts of elastin and collagen. Use mineral and sea salt scrubs all over your body or on areas with loose skin daily to gradually tighten your skin., Moisturizing skin care products that contain ingredients such as aloe vera, hyaluronic acid, vitamin C, vitamin E, and vitamin A will naturally help hydrate and boost your skin’s production of collagen and elastin.
 The ingredients and compounds found in many harsh beauty and household formulas can dehydrate your skin and worsen your skin’s elastin and collagen. Start using gentle, mild soaps and all-natural detergents that lack harsh chemicals, and purchase a water filter for your showerhead to filter out harmful substances that can damage your skin., A skin massage will naturally help improve your skin’s circulation, which, in turn, can help boost collagen and elastin production. Make an appointment with a professional massage therapist and explain that your goal is to tighten loose skin. Your massage specialist may even use natural oils and compounds that can help accelerate the tightening of loose skin.
 Exposing your skin to UV rays from the sun or tanning salons can lead to further skin cell damage, as well as affect your skin’s production of collagen and elastin. Stop visiting the tanning salon, and cover your skin with pants and long sleeves when spending time outdoors to prevent sunburn and excess sun exposure., Cosmetic surgery procedures such as abdominoplasty (tummy tuck surgery), body lift surgery, and brachioplasty (arm lift surgery) can help remove or tighten stubborn pockets of loose skin following weight loss. Talk to your doctor about whether these treatments can help tighten loose skin if diet and exercise fail to work for you.