 While doing this, examine the armor and weapon(s) the enemy is carrying, and what kind of creature he/she/it is.


If the enemy is very heavily armored, conventional weapons may be a bit hard. In this case, it is best to use a weakening spell. "Corrode Armor" is highly recommended, but other destruction/alteration spells may work as well, such as Drain Health or Weaken Endurance.
If the enemy is a mage or a conjurer (These may be identified by the robes they wear and are often carrying a one-handed blunt weapon), then a ranged weapon is best, as they often rely on ranged, damage spells that will damage you before you can come close enough to hit them with a melee weapon.
If the enemy is a creature, such as an ogre or bear, then conventional weapons, melee or ranged are okay to use. Although it is best to weaken the opponent with ranged spells or ranged weapons as it is charging before fighting close-range, as most of the time creatures have fast attack rates.
If the enemy is undead, then spells work efficiently, especially high-level "Turn Undead" spells. Conventional weapons are okay to use, but remember: Only silver, daedric or enchanted weapons will affect ghosts or wraiths. The undead usually have slow attack rates but high damage, so strike hard whenever you get the chance.
If the enemy is a daedra, then high-damage, heavy conventional weapons, such as claymores, are best to use, as light weapons often fare badly against daedra (But it still depends how high your Blade or Blunt skill is, if its very high, such as above 75, then light weapons are okay to use.)Few spells are effective against daedra, aside from most destruction spells. High-level daedra are immune to some spells, so be careful.
If your enemy is a vampire (May be identified by the red eyes, wrinkled face and pale-white skin), then don't let them get too close, because they have a chance of getting you infected. Use bows or destructive spells to damage them as best as you can. When they close in, get out your melee weapon. Block their blows and strike in between.;
, For example, ghost's weaknesses are silver or spells, daedric weapons are the weaknesses of most enemies e.t.c.
 Block continually, and watch for your opponent's pattern of attack. Once you've recognized when he/she/it pauses, strike whenever that moment comes (Most of the time, its right after the enemy has sent a blow and you've blocked it.)

