 Get permission from your daughter before you start planning any events, and offer her some options so she can choose what would be best for her. Keep in mind that the whole point is to make your daughter feel positively about her period. Make any party plans together.Don’t get upset if your daughter’s ideas for the party are super different from your own. It’s her party, and she should be the one who gets to control it.
 Invite some of her friends over for a slumber party and keep things low key but fun. Let the girls celebrate in their own way. Having these positive and supportive parties could become a new tradition among your daughter and her close friends!, Some girls may cringe at the thought of celebrating her period with her friends (or, even worse, your friends). If that’s the case, celebrate with just the two of you. This may mean more to some girls., There are lots of foods that can help your daughter through any tough symptoms that came along with her first period. Nuts, leafy greens, and foods that are high in iron or potassium are all great for keeping her healthy and happy during her cycle.Set out a few bowls of sunflower seeds and walnuts. Drizzle them with a little honey to add some sweetness. Serve a big spinach salad and make a banana bread for dessert.You can also ask your daughter if there are any foods that would satisfy her cravings. Chocolate brownies could be a big hit.
 If a period-themed menu appeals to your daughter’s sense of humor, get a little silly with the food and drinks. Plan a menu that celebrates your daughter’s period by choosing red foods and drinks, or dishes that symbolize fertility.A sample menu could include mini-quiches (which have lots of eggs in them), spaghetti and red sauce, and red velvet cupcakes. You can also serve cranberry juice or even sparkling pink lemonade. If it’s winter, go for the egg nog!

, If you’ve planned a slumber party for several girls, they’re not going to want to rub each other’s bellies. But giving each other a nice shoulder and neck rub relaxes tense muscles, and this, too, can help with menstrual cramps.If it’s just you and your daughter, you can talk about other ways to ease cramps. This could include showing her how to lightly rub her lower belly, or giving her a heating pad.

