 Don’t shut them out while you try to cope with the trauma of the event.They can often help you cope with a traumatic event in a lot of ways. They can listen to you, talk to you, encourage you, and comfort you.


You may not hear from your family or friends as you would expect to, due to them just not knowing what to say or how to react. Don't be afraid to reach out.
Just spend time being around them. You don’t have to say or do anything.
Try saying, “Could you just be with me right now? I feel really anxious and don’t want to talk or do anything. I just want someone here with me.”
Stay with one of them for a few days of you need to (especially if the traumatic event has you afraid, depressed, or anxious).
You don’t need to or have to tell all of your family members and friends. Tell those that will be there for you.
 Talking about it helps them understand what you are going through. It can also help you deal with the emotions related to the event. Although you don’t have to (and shouldn’t) tell everyone you meet, you will cope better if you don’t keep it a secret.


Ask them to help you by staying calm. You might say, “I need you to stay calm when I tell you what happened so that I can stay calm.”
Don’t be mad if they ask some questions, they are just trying to understand what happened.
You can ask that they not share what you have told them with anyone else.
If the traumatic event is something that happened to people other than just you, talk to them. They understand exactly what you went through and are going through., Because they care about you, your friends and family will want to see you smile and try to cheer you up. Let them, even if it’s just to distract yourself from the traumatic event for a few moments. Smiling and laughing will help relieve some of your physical and emotional tension.Try to laugh at their corny joke or chuckle at the silly meme they send you.
Take up their offer for a movie or a walk on the beach.
You don’t have to pretend that you are happy when you aren’t. But at the same time, allow yourself to smile and feel some hope for the future.
 Sometimes it can be very difficult to let go and move past the trauma by yourself. You may have trouble eating, sleeping, or just doing everyday things. You may experience physical symptoms, as well. Coping with a traumatic event by seeking appropriate help is not only a good idea, but often is necessary.Try to build a team a medical, mental health, and trauma professionals to help you with immediate and long-term effects of the event. Contact your insurance company for help with referrals in your area. They know which clinicians specialize in which areas.
Join a support group for people that have experienced the same or similar trauma. Not only can the group help you cope with the event, they can also recommend understanding and effective professionals.
If you believe you cannot afford professional help, investigate what assistance may be available from community service organizations in your area.
If the event affected the community, counseling services may be offered through community agencies.

