 A good fort will be built in a place where it fits perfectly. Look for trees with branches that are low to the ground, bushes that are hollowed out in the middle or that form a ring, or logs that can make the base for your fort . Try not to put your fort in the middle of a field or a grassy area, because this will make it difficult to build and won’t give much cover.


Lean your fort up against a tree, if you can. Forts build in the woods are the easiest to make.
Big rocks can be great places to put a fort, if you can find them.;
, The best outdoor forts are built using things from the outdoors! Spend a bit of time searching your yard or the woods for supplies to use in building your fort. You might use things like:


Old branches
Large sticks
Tree boughs (with leaves)
Dead bushes

, If you can’t find many good fort-building supplies outdoors, you might want to add some things from your house to make it better. Remember to only use things from your house with permission from your parents. Gather up all the supplies you could use to build your fort. These might include:


Blankets
Thick string (for holding up the blankets) and clothespins.
Umbrellas
Cardboard boxes
Chairs, Use some big sticks (or chairs, if you don’t have sticks) and put them in the ground to set up a wall around your fort. You can use 4 sticks for the corners, or you can use lots of sticks put close together to make a wall. If you don’t have many stick, you can put blankets or big leaves between your corners to make your walls.


If you have thick string, you can wrap it between the corners and put blankets or towels over the top to make walls.
Try to make your walls between a few big trees or bushes to make it easier to build.
 You don’t have to, but it may be good to add a roof to your fort. To do this, drape big branches with leaves over the top, and balance them on your walls. You could also throw a big blanket or tarp over the top of your roof. If you have lots, a fun idea is to use many umbrellas as a roof over the top of your fort.


Old dry branches that have fallen off trees that still have leaves are perfect for making a roof.
If you build your fort under a tree with low branches, you might not need to add a roof.
 The next best thing to building your fort is making it feel like your own. Bring in decorations to make the inside feel more comfortable, or add some to the outside. Old logs can act as chairs or tables, and fresh flowers always work well for decoration. Use big leaves as bowls and cups, and look for other parts of nature to add to your fort.


If you want, you can bring things from your house to decorate the inside of your fort. Always be sure to ask permission for this, though.
You might want to make a sign for your fort, with a name.