 Purchase some moleskin from a shoe store (or the shoe repair section of a drug store) and take out one sheet. Place the sheet behind the offending strap or heel and trace it with a pencil. Cut the shape out using a pair of scissors and peel off the backing. Stick the moleskin onto the strap or heel.This will also work on other areas that cause chafing. If the area is inside your shoe, cut out a small circle or oval that is slightly larger than the area getting chafed. Peel off the backing and stick the moleskin to the offending area.
You can also stick the moleskin directly onto your foot, and peel it off at the end of the day.;
, You can purchase one at a drugstore. Apply the balm directly onto your skin, where the chafing and blistering is likely to occur.









You probably do not want to apply this to existing blisters. Instead, consider buying some blister treatments instead. They look like oval band-aids and go over the blister. They help cushion the blister and keep it clean so that it does not get infected.
 The sweat and moisture created by chafing can cause or worsen blisters. An antiperspirant reduces the moisture, which may reduce blistering.
 When your foot slips around from side to side, blisters can form along the front and back of your foot, where the material rubs against your skin. If you find your foot moving around inside a wedge heel or similar style, place a gel or padded insole inside the shoe to reduce movement.
 If the ball of your foot is aching at the end of the day, your shoe may be too hard; this is especially common in high heels. Purchase a set of ball-of-foot cushions and stick them in the front of your shoes, right where the ball of your foot sits. They are usually shaped like ovals or eggs.









If you have a pair of heeled sandals that have a strap between the toes, consider getting a heart-shaped cushion. The rounded parts of the heart will fit to either side of the toe strap., Both can be purchased in a shoe store or a drug store. The silicone gel dots are clear and easily disguised, but the foam tape can be cut to just the right shape and size., If your heels ache, it may be because the back/heel area of your shoe is too hard. It could also be because your shoes do not give your feet enough arch support. Try putting in a silicone heel cup or an arch support insole. Both can be trimmed down to the right size, and have adhesive on the back so that they don't slip around.Arch supporting insoles are usually labeled as such; if you are having troubles finding some, look for something that is thicker in the middle of the insole—right where the arch of your foot would go.
Placing an insole in a tight shoe may make your feet feel overcrowded and uncomfortable. If this happens, try a thinner insole

, Sometimes, the angle between the heel and the ball-of-foot is too great, causing your feet to slide forward and squish your toes against the front of the shoe. Reducing the heel height might fix this. Do not attempt to do this on your own; seek out a shoe cobbler to do it for you. Most high heels can be trimmed down up to 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) by a shoe cobbler.