 Though cosmetic products will not permanently reduce the visibility of existing scars, applying makeup can help cover them up temporarily. Regular make-up may help cover up scars, and you can also purchase scar tissue cosmetic concealer at most pharmacies without a prescription.Before purchasing a cover-up makeup, it's best to have camouflage color testing done by an experienced cosmetic professional. This will ensure that your makeup matches your skin tone.;
, Keeping your skin moisturized will help reduce the symptoms of eczema, which may reduce the potential for scarring. You can purchase moisturizers at most pharmacies and skin care retailers, but make sure you get a moisturizer that works well for people with eczema.Creams and ointments tend to be more effective than lotions.
Choose a moisturizing cream or ointment that is free of alcohol, dyes, and perfumes.
Apply moisturizers several times each day. Be sure to always moisturize after bathing or washing your hands.
Avoid using harsh soaps when cleansing your face.
 Some topical creams contain calcineurin inhibitors, which can help reduce visible flare-ups and heal damaged skin.You will need a physician's prescription for calcineurin inhibitors, though you may be able to purchase milder skin-repairing creams without a prescription. These are typically moisturizers that include vitamins and antioxidants.


Common calcineurin inhibitors include tacrolimus (Protopic) and pimecrolimus (Elidel). Both of these medications are only available with a prescription.
Be aware that calcineurin inhibitors can affect your immune system. For this reason, most physicians only prescribe calcineurin inhibitors when other treatments have failed or are not feasible options.
 Some people with eczema find that silicone applications help improve eczema symptoms, thereby reducing the risk of scarring. Silicone gels and sheets are generally available without a prescription at most pharmacies and drug stores.Position the silicone gel/sheet over the scar and leave it on for 12 hours each day. Do this daily for at least three months.

