 Soak a paper towel or cloth in white vinegar. Lay it over the sticker and let it sit five minutes. Gently peel off the sticker using your fingernail or tweezers.
 Product labels on furniture and toys can usually be dissolved with a damp cloth. However, do not add water to stickers that come on sheets for peeling off and pressing on. These pressure-sensitive stickers can become more firmly attached when exposed to water.








Don't soak the wood, or you could swell the grain and cause damage.
 If the cloth doesn't work, try a product such as Goo Gone, Goof Off, 3M General Purpose Adhesive Cleaner, or cleaning products that contain citrus oil. Use just enough to wet the sticker. Give plastic or foil stickers a couple minutes for the product to soak through, or try to lift the edge and apply an additional drop underneath. Once wet and soft, attempt to peel or scrape it off as before.









Read the label instruction first to make sure the product is safe for wood.
 These can take up to eight hours to penetrate and soften the adhesive, so this is only worth doing if it saves you a trip to the store. Once soft, scrape the sticker and goo off. Add a few drops pure, concentrated dish detergent to the remaining residue. Rub it in to make a paste, then wipe off with a paper towel.
 Alternatively, you can use a vegetable or plant oil (particularly eucalyptus oil) or a low-strength mineral oil such as WD40 or baby oil. Dab a few drops over the sticker, let sit a couple hours, then attempt to scrape off. Plant and mineral oils can have different effects, so you may wish to try one of each, separately.









This can darken the color of unfinished wood. This is not harmful for most wood — and may even improve its lifespan — but you may wish to apply oil to the rest of the wood so it matches. Use a product intended for the purpose, not the oil you just used.
 Consider these chemicals a last resort, as they can potentially damage some wood finishes and paint. Use them only in well ventilated areas or outdoors, since the fumes are toxic and most are quite flammable. Test the product on a corner of the wood first to make sure it's safe.









Lighter fluid is usually safe on paint, and evaporates quickly from the wood. It can still damage some finishes.
Paint thinner's probably the next safest bet, but will damage many finishes. Make sure to test in a corner first.
Acetone or acetone-based lacquer thinner will destroy lacquer and plastic-based wood finishes — in other words, most of them.
Rubbing alcohol is an absolute last resort, since it can dissolve through most lacquers and damage the wood underneath.