 Tap the Play Store icon from your Android’s home screen or app drawer to open the application. Google Play Store is the Android app store, where you can download miscellaneous types of software for your Android device.;
, Select the magnifying glass icon on the upper right-hand corner of the Google Play screen and type in “Smart Keyboard” on the search text field. Tap the Enter key on your tablets keyboard to begin searching. Smart Keyboard should appear at the top of the search result list.


There are two versions of Smart Keyboard that you can download: Trial and Pro. Trial offers basic keyboard functions while the Pro, the paid version, has more advance settings that you can tweak and customize. You may choose to download either one.
 Select Smart Keyboard from the list to open its summary. Tap the “Install” button you’ll see on this screen, and tap “Accept” on the Permissions screen that appears to instantly download and install the application on your Android.
 Tap the app with a gear icon you see on the home screen or app drawer of your device to open its settings. Here, you can manage and customize all sorts of features and options available on your Android.
 You can view all the related options with regards to input methods here. On newer Android operating systems (version Jelly Bean and beyond), you may find this option listed under “My Device.”

, Inside the Language and Input screen, you’ll see an option labeled “Keyboard and input methods.” You should see Smart Keyboard listed below this option. Simply tap “Smart Keyboard” from the list or put a check mark beside its name to make it as your Android’s default keyboard app.
 Tap the Messages application from the home screen and start composing a new message or reply to a thread.


Once you have the message composer open, Smart Keyboard should automatically appear.
 Press the letter that you want to type in and hold it for at least two seconds. A list of accents for that letter will appear. Tap the accent that you want to use, and it will be added to the message you’re writing.


Do this for every accented letter.
 Smart Keyboard can be used not only with text messaging but also with other Android applications because it essentially replaces your device’s stock keyboard app. You can type with accents while chatting in Facebook or looking for a specific word while surfing the Internet using your mobile browser.

