 When you get there, copy and paste the image you want. For some computers, you can screenshot an image. For example, on Mac laptops, press "Command" and "Shift", and "4" to take the image you want.;
, Google Drive is easiest way if you took a screenshot of an image. If you took a screenshot of an image, go to Google Drive, and once you get to a document, click "insert" and there should be a spot where it says "image". Once you click that click "Choose image to upload". There you should pick the screenshot image. If you used Microsoft Word, just paste. Print the image out.
 Although optional, this adds interest to the cover. Apply some glue on the paper and rub the glue, to spread it outward. Get the color of your own choice, and sprinkle the glitter over it. Shake the paper over the trashcan lightly. Using a brush, brush off the rest of the remaining glitter. Let the paper dry. After it has dried, cut out the image you printed.
 Either use one you have already, or you can buy one. Put the printed and cut-out image on your laptop. Make sure it doesn't move as you put the clear case over your device. Then secure the case. Lightly move the device left to right to see if the image moved. The image shouldn't move. If it does move, it means the case if either too big or you didn't secure all the way.
 To design your keyboard, get some Washi tape. Don't worry since the Washi tape will not ruin the keyboards or stay permanent.


Do not cover the entire keyboard or else you will end up struggling to know where the keys are. Cover only the spots you know you will always remember such as the space bar. If you really do want to cover every single keys, you can cover part of it, so you can see the other half.
 Since the main color that represents Starbucks is green, get a piece of green tape and measure it to fit the certain key. Then cut off the excess. Remember to be careful of using scissors or else you might scratch the device. Attach the Washi tape over the key.
 Screenshot a drink image from Starbucks, or even a Starbucks logo. If you don't want any one of those, you can change the color of the desktop picture to green.
 For example, if you have Macbook, go to System Preferences, and click Desktop & Screensaver, then press "Desktop". Doing this, you will find the screenshot image. Then exit out of the System Preferences.

