 If the clasp on your envelope makes it difficult to write legibly, think about purchasing a sticky address label from a post office or stationary store. You can write on the label on a flat surface, then peel it off and fix it onto the envelope. If you decide to write directly on the envelope, just continue to the next step.


The return address label should be smaller than the main address label.;
, Before placing anything in the envelope, lay it flat with the clasp facing down. Run your hand across the envelope so you can feel where the clasp is.
 Turn the envelope so the flap is on the right side.
 Write your address in fairly small print, so you have plenty of space in the center of the envelope. Use the same address format as you would on a normal letter. This is the standard in the US, and similar format are used for most other countries:Name of Sender
Street Address
Apartment/Suite Number (if needed)
City
State and Postal Code (a.k.a. ZIP code)
Country (for international mail)


, Write the address where you'd like to send the envelope, in the same format. Write this on the same side of the envelope, in large print.


If the clasp is located under the center, feel for it first to plan where to write. To avoid bumps, you might need to write this slightly off-center, or write so the clasp is in between two line of the address.
 If you have extra instructions such as "Do not bend," write them once at the base of the front, and again on the back of the envelope.


If you're not sure whether you need to write "Air Mail" or a similar instruction, ask someone at the post office or look up instructions on the post office website.
 Flip the envelope open and slide your mail into the opening. Place the top edge of the document nearest the opening if possible.
 The most common type of clasp envelope has a butterfly clip with two metal arms. Unfold these so they stand straight up. You may need to pry them up using your fingernails.


If your envelope has two circles and a string instead, just close the flap and wrap the string tight around the other circle instead.
 If your envelope has a strip of paper along the edge of the flap, peel this off to reveal the adhesive. If your flap has a lick-able strip, wet this slightly to make it sticky.
 Lower the flap and adjust the metal arms so that they are positioned right beneath the hole. Push the hole over both arms. Seal the flap against the body of the envelope by running over the edge with your thumb.
 Push the clasp arms outward again and flatten them against the flap. To prevent the clasp from catching on other mail, put a piece of tape over the arms.
 Apply the appropriate postage in the upper right hand corner of the envelope, and your envelope is ready to mail. The exact postage required depends on the size and weight of the envelope, as instructed by your local post office. If you can't find instructions, just take the envelope to the post office and pay for postage over-the-counter.

