 Get out of the mindset that cultivated plants are better than the ones that naturally grow in your area. A weed is simply a plant which is somewhere a human doesn't want it. If you do want it in your garden or landscaping, it's not a weed. While invasive species (see below) are undesirable and should be removed whenever possible, many plants eschewed by gardeners can--with a little imagination and a fresh eye--take their rightful place in your world. Your neighbors might consider you insane at first, but may well come around.;
, You don't want to unintentionally hurt your local ecosystem, so you will need to do some research.



Know your Endangered and Threatened Plants. Unfortunately, some plants are threatened, and should not be transplanted for any reason (unless maybe under threat of destruction by home building). Even plants that may look ordinary--like ferns--may in fact be off-limits. Check with your areas endangered and threatened species list.
Some plants may live and thrive in your area, they may actually be pests. For example, in Vermont, USA, purple loose strife is a beautiful plant, but is an invasive species that hurts the native habitat.
Know what local plants are dangerous to have around. For instance, you do not want to start a garden of poison ivy, or encourage highly poisonous plants like nightshade with your baby brother playing in the yard.
Most high-quality nurseries can guide you into choosing appropriate native species. Some can offer cultivated versions of "wild plants" that should not be re-located. (For instance, trillium or cacti)
In the USA, some colleges and universities may have agricultural extension services that can help you.
If you are a student, check with your botany or biology teacher...or a teacher who is fond of gardening (there is almost always one in every school).
 Some plants germinate from seeds, others by "runners" or otherwise clone themselves, or come from tubers, and this is important to know so that you can nurture it the right way. Does it live in sun, shade, in sandy soil, clay soil, damp soil, on rocks...observe the environment and plant accordingly. Although some plants thrive in a variety of situations, others are particular.


Nearly every species of plant has a web page based on those who love them, whether it's moss, day lilies, cactus, or wildflowers. Usually there will be information on how to care for your plants.
 Along with knowing how to nurture your plant, it's important to understand when is the appropriate time. For instance, planting blackberry bushes in January will doom your vines.


For many plants, spring is an excellent time to transplant or plant, as plants are often more receptive to change than more mature plants.
Mid to late summer or fall is an excellent time to save seeds or bulbs, and sometimes to plant for next spring.
 Plants are often adapted to a certain type of soil, amount of sun, water conditions, and so forth. Usually plants fail to thrive when conditions are simply unfavorable, no matter how lovely they look in a certain place.


Plants with large leaves usually love shade.
Plants with big flowers typically need lots of sun.
 While well-established, mature plants are usually low-maintenance, young plants need as much attention as cultivated ones. Be sure to water regularly, if needed, weed, and protect from frost if needed.
 If you buy wildflower seeds, be sure to read the soil preparation information on the back of the container. Just throwing the seeds to the wind will not likely yield flowers.
 Although obviously plants are featured in a garden, including such natural features as rocks, driftwood, water, and so on. Rock gardens lend themselves to natural plantings, and so do fences made from branches or rock.
 To a large extent, your garden will grow and thrive by Mother Nature's clock, not yours. And the results may not be the ones you expect--as in gardening in general. Every year, you will learn more and more.

