
In a jacket hanging up
In your pillowcase.
In a fish tank where people will never look
In your handbag/purse/old backpack.

Behind your TV, or computer.

Under a pile of stuffed animals.
In your underwear drawer.
In the little space under your bureau.
Inside a shoe box (make sure you keep shoes in there too!)
Inside your computer
In the pet carrier box.
Under your cushion.
If you have a pile of cushions on your bed, then you can unzip one of the covers, slot it in and re zip it. No one will ever know! Just make sure no one sits on it and gets a nasty surprise!!
Under a pile of cans that you don't usually drink.
If you have an opening blanket, hide it under the cushion inside.;
, Most computers have lots of empty space inside the case, and very few people think to look inside them. People, and parents especially, may not be very good at dealing with technology and not even realize it can open or that there is any space inside. Just be sure not to store it somewhere where it will damage your computer, start a fire or block airflow to components that need cooling.
 Don't use things like LiveJournal. That isn't as anonymous as making a separate email address and emailing entries to yourself or just saving all your entries as drafts on that email.
,,, This way, that person will be less likely to look around for your diary!

, If a nosy person comes into your room and starts snooping, get a little notebook and quickly write my diary on it and then drop it onto your bed. Casually leave the room. Maybe they will read the decoy diary and, finding very little there, simply leave the room and you will have nothing to worry about. Add bogus entries every so often, as if they had really happened, but that the snooper can recognize as fantasy (such as your fantastic trip to San Francisco, or how you spent two years in a foster home, or how you rescued a dog from the pound and now it is your best friend). This will make them wonder if other things you wrote were true or fantasy, and you can tell people that you want to be a writer so you make up a lot of things. Later, when you're done with that diary, go back and put a code by the fantasy entries before you hide it permanently. The famous writer Anais Nin did this for years!

, Nobody looks behind pictures.
 Why would anybody look in your ceiling?

, An example of a bad spot is on an end table, where it may seem to invite someone to pick it up, open it, and find the diary by mistake.
 Remember to put the drawer back on. Some sets of drawers have a base, with a space between the base and the bottom drawer, this way people won't find your diary, even if they're moving the furniture around!

, Slip your diary inside, and then cover it with a few sheets of tissue. The only problem is that if someone wants to take a tissue they may find the diary underneath, so use quite a few tissues and replenish them after anyone uses them.
 Also put one of your old Bibles in it to cover up your diary. It works great!

