 You'll need three terracotta flower pots and a clay saucer. They should be the following sizes: 12 inch (30.48 cm), 14 inch (35.56 cm), and 16 inch (40.64 cm). In addition, purchase a clay saucer with a diameter of 20 inches (50.8 cm).Purchase constructional adhesive as well. You will need it to glue the saucer on top of the terracotta pots.Purchase polyurethane sealer and paint, if you choose to decorate your birdbath. Polyurethane sealer can give your birdbath a nice shine and help protect it from the elements. With paint, you can give your birdbath a beautiful design of your own making., Use cardboard to sand away rough edges on the outside of the pot. Rub jagged edges until they are smooth., Do this to give the surface a protective shine. Stir the polyurethane and then apply it to a paint brush. Run the brush over the pot to apply a light coat of sealer, with no clumps or dripping sealant. Allow it to dry in the sun and then sand off any imperfections in the coat.This step Is not absolutely necessary, but will add to the visual appeal and longevity of the bath.
 You can paint the pots with original designs to make the bath look more appealing. While the pots are stacked, draw a line where the pots meet with a pencil, so you know what will be visible and what won’t. Apply polyurethane sealant afterward to protect your paint job.


Once you draw the line, you will know what isn’t visible and can save yourself the time of painting areas that will be covered up. You can paint the pots different colors or the same. With the lines, you will know where they meet, so you can even paint designs that cross over from one pot to the other.
 The bath will hold up longer if it is not placed directly on the dirt. A wooden patio or level piece of stone is ideal., Place the largest pot on the bottom, with the opening on the ground. Place the other pots on top of it, largest to smallest., Apply construction adhesive to the area where the saucer would rest on top of the smallest pot. Allow it to dry for 24 hours and then check if is secure.You do not need to glue the pots together. They should be secure without applying glue. If you don’t glue them together, you can deconstruct and move the birdbath easier.
 Once the lid is secure, fill it with water to bring the birds over. Consider placing one or two small rocks in the saucer so that the birds have a sense for the depth of the water. This will make them more likely to make use of their new amenity.

