 Your fertilizer should contain iron, zinc, manganese, magnesium, molybdenum, copper and boron. When applying the fertilizer, spread evenly under the canopy of the tree by watering or raking into the soil. Avoid spreading fertilizer within the 5-inch area around the trunk of the tree.The time and frequency of adding fertilizer depends on the tree’s age.
Most mulberry trees thrive with little to no fertilization. Fertilizing at least once a year should be fine.Avoid fertilizing more than twice a year and begin in March but no later than July. Fertilizing after August will result in freeze damage., Water your mulberry tree twice a week if it is surrounded by light soils, and water once a week if planted on clay soil. It should take you 40-50 minutes to ensure that the root system is completely soaked. Each week, your tree should receive at least 1 inch of water, especially during extremely dry periods.You don’t need to manually water your tree if you receive at least 1 inch of rain in your area.Fruit may fall from the tree prematurely if it doesn’t receive ample water. The best way to avoid dry spells is to let your garden hose slowly trickle to allow the water to penetrate the roots instead of running off.
 Removal of dead, diseased or crossed branches should be done in winter when the tree is dormant. Avoid pruning in mid-summer to allow the tree to set for the upcoming year’s fruit buds.Cuts should follow the shape of the tree and should never be more than 2 inches in diameter.You should need no more than 5 cuts to prune a healthy mulberry tree.
Cuts over 2 inches in diameter can lead to bleeding, from which your tree is not likely to heal. They also leave your tree vulnerable to certain diseases and fungi.
 You can harvest the fruit by handpicking them, or laying a sheet or tarp under the tree and gently shaking the branches. Do not harvest before May or your fruit may not be fully ripened.Your berries are ripe when they are large, sweet and black.When placing your fruit in a container, avoid layering too many or the berries at the bottom of the container will be crushed.
Your unwashed harvest can be stored for several days in a covered container in the refrigerator.
Your harvest can also be kept for several month by washing the berries, patting them dry, and placing them in freezer bags.

