 You will need:









½ cup (120 ml) powdered citric acid
1 cup (240 ml) baking soda
¾ cup (180 ml) corn starch
1/4 cup (60 ml) Epsom salts (optional)
Food coloring, several drops (optional)
Essential oils, several drops (optional)
Water or olive oil, to dampen;
, In a large non-reactive mixing bowl, add your citric acid, baking soda, and corn starch. Use your hands, a whisk, or a mixer to thoroughly incorporate all these dry ingredients together.

If desired, you could measure in 1/4 cup (60 ml) of Epsom salts after stirring the other ingredients together. Doing so is optional, however.
 Use a spray bottle to lightly dampen the mixture you’ve just created. Add only enough water so that the dough is compactable, but avoid adding so much that it becomes fizzy and must be started over.

After spritzing the mixture two or three times, give it another stir with your hands. It should hold its form when pressed together. If it doesn't, add a little more moisture and try again.
 When your mixture can be easily molded in your hands, add a few drops of essential oil and food coloring to your liking. Feel free to mix multiple scents and colors to create a combination unique to you.

Lavender is a popular fragrance for relaxation, and eucalyptus is popular for added energy or sinus relief. Feel free to use your favorites, however.
 Use dome molds or a mold with rounded edges and press the bath bomb dough into it. Use a lot of pressure to compact the mixture firmly into the molds, to prevent cracking.

Silicone candy molds can be used if you want to make smaller bath bombs.
 Leave the bath bombs in the molds for at least 24 hours. Place the molds in a cool, dry area away from moisture. If after 24 hours the bath bombs still feel slightly damp, remove them from the molds and allow them to air dry independently.
 When the bath bombs no longer feel damp to the touch, remove them from their drying area and store them in an airtight container. Keep the bombs away from moisture to prevent premature fizzing, and enjoy them in your next bath!Homemade bath bombs don't have any preservatives, so it's best to use them within a few months.
















