 Nurses have to communicate with their patients and other medical staff, often in high-stress, fast-paced environments. It’s important that you learn to communicate clearly and effectively. Always ask your patients if they need anything. Even if they send you running for a million things, they will know you care for them.


Make sure, though, that you don’t sacrifice showing interest in your patients for efficiency. Even if you’re just popping in to check an IV bag, take the time to say hello to your patient. Don’t just run right back out the door.Body language and other forms of nonverbal communication such as eye contact are very important, especially for a caring-based profession like nursing. Make eye contact when you’re speaking and when you’re listening. Make sure that your body language isn’t sending the wrong message. For example, crossed arms or legs suggest that you’re closed off, and shifting your weight from leg to leg suggests that you’re not confident.Present yourself in a calm, respectful manner.
Give complete information. Sometimes, even a minor detail can be the difference between recovery and re-injury for a patient. For example, if you don’t tell an oncoming nurse that your patient fell a few hours ago, that nurse will not know to watch the patient so s/he doesn’t fall again.Remember that what you say isn’t always what others hear. If someone looks confused, or reacts in a way other than you expected, ask for feedback. It’s much better to catch miscommunications early than let them spiral out of control.You will often have to change tactics depending on the situation. If you work in an ER, for example, you will have to talk very differently with a 6-year-old girl than you would an adult man. Approach each patient with the same kindness and respect.
 Patients and their families can often be frightened when they're in a hospital. They may not understand what’s happening to them, or they may be uncertain about what to expect. Take the time to discuss the illness with your patient. Let the patient know what to expect from any procedures, but keep your tone approachable and kind.Stay away from jargon as much as possible. “Cardiac ischemia leading to myocardial infarction” is unintelligible to the average person. It’s better to use plain English when possible: “Your arteries were blocked, and this caused you to have a heart attack.”
Consider the person’s background when you're talking with him or her. Not everyone has the same level of knowledge or ability to understand. Ask questions! It’s a good idea to ask your patient things such as “What do you already know about such-and-such?” or “What questions do you have for me?”Once you’ve explained something, have the patient repeat it back to you to make sure s/he understood it. If there are inaccuracies, gently correct them without making the patient feel ignorant or stupid. For example, “That’s mostly right. But it’s really important that you only ice your foot for 15 minutes at a time, okay?”
Always tell your patients that if they have questions, they should call you. A patient should never leave your care feeling alone or isolated., Nursing is no place for egos. One-upmanship and trying to compare yourself to the other nurses will make you no friends, and won’t be good for your patients, either.Being a team player means that your patients will get the best care possible, and everyone’s jobs will run more smoothly. Collaborating is the key to keeping the staff happy and your patients cared for.Ask your charge nurse what s/he needs help with. Ask your coworkers what they need help with. Similarly, if you need help, ask for it.
On the other hand, don't overextend yourself or neglect your own responsibilities. It’s even more important to be able to help than it is to offer. If you're swamped at a particular moment, recognize your limitations. It’s okay to say “no”.Remember that nurses work with a multi-disciplinary team, and each person has a part to play. Stay in touch with the other people on your team and know what is going on with your patients at each step of the care process., Because you will likely work with patients from many cultural backgrounds, it’s important to develop cultural competency. This means you have an understanding of your own biases and values. You also know how to communicate with people whose English proficiency is limited, and you recognize and respect cultural traditions other than your own.For example, a person from an Asian culture may want to eat only hot food to replace the “vital heat” they have lost through illness. It’s important that you respect your patient’s culture and traditions, or you will communicate that you aren’t interested in your patient’s holistic well-being.If you are interacting with a person whose culture you’re unfamiliar with, ask before taking any actions. Use nonjudgmental open-ended questions, like “Could you tell me more about _____?” or “I would like to learn more about _____?”
Everyone makes mistakes. If you make a culturally inappropriate mistake, acknowledge it and apologize.
You can learn more about cultural competency by studying transcultural nursing assessment. Learn more at www.tcns.org.
 Patients are often scared. They're in a situation that they may not understand, and which may have huge ramifications for their lives. As a nurse, you will be the professional with whom they will have the most contact, and your expertise is invaluable. Speak assertively and with confidence when asked a question or explaining something. If you fumble for an answer or hem and haw with a lot of “ums” and “uhs”, the patient may feel as though you don’t know what you're doing. Being confident (and correct!) in your answers will help you gain your patients’ trust.


For example, if your patient asks whether it’s okay to lay her infant on his stomach, don’t reply “Um, well, I think it’s probably not.” Instead, give a clear, research-based answer: “No, it’s not a good idea. SIDS (Sudden Infant Death Syndrome) kills many infants every year. Most infants who die of SIDS are usually lying on their sides or stomachs.”Your continuing education training can help you stay on top of the facts you need.
Tell yourself that you know what to do. It can be easy to doubt yourself, especially after a long hectic shift. Remind yourself that you have the knowledge and the skills you need, and what you don’t know, you can learn., Particularly if you’re new to nursing, you may feel worried that asking for help is a sign that you don’t have the necessary expertise to be a good nurse. Remember, though, that no one knows everything. It’s much better to ask when you don’t know something than to make a decision that could harm your patient.When you ask for help, be attentive when it’s offered. Note what your fellow nurses do, and how they handle the situation you were unfamiliar with. Learn from their experience. Repeatedly asking for help on the same issue suggests that you are not paying adequate attention, or that you don't value your fellow nurses’ time.

