 This is an open-source, free utility that can crack your Windows passwords using some advanced algorithms. The program has been made available for free by the developers and all of the code is public and peer-reviewed. OPHCrack comes in ISO format, which means it will need to be burned to a CD/DVD in order to work.


Only download OPHCrack from its official SourceForge page. This is the version directly from the developers. Do not download any version of OPHCrack that comes in EXE format. Make sure to download the correct version for your version of Windows.
Some antivirus programs will flag OPHCrack as a virus. This is because some of the tools it contains are classified as "evil software", since they are expressly designed for hacking. Using OPHCrack from the SourceForge page will not result in any viruses.
If you can't access your computer because you are locked out, you will need to do this on another computer.
 This will allow you to boot from the disc and load the OPHCrack software without loading Windows. This guide has detailed instructions for burning ISO files to disc.
 Insert the disk into the computer that you need to crack and boot from the disc. This guide will show you how to configure your computer to boot from a disc. When configured correctly, OPHCrack will start automatically when your computer starts up.
 After loading files, OPHCrack will open the graphical menu.
 Once OPHCrack starts, it will automatically begin attempting to retrieve all of your passwords. This could take some time, especially if the passwords are complex.
 In the User column, you will see all of the active Windows User accounts.
 Recovered passwords will be displayed in the "NT Pwd" column. If the column says "empty" for a user, then that user does not have a password.
 You can now log into Windows as you normally would, using the recovered password., Once you are back into Windows, you can create a password recovery disk so that you can avoid problems like this in the future. Using the disk will allow you to quickly retrieve your lost password. See this guide for detailed steps on creating and using the disk.

