 Try not to read about celebrity couples, as those marriages are hardly realistic. Find blogs, vlogs, or advice articles. Find things written by people who don't want to get married, and why they chose not to get hitched.;
, Remember, though, that they will probably be biased one way or another. Ultimately, your decision is the only one that matters.
 Ask yourself why you think marriage is not for you. You may not want to marry for financial, religious, moral, or family reasons, or you may just not feel like you are ready to commit fully to your partner (if you have one).
 Many people don't want to marry because then they will be expected to have children. Remember: marriage does not always have to lead to children. Centuries ago, humans were only meant to get married and have children. That has changed, but your family and friends may still pressure you to do so.


Parents will sometimes pressure their adult children to get married and have kids of their own. This can be for many reasons. Maybe they found joy in their marriage and children, or they want grand kids, or perhaps they think that you need kids to take care of you in your old age. Whatever the reason, it doesn't matter. All that matters is that you choose what's right for you.
 Your partner may want to get married, even though you don't. Respect their standpoint, but don't give in to guilt or persuasions such as "If you really loved me, you'd marry me.". If they truly loved you, they would respect your decision to stay unmarried.
 If you can't afford to get married, don't worry. First of all, a big, expensive wedding isn't necessary. If you want to get married, you could just do so cheaply. It's your wedding, you can get married in your pajamas if you like.
 Marriage = lifelong whereas Wedding = One day. If you're nervous about a ceremony, then look at the big picture and spending the rest of your life with someone you love. Conversely, if you just want to throw a big party, it's not a good idea to get married. Plan a big celebration for your birthday or another holiday.
 Remember, if you choose not to marry, you can always change your mind later. Your decision is never set in stone.
 If he/she gets angry at you, leave the room and let them calm down for a while. If they ask questions, answer to the best of your ability. Remember, it is your decision not to get married, not theirs.
 If you have concluded that marriage is not for you, then recognize that. Don't feel guilty or pressured just because someone else wants you to get married. It's a very personal decision.


Friends and family may try to sway your decision, but just remember that marriage isn't for everyone, and what makes one person happy can make another miserable, and vice versa.

