 If your child’s allergy symptoms are mild, you can probably control them with over-the-counter medication and proper sanitation around your house. If the symptoms are severe, such as breaking out in body-wide hives, or swelling of the throat or other airways, you will need to ensure your child is no longer exposed to cats.


If you already have a cat and find out that your child is severely allergic, you will likely need to rehouse your cat.
 Antihistamines are designed to reduce the production of an immune system chemical that is responsible for causing the symptoms associated with allergies. They also help relieve itching, sneezing and runny nose. You can purchase these medications over-the-counter or acquire them with a prescription. Antihistamines come in pill form, as nasal sprays or in syrups, which are specifically designed for children.Never give over-the-counter or prescription allergy medications to children two years of age or younger unless directed by a doctor or medical professional., Decongestants work by shrinking swollen tissues in your nasal passages, making it easier to breathe through your nose.Some over-the-counter allergy tablets combine an antihistamine with a decongestant.
Never give over-the-counter or prescription allergy medications to children two years of age or younger unless directed by a doctor or medical professional., These shots, usually administered once or twice a week by an allergist, can help a child overcome the symptoms of allergies that can’t be controlled with either antihistamines or decongestants. Allergy shots "train" your immune system by desensitizing it to specific allergens. This is typically called immunotherapy. The initial shots expose you to very small doses of the allergen, in this case, the cat protein that causes an allergic reaction. The dose is, “gradually increased, usually during a three- to six-month period. Maintenance shots are needed every four weeks for three to five years.” Also, be sure to ask your doctor or allergist about age and dosage restrictions as they may apply to your child. , While also continuing a regimen of allergy medications, it is important to also follow the steps listed below, under “Controlling Cat Allergies with Preventative Measures,” to ensure you minimize the symptoms of your child’s allergy to cats., Once you have found the proper dosage and type of medication for your child, monitor its effectiveness over time. People have a tendency to build up an immunity to the active ingredients in allergy medication, which ultimately minimizes their effectiveness. If you see this occurring in your child, you will likely have to change the dosage or type of allergy medication he or she is taking.