 Go to the apps icon on your phone menu and tap on the Twitter icon. This will direct you to the Twitter app welcome page.


If you do not have the app, visit your device’s app store (Google Play for Android; the App Store for iOS) to download the Twitter application for free.
 This will start the process of creating your business account. You will be taken to the Sign-up page where you will be required to fill a few business details.
 You will see five text field areas on your screen. Enter your business name into the first text box area, your business email address into the second text field, the username you would like to use in the third text field area, enter the password in the fourth text field, and the phone number into the last box.


Note that the username should be between 6 and 15 characters.
 The button is blue in color and will direct you to the next screen on account customization.
 On the customization screen, you will see a square box with a camera icon at the top left of the screen. Tap the camera icon to browse through your phone to select a profile picture. Touch the picture you want to use as a profile picture to select it. Once selected, tap the “Upload” button to have your picture uploaded to your profile. This picture will occupy the square box.


The picture needs to be 400 x 400 pixels and 2MB maximum size. The picture format supported are JPG, GIF, and PNG.
 At the top middle of the customization page is a rectangular box with a camera icon inside. The camera icon is named as “Upload header photo.” Tap this icon then browse your device’s Camera Roll to find the picture you want to use as cover. Select that picture and tap “Upload” to have the picture uploaded. The uploaded picture will occupy the rectangular box mentioned above.


The picture needs to be 1500 x 500 pixels and 5MB maximum. A picture to be used as cover should be able to communicate more of what the business does. It can contain the business products or the business colors. The picture format supported for cover pictures are JPG, GIF, and PNG.
 Below the square box is a text field area named “Bio.” Enter the description of what your business is about. The bio should be a maximum of 160 characters.
 You will be taken to your new account’s dashboard in the Twitter app.

