 When the skin is also infected with the bacteria Propionibacterium acnes, pimples, pustules, cysts, and abscesses form.
 Sebum, the most direct cause of acne, is an oil. Based on the principles of chemistry, the best way to dissolve oil (and dirt, cell debris, dirt, bacteria etc,) is to use another oil.We've grown used to thinking that oil is always bad for the skin, so we use cleansers with (often) irritating chemicals. We forget that the natural oils on the skin are there to protect, moisturize, and keep the skin healthy. Oil has the ability to not just break down dirt and unwanted oils, but also to prevent the stripping of the skin that you see with soap., Choose oils wisely, making sure to avoid sensitivities and allergies. If you have a nut allergy, for example, you won’t want to use hazelnut oil. The following list of oils is varied — some are more expensive than others, some are easier to find than others. However, all are non-comedogenic, and will not clog the pores and contribute to the acne problem:Argan oil
Hemp seed oil
Shea nut oil (Shea olein)
Sunflower oil
Alternative oils that you can use (that are non-comedogenic for most people) include olive oil and castor oil. Castor oil can be drying for some people, while for others, it is moisturizing.
Coconut oil is different from the other oils in that it contains medium chain fatty acids. It kills bacteria including Propionibacterium acnes. It counters the long chain fatty acids in sebum that block the skin pores., The herbal essential oils on this list are known to have properties that will help minimize the presence of P. acnes bacteria. Many of these oils have pleasant aromas, so you might choose an oil based on personal preference. With all oils you put on your skin, always remember to try them on a small area of skin first to determine if you have a sensitivity to it.


Oregano: antibacterial, anti-inflammatoryTea tree: antibacterial, antifungalLavender: antibacterial, calming and soothing.Rosemary: specifically antibacterial against P. acnes Frankincense: anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, You can make as much or as little of your cleanser as you'd like. It may be more efficient to make larger batches and store them somewhere cool and away from light. The ratio you should maintain for all batches is:


For every fluid ounce of primary oil, add 3-5 drops of secondary herbal essential oil.
 Pour a small amount of the oil mixture into the palm of your hand and apply it to your face. Never use a washcloth or sponge, which might further irritate your acne. Using small, circular motions, gently massage the oil into your skin for 2 minutes.
 A simple rinse will not be as effective as usual, since water does not dissolve oil. To remove the oil cleanser from your face, place a washcloth soaked in warm water on your face for 20 seconds. Slowly and gently wipe of the oil, then rinse the washcloth in warm water. Repeat this procedure until you've wiped all the oil from your face.


Use a cotton towel to pat dry your face.
Use this method twice a day and after heavy sweating.

