 Junk art is not an oxymoron––there are real artists who spend their lives turning junk into beauty. This art form proves that one man's trash is another man's treasure. And it's a way of showing respect to your planet and fellow human beings by reusing its resources to spread beauty. It's about igniting a sense of resourcefulness within you.


Turn your favorite art or craft skill toward re-purposing junk into art. If you knit or crochet, try knitting or crocheting with unwanted materials like plastic bags, netting or old sweaters. If you love to paint, do still life paintings that show the beauty of garbage––now there's a challenge for you! If you're into woodworking, tin-crafting, decoupaging, etching, drawing, gluing, cutting and pasting, there will always be endless inspirations out there for you to work with junks and turn them into something more useful and beautiful.
For ideas, use your favorite search engine and search for junk art projects or junk art ideas, etc.
Check out wikiHow's vast selection of how-tos on re-purposing old junks into useful new items. For example, visit the Reduce, Recycle and Reuse category for more ideas than you'll have time to know what to do with!;
, You have the choice as to what you share and create in the digital environment. Via online, you can choose to share stories of hope, images of awesomeness and words of encouragement. All of these equal random acts of beauty and make the internet a better virtual place. On screen, you can spend your time making incredible works of beauty using your writing and imaging or design talents. Just a few examples:


Graphic software of all types can assist you with design and craft. Some programs are free, while some have quite the price tag. Choose whatever lets you transform your ideas into things of beauty to share with others.
Use scrap-booking software to make pages to share with family and friends.
Write short stories, poems and novels. Getting started is often half the battle, so set aside those excuses and make the time. Share with a friend, then a colleague and then a stranger, getting your work out there and brightening their day. You can even write here in Wikihow and manage your blog by the words of wisdom only you can have.
Get a program like Photoshop and start playing around with your photos. Make them brighter, funnier, entertaining or simply prettier. Add messages of fun and hopefulness. Send them to family and friends to add a spot of beauty in their day.
Send amazing things you've made by email. Take photos of whatever you've created, write a very simple email message with lots of hugs and send it to cheer up someone who is snowed under with work or problems. Help them to remember what matters in life.

