 Rinse the two bunches of mint, then pat them dry with a paper towel. Pluck the mint leaves from the stems, place them in a small bowl, and pour three ounces (6 tablespoons) of bourbon over the mint leaves., Let the mint leaves soak in the bourbon for fifteen minutes. This softens the mint leaves and infuses the mint into small amount of bourbon., After the mint leaves have soaked for fifteen minutes, take the leaves out of the bowl and put them in a paper towel.If you don’t want to pick the leaves out with your hand, pour the bourbon and mint mixture through a fine mesh strainer into another bowl. This will leave you with the mint leaves in the strainer, which you can then put into the paper towel.
 Gather the corners of the paper towel so that you create a little sack containing the leaves. Then wring the mint sack out over the bowl by squeezing and twisting the bundle.The leaves will still be wet from soaking, so when you wring out the bundle, drops will drip into the bowl.
Wringing out the mint helps to release the flavor.
After the drops stop falling, quickly dip the bundle of leaves wrapped in paper towel into the bourbon in the bowl. Then wring out again to ensure that the mint releases all of its flavor.
 Use the 1 cup of distilled water and the 1 cup of granulated sugar to Make Simple Syrup. When making the syrup, make sure to stir constantly so that the sugar doesn’t burn.If you want to skip this step, you can buy pre-made simple syrup.
 Pour 3 ½ cups of bourbon into a serving vessel like a glass bowl or pitcher. Then pour in 1 cup of the simple syrup., Start to add the bourbon mint extract mixture into the pitcher, stirring the mixture and tasting after you add each tablespoon. Stop adding the extract when you are satisfied with the flavor.


Because mint extract varies depending on the mint leaves, some extract can be stronger than others.
You should look to add around three tablespoons.
 You can serve the mint julep right away, but it often tastes better when you store and refrigerate it for a day to let the flavors mix. If you’re not serving it right away, pour the mint julep into a sealable pitcher.