 A deposition is a part of the law suit known as discovery. During this phase of the case, each side is trying to learn what information the other side has, in order to prepare more thoroughly for trial. The discovery phase also helps each side make educated decisions about negotiating a settlement. Your performance in the deposition will serve both purposes.If you provide a strong, confident, well-informed deposition, the opposing counsel will be more inclined to consider settling for less money, without going to trial. On the other hand, if your deposition is weak or if you appear poorly informed and poorly prepared, the opposing counsel is likely to think that they would have a better chance convincing a jury that you made a mistake with the patient.;
, You must be factually ready for the deposition. You must appear to be the expert about the case. You should study everything that happened and every decision that you made. If you are unsure of any details, find them out., Review the medical concerns raised by the patient, and then review your responses. Double check any medical references or journals to find out the most current information on the subject. If your research supports your actions and decisions about the patient, it will support your case. If the research does not support your actions, you will need to work with your attorney to be able to provide explanations.Don’t hope that any discrepancy will remain hidden. If you found any problems in the medical research, you can expect that the plaintiff’s attorneys will find the same issues and will ask about them. If you are not prepared, you could wind up looking uneducated, and that would be big trouble for your defense.
 If your attorney is good, he or she will prepare you for the deposition. You should have at least one practice session, preferably with another attorney playing the role of the plaintiff’s counsel and asking you questions. Treat a practice session like the real deposition. After the session, you can review your performance with your attorney and learn how to improve., Although this may seem minor, your appearance does count. If you appear at the deposition looking professional and confident, the attorney for the plaintiff will take note of that. The attorney will recognize that if you appear professional at the deposition, you will appear that way in front of a jury as well. Presenting a professional appearance to a jury goes a long way toward strengthening your credibility., Speak clearly, speak confidently, and present the appearance that you are sure of what you are saying. If you appear sure of yourself in the deposition, the attorney will conclude that you will appear that way to a jury as well. And the jury will be more inclined to believe your testimony., The opposing attorney may try to engage you with cross-examination tactics that are designed to upset you. The attorney will test you to see if he or she can get you to respond emotionally. If you get emotional or angry, you are less likely to think clearly and may be more inclined to say something that could harm your case. Don’t fall into this trap. Work on maintaining your composure and answering each question calmly.For example, an opposing attorney may use any of the following:


interrupting you before you give a complete answer. If this happens, calmly point out that you had not finished your prior answer, complete your answer, and then ask him to repeat his follow-up question. If this happens repeatedly, look to your attorney for support. Your attorney should be able to control opposing counsel’s behavior, or at least note it on the record.
rephrasing something you have already answered. In order to get you to say something you didn’t intend, opposing counsel may incorrectly restate your answer. Listen carefully to the restatement. Point out, “That is not what I said,” and then give the correction.
raising his voice. The opposing attorney may give the impression that he or she is getting agitated, to see if you will follow along. If you get excited, you are less likely to be in control. Let the attorney do what he or she will, but keep your own composure.
mischaracterizing the facts. The attorney could make assumptions or suppositions based on incorrect facts to try to confuse you. Listen carefully and point out the incorrect information.
 The desire to defend your position is natural, but you must restrain yourself from doing so in answering questions at a deposition.


Remember that your attorney will have an opportunity to ask you under oath about something that needs to be clarified regarding a question opposing counsel asked. Trust your attorney to do his or her job and make any clarifications that are necessary.
 A deposition is not limited by time. Listen fully to each question, and then pause to think before answering. Make sure that you understand the facts presented and that you know what you are going to say., Carefully listen to the question being asked and answer only that question. You never want to offer more information than is asked of you, even if you think your explanation will help your case.


You may give the other side additional information that they did not know that they can use against you.
You tend to appear defensive if you try to offer too much information. A common example of offering too much information is if counsel asks you if you know what time it is. If you tell opposing counsel what time it is, you have not answered the question properly. The correct answer is either “yes” or “no.”

, You should never guess at an answer to a question. If you guess, you run the risk of being wrong and having that wrong answer used against you. If you aren’t sure, simply say “I don’t know” or “I don’t remember.”

, If the attorney conducting the deposition present a hypothesis that did not occur with the patient, be very careful about answering. Your attorney may object to such a question as being irrelevant to the case. If you choose to answer a hypothetical question, be very precise in explaining how the question differs from the case with your patient, and why that difference is important., If you have any questions about the way the attorney asks you something, stop and ask for clarification. If you ever do not hear a question completely, ask for it to be repeated. Keep in mind that everyone in the deposition is there to listen to you, and your understanding of the questions is the most important issue. Do not let yourself feel pressured.
 If your attorney hears a question that he or she believes is objectionable, then he or she will likely object. If that happens, you need to stop speaking and listen for instructions. Your attorney may object for the record but then allow you to answer the question anyway, or your attorney may object and instruct you not to answer., You may need a break to go to the bathroom, to stretch your legs, or to confer with your attorney. In any of these circumstances, feel for to ask for a break.The only time that a break might not be allowed is if a question has been asked and you have not yet answered. A break at that moment may look like you need your attorney to coach you on the answer. If you do need help, give the best answer you can, then ask for a break and consult with your attorney. After you return, you can try to rephrase your response.

