 Go for walks after each meal you eat at home. If you can reach a daily fitness goal of 12,000 steps per day, you are keeping up the amount of activity recommended for a healthy lifestyle.


Do stairs or hills to increase your weight loss.
 Do them in one to two minute intervals between other workouts or during commercial breaks., Recent studies have suggested that several 10-minute periods of activity can boost your metabolism and lower the risk of cancer and heart disease as much as a trip to the gym. The secret is increased overall activity and less sitting.Set a timer on your computer or cell phone to get up and get moving after each 30-minute period of sitting.
 All you need is a flat surface and some athletic shoes. Incorporate the following exercises into your workout:


Do two 30-second to one-minute planks. Rest for one minute in between planks. During a plank your body should be contacted and held in a straight line between your feet and your shoulders. It is also known as a push up position, and it can be done in a half-plank on your knees.Do pushups. Do three sets of 10 pushups. During the first set have your arms at shoulder width. During the second set make your arms slightly wider with fingers pointing in to work your chest. During the third set, move your arms in and bend your elbows straight back to work your triceps.
Do squats. With feet hip width apart, sit back as if you were trying to sit in a low chair. Pause and then rise back up to your feet. Keep your weight in your heels and repeat 10 to 20 times.
Do mountain climbers. Get into a plank position. Run your feet one at a time, trying to get your knee as close to your arms as you can. Tap your foot down and bring it back. Switch legs. Do two intervals of 30 seconds.
 The public library and Netflix allow you to rent fitness DVDs that you can play in your DVD player or computer. Try many different kinds to pique your interest and find the type of exercise you enjoy.


Purchase a program like P90X if you want to have a commitment-based workout that designed to be done at home.
 YouTube has a wide variety of fitness videos that can be streamed from your computer.
 Download an app like “Zombies Run” and follow the running instructions in real life to beat the game.Purchase games for your Xbox, Wii or PlayStation that feature dance, Zumba, yoga or other sports.

