 All Americans 16 years of age and older will need a passport to travel to Ireland. Give yourself enough time to fill out the application materials and wait for the passport to be mailed to you. Current processing times for applications are between 4 and 6 weeks.;
, There are several excellent travel guides about the entire country of Ireland, and the regions within. You can also follow online blogs and perform an Internet search using the cities and towns you expect to visit. Make a list of things you do not want to miss while in Ireland.
 Many travel packages include a car rental. If you are traveling outside of a major city such as Dublin, you will probably need a vehicle to reach places that trains and buses do not go regularly. Remember that in Ireland, you drive on the left side of the road. Most rental cars are manual transmission. You will need to pay a premium for an automatic automobile. Insurance is required, and can often be more expensive than rental cars in other countries.
 As you put together your packing list, consider what you will be doing, and what time of year you are visiting.


Pack clothing and shoes to accommodate Irish weather changes. Check international weather websites before you depart to get an idea of how cold or warm in will be in Ireland while you travel. Pack an umbrella or rain jacket, clothes you can layer, and comfortable shoes.
Pack enough medications and prescriptions for the time you plan to be away. Pack a little extra, in case of flight or travel delays on your way home.
Pack an electric adapter. If you plan to use a hairdryer, laptop, or other electrical device, make sure you have an adapter that will allow you to access Ireland's energy outlets.
 Double check with your airline, hotels, and car rental agencies to make sure you are confirmed to arrive and depart at your expected times. Take itineraries and confirmation numbers with you.
 International travel has become more time-consuming. Arrive in plenty of time to check in, go through security, and get to the boarding gate. Check with the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) for a list of what you are not permitted to take on the airplane or into the boarding area.
 Ireland is 5 hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time (EST) for most of the year. Ireland observes daylight savings time earlier, so for a couple of weeks in March and April, Ireland is 6 hours ahead of EST. During most of October, Ireland is 4 hours ahead of EST.

