 The more time you spend in front of the TV, your iPad, or your phone, the more your mind will be thinking, "Wait, is it still daytime?!" Two or three hours before bed, disconnect. Your body needs to slip into nighttime mode, and these things prevent it.


When you go to read before bed, don't use a backlit product. Your bedside lamp should be fine, but that electronic glow won't do you any favors., If you live in the city, this may be particularly hard to do. If possible, invest in a white noise machine (or a fan that has a white noise setting), to drown out the stimuli. This works on kids and dogs, too!


The poor man's white noise machine is called a radio tuned to a non-existent station. Keep the volume on low and it should be adequately monotonous for you to grow weary and start dreaming. , Or too much of anything else, for that matter! Though alcohol is a depressant and can make you feel sleepy, it can wake you up in the middle of the night. Especially if you have to pee!Research says it disrupts slow-wave sleep. It can cause sleep fragmentation and actually lead to nightmares. Explains all those college episodes, huh?, Unfortunately, no one really agrees on an ideal sleep temperature because there are just too many variables -- the bedding, the sleep clothes, the individual person. However, they do agree that the room should be slightly cool. So whatever that means to you, turn down the thermostat to that. If you're cold, bundle up in the blankets!


Generally speaking, you'll be able to sleep best somewhere between 54 and 75°F (12 - 24°C). It all depends on your specific sleeping circumstance., Eating just before bed can cause a number of issues. Any discomfort, however slight, will decrease your chances of a good night's sleep. The sugar rush can also wake you up! (It's not great for your waistline, either.)


Alright, so you're a pretty big late night snack fan? Then keep it to carbohydrates and tryptophan. That means a small turkey sandwich or some low-sugar cereal or granola. Nothing too heavy!, As much as this article advocates setting a sleep schedule and sticking to it, if you do find yourself waking up at 3 AM and unable to sleep for at least 15 minutes, get up. Do something simple and relaxing and then try again. Your body may just need a small push in the right direction.


Agonizing over falling asleep won't help things. Clearing your mind is imperative to falling asleep, and adding worry about sleep on top of the day's trials is not the way to go. You'll get there eventually.

