 Before you plunge into trip planning, consider your budget for the gift. How much can you spend on the vacation trip gift? Think about whether you can afford to pay for just the travel ticket, more than one ticket, or accommodations as well. Come up with a solid amount of money you can spend on the gift and go from there.For example, you may be able to afford to spend $500 on the gift, which will cover travel expenses but not accommodations for two people. Or you may be able to spend $1000 on the gift, which will cover travel expenses and accommodations for one person.;
, Start by determining where you would like to send this person as a gift. Perhaps the person always talks about taking a beach vacation in Mexico or they have always wanted to travel overseas to see a relative. You may decide to choose a destination that will fulfill the person’s lifelong dream or a spot they have often mentioned travelling to. Ask yourself, “Where would this person enjoy travelling to?”You could also pick a destination that you think they may enjoy going to, such as a tropical destination or a destination in Europe. Or you may opt for a destination like Disneyland or Graceland if you think the person will enjoy going there.
Another option is to leave the destination blank and allow the person to choose their own destination once you give them the gift. You may set aside a certain amount of money for the gift and tell the person they can travel anywhere within that budget.
 To book the vacation trip for the person, you will need to choose the travel dates. You may opt for flex dates if you are not sure when the person will be free to take the trip, as flex dates allow you to change the travel dates if necessary. Or you may plan the travel dates for a time you know the person is going to free, such as spring break, summer break, or holiday break.If you do purchase the trip with set travel dates, make sure the person will be available for travel on those dates. You may need to check with the person’s partner or family to confirm they are free. You could also ask the person in casual conversation if they have some free time coming up for travel to confirm the travel dates for the gift.
 You may decide to include accommodations as part of the vacation trip gift. If this is within your budget, you will need to locate accommodations at the destination during certain travel dates. Perhaps you opt for a hotel or you try a home rental service like Airbnb to find accommodations. Search for a hotel or home rental in the destination, located close to must see sites in the area.If the trip is at a resort, you may not need to worry about booking accommodations.
You may not need to book accommodations if there are friends or family the person can stay with at the destination. For example, if you are getting the person a trip to visit a friend in England, you may not have to worry about paying for their accommodations as they can stay with their friend.
 Before you give the vacation trip to someone, you should make sure it is appropriate for you to give it to them. For example, it may not be appropriate for you to give a coworker or a person you do not know well a vacation trip as a gift. You should consider if the gift is too lavish or expensive to give to someone you are only just getting to know or have recently become friends with.


If you are getting the vacation trip for a relative, such as your niece or nephew, you should confirm it is appropriate with their parents before giving it to them. Ask their parents, "Do you think they would like a vacation trip as a gift?" or "Is it okay if I give them a vacation trip as a gift?"

, Once you have figured out the details of the trip, it’s time to buy the trip for the person. You can buy the travel tickets online using a travel site, as you can often get discounts and deals by buying travel tickets online. Or you may consult with a travel agent to find the best rates for the trip.Keep in mind your budget when you buy the trip. Make sure you do not go over budget or spend more than you can afford on the gift. If it ends up being a lot of money, you may try splitting the cost with other friends or family so you can all give the person the vacation trip as a gift together.
 One way you can “wrap” the vacation trip is to write a description of the vacation in a card. Then, you can give the person the card so they can read about their gift. You may include a hand drawn map of the vacation in the card to give the person an idea of where they will be going and what they will be doing once they’re there. Make sure you include the travel dates in the card as well.


For example, you may write in the card, “You will be traveling to sunny California, flying by plane for several hours until you reach your best friend in San Francisco. You’ll be travelling from the 5th to the 15th, just in time for your bf’s birthday!”

, To make the wrapping of the gift more fun, include a clue so the person has to guess where they are going on the trip. You may wrap the clue in a box and give the box to the person or include a small clue in an envelope with the card.For example, if the destination is England, you may include a small red telephone booth figurine in the card. Or if the destination is Paris, you may include macaroons and a statue of the Eiffel Tower in a gift box.
 For a more straight-forward option, include the travel tickets in the card so the person sees them when they open the card. Or you may include the travel tickets in a wrapped box so the person can open it and receive their gift.


This may be an ideal option if you have bought plane tickets or train tickets for the trip already and want to include them in the gift. You may also include an image of the hotel or home rental the person will be staying at in the gift.
 One way to give the vacation gift in a fun way is to surprise the person with the trip. You may wrap the trip details in a card and leave it on the person’s pillow for them to find when they wake up. Or you may leave the card somewhere the person will find it, such as under the Christmas tree or in their pile of birthday presents.If you decide to surprise the person with the trip, try to keep the details secret. Instruct others who know about the trip not to tell the person anything so they can be surprised when they finally open their gift.
 Another fun option is to have the person guess the destination using a clue or a series of clues. You may wrap several clues and have the person open them so they can guess where they are going. You may not hand them the travel tickets until the person guesses the destination correctly.


For example, you may tell the person, "Use these clues to guess where you are going. Once you guess correctly, I'll hand over the travel tickets."

, If you want to make the gift opening memorable, you may take the person to a specific setting. The setting may relate to the vacation trip or just be a specific place that you and the person enjoy. You may then have the person open the gift in the setting to make the moment extra special.


For example, if you are giving the person a trip to Morocco as a gift, you may take then to a Moroccan restaurant so they can open their gift there. Or if you and the person have a special park bench you go to often, you may have the person open their vacation trip gift at this location.

