 “Standard” braces include many different parts, which, except for the elastics, are all made of metal. The various parts of standard braces are as follows:Bands - rings of metal that go around a molar at each end of your teeth reaching a total of four.
Brackets - small, square metal pieces that attach to each tooth after an entire series of measurements where even half of a millimeter can make a big difference.
Wire (round and square) - a thin, flexible wire that is attached to the bands and brackets and can be adjusted, which is the most important part that helps you to get straight teeth.
Elastics (also called ligatures) - tiny elastics are used to attach and hold the wire to the brackets and bands. However, in some cases your orthodontist may use metal ligatures.
The bands and brackets are glued to your teeth and stay in one position while you have braces. The wire and elastics are changed usually every time you go to the orthodontist for an adjustment.;
, Ceramic braces are generally the same as “standard” braces, except the brackets are made of ceramic instead of metal. Ceramic brackets are usually white or clear-ish in colour and blend into the colour of your teeth so they aren’t as noticeable, which would make the wire the only visible component of your braces. In general the brackets are designed so they do not stain, and stay the same colour for the period you wear them. Like “standard” brackets, elastics are still required to attach the wire to the brackets, but you can choose to use white or clear coloured elastics. The wire, however, is still the same metal as “standard” braces.It has been reported that the clear or white coloured elastics can stain over time, making them stand out more than the brackets. But keep in mind that these are changed every time you get an adjustment, which usually happens once a month so even if you smoke they will not be that visible.
Ceramic braces are more expensive than “standard” braces and may not be covered by some dental plans.
 Invisalign braces are clear plastics moulds of your teeth, similar in a way to mouthguards, but not as bulky. When they’re on your teeth, they are essentially invisible. They also do not require any items to be glued to your teeth, and you won’t need to use wires and elastics. You will just have to remove them when you eat and brush your teeth and then apply them again. Invisalign braces are only made by one company, but most Orthodontists do offer them. (There is a new type available that some orthodontists offer. These need to be changed monthly or even more often. They widen and fall off when the effect is complete.) Only people who have minor issues will be able to use Invisalign, as they are not designed for severe orthodontic problems. Your orthodontist will be able to tell you if your particular situation “qualifies” for Invisalign braces.Invisalign braces are quite a bit more expensive than “standard” braces and may not be covered by some dental plans.
 Lingual braces consist of the same components as “standard” braces, except the brackets are glued to the back of your teeth, instead of the front. Therefore, it’s almost impossible for anyone to see your braces when you’re smiling or talking. Only some orthodontists are trained on how to use lingual braces, so if you are interested in this option, you’ll have to find an orthodontist who offers them.Lingual braces are similar to Invisalign in terms of function because they are not applicable in more complicated cases, and the treatment usually lasts longer than standard braces.
 “Standard” braces require an elastic, or ligature, to hold the wire onto the bracket. Self-ligating brackets do not require an elastic. They’re designed in such a way that the bracket is able to securely hold the wire without help. Most self-ligating brackets are smaller than “standard” brackets and therefore do not stand out on your teeth as much. There is also a kind of self-ligating bracket that is partially made of ceramic, to also hide its appearance better.You will need to check with your orthodontist to find out if they offer self-ligating brackets, and if so, which kinds.
 Viazis braces are a little different than “standard” braces, but are made completely of metal. Brackets for Viazis braces are the shape of a triangle, instead of a square, and use only a round wire. The concept was developed by an orthodontist in Texas, and is suppose to cause the patient less discomfort and speed-up the brace-wearing process. The triangle shape of the bracket may appear smaller on your teeth, helping to make the braces stand out less than square brackets. Not all orthodontists use this method, so you would have to research potential orthodontists beforehand., You may not be happy with the fact that you have to get braces, but rather than thinking of ways to hide your braces, show them off! An orthodontist in Nebraska makes brackets that are shaped like stars, flowers, hearts, footballs, and more. They work the same way as a standard bracket, but they look much cooler. You could even combine interesting colours of elastics with the shape of your braces to make a statement.