 If you're feeling it, communicate with your partner and let him/her know about how you're feeling so they can understand. Nobody is a mind reader.
 Get yourself into a routine. Nobody feels good when they're sitting around letting one day blend into the next, as we all need a purpose in life.


Sometimes it's almost unavoidable, but no one can help you if you don't want to at least try.
 We all know that feeling when we've accomplished something and we're proud. That little glow like, "yeah, I did a really great job!" is a feeling that can last a while. Even if it's something as trivial as hanging out the washing when you don't want to, it's one less thing to feel stressed about and it's all about eliminating that stress.
 It's a well-known fact that exercising has the ability to make you feel good. You may hate exercising with a passion, but you can't deny those little endorphins pumping through you; they may work best for you.


Try mild exercise like going for walks with your partner, or playing backyard sports.
Consider basketball, swimming, and hiking.
 This is another tip that no one wants to hear and it doesn't necessarily mean completely cutting out junk food (chocolate has been proven to help fight depression). Balanced eating merely means getting in control and not binge eating, fasting or eating junk foods all time. Anything that makes your hair and skin feel rank is going to make you feel particularly gross on the inside as well.
 Sometimes it's hard to sleep, especially with all those crazy thoughts swirling around in your head. Stressing doesn't get you anywhere and there's nothing you can do about your problems until morning so leave them until then. Try sleeping upside down, as it may seem to do the trick.
 Stick it on your bathroom mirror or somewhere you have to look at it. We all like at least one thing about ourselves no matter how depressed we are. You just need to remember it.
 It may seem unbelievable, but on the same note as positive thinking, challenging your own negative thoughts can actually be very valuable. Instead of thinking, "I'm ugly and useless and nobody likes me," challenge yourself. If you're in a relationship then you can't be that terrible or you'd probably be single in the first place. Communicate.


If you're feeling hurt, frustrated or angry, don't take it out on your partner!
Practice talking about how you feel. "I'm really sad today." "When you ______, I feel _____."

, If so, remember this saying: "Feelings are never permanent, whether you're happy, sad, angry... it will always pass". Every time you feel down, you need to remind yourself of this, because no matter how bad it may seem, it will end eventually. There is help out there for us all, and you're allowed to rely on someone you trust for help and support.

