 Even if you don’t lay down new tile or paint over your monochromatic walls, you can liven the place up a bit by simply introducing new color schemes. Keep things quaint and homey with bright pastels and elegant designs, or create an “executive suite” feel by doing your towels, mats, curtains and other accents in black and gold. Bath accessories come in a huge range of colors and patterns, so don’t be afraid to get creative when it comes to mixing and matching.Buy multiple sets of towels and other items and swap them out periodically to keep things looking and feeling fresh.
Different bath accessories can be used to alternately complement or provide a pleasant contrast to the color and lighting of the bathroom.
 It may be that your bathroom is just missing something. A few pieces of well-displayed artwork can really help tie together the furnishings of the room and make it feel more full. Keep an eye out for tasteful photographs, traditional paintings or zany modern works that you think might make your washroom more visually interesting. A single captivating piece can be the difference between empty and engaging.When shopping around for bathroom art, consider your own personality and go with something that reflects your own style and interests.
 Flowers aren’t just for your kitchen table. Try placing an arrangement of chrysanthemums on the counter alongside your sink, or work a fern or a few stalks of bamboo into a vacant corner or a nook opposite the shower. The natural appeal of plants can pleasantly offset a bathroom full of hard, flat materials like porcelain, tile and metal.Orchids make great flowers to keep in your bathroom because they develop beautiful, vibrant coloring and tolerate heat and moisture well.
 Devise a theme for you bathroom and hand pick your decorations accordingly. Why settle for a plain white-on-white when you could perform your daily hygiene in a hunter’s lodge or Victorian garden aesthetic? By choosing complimentary fixtures, accessories and ornamentations, you can distinguish your bathroom and give it even more personality than other rooms in the house.For example, you could deck out a half bath with a beach or nautical theme, complete with seafoam and coral tones, jars of sand and seashells and a framed watercolor painting of a schooner. You might also do a bathroom in a “farmhouse” style, with unfinished wood racks and cabinets and a repurposed old-fashioned toolbox to hold your soaps and shampoos.If you have multiple bathrooms in your home, decorate them all in different visual themes.

