 The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that breast-fed infants get 400 International Units (IU) of vitamin D every day. If your baby takes a cow's milk-based or other formula, ask whether you should supplement. Most formulas are fortified with the recommended 400 IU of vitamin D (although these babies might need supplements later in life).


Breastfeeding mothers should get 600 IU of vitamin D a day.;
, Most vitamin D supplements are available to breastfed babies without a prescription (although you may get one from your doctor for insurance purposes). Your baby might be at higher risk for vitamin D deficiency if he is breastfed, has dark skin, lives at a higher latitude, or gets little sun-exposure (especially if he was born during the winter months).Continue to supplement your baby until he's weaned.


You probably don't need to supplement with vitamin D if your baby takes a formula that's already fortified with vitamin D.
You don't need to supplement if your baby is drinking cow's milk or spends lots of time in the sun.
 Vitamin D is most conveniently available in liquid drop form. Just be sure to get vitamin D3 drops. Some supplements contain the entire 400 IU dosage in a single drop while others contain the dosage in 1 ml servings. Be sure to follow the manufacturer's instructions and try to give him the drop before feeding (in case he spits up).


If your baby struggles to take the drops, try placing the drop right on your nipple right before your baby latches on for feeding.
 To avoid toxicity, only give your baby 400 to 500 IU of vitamin D a day (if he's less than 12 months old). The most vitamin D your baby can tolerate is 1000 IU a day (if less than 6 months old).The UL for babies from 6 to 12 months is 1500 IU a day.
 You can also take your baby out into the sun for a few minutes if it's warm enough outside. Your baby can get enough vitamin D from just a few minutes of afternoon sun 2 to 3 times a week, although this can vary depending on the season, the amount of cloud cover, pollution, the shade of your skin, and whether or not your baby is wearing sunscreen.Never use tanning beds as a substitute for sunlight.
 Your baby's body needs vitamin D to absorb calcium in the gut. It's also important for bone growth because it allows your baby's bones to get strengthening minerals. The bones also need vitamin D for bone remodeling which is constantly happening and vital for strong bones and teeth.
 Rickets can cause your child to have fragile bones and a misshapen skeleton.Fortunately, vitamin D protects your baby's bones by helping the bones create a hard shell.


Vitamin D is also important in preventing your baby's bones from softening while they're growing (a disease called osteomalacia). , Your baby's cells and immune system need vitamin D to function properly. If your baby doesn't get enough vitamin D in infancy he'll be at a higher risk of having colon cancer, pancreatic cancer, and Type 1 diabetes later in life. Supplementing with vitamin D can reduce your baby's risk of developing these conditions later in life:Severe respiratory (lung) infections
Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes
High blood pressure
Insulin resistance (pre-diabetes)
Multiple sclerosis

