 Your child may be disappointed upon hearing the truth, or perhaps even upset because they may feel betrayed or tricked. If this happens, acknowledge their feelings and make sure to explain why you let them believe in the magic of Santa Claus. Also let them know that your intention was not to mislead them, but that

, Explain to your child that everyone asks this question when they’re ready, and that they should respect that their classmates may not have asked their families yet. To be respectful, they should not share their new knowledge and they should definitely not make fun of anyone who believes in Santa Claus. Remind your child about the spirit of Christmas and how magical it was for them to believe, and that they wouldn’t want to take that from anyone.You can simply say, “Let other kids believe until they’re ready to learn the truth, just like you did.”
You can also say, “Not telling others about Santa is a new and important job that you have, and I’m counting on you.”

, Remind your child that Santa embodies the spirit of Christmas, and that is why you have chosen to embrace the story. This is also an excellent time to remind your child of the religious reasons for Christmas, if you celebrate them. You can also talk with your child about what you and they appreciate most about the Santa Claus story and figure out how to incorporate those elements into future Christmas celebrations.
 The Santa question is not only tricky, it represents a family transition from one of belief in a fictional, well-loved character, to a more mature appreciation of what Santa Claus represents and how that relates to Christmas. The transition might be a little uncomfortable, or even sad, for everyone, and that’s to be expected. Remind one another that Santa Claus is a myth that your family enjoyed and that you had a wonderful time sharing the magic, and most importantly, that you look forward to future Christmases together., Now that your child has a new understanding of Santa Claus, your Christmas celebrations will change a bit. A productive and positive way to handle this transition is to start new traditions. Ask your child to help you think of new traditions that you can participate in as a family, keeping the spirit of Santa Claus alive.You might decide that you’ll bake and wrap cookies to deliver to your neighbors.
Work with a charity to sponsor a family that is less fortunate than yours.
Go through your belongings and have your child go through theirs, finding donate-able items that others might enjoy.
Send Christmas cards to soldiers stationed overseas who won’t be able to come home for the holidays.

