 Assuming that by now you have your destination already picked out, how are you going to get there? Gas prices are near four dollars a gallon, and plane tickets are expensive, not to mention the very strict rules as to what you can and cannot take on board.


International train travel. Amtrak is the national rail company in the United States. In Europe, consider buying Eurail (for non-EU citizens) or Interrail (for EU citizens) international rail passes.






International coach travel. In the United States, Greyhound provide bus travel. In Europe, Eurolines provide a pass to cover travel between more than 45 European cities. Megabus provide intercity bus travel in North America and Europe.






International ship/ferry travel. Cruises can be cheap if you consider accommodation and meals are included. Cunard operate transatlantic cruises. TheCruisePeople compare cruise prices.






If you Drive. Instead of eating your meals at McDonald's on your way to Vacation, pack a cooler of food. You can buy a cooler and a weeks worth of sandwich stuff for around 25-35 dollars. Get a tune up, they can be expensive but a Tune up will help keep your car fuel efficient and could possibly save your life. Budget at least $20 over what you think you'll be paying in gas.






If you Fly. Travelocity, or other Internet sites like Expedia can help with finding a cheap rate. Flying at odd hours will ensure a cheaper ticket! When traveling around Europe book your plane for around midnight because those flights offer the lower rates. Whatever airline you book with, look up their site as well and see what their rules are as far as carry on material and flight exchanges or cancellations. You might be able to get a cheaper rate through the airline than through Travelocity, and you can save even more money by bringing food with your carry on, so long as they allow it. In flight snacks are expensive so if you can, pack your own.





;
,






The earlier you book a room the cheaper the rate.






Also try to book in their off season, many Hotels will have cheaper rates when they don't expect a lot of reservations to be coming in.
 Granted these items can be cheap, but its better not to have to spend money on them.






Here's what you do to make sure you don't forget anything. Do a walk through of your home and write down all the things you use for personal hygiene, and things you will want to have on your vacation. Tape the list to the top of the suitcase, and the day of your flight... start packing.






Once you know, that everything on the list is in the suitcase... rip up the list. Its easy and It's a fairly good way to make sure you got everything.







Plan your meals ahead of time.






Budget your money and if you can, eat out everyday, if you can afford it.






If you can't, look at your monthly food bill, and estimate how much it will cost for you and your family to eat for the amount of time on the vacation. Then either pack a cooler to take with you, or plan on going shopping at a store near the hotel and fixing picnic-like meals in the room.






Try to set money aside for at least one meal out at a restaurant, and if you do, make sure it's a place that isn't common to your hometown.






Make it something different and something fun.







