

A good way to ascertain if a vegetable is suited to your area is to look at a zone map and chart to identify the zone in which you live. Then you can check a zone chart to find out which vegetables grow best in your zone. Zones are numbered 1 to 12 and are based on the average minimum temperature in an area.



 


Some vegetables grow best in warm conditions and cannot tolerate frost. These include snap beans, corn, cucumbers, melons and peppers.






Vegetables that grow best in somewhat cooler weather and can tolerate short periods of frost include beets, broccoli, cabbage, carrots, lettuce, spinach and sweet peas.






Perennial vegetables like asparagus and rhubarb can be harvested year after year if they are planted in the right area.





;
,

Some vegetables prefer bright sun, while others prefer some shade. Learn the preferences of the vegetables you are interested in planting in order to find the proper placement for them in your garden.






Some vegetables, like tomatoes and cucumbers, grow well in pots. Others, such as carrots and beets, need to be planted in the ground. If you are planning to grow vegetables in pots on your porch, these and other root vegetables are probably not a good choice.


Some vegetables only need weed control to thrive. These vegetables need less care and take less of your time than other types.






Some vegetables, such as peas and tomatoes, need staking or a fence or trellis. Consider the time needed to stake or build supports for these vegetables.






Some vegetables are more likely to be infested by pests than others. Consider the amounts and types of pest control you are willing to use in your garden.



Many vegetables have a deeper flavor when they can be picked at the peak of ripeness and aren't transported very far. You may be surprised to find that your family and friends find they enjoy homegrown vegetables that they do not enjoy when they are bought in a store.
Many varieties of vegetables that are not commonly available in grocery stores can be grown in your garden. Vegetable gardening is a way to expand your eating choices.

