 Another way to help your baby to sit up is to help with building up balance. By about four months old, most babies start to hold their heads steady. You can now encourage your baby with sitting positions, so that the child gets used being upright and develops balance.Try putting your baby in a Bumbo chair or upright on your lap, with support. At first the child will be a bit wobbly and may only be able to hold herself upright for one or two seconds.
Make sure to watch the child closely. If you’re practicing on the ground, lay down blankets in case of tumbles.
You might also put your baby upright with support in the stroller when you go out for walks. Do this to try to stimulate interest in sitting up and point out interesting things, like dogs, other children, or cars., Balance is something that your baby needs to sit up and hold steady, but it takes time to develop this neuromuscular skill. Corners are a great place for your baby to do this, as they give the chance to practice while offering natural support.Make use of the corners of couches, chairs, or even rooms for balance practice. Surround the child with one or two pillows for support, too, if steadiness is still an issue.
 Another way to give your baby extra support and balance while sitting up is to position the child between your legs. Once crossed, your legs and lap form a perfect spot for your baby to sit with support.


First, sit down on the ground and cross your legs so that they are both folded underneath you.
Then, place your baby in the center of your lap between your calf muscles and hamstrings. Your thighs will give the child support on both sides, while your trunk will prop the baby upright.
 At first, your child will need extra help in sitting up. Give support while she learns the ropes and starts to sit up under her own power. You’ll need to be nearby at all times and can also use items to make the transition easier.At first, your baby will need to hold up their body weight by placing their arms out in front. This is the “tripod” position and helps to build up the core muscles. Until then, be sure that your child is on a soft surface like carpeting, a blanket, towel, or mat.
You can also consider using things to prop the baby up and encourage the needed muscle growth and balance. Regular pillows, rolled up towels, ExerSaucers, Boppy pillows, Bumbo chairs, or Doorway Jumpers can all work.

