 Clear everything off of your sink, toilet and the ledge of your bathtub. Spray these areas down with your cleaning product of choice and then give each area a quick scrub. Return everything you moved back to your sink, toilet and tub. Grab any dirty linens and throw them directly in the washing machine or laundry hamper.Scrubbing Bubbles is a great all-purpose product for bathroom cleaning.
Allocate ten minutes to cleaning your bathroom.
If you have time, wipe down the bathroom mirrors as well.;
, Concentrate on making your bed; once your bed is made, your whole room will look far tidier. Pick up loose clothes and shoes and return them to their rightful places. If you have dirty dishes lying around, return those to the kitchen.Allocate five minutes to cleaning your bedroom.
Shave time off your bed making by leaving the flat sheet untucked - hospital corners take a long time to construct and your comforter will cover them anyway,Open windows as you go to eliminate odors and get a nice cross-breeze going.
 Rearrange your couch cushions and throw blankets. Consolidate any remote controls to one area and straighten up loose magazines and books. If there are any dirty dishes or loose pieces of clothing, return them to the kitchen and bedroom respectively.Tuck a trash bag into your pants so you don’t have to keep running between the room you’re cleaning and the garbage.
Allocate five minutes to cleaning the living room.
 The most obvious sign of a messy kitchen is a pile of dirty dishes. If you have a dishwasher, load it immediately. If not, pile all the dishes into the sink and let the hot water run. While the water runs, wipe down all the surfaces in the kitchen using a rag and some disinfectant. When your surfaces are wiped, wash the dishes and load them into the drying rack.


Allocate ten minutes to cleaning your kitchen.
Empty the trash you’ve been carrying around from the living room into your kitchen trash can.
If your pots and pans are scorched through, fill the pans with water and a cup of vinegar, then allow them to simmer on the stove. Remove the pan from the stove, add two tablespoons of baking soda, then scrub the pans till they’re clean.If your backsplash is covered in oil from cooking, use a damp paper towel with some soap to cut through the grease.

