 A heartburn severity scale is a way for people to measure their pain so that health professionals can help plan how best to control it. Mild symptoms are defined as symptoms that are hardly perceivable with only a slight impairment of general well-being; moderate symptoms are defined as clearly noticeable symptoms, but tolerable without immediate relief; and severe symptoms are defined as overwhelming discomfort with an urgent desire for immediate relief.;
, There are a lot of things you can do to avoid heartburn in the first place. They all mostly get down to what you put in your mouth. You want to avoid those foods that stimulate the production of acid in your stomach, avoid smoking, and limit your drinking of alcoholic beverages.
 The additional weight applies extra pressure on your stomach, the anti-reflux barrier can also be stretched out of shape resulting in increased chance of you suffering from acid reflux.
 If your heartburn is mild and infrequent you can usually manage it temporarily by avoiding certain foods or activities that cause symptoms or with over-the-counter treatments like antacids or H2-antagonists, also known as H2-blockers. Antacids neutralize the stomach acid already present and provide quick but short-term relief of heartburn symptoms. H2 blockers partially block the production of stomach acid. H2 blockers can be effective depending on the specific product or brand used and typically one dose can last from 6 to 12 hours. Unfortunately, standard antacids have at least two drawbacks. The first is called "rebound". Most antacids work by neutralizing the stomach acids so it doesn't "burn" if they get into the esophagus. Unfortunately, the stomach just responds by producing more acid, thus setting up a vicious circle. The second problem (with chronic use), while more minor, is that during the temporary "successful" period, your stomach's acid is lowered, possibly interfering with normal digestion of food as intended by nature. One European product also available in the US is Frutin, in which the chewed tablet forms a neutral foam which rises to the top of the stomach, keeping the acid in the stomach, allowing for acidity to continue without interference in the stomach, and allowing relief from acidity outside the stomach, the original condition disrupted by GERD. Do not be intimidated if your physician has not heard of any alternative to conventional over the counter antacids or has not even thought about the "rebound" problem and tries to minimize your concern. Politely explain why you prefer to use this type of alternative antacid (it can be found online via google and clicking on the top "products" tab to find online sources.
 Medicines that reduce the amount of acid that your stomach releases are commonly referred to as PPIs or proton-pump inhibitors. PPIs effect both the symptoms of heartburn and help heal the damage that GERD does to the esophagus. They are often recommended for people whose symptoms are not relieved by H2 blockers or who already have some damage to the lining of their esophagus.


Ask about side effects. Individual results vary but you may experience side effects like abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, dizziness, and/or headache.
The FDA have issued a safety warning on the long-term user of PPIs, they can result in weakening of the bones.
 There are other medicines that address heartburn from different angles, for example there are medicines that makes you feel full sooner.
 Anemia (low red-blood cell count), black stools, and vomiting of blood (obviously) are signs of bleeding.
 Humphrey Bogart died of esophageal cancer at the age of 57. Since the signs of esophagitis can be the same as for esophageal cancer it is a good topic to bring up with your doctor.
 Ongoing symptoms require ongoing exams if only to compare your current situation against your first visits.
 Surgery is occasionally required to treat esophagitis, especially if a hiatus hernia is present and when the above steps have been ineffective. Newer laparoscopic surgery has simplified this procedure.

