 Sleep apnea is a common sleep disorder which can usually be cured but can cause serious health problems if left untreated. In a person suffering from sleep apnea, the throat doesn't maintain its proper shape during sleep, leading to periods of sleep where breathing becomes difficult or even stops entirely. This keeps the body from getting as much oxygen as it needs, leading to interrupted sleep, stress, and extreme drowsiness during the day. If you think you have sleep apnea, talk to your doctor right away to start a treatment plan.


Some of the most common symptoms of sleep apnea are very loud snoring, difficulty breathing during sleep, morning headaches, insomnia, dry throat, and drowsiness during the day.One of the most common causes of sleep apnea is being overweight or obese, though even thin people can suffer from the disorder.If you are overweight and suffer from sleep apnea, your doctor will probably recommend beginning a weight-loss regimen.
 Diabetes, a disease which in recent years has become a serious health problem for millions of people in the developed world, can cause fatigue (especially after meals).In fact, some people first discover they are diabetic when they go to the doctor for unexplained fatigue. Diabetes effects a person's ability to regulate her blood sugar levels — fatigue results when a person's blood sugar levels become too low or too high. If you exhibit any of the symptoms of diabetes below, contact your doctor right away — left untreated, diabetes can develop into a very serious condition.


Some of the most common symptoms of diabetes are frequent urination, frequent thirst, weight loss, fatigue, blurred vision, tingling in the hands or feet, and sweet-tasting urine., Anemia is a disorder of the red blood cells which can cause fatigue and other serious symptoms. In cases of anemia, the body doesn't have enough red blood cells to transport oxygen throughout the body effectively (or the red blood cells is does have don't function properly), keeping the body from getting the energy it needs. If you exhibit some or all of the symptoms below, talk to your doctor immediately. Though anemia can usually be treated, drastic treatments may be needed if it is not dealt with in a timely fashion.


Some of the most common symptoms of anemia are fatigue, dizziness, headaches, coldness in the hands and feet, pale skin, and chest pain. In addition, anemia is often accompanied by iron deficiency, which can cause swelling of the tongue, brittle nails, sores in the mouth, and frequent infections.
 Not all of the serious medical causes of fatigue are physical disorders. In fact, some mental and emotional disorders, including depression, can cause fatigue. It is also thought that depression can be caused by fatigue, which can lead to a vicious, self-reinforcing cycle in people suffering from depression.If you suffer from constant fatigue and have frequent negative thoughts or any of the other symptoms listed below, visit your doctor and be sure to mention your depression symptoms. Depression is a serious medical condition (not a personal weakness) and it can be treated.


The symptoms of depression include irritability, feelings of worthlessness, anxiety, eating disorders, fatigue, loss of interest in pleasurable activities, persistent sadness, and non-specific pains.
If you're exhibiting symptoms of depression and are having serious thoughts of self-harm or suicide, don't wait for your doctor's appointment — call a crisis hotline (like 1-800-273-TALK (8255)) immediately. These lines are open 24/7 and offer counseling, guidance, and reassurance in times of intense personal pain., Every medication, from the most benign cold pills to the most serious chemotherapy drugs, can have unintended side effects. Fatigue is a common side effect of many medications — so many, in fact, that it's impossible to list them all here individually. If you've recently been prescribed a new medicine and you've begun experiencing fatigue, talk to your doctor. She may be able to adjust your dosage or find you a new medication with less severe side effects.


Some common medicines which can cause fatigue are anti-anxiety medications, high blood pressure medications, painkillers, antidepressants, and cholesterol medications containing the substance statin., The vast majority of fatigue cases have causes that can be solved with simple lifestyle changes or basic medical treatments. However, in rare cases, fatigue can be a symptom of serious or life-threatening conditions which can require immediate medical attention. In cases where your fatigue has no apparent cause and is accompanied by other symptoms (especially fever or unexplained weight loss), you should contact your doctor immediately. If severe fatigue occurs suddenly and is accompanied by other serious symptoms (like confusion, blurred vision, or swelling and an inability to urinate), as this may be a time-sensitive condition like stroke or heart failure.Some (rare) disorders which can have fatigue as a symptom are:Heart failure
AIDS
Tuberculosis
Cancer
Lupus
Kidney/Liver disease

