 Having someone else surprise you by footing the bill is one of the best ways to get the warm and fuzzies. When you’re the bill payer, you feel just as good, too. When your child is with you, pay for someone in the drive through behind you, cover the fees for the car in back of you at the toll booth or parking garage, or offer to pay for a family’s meal the next time you are at a restaurant. Doing this shows your child that being generous is a good thing.


Have your child get in on the action by encouraging them to save their allowance to cover the waiter’s tip the next time you are out to eat. They will likely feel proud of themselves for earning the money, and then being able to give it to someone else.;
, Try showing up at the playground that your child frequents with a box of small items for your child to give out, such as bubbles or bouncy balls. Then, you could allow your child to give out the presents to other children who are playing at the playground. You might just want to check with their parents first by saying something like, “My daughter wanted to do something nice for all the kids she enjoys playing with at this park. Would it be okay if she gives your son a bouncy ball?”


Another option is to just leave uplifting post-it notes somewhere that a stranger will see them, such as on a mirror in a public restroom. The notes could say things like, “Have a nice day!” or “You are awesome!” Have your kids make the notes and then post them when you are out together.
 Surprise your neighbor by helping them out with their chores. Take their garbage cans from the curb to the house on trash day. You can also rake their leaves or cut their grass to help them out. Weeding the garden and planting pretty flowers, or washing their car for them is not only kind, but particularly helpful, especially when your neighbor is a senior.


If your neighbors are elderly and require help, offer to provide assistance whenever you can. Have your children take out the trash, or come by and read to the neighbor. They can also walk their dogs and bring them dinner once a week. Even if your child is young, coloring or watching TV with the neighbor is often a huge boost to their morale., Say “hi” to a police officer and thank them for being on duty for us. Having your child talk to an officer will not only brighten that officer’s day, but will also teach your kids to be comfortable going up to a cop if they ever need help. Thanking a military member and offering to buy lunch is also a great act of kindness that can go a long way.Make sure to encourage your child to thank all the people who provide services to you and your family. For example, you can say “hello” and “thank you” to the barista who makes your morning coffee, or thank the Uber or taxi driver who gives you and your child a ride to the museum.

