 Lay your shirt out flat on a table. Roll it from the bottom hem to the neck, so that you end up with a long tube of shirt. Use string or rubber bands to tie loops around the shirt roll.









To create only a few stripes, space out the ties so that there are three or less. For many stripes, use a dozen or more ties around the shirt.
Rolling the shirt upwards will create vertical stripes.
If you are interested in creating horizontal strips, roll the shirt from left to right (or vice versa), and tie the strings along this direction.;
, This is the most basic of the tie dye techniques and one of the most popular. To create a spiral on your shirt, first lay it flat on a countertop or table. Then, put your thumb and index finger in the center of the shirt. Begin moving them in a circular motion, spiraling the shirt around the center point.









When you have spiraled the entire shirt, use large rubber bands or strings to tie the shirt. You will need to create at least six sections, so use at least three rubber bands or strings over the shirt. It should be roughly round shaped, and have “pie slices” with the addition of the ties.
For a more intricate pattern, use more ties. Make sure that there is one center point at which they all cross though.
You can create multiple small spirals by spiraling your shirt in multiple smaller sections using the method from above.
If your shirt begins to form ridges, flatten them out. Your shirt should be spiraled, but it should stay flat on the table.
 Take your shirt, and pinch small sections of fabric between your fingers. Tie a piece of string around the end of the fabric. To create small dots, only leave one-half to one inch of fabric outside of the tie. Larger dots can be made by tying the fabric further down so that a larger section of fabric sticks out.









You can create target-shaped dots by adding more pieces of string on the ends of the pieces that have been tied. Adding more ties will create more rings.
Try using string that has been dipped in dye before tying it to add an extra ring of color to the outside of your dots.
 These are small floral shaped dots spread out around your shirt. To do this, pinch a small section of your shirt together. Transfer the pinched section to one hand, and then pinch another nearby section. Again, transfer this section to your opposite hand. When you have a group of pinched sections, lace them with a string or rubber band.









Use multiple strings to create more of a striped/spiraled pattern in your rosette. You can make as many rosettes on your shirt as you have room for.
Use more pinches of fabric to create a more detailed rosette. Using only a few will leave a very basic, simple rosette print.
 The easiest way to tie dye is to take your shirt and crumple it up however you would like. It should be very messy and rumpled, not neatly rolled or folded. Then, take as many strings and rubber bands as you would like, and wrap them all over the shirt. You can create a pattern with them, but for the most “crumpled” look don’t follow any direction.
 Start at the bottom of your shirt, and fold it upwards in the accordion style. To do that, you should fold a section towards the front, and then take that section and fold it towards the back. Repeat this pattern until the entire shirt has been folded.









Tie the shirt in as many times as you would like. This style is similar to creating stripes, so the number of ties you add will determine the number of stripes.
Folding the shirt upwards will create vertical pleats. To create horizontal pleats, follow the same directions and fold the shirt from left to right (or vice versa).
 This is the most complicated design and requires a lot of folding. It is, however one of the most attractive. Begin by folding the shirt upwards at about chest level and then folding the section back down, creating an N-shape if viewed from the side. Do this again, but lower down. Fold a section about 2 inches (5.1 cm) from the top of the first fold upwards, and then fold it back down. Repeat this 3-5 times, until your shirt has several layered folds.









The layered folds will have an appearance similar to that of an old-fashioned washboard.
Turn the shirt diagonally and visually mark a line down the center. Accordion fold from one side to the center, and then turn the shirt and accordion fold from the other side to the center.
Tie the shirt in bunches once you have finished all the folding. For a more detailed lightning-bolt shape, use many strings or rubber bands. If you prefer a more basic look, use only 3-4 ties.

