 This can be a bonus room, guest room, etc.;
, Discuss what options are available. Be sensitive to their needs.


Offer to move into the garage if they will let you use a fan or small heater
Offer to trade bedrooms with a sibling.
Keep your room clean and organized so they won't feel as if your mess will be traveling
Be courteous with your drumming and ask your parents for approved practice times where your siblings must leave you alone and not complain.
Ask permission to move your drums into a farther room to keep noise down in the house but your parents enforce keeping siblings away from your kit.
 Avoid wee hours of the morning or when family is engaging in other activities like watching their favorite movie, eating dinner, etc.
 Although you can't soundproof it completely without great expense you can take measures to avoid some of the noise and vibration.


Soundproofing isn't pretty.
It's almost impossible to soundproof a ceiling without adding extra insulation so if you're on the first floor you won't be helping the people above you. Consider moving to an upstairs room.
You'll need to remove art from the walls and relocate clutter and non-essential items. Know where you can store items.
If you're sound reducing in your bedroom you can keep your bed, dressers, desks, etc. but you'll need to move all of your clutter, trinkets, and art work. The fewer flat surfaces the better.



Imagine the room without the furnishings and art.
Measure the wall areas of the room from floor to ceiling, the area of the doors, windows and the floor areas.



You will have to add product to the wall surfaces (if you are in a house you can get away with surfacing the walls sharing other interior walls and not worry about the walls between you and the yard).
Floors will also need to be covered. If you already have carpet, you're fine, but hardwood floors will need to be covered with a large rug.
,


Acoustical foam is available for purchase online and from sound design suppliers. This is an expensive product that is usually nailed or glued to the walls.

Used foam can be brittle and have absorbed odors so examine it carefully before purchasing used.


Extra insulation is also beneficial but can be expensive. Do check to make sure insulation in the attic over the room isn't missing or damaged even if you don't opt for having extra added.
Carpeting is popular for soundproofing.

If you are concerned about appearances you can buy a large amount of the same color and pile. If not, just buy a large collection of whatever is cheap.
It is debated whether the rubber backed business type carpet or shag carpet work best. Usually the rougher the surface the more sound waves it will absorb.
Carpet is heavy so consider buying 24" squares and applying them individually instead of a very heavy piece of carpet.
Try buying several remnants and have them cut into 24" square pieces. Pick complimenting colors and attach to the wall with tiny nails or large pins.
Applying carpet with glue will be expensive to repair. Don't do it unless you own the home and can afford major wall repairs.


Egg crate mattress pads offer a wavy sine wave looking surface

Egg crate mattress pads can be purchased at any discount store or store that sells bedding.
Like carpet it can be heavy and difficult to keep from falling down. It may be best to cut it into manageable pieces before you apply in sections to the wall.


Fabric furniture pads are also a common soundproofing product

Don't use the flimsy furniture pads commonly rented by moving companies but the dual sided and sewn mattress pads that appear quilted.
Contact local furniture stores and moving companies and ask about buying new or used directly from them
Most furniture stores may offer you torn used ones but they may also agree to sell them to you at cost.


Heavy fabric, drapes and blanket can also be used but will not provide as much sound dampening as the above items.

Considering adding a drape on a curtain rod over doors to add extra soundproofing to doors and closet areas.
Heavy drapes can also be added to windows to minimize noise going out and coming it.
, You will also need a friend to assist for a better look.
, Only use liquid nails if this is a permanent studio and you are aware of the cost associated with repairing the wall damage once removed.

Apply duct tape to the back of the material to reinforce it

, Dust it regularly with a hand held vacuum cleaner.
,, Get heavy duty weather strip seal and carefully apply around the door frame perimeter, where the door meets the frame.

