;
, When you witness, not everybody will listen, and sometimes they might even laugh. That's okay because at least you are trying and God sees that. Don't let anyone or anything change your mind, and don't let them make you doubt your beliefs. However, do not force your religion upon others. Doing so will only attract enemies.
 Reading scripture is a good way to become closer to God because it offers wisdom and is like the "How To" of being a Christian. Some people recommend a Teen Study Bible, which includes tips, advice, and practical interpretations of some verses. Others recommend a normal Bible, and to read the aforementioned Bible from cover to cover. Prayer and Bible study will bring you closer to God.
 You can do all things through Christ; he will strengthen you.
 The Bible says we must, "Cry unto the Lord with all our might." If you don't want it that badly, stay on your knees until you do or meditate on it and think of whether you even truly want it.
James 1:5 says, "If any of you lack wisdom let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not and it shall be given him." Use your name---"If I(your name) lack wisdom let me(your name) ask of God who gives to all men liberally, and does not reprove those who ask , and it will be given to me." It's called claiming scripture in prayer, and when you say to God "You promised this, and I've done what You said I needed to to get it..." He gives-God never, ever, goes back on His promises. He said, "Ask and ye shall receive, knock and he will answer, seek him and you will find him."

, This means to pray inside your head to God. This will be a very hard thing to do at the beginning, but when you get going it will be a HUGE blessing in your life. You will gain a MUCH closer relationship with God and will feel his love much more.
 God gave his only begotten son to die for us! When you do what's right, God will know because he knows the intent of your heart.
 If you are surrounded by others trying to do the right thing it will become much easier. There is strength in numbers. "Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there shall I be." (Matthew 18:20) Luckily, the majority of the Western world is Christian, of various denominations.
 It is very difficult to resist the constant temptations of people who constantly sin if you're always hanging out with them. That being said, if these people are real friends and you ask them to tone it down slightly because they're making you uncomfortable, then it is possible that they might. On the other hand, if these people laugh to the idea of doing that, then maybe it's time to find some new friends.
 For example, if someone asks you to smoke/drink think about what it will do to your body and think about whether God would approve of this. Repeat to yourself that your body is the temple of God. Say NO. Ask the Lord to continue to bless you with strength to resist temptations.
 You don't have to be spineless to be cool. Be confident in what you know to be true and remember what you want to avoid.

