 If you're unsure where to start with a Hannah Montana look, start with the juniors section. The juniors section is a section of a department or clothing store that sells items for preteen and teenaged girls. Even if you're older and do not still fit into juniors size clothing, browsing the juniors section can give you a sense of the proper Hannah Montana attire. Hannah Montana was meant to be a preteen girl, so her tastes would be fitting with the juniors section.Hannah Montana was known for wearing bright colors or pastel shades of pink and purple.
Keep in mind, however, Hannah Montana is a somewhat dated show. While the juniors section can help, avoid any trends that have been popular in recent history. This will not mesh with the style at the time Hannah Montana was on the air.;
, Hannah Montana was the child of a famous country stare in the show, so shirts with a country-western inspired look can help. Go for something like a plaid button down top. This can help give off the country vibe Hannah Montana is known for.As Hannah Montana was a preteen girl, a brighter western shirt may help. A pink button down plaid top, for example, would be a good choice.
 Hannah Montana was known for layering her outfits. Grab a jacket, cardigan, or blazer to throw over your top.Once again, girlish colors are best. Go for shades like pink, purple, yellow, and pastels.
If you're going for a blazer or jacket, look for one with clunky buttons. Hannah Montana wore a lot of blazers/jackets with big, metallic buttons.
Some of Hannah Montana's blazers had decorations. A beige blazer with flowers or butterflies embroidered on the sleeves can be a nice choice.
 Hannah frequently performed somewhat casually. If you're doing a cowgirl look, go for bootcut jeans or similarly casual pants. For example, capris could work as they're generally cut in a way that can show off cowboy boots., Hannah did occasionally wear skirts over jeans. If you want a more girlish iteration of Hannah Montana, a colorful miniskirt can help. This can be worn with bright tights or leggings underneath.


If you're wearing your costume to school, check your school's dress policy. Skirts may have to be a certain length to be appropriate for school property.
 Hannah Montana was known for her cowboy boots. Make sure you add a pair of cowboy boots to your costume if you want to dress like Hannah Montana.


If possible, make sure the boots are specifically sold as cowboy boots. In a pinch, any knee-high boot can work, but cowboy boots will truly solidify the Hannah Montana vibe.
 You can buy Hannah Montana DVDs, watch Hannah Montana online, or use a video steaming service to watch episodes. If you need some inspiration for your outfit, watching some Hannah Montana episodes can help give you ideas. If you find a particular outfit you like, you can try to copy that outfit for your Hannah Montana look.
 If you're doing a Hannah Montana costume, carrying around a microphone can really help. Most costume shops will sell fake foam microphones you can add to your costume. Having a microphone on hand during a party can help signify to people that you're imitating the fictional pop star.If you don't have time to run to the costume store, you can easily make a fake microphone. Take a cardboard tube and glue a ball, such as a tennis ball, to the end. Then, paint the tennis ball and cardboard black.
 If you have long, blond hair, you already have the Hannah Montana hairstyle. Use a flat iron to straighten your hair before going out in your costume.Wash your hair with a volumizing shampoo before straightening it, and use a heat protectant on your hair. You can find these products at a local beauty salon. Make sure your hair is completely dry before you begin the straightening process.
Make sure you select a lower heat setting. Setting the heat too high could damage your hair.
Work with one section at a time. Move the flat iron from the root of your hair to the tip, moving slowly. Go over each strand only once.
 You may not have hair that can be easily turned into Hannah Montana hair. If this is the case, you can buy a large blond wig. In fact, this may be more realistic as Hannah Montana wore a wig in the series as her natural hair was brown. You can find a wig at a costume shop or buy one online.
 Add a scarf to your outfit. Hannah Montana is known for her girly, preppy attire, and scarves can really show this off. Go for a thin, sparkly scarf that you can tie around your neck for the party.You can find a lot of scarves by browsing the juniors section at a local department store.
Make sure to choose a bright colored scarf.
 You should also browse the juniors section for bright jewelry. Somewhat over-the-top jewelry can help you look like Hannah Montana. Opt for colorful, dangly earrings with a lot of sparkle and shine. You can also buy bright bracelets and necklaces.


Keep in mind dangly jewelry can be painful for some people. If the jewelry is causing your earlobes to become sore, it's a good idea to remove it. While earrings can help add flare to your costume, if you commit in other areas, you can still look like Hannah Montana.
 Hannah Montana did not wear a lot of makeup, but she was known for her eye shadow. She usually used somewhat neutral shades to match her skin tone. You can choose a shade to match your skin for a Hannah Montana look. However, sometimes Hannah Montana had more dramatic eye shadow.


A blue shade or a purple or pink shade can help with the Hannah Montana look. This may be particularly apt if you're going as Hannah Montana during a performance.Pick a series of colors so you can layer your eye shadow. You should not use a single color. At a drug store, you may be able to buy a shade of eye shadow with three separate sections: one for the lid, one for the corners, and one for the crease. However, you can also simply select three shades of a similar color that range from dark to light.
 Once you've chosen your eyeshadow, you can start to apply it. Start with your darkest shade and use a makeup brush, or the brush that came with the container, to gently dab that color along your eyelid.From there, apply your second lightest shade to your brow bone. This is the area of skin above your eyelid and just below your eyebrow. Lightly spread some lighter eyeshadow along your brow bone.
Take your lightest shade and apply it to the crease between your brow bone and lid. Then, spread a clean brush along your eyelid, crease, and brow bone to blend the colors together slightly.
 Hannah Montana did not wear a lot of makeup. Much of her makeup was toned down, so you do not need a bright lipstick. A neutral shade of lipstick, such as purplish shade similar to the natural color of your lips, will do. Simply run the tip of the lipstick along your lips until they are fully colored. It can help to rub your lips together when you're done, as this will blend the colors slightly., Once you've finished with your eye shadow, add a small amount of black eye liner. You can use liquid eye liner or pencil eyeliner. Make sure to only apply a small amount, as Hannah Montana was not known for her excessive makeup. All you need are a couple of thin lines outlining the lids of your eyes.Start with your upper lids. Draw a thin line of eyeliner running across the top of your eye, just above your eyelashes. Start near the pupil and slowly draw the line to the outer corner. Make sure to work slowly and carefully, as it's easy to smudge eye liner.
You can also draw a smaller line on your bottom lid, running about halfway through the bottom lid to the corner. You'll want this line to merge with the line on your upper lid.
 If you want more makeup, you can add a light layer of liquid or powder foundation. You can also dab some blush on the apples of your cheeks to brighten your face. However, this is strictly optional. Hannah Montana did not wear much makeup beyond eyeshadow, so this may not be necessary to get the look down.


If you opt for foundation, just focus on covering blemishes and smoothing over skin discolorations. Do not apply a heavy amount as you do not want the makeup to look caked on.

