 You can buy an inexpensive incubator to house your turtle eggs. What's important is the temperature control an incubator provides. Be sure to use the thermometer that comes with your incubator or purchase a thermometer to monitor temperature.


You do not have to have an incubator to hatch turtle eggs. Keeping them at normal summer room temperatures should do. On particularly hot days, move them to a cooler spot and be sure the eggs are moist. Do not put them in the sun; you'll risk overheating.
If you're not using an incubator, be sure to put the nest(see below) somewhere you'll see it and not forget about it.
 The nest for your turtle eggs will sit inside your incubator. It's very simple to make one with a container you may already have at home and a few things from the garden supply store.


Container. Find a sturdy container with a lid and punch air holes in the lid. Simple take-out containers from the deli and plastic containers you may have in your kitchen can make perfectly good nests. Be sure the lids you use are not too tight. If the lids are hard to open, you can end up jarring the delicate eggs when you check on them.






Loosely set the lids on the containers until it gets closer to the time for the turtle eggs to hatch. As hatching time arrives, tighten the lids enough to contain the babies.
It's important to use lids so that the incubator heat source does not overheat the eggs.



Nesting material. To your container, add a mixture of one part vermiculite, one part peat moss and one part sphagnum moss. Soak the mixture and squeeze out the excess water.






Vermiculite, peat moss and sphagnum are usually easy to find at garden supply stores and some hardware stores. If you can't find all three, you should be fine creating a mixture of water and only one or two of the materials.
 Once the female has laid her eggs, pick them up very carefully. Do not turn them over or you will kill the embryo. Make small depressions in the vermiculite mixture and gently position the eggs inside. Keep the lid on and the temperature between 75 degrees and 85 degrees.


Use a magic marker or a piece of charcoal to mark the tops of the eggs so that you don't accidentally turn them over.
If eggs stick together when you pick them up, try very gently to separate them. If they don't come apart easily, leave them alone.
 For many turtles, the sex of the hatchlings is determined by temperature not genetics. In those cases, higher temperatures (maximum 85 degrees) will yield mostly females. Eggs incubated slowly in temperatures around 75 degrees will yield mostly males. An incubation temperature of about 80 degrees will yield an equal number of males and females.


Avoid letting your incubator temperature reach into the 90's; the eggs will spoil and the hatchlings will die. It's better to allow the eggs to incubate slowly than to risk killing your turtles.
 For the first month and a half, plan to check your eggs once a week. You want to make sure they're moist but not moldy or deteriorating. After 45 days, check them more frequently to see if they're hatching. Do not try to hurry things along. A baby turtle has what's called an "egg tooth" that it uses to break open its shell and is perfectly capable of hatching on its own.


If mold does appear on your eggs, gently wipe it off with a cotton swab. Never pick the eggs up to clean them; they are particularly fragile once the babies begin developing inside.
Depending on the temperature of your incubator, turtles typically will hatch in 50 to 120 days.
 Once one turtle hatches, the others should soon follow. Give eggs that don't hatch plenty of time, but know that you may have to discard some eggs that have gone bad or simply never hatch.


An egg could have some dents but be perfectly fine. Other times, an egg will look perfect, but has been leaking out the bottom and is no good. If an egg collapses, it's bad.
At about four to six months in, examine any eggs that remain and come to a decision about discarding them.

