


A soprano's typical range is Middle C to G/A one octave above this (extremities extend to C if you are a highly pitched soprano) This means (for those not as familiar with these terms) you start on middle C and count 11/12 white keys above this on a piano. Note: Middle C is the closest C to the keyhole of the piano, or where you sit to play it.
An Alto's range is G (below Middle C) to C one octave above Middle C.
A Tenor's range is usually (with some variants) E below Middle C to G above Middle C.
A Bass' range is E one octave below (count down 12 white keys from middle C) Middle C to G below middle C

As unique as one person is from another in appearance, so to is your singing voice and this means you may be a sub-category of the voices listed above; for example a mezzo soprano will realistically only comfortably reach an E one octave above Middle C, yet have a stronger voice than an alto in its mid-range of E-(one octave above middle C)C.

;
, Once you know your type of voice, you now know what types of music will suit you. If you are looking for a well known song to sing it will usually come in several editions each written for different types of singers: (High voice, High Female voice, Low Female voice, High Male voice, Low Male voice etc)

, If you want to impress the judges with your classical talent, choosing a song from the ABRSM (Associated Board of the Royal School of Music) set Graded Pieces is a good way of showing your ability. These also categorize songs into vocal range so it is easier to see which will be suitable for you.
 If you want to impress the audience by pulling off a well-known song you could choose an old classic, or something really current. Knowing what type of audience to expect is a good thing to consider.
 Find a song that has this style and try to find related songs. (YouTube has good options)


Make sure the song fits your voice comfortably and you don't strain yourself!
Make sure the song will please your audience and yourself.
Get hold of the music - for the lowest possible cost! There are several websites which (once you know exactly what you want) sell music books and sheet music. Most sheet music (depending on the number of pages) for voice and piano will cost less than 2 pounds.
 Practice until it sounds the best it can be!