 Nobody knows everything and a person who professes that they do is somebody to be very wary of. New managers are expected to be "wet-behind-the-ears" and a new manager who has the ability to own up to knowledge gaps will be respected for honesty and for having the initiative to do something about it.;
, Find out about the existing training options before asking your boss. That way, you will be across the various courses, seminars, coaching opportunities, etc., that are available. In doing this, consider:


What in-house training exists or whether only external training can meet your needs (and why): It is likely that your boss will want you to take advantage of in-house training first unless there are good reasons otherwise
The timing of the training: If the training falls right when you're most needed on deck, it won't fly as well as selecting training during down times. Many short-term management courses try to take this into account but this is very dependent on your workplace patterns and your region's wind-down times
The cost of the training: This will have an enormous impact on the answer – if it's expensive, build a case as to why you're worth it and what value this will return to your organization
The location of the training: If you need to go to another state or country, you will have transportation and accommodation costs to take into account as well
Colleague involvement: Is the training you are suggesting likely to benefit others in the organization beyond you? If so, will this fit their schedules too? Could the organization afford to have several of you away at once? And would a discount be applicable if several of you attended the training at the same time?

, Take a few moments of your boss' time to explain your wish to have further training in particular leadership skills. Don't give too many details when discussing; just the general flavor of why you believe that training would benefit your role as a manager, how this would benefit the organization, and what sort of training you have in mind. Offer to send an email detailing the suggestions.
 Once more outline your reasons for wanting the training and how this benefits the organization. Provide the training suggestions with succinct features pulled out next to each option. Include URLs where possible so that your boss can check each option quickly while reading online.
 If your boss doesn't come around to your way of thinking immediately, don't pressure. Bide the time a little and return to the subject after a few weeks have passed with no response. If your boss doesn't agree with the request for training, seek a reason and look for ways to respond to that constructively. For example, if your boss thinks it is the wrong time, suggest a time that is more suitable; if your boss thinks it is too expensive, look for a more affordable option, etc. And remind your boss of the benefits of improved managerial awareness overall.

