 The defender should always have his man in front of him (relative to the net). In professional basketball, the player who receives the ball has someone behind him.;
, When a pass is coming towards him, try pulling your hands out from behind and tip it away. If the player is in post position, he'll most likely be still. Keep a hand in front of him to deny it. But still, be careful not to commit a foul by trying to reach in for the steal. If he's more of a perimeter player, he'll most likely be running around to get free of you, so try to keep up. If he thinks he's open, try waiting for a pass to come up to him, and jump in and tip it away.
 If the player is post, he will most likely be backing into you.


Best thing to do is have ONE hand on his back(this is allowed) and stop him from advancing further. If he is a good post player, he will try faking and then spinning around and laying it around you. You must observe him, and try not to fall for these. He could also pump fake then go under you. Once he shoots, you can try blocking it. He will most likely be fading away; if he's much taller than you, he'll shoot right over you. When blocking have your hands STRAIGHT, not bending and try swatting it. If you don't think it'll work, put your hands in front of his face (straight still) and contest the shot, but don't hit him. Beware, he could do multiple pump fakes.
 Now onto the perimeter based players. These players will most likely be harder to guard. They will be quicker (and you will need to be as well), drive on you, cross you up, pump fake you, better shooters, will attempt to draw fouls, and do hop stops. You, as a defender, will need to be prepared for all of this.


Know his range. This is a little thing that will help A LOT. If he isn't as great of a shooter, take him out of his comfort zone. If he's in a spot where his range will let him make the shot, be more up in his face. If you're comfortable that he's not in it, you can sag off a bit
Keep your knees bent when guarding him. That way, you can move quickly as he moves or drives. If he drives quickly, move back and attempt to contest the shot, but be aware of a foul call.
Watch out for pump fakes.
When trying to block the shot, you can try this alternative: put your hands in front of his face when he shoots.
He could Hop Step, which means jump one way then the other, or close to get rid of you to get off an open look shot.
Stay far enough that if he likes to drive you can react quick enough; if too close one step might be all he needs.

