 Write down a few of your prominent characteristics, and imagine if people used them as an insult. It would sting, wouldn't it? Now take into account that some people are especially sensitive, and some characteristics are used as insults. How many times has a woman heard that she is too emotional, a disabled person heard that bad things are "stupid," or a black person taken extra safety precautions because they are stereotyped as violent? Words and microaggressions add up.;
, Some topics are more likely to strike a sensitive spot than others are.


Death
Others being hurt (from mild injuries to serious ones like rape)
Stereotypes about a group of people
Suggesting that people do something harmful

, For example, imagine yourself telling someone "jokingly" to kill themselves while the person is secretly dealing with self-esteem issues. Or that a rape victim will hear you joking about rape, or that the person listening to you talking about "cutters" secretly struggled with self-harm for five years.


Even if a vulnerable person isn't nearby, you'll be shaping people's opinions of those who are vulnerable.
Or maybe a rapist may hear you making a rape joke. Do you want a rapist laughing along, secretly considering you an ally?

, "Punching up" means poking fun at the more powerful party in this scenario, and it often challenges unfair power dynamics. "Punching down" means making fun of those who are not in power. Punching down should be avoided as it hurts the people who are most vulnerable, and they will quietly stop considering you someone they can trust. Punching up, when done well, causes no real harm (besides perhaps bruising inflated egos) and invites productive critical thought.


Making fun of women, LGBTQIA people, people of color, disabled people, fat people, poor people, and other marginalized groups is punching down.
Jon Stewart was punching down when he made fun of the autistic people who protested against Autism Speaks.Autistic people felt that they were fighting against a huge organization for their right to exist, and Jon Stewart was joining the voices telling them to shut up.
Misandry jokes, such as "men are so hormonal; lesbians go in locker rooms with women all the time without harassing anyone" are an example of punching up. These people don't hate men; they're turning the tables on the harassers and pointing out the myth that men have no self-control., For example, people can't choose how intelligent they are, but ignorance, rudeness, and bad behavior are all choices. Feel free to get creative to come up with unique insults! Try mixing and matching from some of these...


Personal odor (Did you bathe in a swamp?)
Comparisons to disgusting things (trash, slime, dirt)
Animals (muddy pig, frog wart)
Ignorance (He is about as well-informed as a man who sits in his house all day making fart noises.)
Rudeness or general terrible personality (You are the human equivalent of a mosquito.)

, While a good faith comedian's jokes are usually well-received, you may eventually tread on someone's toes by accident. You can minimize damage by taking responsibility for it and apologizing wholeheartedly.


"I'm really sorry that I upset you. I didn't think that it would hurt you, and I should have known better. I apologize."
"I'm sorry my race joke caused such an issue. My intent was to deconstruct white privilege, not to make things worse. Looking back, it was an ill-advised joke. I'm truly sorry."

, Will your joke be well-received? Will it cause genuine smiles, or could it cause pain? A good joke makes the world a happier place for everyone.

