 You don’t have to study for long hours. This can be as simple as reviewing the subjects that you studied and skimming summaries of the books that you read last year. A quick refresher will get your mind ready for studying and make the first weeks back easier as you can see them as a continuation of progress that you have made.


Reread your notes. Your class notes will remind you of the material you covered previously, as well as your initial reactions to the material. Do not worry if you don’t fully understand all of the concepts that you review: reexamining and rediscovering specific ideas is a natural part of the learning process.
Make a list of what you have learned. If you did not take notes, or did not save them, try a more active approach and list the subjects that you studied the previous year. Look at a report card or transcript if you need. Then, list major lessons and ideas that were covered beneath each subject. You likely cannot remember everything, but the act of recalling previous progress will get your mind ready for mental work.;
, Get a list of what you will be studying in your classes and get a sense for what you will be learning. You don’t have to work ahead if you don’t want. Simply having a sense for what you will be covering will prepare you for success.


You may not be given a syllabus or required book list in advance. Some teachers and schools will be happy to supply this information if you ask. Others may not be willing or able to supply this information. Ask politely and be gracious if denied.
 If you want to get straight A’s, you can develop a study routine with time dedicated to each class before the year starts. If there is a specific subject that you want to excel in, check out introductory books from your local library. If you want to focus on making friends, explore your school’s clubs and activities to find an interesting option that fits your schedule. These are not mutually exclusive goals, but it will help if you know what is most important to you.
 A good study space will mean different things for different people, and it can change from year to year. As the school year approaches, many news outlets suggest ideas for creating an effective study space.Pick a study space that is conducive to your goals. If you want to master a complicated subject, you may need to study in a library so that you can access relevant books. If you want to make new friends, look for a café where you can talk with other customers while studying.
 If you can, eliminate distractions in your work space or during set times. If you find it hard to ignore a television, find a suitable study space with no televisions in sight. If noise distracts you, look for a desk in a quiet corner of the library or purchase noise-cancelling headphones.

