 Essential oils are aromatic compounds housed within plants. Essential oils may be located in bark, seeds, flowers, stems, roots, and other parts of plants. These oils are extracted using a variety of methods and can be used for medicinal, beauty, or culinary purposes.Common essential oils include tea tree oil, lavender, peppermint, patchouli, and lemon.
 Essential oils are very useful for a wide variety of health, beauty, and mood-boosting applications. In order to understand essential oils, it is important to get a sense of some uses of different essential oils.Essential lavender oil has excellent calming properties.
Essential geranium oil is a good oil for balancing emotions.
Essential rosemary oil is great for inhaling when you have a cough or cold.
Essential lemon or grapefruit oils are ideal as air fresheners, leaving a fresh aroma in a room.
 The most popular way to utilize essential oils is called “diffusing.” This is when you use an appliance called an “essential oil diffuser” to release the essence of various essential oils into the air. Similar to a humidifier, the diffuser heats up the oil and turns it into vapor. This creates a wonderful scent and depending on your choice of oil, can have additional health benefits.Diffusers run from $20-100 and can be purchased online or at most health food stores.
You can also heat water on your stove with a few drops of essential oil to achieve a similar effect.
 Another prominent use of essential oils involves topical application. This is when you apply 1-2 drops of oil to an area of your body for medicinal purposes, or as perfume. As essential oils are highly concentrated and very strong, it is recommended that you use a “carrier oil,” like coconut oil or avocado oil. Mix one drop of essential oil with three drops of carrier oil and apply to your skin.Try applying essential oils to your neck, the bottoms of your feet, or the backs of your wrists.
Patchouli, lavender, and cedarwood oils are commonly used topically as a perfume.
 Essential oils can have medicinal benefits when taken orally. You can use very small amounts of essential oils to replace herbs and spices in cooking, take essential oils as supplements in a veggie capsule (or added to applesauce), or add small drops to smoothies, tea, or other drinks.Peppermint oil can be used to give smoothies or baked good a minty taste, while also being extremely soothing to your tummy.
Oregano oil can be used in place of dried oregano, while simultaneously boosting your immune function.

