 This can include name, address, phone number, and email. Before applying to different countries, check personal information requirements as they may vary.


For example, you may need to provide your marital status, national origin or picture.
 Distinguish which position you are seeking and your intention to prove your qualifications. This will allow the recruiter to immediately know what position you are seeking.


Many large companies get a variety of applicants for every position, and they may have multiple positions open at the same time.
Providing the title of the position you are seeking will help make sure your resume gets filed in the appropriate places.
 This section is a very brief, 3 to 5 sentence paragraph that highlights your skills, experience and accomplishments as it relates to the job. Summary statements are a good way to provide the hiring individual with an idea of why you would be a good fit for the job, without requiring them to analyze your resume too deeply.
 List all relevant skills that you have and are required to do the job successfully. Listing all of these skills will enable you to sell yourself well to a potential employer, providing them with an easy to read list of your talents.


For example, Marketing Strategy, SEO, Problem Solving, Negotiations, Verbal and Nonverbal Communication Skills.
 Provide the company name, title, years of employment, and brief descriptions of tasks and accomplishments for each job held up to the last 10 years. Write each task using action verbs such as “trained” or “evaluated” followed by a brief description of what was done and what the results were.


For example, “Developed business relationships across southeast territory to increase sales by 30% in 6 months”.
 List all relevant education, training and certifications that will be helpful for you to get the job. These qualifications can be critical, depending on the industry you want to work in.


For example, if you are applying for a nursing position, list your bachelor’s degree and any certifications such as CPR. Being certified in project management (PMP) would not be relevant in this case and should not be listed in your resume.
 You can choose to include additional sections such as, significant honors and awards, memberships or professional affiliations, community service/volunteerism roles and/or language skills. As mentioned previously, you can find out if any of these sections are relevant enough to add to your resume by reviewing the job description and understanding what is truly valued by the employer.


For example, if you are applying for a role at a nonprofit organization, they may be more interested to see what community service and volunteer organizations you are involved with as opposed to a for-profit organization.
 There are many misconceptions regarding the length of a resume and what it should entail. To keep it simple, if the information is relevant to the job you are applying for (if it is in the requirements or qualifications section of the job posting) add it to your resume.


For example, as mentioned previously, a list of languages is typically written in a CV but not in a resume. However, if you are fluent in Japanese and you know the position you are applying to will have contacts in Japan, you should list your Japanese language skills in your resume.

