 The court has horizontal lines dividing it into thirds. There is a circle 3 feet (0.9 m) in diameter in the center of the court. There are 2 goal semicircles, each with a radius of 16 feet (4.9 m) at each end. The 15-inch-wide (38 cm) goal ring extends horizontally from a 10-foot (3 m) post located at the midpoint of each goal line. Not only is the hoop smaller than basketball, there's no backboard.If you're playing in your backyard try to set up a field of this general size. Using a basketball is okay if you don't have a netball, but the nets are pretty important if you want to play the game.;
, If you have over 14 players have some as subs and rotate them in.
 Only 2 players, identified by the insignia GS (Goal Shooter) and GA (Goal Attack), can score. The other 5 positions are Goalkeeper (GK), Goal Defense (GD), Wing Attack (WA), Wing Defense (WD) and Center (C).These identification letters are displayed on the front and back of each player's jersey.The center stands in the small circle in the center of the court. The center is both an attacker and defender because they are in the middle. They are allowed anywhere on the court other than the goal circles. The center circle has a diameter of ten yards.
The wing attack position tries to feed the ball to the goal shooters. They are positioned at the top third of the field toward the opponent’s goal. The wing attack position is not allowed in the goal circle.
Wing defenders defend against the wing attack position, trying to keep the ball out of their third of the court. Wing defenders are allowed in the center third and their own third, but not the goal circle.
The goal attack position is allowed to shoot the ball at the goal and also pass it to the goal shooters in the goal circle. These players are allowed in the center third, the opponents third, and the goal circle.
The goal defense position defends against the goal attack position. They are allowed in all the same areas as the goal attack position.
The goal shoot position is only allowed in the opposing team's goal circle and the opponent's third. Their job is to catch passes from their other two attacking teammates and try to shoot on the goal.
The goal keeper is only allowed in their own goal circle and their own defending third. They must stop the other players from getting the ball and shooting on the goal.
 You don’t need a referee if you’re just playing for fun, obviously, but if you wanted to organize a competitive game you should find an experienced netball player to act as a referee.

