 Tequila is the best when it is 100% agave. Tequila that isn’t 100% agave may contain corn syrup, sugar, and artificial flavors and colors. It should say 100% agave on the label., Regular triple secs range in alcohol content from 15% (30-proof) to 40% (80-proof). For a boozier margarita, choose a triple sec with a higher alcohol content such as Cointreau (40% alc/vol).


Triple sec comes in a variety of brands — popular ones include Curacao, Grand Marnier (actually an orange-infused cognac), and Cointreau.For a simpler margarita recipe you can skip the triple sec all together.
 Ripe limes have thin, shiny, soft skin; when you rub them, they should be quite fragrant.For an authentic Mexican flavor, use key limes, which are more tart and bitter than the larger Persian limes.
Alternatively, use fresh lemon juice (try sweet Meyer lemons!) for a softer taste.
 Common sweeteners for margaritas include agave nectar (if it’s not available at your grocery store, check a health food store), simple syrup, and honey.


You can make simple syrup at home by mixing water and sugar in a jar and shaking it, or by heating the sugar and water together in a pan — in both cases until the sugar dissolves. Depending on your tastes, you can mix 1.5 to 2 parts sugar with 1 part water.
A sweetener isn’t 100% necessary — some people use no sweeteners at all, instead letting the orange liqueur do the sweetening.
 Unless you’re making a blended margarita, use big ice cubes (i.e. when shaking one up in a cocktail maker). Big ice cubes won’t melt as quickly as crushed ice or smaller cubes; the less the ice melts, the stronger and more flavorful your drink will be., Sea salt and kosher salt are the most commonly recommended types of salt for rimming your margarita glass. Kosher salt will make for a slightly saltier rim than sea salt.Avoid using table salt, which will create a fine-grained, clumpy rim on your glass, and make for an overly salty drink.You can also purchase pre-made salt mixes specifically for margaritas at grocery and liquor stores.

