 The combination of a super-absorbent powder with an oil-conquering dish soap is a match set-in stains can’t beat! Start by pouring more fresh oil on your oil stain, to “renew” it. Then, pour on baking soda and scrub the area with a toothbrush. Finalize the process by pouring on grease-fighting dish soap and scrubbing some more. Then send your clothing through a wash cycle and be amazed by the lack of stains when it’s done., Again, we’re fighting oil with oil. Citrus oil is a strong solvent made from the acid in citrus fruits - so it smells delicious! Apply citrus oil to your oil spot, and then cover the area with a paper towel. Run over the spot with your iron using the steam attachment, and watch the oil disappear. If necessary, you can repeat this process a few times., When you see how well this beverage of choice works to break up oil in clothing, you may reconsider your choice to drink it. Pour coca-cola directly onto the oil spot in your clothing. Let the soda soak into the stain for 1-2 hours, and then wash your clothes as you normally would.
 One of the more harsher methods, using liquid glycerin is a good option if you have oil stains that have been set for months (or years!). Apply some liquid glycerin directly to the oily stain, and let it sit for about 30 minutes. Follow up with a regular wash in the washing machine, and you’re set!

, Check your clothing labels to make sure acetone won’t discolor or ruin the fibers of the material. Then, dab on pure acetone to your clothing stains and let it set for a few minutes. Finishing with a run through the washing machine should end your oil-stain woes for good., This traditional household cleaner does more than disinfect your countertops, it can completely remove set-in oil stains. Douse the oily spot with a good helping of simple green cleaning spray, and allow it to set for 30 minutes to an hour. Wash your clothing as you usually would afterwards to guarantee it has been fully removed., If your oil spot is too stubborn to be removed with household goods, or is on an article of clothing too nice to risk ruining, go the safe route and take a trip the dry cleaners. Their advanced cleaning methods will ease the stains out of your clothing without putting them at risk for damage.

