 Even if you aren't changing your name because of marriage or divorce, there are plenty of reasons you might want to change your name. You can change your name if you don't like it, for religious reasons, to reflect your new gender, or to create a combined name.Invalid reasons include:Changing your name to avoid legal judgements, debts, or obligations
Changing your name to defraud someone else
Changing your name to hide from the law or police

, The fee varies from parish to parish, so check costs before going to the office. You can go to the parish you were born in, where you live now, or the Vital Records Registry in Orleans County.You'll need to include the following information on your application:

Your current name
Your description, including height, weight, hair and eye color, race, sex, place and date of birth
Your parents' names and addresses
Confirm that you aren't wanted for any crimes or have any pending legal actions
Why you'd like to change your name
The new name you want

, Both parents have to sign the petition, or the one parent must, if the other is deceased. The exception to this is if one parent has been given custody of the minor. In this case, only the parent with custody needs to sign the petition so long as the other parent has been given a copy of the petition and 1 of the following is true:The other parent has not given court ordered support for at least a year
The other parent hasn't supported the minor for at least 3 years after custody was awarded
The other parent hasn't supported, visited, communicated, or tried to communicate with the minor without just cause for at least 2 years.
 Pay the fee required by your individual parish and show 2 forms of identification (like a military ID, Louisiana driver's license, U.S. passport, or Louisiana state ID card). Once you've filed your petition, you'll be notified by the clerk as to whether or not you'll need to attend a court hearing to review your petition. You'll also need to give a copy of the petition to the district attorney of your parish court.The judge will grant or deny your hearing and notify you of the decision. If approved, your new name will be recorded in the parish records. Make sure to get certified copies of the name change.
 If the court doesn't accept your petition for a name change, understand the reason why you may have been refused. Courts can deny name changes for a number of reasons, including:Changing your name to avoid legal judgements, debts, or obligations
Changing your name to defraud someone else
Changing your name to hide from the law or police, Once you've successfully changed your name, send a certified copy of the final judgment to the Vital Statistics office. You'll also need to send an Application to Amend Certificate of Birth along with a payment. Check with the office for the current fee amount. You'll need to send the final judgement, application, and fee to this address:Louisiana Vital Records Registry
Attn: Document Alteration Section
P.O. Box 60630
New Orleans, LA 70160

