 What is it that made you unpopular?


Some people became unpopular after they have moved to another city. This is hardly their fault though and it can only be fixed by time. Being unpopular is not always your fault, but you should examine what you are doing that causes you to turn other people off. There are always reasons why the most popular people are never friends with you.;
, But since these people are either so used to you by now or love the way you are, they don't think that there's anything wrong with you. Here are a few tips:


There are two universally respected values: courage and dream. Courage means that you're not afraid of speaking up. If someone is bothering you, confront them about it face-to-face. Courage also means you are willing to do your own thing, and not caving in to peer pressure. Courage does not mean bullying or starting fights with others. Only cowards do that. Courage is about taking chances and not being afraid of any setbacks or rejections. Accept all the bad things in life and never hide from them. Dreaming is all about having goals in life that are pretty much impossible to reach but that you work on every day, because you're determined to get them. Set your goals high and get started on them. Again, even if you get made fun of or if you have to do it alone, don't quit.
, If you have only 5 outfits for the entire year, people will think you are poor or uncreative. Prove them wrong. If you don't have any money, work a part-time job. Get a cute hair cut. Get manicures. Make people know that you care about what you are putting out there. This isn't always crucial to popularity, but it helps a lot.


There is a thing called "Popularity By Association." If you are currently dating/hanging out with one of the populars, you will get a "ticket" to the lunch table.
 Yes, you get both fame and respect from your fellow students if you are a star athlete/performer. Earn your school recognition, and you will get yours. Be creative too―remember the Friend kid?

, Yes, you can do anything you set your mind on. The outcome isn't half as important as the process. Even if you can't be popular, know that you tried and that you are a winner for trying.
 Find a hobby and join others who are also interested in it. The more you invest in others, the more you will get back. Find clubs or teams and join them.
 It is hilarious to worry so much about other people's opinions of you, especially since you won't see most of them again for the rest of your life. The people who understand you will love you no matter how weird you are. Don't forget them once you get your new popular friends.


Never compromise yourself for the purpose of impressing others. You will just hate yourself later. Just as Mother Teresa said, "If you get taken advantage of because you are nice, it is society's fault and not yours." So be good/successful/happy/friendly even though some people will be jealous of you.

