 If you plan to run your club at your school or university, you will need permission from the administration. Talk to your principal or student council about the rules for starting a club. Not all clubs are run in schools, so you may have to check with other local authorities. If you are under 18, however, you should still check-in with your parents, as they may end up supervising events or lending space in your house for meetings.


Some clubs require paperwork, a minimum number of participants, a teacher advisor, and so on. Check all the fine details, and make sure your club fits the criteria., Think of an inviting or appropriate name for your club. Try using a funny play on words that fits your theme. Alternatively, simply use a name that accurately describes what you do. You can ask your friends in the club to help you with this.
 Some clubs require a special facility or equipment, while others simply need a small room.Think about what kind of space is necessary for the things you plan to do. Depending on your club, the location for your meetings may need to be determined early on so that you can reserve your space. Talk to the person who is in charge of the space you plan to use, and get their permission before holding meetings.For example, a club dedicated to playing electronic music will probably require instruments, synthesizers, and a soundproof room. A club dedicated to discussing sports magazine articles, on the other hand, may not require a consistent meeting place at all.
 Decide how often, and for how long your club needs to meet to be productive. Weekly or monthly meetings are common, but it really depends on the club. Remember to consult with group members and consider their schedules when you decide on your meeting dates and times. You want everyone to show up!A writer’s club, for example, may only meet once a month because of the time it takes to write enough material to share at the meeting. A stretching club may meet once or twice a week since exercise needs to be consistent to show progress.
 Decide on what you will actually do when your club meets. Maybe you will bring in a guest presenter, or maybe each member has to bring something to share with the group. Remember to think about who will run any discussions and make announcements.
 Put up posters around your school or neighborhood to attract new members. Include when and where your club will meet. Add attention-grabbing words or images to build excitement and interest.


Place your fliers in strategic places. If your club meets at school, put up fliers in the bathroom stalls, hallways, and classroom doors. Get permission from teachers and administrators before you put up fliers.If your club is open to the public, put up fliers in places that prospective members will see them. If you are starting a cooking club, for example, ask to put up fliers at local restaurants and markets.

