 If you hate to cook, chances are you don't have very many cooking utensils in your kitchen. Those you do have, you may have never used or understand how to use them effectively.For example, a good chef's knife will cut down on prep time by enabling you to slice and chop fruits and vegetables quicker and more efficiently.
You may want to rearrange the items in your kitchen so that utensils and pots and pans are more convenient. If you have to dig through disorganized cabinets to find what you need, you probably will be less interested in the entire cooking experience.
 Sometimes, hatred of cooking is tied to a dislike of a particular preparation skill, or a particular cooking process. For labor-intensive activities such as chopping and slicing, you can buy gadgets that will do all or most of the work for you.For example, you can buy salad chopping tongs that will chop up your salad ingredients as you toss them — saving you time and effort by allowing you to do two things at the same time.
If you've ever been flummoxed by a recipe that called only for one egg yolk, you might consider buying a yolk extractor that can take care of that task for you with ease.
Look for gadgets that are directly related to foods you like to eat on a regular basis, or that can be used in a variety of different recipes for multiple meals. No gadget is worth your money if it's just going to sit in the back of a cabinet gathering dust.
 There are many foods that you can prep — or even cook — in advance and save for later. This can help you enjoy healthy meals when you hate to cook, because you'll be cooking less often.Choose individual-serving sized containers, or containers with dividers so you can separate the main course from the sides. You may want to get a whole set so you have enough containers to hold at least a week's worth of meals.
For example, you can make large quantities of pasta, casseroles, or stir fries and freeze the leftovers to eat earlier. After the initial investment in the containers, your meals will end up being cheaper than buying frozen dinners — and just as convenient.
If you have the time, carve out a couple of hours to cook several different meals at once. Divide them into individual servings and freeze them so you have them throughout the week. Make sure you label each container with its contents and the date you cooked it so you don't keep anything too long.
 Especially during the colder months, stews are a healthy and filling meal option that take minimal prep time and work. Simply add the ingredients to the slow-cooker and turn it on.If you prep your ingredients the night before, then add them to the slow-cooker in the morning, you also minimize the length of time you're in the kitchen. When you get home from work, your dinner will be ready and waiting for you.
The other good thing about slow-cookers for people who hate to cook is that they usually make large batches, which means you'll have plenty of leftovers for other days.
 You can have the cleanest, best-equipped kitchen in the world and still not feel like cooking for whatever reason. On those occasions, it can be best to remember that you can enjoy healthy meals without doing any cooking at all.While some foods must be cooked to be eaten, there are plenty of foods that can be eaten raw and will provide the same health benefits as they would if they were cooked. Some foods are even more nutritious eaten raw.
Include around 20 – 30 grams of protein, some fruits and vegetables, and a good source of healthy carbs, such as whole grains or rice.
For example, you might have a sandwich on whole-grain bread with turkey or chicken sliced in the grocery store deli. Add to this a colorful salad and a piece of fruit and you have a healthy meal without having to cook at all.

