 Since most modeling jobs have particular types of models in mind, you should have a clear understanding of your own physical attributes. If you’re a woman, measure your chest, waist, and hips, and verify your height and weight. If you’re man, measure your shoulders, waist, and inseam, as well as your height and weight.


Keep track of these measurements over time, especially if you’re a younger model. Men in particular continue to add height into their early 20s.;
, As art comes in many forms, there is a wide range of modeling options. Your headshots and portfolio should emphasize your physical attributes and personality, based on the type of modeling jobs that you want to pursue.


If you’re interested in becoming a fashion model, the most exclusive type, the physical standards are quite strict. For example, female models must be “fashion-industry size-standard”, which means you must be 5’9” to 6” tall, have measurements of 34-24-24, wear clothing size 0-4, and weigh between 105-130 pounds, proportional to your height.
An “alternative” or “alt” model, on the other hand may not fit the industry standard. Many have tattoos and piercings, as well as atypical hairstyles.
Catalog models can be a range of sizes and shapes as well, depending on the clothing designer and retailer., Find a reputable photographer who specializes either in model photography or in headshots. Make sure that you have access to the negatives, too,so that you can build your own composite card and portfolio.


Ask the photograph to help you to keep them simple and natural. Modeling agencies and clients are looking for confident models who seem relaxed in front of the camera, not potentially awkward poses or false “glamour.”, A composite is an important marketing tool, much like a business card, that agencies and clients will keep as a reference for you. It consists of a single page, often a 5x7 card, and sometimes a full 8.5x11 sheet, that has your headshot on one side and several photos with your vital statistics (physical characteristics and personal qualities) on the back. , Use your photographs to create an attractive portfolio to carry to go-sees, cattle-calls, and agency interviews. This portfolio should represent the range of your expressiveness and emphasize your personal style and physical attributes.


For instance, if your emotional expressiveness is your best quality, then select images that highlight the way you show emotion in different lights, with different make-up, and in different contexts.
A digital portfolio, such as a DVD or flash drive, might be a useful investment, especially if you’re interested in modeling for television or the catwalk. You can include video footage of your walk or your previous video modeling experience.

