 Plan for 2-5 girls to come over. Make sure their personalities won't clash too much, because you should make sure these girls get along well. Send out cute invitations; homemade, store-bought, eCards, etc.On the invites, put place, time, what they will need like Christmas PJs, things for activities (below), and the hygiene basics and some cool games they like to play.;
, This way, you can be sure your friends will have a great time. And, it makes them feel important.
 Since it's around the holidays, red, green, or white foods are welcome, along with sweets and treats. But, overall, hot cocoa, candy canes, sugar cookies, and hot tea are musts. If you don't want to be overly-festive, you can be pretty basic with the normal pizza-and-ice-cream thing, but make sure to add something in the Christmas spirit. Also, buy a lot of food. The worst thing ever is running out of food, which doesn't make an acceptably memorable party.
 A gift exchange is always fun. Bath and Body Works is a very Kid Christmas-Friendly place.

Extreme hide-and-seek tag (in the dark!)
Sledding, ice skating, bonfire..
Christmas Style Spa (Green, White,and Red things)
Christmas-Style Makeovers (Green, Red, and White makeup)
Movie marathon; Polar Express, Christmas Vacation, Home Alone, The Nutcracker, etc.
Christmas-Style Fashion Shows(Each friend brings their favorite Christmas clothes)
Christmas Karaoke,Sing-Off,Dance-Off,etc.
Tree Lighting Ceremony(Each friend brings their favorite tree décor)
Have PLENTY of cozy pillows and blankets, don't let your friends suffer

,, Be at least an hour awake before everyone else and set up breakfast and the gift bags which should be filled with some makeup in Christmas colors, pastries in Christmas colors, pictures from the sleepover, and a little souvenir, like a craft made at the sleepover. When people leave, tell them to honestly rate your sleepover on a scale from one to ten. If they say less than an eight tell them what could have been better. Ask them what was the best part so you could do the same thing next time.
