 Determine if you want to jog, run, or walk. Virtual races will sometimes designate a specific length for you to run, such as a 5k (3.1 miles). Knowing how much you're able and willing to run will help you find a virtual race that's perfect for you.Think of what your personal goals are and strive for them.


The most common virtual race distances are the 5K (3.1 miles), 10K (6.2 miles) and half marathon (21K or 13 miles).Look for a race that you can realistically run based on your physical ability.
Consult a doctor before racing if you have any health conditions.;
, You can run your race anywhere you want. Determine if you want to run your race on a treadmill, along with a racing path, or on the sidewalk. Plot out a racing route that fulfills the requirements for the virtual race. If you have other people who want to do the race with you, you can organize a day where you can all do the race together.


Think of the weather. If it's extremely cold or hot out, you may want to run your race indoors.
 Search online for virtual races that you're eligible for. Virtual races often donate a portion of their proceeds to a charity, so take a look at the race company's website to see which charity they are giving to. Look for virtual races that donate to a cause that is close to you. Take down a list of all the virtual races that you're interested in so that you can choose the right one for you.


You can also type "virtual race" into online app stores to find virtual race apps.
Some virtual races, like The Race for Awareness, donates much of their proceeds to disease and virus research., Once you have a list of different race options, figure out what is important to you. Weigh If you're looking to interact with other people, as some virtual races have a closely knit community and leaderboards. If you'd rather use an app, there are virtual race apps that can help track your progress using your smartphone.Traditional virtual races rely on the honor system when reporting racer results.
For cyclists, Zwift Virtual Training Platform is a great virtual race app that can track your progress and has an online community that you can compete with., Once you've decided on what kind of goals you want to meet on your race, you can choose an available package that most closely fits what you're looking for. Some races allow you to designate your own personal goals, rather than setting a distance to run. If you aren't used to running a lot, look for a race that allows you to set your own goals.


Races that allow you to set your own goals include the Civil Rights Awareness Race and the Empowering Girls Virtual Race., Once you've figured out exactly what race you want to run, find the sponsoring virtual race company and fill out the registration page online. The race sponsors will usually need payment, as well as an address, to send you your medals or rewards. A virtual race is at your pace, so there's no pressure to complete it, but some races have registration deadlines.On average, races cost $25 to $30.
 Once you register for the race, figure out where and when you'll be racing. You can set whatever time and place is most convenient for your schedule. If you plan on running on an indoor track or a treadmill at a gym, make sure that the track's operating hours coordinate with your schedule. Choose a route that you're already accustomed to, and map out the distance on a map.


Places to run include the sidewalk, trails, parks, and the beach., A dynamic workout that includes pushups, jumping jacks, and lunges will get your heart rate up and prepare your muscles for a race. Make sure to stay hydrated and to drink plenty of water before and after the race. Being dehydrated during a race will reduce your performance and is harmful to your health.Plot your race in a neighborhood or path that you are comfortable and familiar with.
 Preparing properly for the race means doing some test runs to see how your body feels when running long distances. In addition to practicing for the race, you should also make sure that you get enough sleep and to maintain a healthy diet leading up to the race. Make sure that you get enough sleep leading up to the race, as being tired can be a major contributor to decreased performance.


A balanced diet is a good balance of proteins, fruits, vegetables, and grains.
 Take your time and run the race at a comfortable pace. There are leader boards in virtual races sometimes, but there are no time requirements, in most cases, to receive a medal or reward. If you feel tired during the race, slow your pace down until you feel rejuvenated enough to go back to your regular running speed. Don't exert all of your energy in a short period and try to keep a healthy jogging pace. Do your best to meet the goals of the race and push yourself to finish.Remember to regulate your breathing while you run.
 Many virtual race companies will request that you send them race results to receive your medal. This is typically in the form of a picture of you finishing the race and celebrating your victory. Other companies will have you partake in social media and share your results with other virtual racers.Follow the directions for your virtual race once you've finished.


Places like Disney Virtual Running Shorts rewards runners of the 5k with special Disney medals.