 If all you need is the wage information, you may be able to use a transcript rather than official copies of your returns.A transcript shows most line items from your tax return. However, it doesn’t show any changes made after you filed the return, and it doesn’t include state or local tax information.If you need an actual copy of your W-2, you must request full copies of your tax returns for the years you need. You also must pay a $50 fee for each tax year's returns that you request.
Keep in mind it may take up to 75 days for the IRS to mail your tax returns to you.;
, You can get wage information from the IRS for taxes filed within the past 10 tax years.To request copies of your full return, use Form 4056, available at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f4506.pdf.
If all you need is a transcript, you can use Form 4056-T, available at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f4506t.pdf.
You also can call 800-829-3676 and ask for the IRS to mail you a copy of the appropriate form.
You also can look at transcripts for any of the past 10 tax years online for free. Go to the IRS's online transcript tool at http://www.irs.gov/Individuals/Get-Transcript and follow the prompts to verify your identity., The IRS will reject illegible forms. Some PDF software allows you to type in the fields, although you still must print it out and sign it.


Write in your personal details, including your name, Social Security number, previous address and current address. If you filed the return you are requesting jointly with your spouse, you also must include the same personal information about him or her.
If a third party needs the tax return sent to them, write in that name. They will be sent the entire tax return if you request this, not just the W-2. Banks and mortgage companies sometimes request tax returns.
Enter the type of tax return you are requesting and the ending date for each return you are requesting. You can request up to 8 years of tax returns using one form. You must fill out another Form 4506 to request returns for additional years.
 If your return was filed under a different name, such as a maiden name, sign the form using that name. Then sign it again using your current legal name.If you filed a joint return, the IRS will provide copies of your return to either spouse. Only one signature is required.



For example, if you requested 8 years of tax returns, you would include $400. If the IRS is unable to find the tax forms, it will refund your money.
Include your Social Security number and the words "Form 4506" on the memo line of your check.
 Make sure you select the correct address. Each state is part of a regional office that processes the forms. Business and individual tax returns are processed at separate addresses. Address your envelope to the "Internal Revenue Service."

, Make a copy of the form and your check or money order for your records before sending.


It can take up to 75 days to receive your tax return with the W-2 copy.

