 Working two or more jobs means that you are going to be very busy most days. Try to start seeing this busy pace as your norm and welcome a bit of craziness into your life. Do your best to maintain a positive attitude and make the most of this chaotic period in your life., When working two or more jobs, it can be easy to forget to take time for yourself. But it is important to make sure that you have time to reconnect with friends and family, relax, and rest. If possible, set aside a day each week where you do not work any of your jobs.Plan a fun day with your family or friends, go to a museum, see a movie, or just lay around in your pajamas and read all day.
 Working two or more jobs may cause you to feel disconnected from the people you care about. Therefore, it is important to find ways to stay connected even when you can’t see people.


Call or text your friends often and use social media to update people on your whereabouts and accomplishments.
Just remember that phone calls, text messages, and social media are not equal substitutes for face-to-face interactions with your loved ones, so schedule in-person meetings as well. Try meeting a friend for lunch or a quick drink after work., Working more than two jobs can lead to exhaustion and sleep deprivation. If you are going right from one job to the next or if you are working late nights at one of your jobs, you may have an even higher risk of becoming sleep deprived or suffering from exhaustion.Go to bed early if you have a long day ahead of you and take naps whenever possible. Even a 20 minute nap before heading to your second job may help you to feel more alert and refreshed.
 Many people work more than one job for financial reasons, but if you save every penny you earn, you may start to feel like there is no benefit to working so much. While you still want to use some of the money you earn on things that will benefit your financial health, such as credit card payments and savings, you should also treat yourself every now and then.Buy yourself a new outfit, get a pedicure, or go out to a fancy dinner with your friends once in a while.
 Long commutes can make your shifts at work seem even longer and lead to burnout. Therefore, it is best if you can work jobs that do not require much of a commute. Keep both of your jobs as local as possible to help keep your stress down.