 Your comforter should have a care label with instructions on how to clean it. Most down and down-alternative comforters can be washed at home with a mild detergent,though some may specify to dry clean only.


Do not deviate from specific instructions on the label. These may include temperature settings for washers and dryers, etc.;
, Comforters probably need a good cleaning once every few months.If you have allergies, however, you may want to wash your comforter monthly.


You don't need to wash your whole comforter if the problem is a single stain. See Step 4 for stain treatment.
 Before proceeding to actually washing your comforter, make sure it has no loose threads or tears. Hopefully, these tears will not be too large and can be easily remedied with a quick needle and thread. Though this adds time to the process of washing your comforter, it will prevent these small holes from becoming larger during washing.
 You can do this with a small amount of non-detergent solution like Woolite diluted with a little water. Alternatively, use a paste made of baking soda and water, a 50-50 solution of baking soda and white vinegar, or simply carbonated water.


Shift the filling away from the stained area.
Apply a small amount of the cleaning solution to the area.
Blot with a clean, white towel or cloth.
Alternatively, rub the fabric together to loosen the stain, and rinse with a small amount of water. Squeeze excess water out with your hands and then blot with a clean, white towel.
If you're not washing your comforter afterwards, let this section air dry, or dry with a hair dryer. Make sure it has dried completely.Never use any bleach or color-treatment solution.
 Make sure it is distributed evenly. Your comforter needs adequate room to get thoroughly clean, so if your home washing machine looks too small to fit the comforter, take it to a laundromat and use one of the large, front-load washers., The delicate setting is essential in preventing damage to the casing. Choosing a water temperature depends on a couple of factors.


Use cool water or warm water per the label instructions.
Use hot water if you want to kill off dust mites and do not have a dryer. Heat over 130 degrees Fahrenheit (54 C) kills dust mites, but if you're concerned about damaging the fabric or color of your comforter with a high-heat wash, use cool water and save the heat for the drying step., Depending on your machine, you may be able to select this at the beginning, or you may need to add this as an extra step after the first cycle is complete., Choose a detergent that is safe for delicate materials. Using a small amount prevents over-foaming in the machine, and also reduces stripping the feathers of down comforters., Adding these to the wash will help balance the load and ensure effective cleaning.Make sure the tennis shoes can go in the wash on the settings you've selected.
 Make sure the comforter is evenly distributed. The tennis shoes or balls help keep the fill evenly distributed.


Alternatively, you can use a rubber dryer ball or down fluffer rings., Your comforter will take a while to dry thoroughly, possibly a few hours.


Use high heat to kill dust mites, but only after consulting the care label. Note that tennis balls and tennis shoes may not tolerate high-heat settings.
 Every half-hour, pull the comforter out of the dryer and fluff it. This helps redistribute the fill and encourages thorough, even drying by keeping the comforter properly aerated. You can also check for signs of burns (unlikely on low-heat settings but a risk with higher-heat settings)., If it's relatively dry and sunny out, complete the drying process by putting the comforter outside for a few hours. This helps ensure that the comforter is thoroughly dried, which is essential for preventing mildew. Sunlight also helps kill dust mites.


If it's very warm and sunny outside, you can skip the dryer altogether and hang your comforter out for the entire drying process. If you do this, arrange the comforter so that its surfaces can dry evenly. Be sure to fluff and rotate it 90 degrees every few hours so that the down or fill doesn't collect in any one end.
If weather does not permit, hang the comforter in a dry, well-ventilated area indoors. Laying it over a drying rack allows it to dry fairly evenly. Be sure to fluff and rotate regularly, as instructed above.

