 A stillbirth or death during delivery can be emotionally devastating. Many parents find it cathartic to hold the baby in order to create memories and find a sense of closure.


Seeing the baby, holding him or her, and giving the child a name can be very helpful to parents whose child died during labor. Some parents like to take photographs to help them remember.Some babies are born with a small amount of hair. Parents sometimes like to take a lock of their baby's hair as a keepsake. If this is something you are interested in, talk to your doctor. You may also want to take handprints, footprints, or keep any blankets or shawls the baby was wrapped in.If you have other children, whether or not you allow them to see the baby is a personal decision. Many people feel they can better understand the situation by looking at the baby but others feel this would be traumatic. Whatever you decide to do, be honest with your children about what happened and allow them to express their feelings as well.;
, Losing a newborn baby is an emotionally devastating experience. You will need a lot of emotional support.


Sharing the news of pregnancy loss can be a very difficult experience for many. Having one close family member or friend break the news to others for you can help.Remember, your friends and family members have lost something as well. The baby was someone to them, too, whether niece or nephew, grandchild, godchild, etc. Those close to you might want to see pictures, handprints, footprints, and other memories you created of the baby.It may be difficult for others to understand what you are going through and they may offer their support in ways that are not helpful. It is perfectly okay, if you hear a comment that upsets you, to respond with something like, "I appreciate that you're trying to help, but hearing that hurts right now.", Losing a baby can lead to prolonged periods of bereavement. A qualified therapist can help you sort through your emotions in an effective way in order to cope with the loss.


Many emotions surface during a time of bereavement. You may feel misdirected anger at doctors, nurses, or even a higher power over the loss of the child. You may feel tired a lot and cry for much of the day. You may also feel personal guilt, wishing you could have done something differently to prevent the situation. These are all normal emotions. A bereavement counselor can help you accept your feelings are natural and manage them in a healthy manner.You can find a bereavement counselor or a general therapist by asking for a referral from your doctor or seeing what's covered under your insurance. A counselor will give you a safe, non-judgmental space to talk about your loss and help you process your feelings.You can seek out a counselor at any time, even if it's been months or even years since your loss., Your doctor, midwife, or nurse can help put you in contact with parents who've lost babies during delivery. There may even be support groups at your hospital or somewhere around your location. You can also seek support online as a variety of websites have forums where you can discuss pregnancy loss, stillbirth babies, and babies who died during delivery., If your baby died before or during birth, you'll need to make a decision regarding any ceremonies you want to hold in your baby's honor.


If you are religious, you may want to hold a baptism for the baby. Depending on your hospital's policy, you may be able to bring a priest in to conduct the ceremony. If there are other rights and ceremonies surrounding death in your religion, you may able to conduct those as well.You will need to make a decision about the baby's cremation or burial. Some families prefer to have this done quietly and without ceremony while others may hold a funeral. There is no wrong way to feel in this situation and you should do whatever feels the most helpful and comfortable for you. If your hospital helps you have a small funeral onsite, they usually do not charge for the ceremony., There are certain forms you need to fill out when a baby dies during delivery. It can be painful to deal with paperwork during such a difficult time, so ask for assistance if necessary.


A birth and death certificate will need to be filled out. You will need to provide basic information, like your full name and place of birth. The Medical Certificate of Death and the birth certificate must be taken to your local register office within five days of your baby's death.If you're having trouble filing out documents due to your emotions, ask a friend or family member for assistance. You might also want to take someone to the register office when you go to deliver the documents as this can be difficult., Parents often wonder what precisely caused the baby to die during delivery. You might want to consider asking for a post-mortem examination if you feel answers will help you cope.


Infection, complications during delivery, undetectable health conditions, and other factors can cause a baby to die during or before delivery. A post-mortem exam or autopsy may help detect these causes. Some parents find knowing more information can help them move on.Doctors need your written consent to carry out a post-mortem examination. Many parents opt out as, even when an investigation is discovered, the cause of death sometimes still remains unknown. Understand an investigation may not yield the answers you want and factor this into the decision making process., Your body will need to recover after a stillbirth the same way it needs to recover from a typical pregnancy. You should take it easy for the first few weeks and get lots of bed rest and sleep. Your breasts will likely fill with milk. This can cause soreness and tenderness for a few days, after which the milk should disperse. You might also have spotting or bleeding for a few weeks. A warm bath and over-the-counter painkillers can help you cope with any discomfort., When you leave the hospital, you'll be going home without a baby. You need to be emotionally prepared for this reality.


What you decide to do with the baby supplies is up to you. Many parents choose to keep supplies in and out-of-sight place, like an attic or storage room. Others want to donate or discard items. It can be helpful to have a friend or family member take down the nursery and other supplies before you get home.Many women report they can hear their baby crying for the first few months. This is normal, but if it is troubling for you, talk to a doctor or therapist., After the loss of a baby, you'll have a follow up medical exam in six to eight weeks. This is to make sure your body is recovering physically. Discuss any questions or concerns you have with your doctor at this exam., Many people opt not to try for a natural birth again after losing a baby. However, if you'd like to try for another child talk to your doctor, partner, friends, and family members before making the decision.


Certain preexisting conditions, such as high blood pressure, obesity, diabetes, and other medical problems, can increase the likelihood of stillbirth. Making sure these conditions are managed ahead of time can help you lessen the likelihood of the problem reoccurring. Talk to your doctor about any health conditions that might compromise the health of your baby and how to manage them before undergoing another pregnancy.Emotionally, make sure you're ready for another baby. Pregnancy might be more stressful after a loss and you may expect this baby to be similar to the one that died. Talk to a therapist before attempting to get pregnant again to make sure you're mentally ready to handle the stress of a second pregnancy.