 When you purchase a nonstick pan, it will come with some basic instructions regarding how to use, clean, and store the pan. Before you begin cooking with your pan, read all of the instructions carefully. Many people will accidentally damage their pan by failing to follow basic instructions., Before using your pan, season it in order to lengthen the lifespan of the pan and to actually help improve the way food cooks in the pan. You should also re-season your pan periodically throughout its lifespan.To season a pan, simply rinse and dry the pan using water. Then put a dollop of oil (any type) in the pan and coat the entire surface using a paper towel.
 When you are cooking with a nonstick pan, you should always use plastic, nylon, or wooden utensils. Metal utensils will scratch the surface of the pan and will lead to chips and scrapes in the nonstick coating. This can drastically decrease the lifespan of your pan., You should always add some lubricant to your pan prior to heating, even when using nonstick pans. For instance, you could coat the pan using butter or oil prior to heating. If you add oil or butter after the pan has been heated, it will likely get soaked up by the food you are cooking and not actually aid in preventing food from sticking to the pan., When using a nonstick pan, do not use cooking sprays as lubricant. Over time, the grease from the spray that doesn’t get burned off during the cooking process will build up and create a sticky layer. This layer will often develop around the sides of the pan and is extremely difficult to remove through cleaning.As a result, lubricate your pan with butter or oil instead.
 Another common mistake that people make while cooking with a nonstick pan is placing it on high heat. This can actually damage the pan, causing the nonstick coating to crack. Instead, cook your food over low or medium heat. Cooking using high heat can also burn or dry out your food, so simmering at a lower temperature for a longer period is recommended.