 The sooner you can formulate a moving plan, and start packing and moving your boxes, the better. Trying to pack your entire household in a day or two isn’t advisable and sure to cause much undue stress., If you have a plan for moving, it will not only make the process go more quickly, but it will help you remain calm.


Setting goals for each day is a good idea. For example, you could pack the living room on Monday, the bathroom on Tuesday, and the bedroom on Wednesday.Having other organizational structures will support your plan. For example, designate white trash bags for items you’re taking on the move, and black trash bags for trash. This will keep you from throwing away what you need or digging to figure out what you’ve packed in these bags., Having an assortment of moving supplies on hand, from different sized boxes to packing tape, will keep you from having to make unnecessary trips to the store for materials.Essential supplies for moving are: a variety of small, medium and large packing boxes; packing tape; permanent markers for identifying box contents; box labels or colored tape for coding the contents of your boxes; packing material such as bubble wrap or newspaper; and furniture pads.Sandwich bags are an excellent option for packing small parts.Plastic wrap such as Glad Press n’ Seal will allow you to seal clothing in drawers so that you don’t have to pack them in a separate box.Renting a dolly from a moving company such as UHaul will help you move large furniture and stacks of multiple boxes quickly., Companies such as PODS offer transportable storage units. The company will drop off the pod, pick it up when you’re ready, and then deliver it to your new home.This method allows you to move boxes as you pack them and give you access for more than a day, which is a disadvantage of a moving van or truck., Getting rid of anything you don’t want or need in your new home will also help you move more quickly.Goodwill or other charities such as the Salvation Army will pick up any items you would like to donate., Choose one specific place to pack your belongings to make the process run smoothly.Have all of your packing supplies in that place. Assembling boxes before you start will help you pack faster., Take pictures of the different cord and wire connections on electronics such as televisions, DVD players, and internet routers. This will save you time because you won’t have to guess the right configuration when you unpack., Having extra sets of hands to help you pack and move your boxes will significantly decrease your move time.Assigning your friends and family specific tasks will further expedite your moving process.
 Pack items you will need before you unpack in your new home in order to keep yourself from having to search through boxes. You’ll want to pack some clothing, a couple of towels, your toiletries, and anything else you think you might need., If you pack your home one room at a time, it will keep the process manageable and organize, decreasing the likelihood that you’ll have to scramble finding your items.If you can, put together small items in things like baskets and cover them with Glad Press n’ Seal. Then you can easily place them in a moving box without damaging the items or packing everything individually.An effective and fast way to pack clothes is simply leaving them on the hangers and either placing them flat in the back of your vehicle, collecting them in a garbage bag with the hangers sticking out, or putting them in a wardrobe box., As you pack each room, make sure to keep like items together. For example, pack first aid and medical supplies together., If you have a system of labeling your boxes, it will make packing similar items together easier and help you find items more quickly when you unpack.One way to label is by writing to what room the box belongs to on the outside.Putting different colored pieces of tape is another great way to label your boxes. Each room will get a different color, which will make it easier for you to place them in the correct spaces in your new home., Once you’ve packed your boxes, it’s time to move them into the form of transportation that will take them to your new home.


If you decide on transportable storage, you can move the boxes when you like. You can move the boxes room by room this way, making it easier to unpack at your new home.
If you decide on a moving truck or van, you’ll likely only have one day to move your boxes. You can also do this room by room to keep the process organized.
 Taking a few pictures of your empty space will ensure that you get your security deposit back if you’re a renter and help you avoid quibbles with new buyers if you’re the home owner., If you don’t want to use the option of a transportable storage or your personal vehicle, consider hiring a moving company or moving van just for transportation.


Compare different offers. Mayflower, Bekins, UHaul, and Atlas Van Services all have websites that allow you to compare their prices and transport services, and make a reservation for your move.
Make sure to read the fine print of any offer. This will not only inform you of their rules, but also spare you from any extra or hidden charges.If you decide to make a reservation, make sure to print a copy of the confirmation. The day before your scheduled move, reconfirm with the company.

