 Applying a hot compress to the painful area utilizes heat to relax muscles and promote pain-relieving blood flow.


In addition to a hot compress, a hot shower or a hot bath can ease whole body pain.
For localized pain, place a hot towel on the affected joint or area.
Make sure the hot compress is at a safe temperature that will not burn you or damage your skin.
 Bromelain is an enzyme found in pineapple stems that could help reduce the levels of prostaglandins in your body, which are responsible for inflammation and pain.


Pineapple is the richest source of bromelain.
You can try eating pineapple as a dessert after each major meal.
 Ginger may calm certain pain sensations, potentially due to lowering the levels of prostaglandins that are responsible for stimulating pain receptors in your brain.


You can take raw ginger or add ginger to your cooking in order to reap its benefits.
 Chamomile is an herb that can serve as a mild sedative, taking the edge off pain and tension in the body.


It is also anti-spasmodic agent, which relieves cramps and muscle tension.
Chamomile is also known to contain apigenin, a substance that dilates smooth muscle and relieves pain.
Drink a cup of camomile tea during episodes of pain.
 Peppermint has been used as traditional remedy to relieve pain.


Peppermint contains an analgesic property, which gives it pain-relieving abilities.
Peppermint also has an anti-inflammatory property, which helps reduce soreness.
Drink a cup of peppermint tea during pain episodes.
 Raspberry tea may be beneficial to the female reproductive organs. It has various benefits before pregnancy, during pregnancy and after pregnancy, and has been said to help cure infertility.


Raspberry tea may strengthen the uterine walls and relax smooth muscles.
It may also help balance hormones and reduce your risk of ovarian cysts.
To prepare raspberry tea, use one tablespoon of bulk tea per cup of hot water.
Consume one cup of raspberry tea when you are in pain.
 Wild yam root is a perennial vein with heart shaped leaves that contains analgesic and anti-spasmodic properties, which relieve muscle tension caused by your ovarian cyst.


These herbs grow in the wild, usually in moist and wooden areas.
Wild yam can be taken in capsule or tincture form.
The recommended dose for capsule form is 2 to 4 capsules per day and the recommended dose for a tincture is 1/8 to ½ teaspoon, three to five times a day.
Wild yam is not recommended for pregnant women and those who suffer from peptic ulcers.
 If you feel the urge to urinate, do not try to hold it in, because this can stretch your bladder and put pressure on your ovarian cyst.


Increased pressure on your ovarian cyst can result in pain.
To avoid this, go to the bathroom regularly.
 Constipation refers to infrequent bowel movements and is characterized by having less than three bowel movements in a week.


If you suffer from ovarian cysts, it is important to avoid constipation because the pressure can cause additional ovarian pain.
Prevent constipation by drinking at least eight glasses of water every day to create softer stool.
Additionally, eat foods high in fiber, such as legumes, oat, rye, barley, berries, plums, broccoli and carrots. Including high fiber food in each meal can prevent constipation.

