 This is the quickest of all methods, but it does require you to purchase a specialized product. These are sold as antiquing solutions or brass agers. The specific brand will determine the appearance of the antiqued piece, but the process should be similar regardless.Always follow the instructions for Preparing Your Brass before beginning any antiquing method.
This is not a good method to follow if you're not certain that your piece is solid brass. See Using Vinegar or Salt Water instead.
 Antiquing solutions can be made with a variety of chemicals, most of which can damage skin and eyes or release toxic fumes. Protect yourself with basic safety equipment and open the windows before you begin.


Be especially careful if your product contains any of these hazardous chemicals: ammonium hydroxide, glacial acetic acid, nitric acid, or sulfuric acid., Read the label carefully. Some solutions may not require diluting, whereas others require as much as 10 parts water to 1 part antiquing solution. Use room temperature water and mix in a ceramic or plastic container large enough to submerge the entire brass object.Do not use container made from other materials, as the acids in the solution could corrode them.
Do not fill the container too full. Leave room to fit the brass object without the container overflowing.
 Hold the brass in the solution and move back and forth to dislodge air bubbles. Make sure the solution covers the entire object, but doesn't reach near the top of your gloves.


Air bubbles that remain on the brass will cause bright spots where the brass was not aged.Turn the brass object in your gloves so you get even exposure to the solution.
 It should take between a few seconds and a couple minutes to begin changing colors, moving from pink to red to brown to black. Pull it out when you see the color you're aiming for.


If you plan to brighten your object with highlighting (see below), let it get slightly darker than the color you want.Don't worry that you'll ruin your brass. If you pulled it out too early, simply put it back and shake again. If you pulled it out too late, scrub with a scotch-brite pad or lightly with steel wool to remove the color so you can try again.
 Rinse with hot water and clean off the resulting white powder using a sponge or scotch-brite pad. This results in a brighter, accented object compared to the darker, even patina it had immediately after treatment.


If you are trying to create a black or almost black patina, you'll have better results getting the patina to stay if you dip it in two or three stages, rinsing between each one.
 Once you are satisfied with the color, immediately dry the whole object. Wet patches will dry darker than the rest of the surface. You may want to use a paper towel or rag, since some color could rub off onto it.
 Applying a brass lacquer or other brass finishing treatment will prevent the brass from aging further. This is recommended if the brass is handled frequently or if you want to preserve the current color.

