 Rub a quarter-sized amount of castor, almond, or baby oil between your fingers to warm them. Place both of your index fingers in the center of your forehead, between the brows. Massage your forehead in a circular motion, moving from the center out towards the temples. Repeat this 10 times using constant and firm pressure.


The oil helps to lessen the friction caused by your fingertips rubbing against your face. Scented oils can be soothing and relaxing as well.
Massaging the sinuses and the tissues surrounding the sinuses can help relieve pressure and help drain mucus-filled sinuses., Place your thumbs on the bridge of your nose, just next to the inner corner of your eyes. Apply constant, firm pressure to the area for one minute, then move your fingers in a circular motion for an extra two minutes.Keep your eyes closed. If you are using an oil, make sure you don’t get oil into your eyes. Oil isn't harmful but it could make your vision temporarily blurry.


For some, using the index finger may be more comfortable. Using the thumbs is recommended because they tend to be somewhat stronger than other fingers.
 Rub about a quarter-sized amount of castor, almond, or baby oil between your fingers. Place your thumbs (or, if you prefer, the index and middle finger) on both sides of your cheeks, next to your nose.Apply constant, firm pressure on the area for one minute, then move your fingers in a circular motion for an additional two minutes. Keep your eyes closed.


You can also start by massaging the outer part of your cheekbone, near your ears. Massage in a circular motion and move your fingers along the cheekbone towards your nose. Repeat this 10 times.
If you are using an oil, make sure you don’t get oil into your eyes. Oil can temporarily blur your vision if it gets in your eyes.
 Rub a bit of oil between your fingers until they warm up. Use your index finger to stroke along the sides of your nose, moving them downward. Repeat this 10 times. Then, place your fingers on the bridge of your nose and apply constant and firm pressure. Massage in a circular motion, repeating this action 10 times.Massaging your nose in a downward motion can promote drainage.
You can add essential oils based on what you need. For example, antibacterial essential oils can be used if you have a bacterial sinus infection while essential oils that help loosen and break up the mucus in the sinuses can relieve the pressure by increasing drainage.

