 These devices have small fasteners and parts which must be kept clean and safe while you work on them, and some have special fasteners that are difficult to remove without the right tools.;
, This will make it easier to keep the internal parts of the carburetor clean while disassembling it.
 It may be attached with clips or screws, you should be able to locate them by inspecting the housing visually. If you cannot remove the housing on the engine you are working on, consult the owner's manual or search specific information online.
 There are usually two threaded studs with nuts and washers that serve this purpose. Be careful not to drop these nuts in an inaccessible location beneath the powerhead.
  If there is a spring clamp, be sure that you do not overstretch it while removing it.
 You can usually grip them gently with needle nose pliers and work them free. If clamps are used to attach them, remove the clamps prior to trying to remove the fuel lines.
 Again, note the position of the carburetor, most are symmetrical, so they can be reinstalled upside down, and the aforementioned linkages and fuel lines will not fit if that is the case.
 Brush any stubborn dirt off with a soft bristle parts brush, using a solvent like carburetor/choke cleaner or unchlorinated brake cleaning solvent to make the job easier.
 You can now ease the edge of the diaphragm up a little to look for dirt or debris underneath it in the fuel channels and the small reservoir. If debris is visible, use canned compressed air to blow it out. Use solvent to dissolve any gum or varnish present only if needed.
 For carburetors that have a large, visible build up of varnish or gum underneath the diaphragm, you may have to remove it completely, but in this case, you will probably need to buy a rebuild kit with new parts, as damage to the diaphragm is likely to occur while removing it.
 Again, remove the four screws (usually), and pry the cover gently off of the carburetor. If you damage the gasket, you will need to purchase a replacement, so be careful.
 If you see varnish buildup or trash in the screen, use a solvent (carburetor/choke cleaner) to dissolve it. For heavy buildup, you may need to fill a small, clean solvent proof container with solvent and soak the complete assembly for a short time to dissolve it.
 You can also spray solvent through the tubes where the fuel lines connect to the housing.
,,,