 Perhaps the most basic way to get a site for your band is to make a social media account. This is quick, free, and easy. Plus, it gives you the ability to reach a global audience. Options for hosting music and videos may be limited on some sites but you can always upload the music to a different site and link to it to share it with your fans.


Facebook is by far the most popular social network, so it's a no-brainer for bands that want to reach a large audience.Other popular sites like Instagram and Twitter can also be used to build your following.
Though it is no longer in vogue, you may also want to consider Myspace, which now has been redesigned with a music and arts focus.;
, Many sites let you host music files online for free. This is a cheap, easy choice that's often best for bands that are just starting out. You won't typically have many options for customizing your page beyond a picture and profile information, but visitors can listen to your music, which is what is important. Best of all, you can link to this site on social media, etc. to share your music easily.



SoundCloud is one of the most popular options in this category.This service lets users host a large amount of music and allow visitors to stream it with a free account. Some global superstars (like, for instance, Lady Gaga) have SoundCloud accounts (or once did)., If you're looking for a good compromise between affordability and creative control, this is a good choice. A variety of online services allow you to build a personal website for free. This usually takes a little more work than creating a social media account, but it's still very easy compared to building a site from scratch. A major advantage is that you have more freedom when it comes to hosting content and choosing a unique site design.



WordPress is a free, popular choice for building sites and blogs.WordPress offers a variety of styles and design choices. Paying users get additional options, though free trials are available. Squarespace is another high-quality choice, though it is not free.
 This is by far the most labor-intensive option, but it offers your band total creative control. You will need a member (or a kind friend) who knows, at the very least, the basics of HTML coding. Python, JavaScript, and other web-friendly coding languages are also valuable. Note that you will probably need to pay for hosting even if you design your site from the ground up — running the servers for a website takes money.


Coding is an extremely deep topic that can't begin to be covered in this article. WikiHow has a wide variety of help articles on coding (see: our HTML article). There are also several free tutorials online. Codeacademy is probably the most famous of these., If you'd prefer to leave your website to professionals, you can be assured that there are numerous quality choices available. Web design agencies employ coders, visual designers, and content strategists to ensure your website is as professional and user-friendly as possible. However, this expertise comes at a cost, as this is generally the most expensive option.


There are many, many high-quality options available in terms of website design. One great idea is to meet with a well-reviewed designer in your local area. This way, you can work personally with the professional to get a finished product that's exactly how you want it.
Don't be afraid to shop around to get the right price. One e-commerce site found that the same site proposal earned bids from $3,000 to $32,000., The very first page your visitors see should tell them everything they need to know about your band without overwhelming them. Try to use pictures and succinct headers to convey this information, rather than dense paragraphs. Your home page should have at least the following:


The name of your band
A picture of your logo or the band itself
The name and/or artwork of your latest project
Easy-to-see links to other parts of the sites
One great example is the official site of Queens of the Stone Age. On www.qotsa.com, you are greeted with the name of the band, followed by the name of their latest album (...Like Clockwork). Both are in a large, eye-catching font. Artwork from the album takes up most of the screen. Links to tour dates, merchandise, and so on, are clearly arranged at the bottom., Conventional wisdom is that bands make most of their money from touring.Though this is now the subject of some debate, it's still absolutely crucial to have an up-to-date list of appearances and tour dates on your site. This can affect your bottom line: if your fans can easily find when and where you'll be playing shows, they'll be more likely to buy tickets and come see you. Be sure to update your list of dates immediately whenever changes or cancellations occur.


Rap group Run the Jewels has an example of a well-done gig list on its site.As of June 2015, the summer tour dates are up-to-date and arranged in clear, logical order. The group even gives the page a personal touch with a Blade Runner-spoofing tour poster above the dates.
 Most band sites let visitors listen to at least a song or two for free. If you're using a music-hosting site like SoundCloud, you can even put up entire albums for easy streaming. While you can put your music samples on their own page, another popular option is to have a music toolbar at the top or bottom of the screen that lets you listen while you view the rest of the site.


The Sub Pop Records page for experimental rap outfit Shabazz Palaces has a simple example of this. Scroll to the bottom of the page to find links to a few of the group's singles that can be played with one touch., Unless your band has a strong anti-commercial focus, it's not "selling out" to give visitors to your website an opportunity to pay you for your art. Many band sites have a "Shop" page where it's possible to buy music and merchandise like T-shirts directly through the site. It's also a good idea to have links for buying tickets. However, because this is almost always handled by ticketing agencies like Ticketmaster, etc., these links usually lead to external sites.


The official site of Ariana Grande takes this to its logical extreme with a large link to buy Grande's music on the front page. There is also a link to a shop where visitors can buy posters, apparel, and so on in the navigation bar at the top., This isn't quite as important as the things mentioned above, but it is a nice touch that can make your site seem a little more personal. Having a separate section for one (or all) of the following can provide extra content for fans who want to experience as much of the band as possible:



Bio: Who is in the band? What did the members do before it formed? When did the band start? How did it start?

Photos: Here, you may want to include concert photography, publicity pictures, candid snapshots, and more.

Behind-the-scenes content: Consider posting a few videos from the tour van, scans of setlists, original drafts of lyrics, and so on.
 Your band's website should also make it easy for visitors to find other sites that they might logically enjoy or want to visit. This will vary from band to band, but a few ideas are below:



Social media profiles: If you have a site and a profile on Facebook, etc. (which you generally should), linking from one to the other makes it easy for your fans to access more band content.

Digital marketplace pages for your music: If your music is available on iTunes, Spotify, etc., linking to it on your site can funnel fans toward it and make you a little extra money.

Related bands: If your members have side projects or there are other bands that you regularly associate with, linking to them on your site is a nice courtesy.
 Though the exact figure is hard to count, experts believe at least one in four people worldwide use social media in some form.This enormous global audience makes it wise to have at least one social media account for your band (as mentioned above, Facebook is the most popular site by far). People spend lots of time on social media, so frequently updating your profile will ensure fans who are following your page will be exposed to you often.


Some musical artists stay visible on social media by commenting on current events, participating in hashtag trends, and sharing content that they enjoy. Others take a more hands-off approach, only updating their profiles when new music, videos, or tour dates are released. The former choice will get you higher visibility, but you'll need to put some thought into your posts to avoid annoying or offending your online audience.
 Submitting your music to online music publications for review is a good idea — a positive review can drive traffic to your site and introduce new fans to your music. Once your band gains a high profile, you may even be lucky enough to be the subject of a writeup on a popular music site like Pitchfork or Stereogum.


Some music and arts sites occasionally have bands participate in interesting or funny segments, which can be a great way to boost your image. For example, the A.V. Club's Undercover feature has bands perform covers of songs chosen by users., Statistically, nearly all search engine users click on links from the first page of results. One Google study found that the first two results got about half of all traffic, while the top result on the second page only got about 1%.One sure-fire way to get your site to the top of the search results is to pay to have it promoted there. For example, sites like Google Adwords offer a wide range of promotional options.Today, many sites use a technique called SEO (or Search Engine Optimization) to appear as high as possible in unpaid search results. See our SEO article for step-by-step instructions for optimizing your site.
 One way to get publicity for your band ironically has nothing to do with music or touring. Making content like funny videos will boost your online presence if it gets shared widely. There's no "right" way to do this, so see our article on making a viral video for lots of great ideas!

