 Teens need more calories than younger kids.


Teenage boys ages 11 – 13 need an average of 1,800 to 2,600 calories per day.
Teenage girls ages 11 – 13 need an average of 1,800 to 2,200 calories per day.
Teenage boys ages 14 – 18 need an average of 2,200 to 3,200 calories per day.
Teenage girls ages 14 – 18 need an average of 1,800 to 2,400 calories per day.Teens involved in strenuous sports need more calories than the average teen. Check out the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ recommendations at https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/educational/wecan/downloads/calreqtips.pdf.;
, Complex carbohydrates provide energy that lasts. The help with energy and digestion. Nutritionists recommend that teens’ caloric intake consist of about 50 – 60% complex carbs. The best sources of complex carbs are:Fruits
Starchy vegetables (such as potatoes and corn)
Green vegetables
Whole grains
Beans
Legumes (such as peas, soy, and peanuts)

, Less than 30% of a teenager’s diet should be fats. Fats help absorb important vitamins, including A, D, E, and K.


The best fats are unsaturated. They are found in foods such as olives, nuts, nut butters, avocado, olive oil, salmon, and anchovies.
The jury is still out on saturated fats. Some experts say that they lead to increased rates of heart disease, while others say that they are okay when eaten in moderation. In general, experts agree that a limited amount of red meat and whole milk are okay when paired with vegetables, fiber, and healthy fat. Trans fats are the bad ones. They are found in most commercially sold baked goods, fried foods, and box mixes. You can spot trans fat by looking for “partially hydrogenated oils."

, They increase bone health and encourage strong teeth, both of which are key for your growing teen. Keep low-fat milk, cheese (such as mozzarella, swiss, ricotta, and cottage cheese) and yogurt in the house.


Some experts now recommend whole-fat milk instead of low-fat, especially for younger children; however, most agree that low-fat or skim milk is a better option for teenagers, especially if they are struggling with obesity. Whether you choose low-fat or whole-fat milk products, be sure to emphasize dairy over sugary snacks and beverages.
 They help teens build muscle and strengthen their immune systems. Legumes, chicken, turkey, and fish are good options. , This kind of snack is both filling and provides interest for easily-bored teens. Some good options are:Apple or banana and peanut or almond butter
Greek yogurt with nuts and berries (you can buy them with the mix-ins or add your own)
Oatmeal with strawberries, peaches, or blueberries
Grapes and string cheese

, Sometimes, in order to get a teenager to eat veggies or whole wheat, you need to spice it up a bit with a delicious dip. You can also “hide” nutritious foods in the dip ingredients. Healthy options include:Black bean dip with whole grain crackers
Celery sticks and peanut butter
Low-fat ranch dressing with carrots, celery, broccoli, or peppers
Hummus and whole wheat pita chips
Whole wheat pretzels in spicy mustard
Rice cakes with a smear of peanut butter

, Almost every teen loves a cheesy snack. Try:Low-fat cheese on whole wheat toast
Low-fat cheese spread with whole grain crackers
Melted cheese in a whole wheat pita pocket
Cheese pizza on a whole wheat crust
Popcorn with parmesan cheese (no butter)
Whole wheat mini-bagel with cream cheese

, A good portion of the battle of getting teens to eat healthy snacks is making them interesting. Seek out new options whenever you can. Some things to try are:Edamame
Roasted almonds and dried cranberries
Smoothies, especially made with soy milk and lots of fruit
Trail mix (such as toasted cereal, nuts, and dried fruit)
Vegetable omelets
Tomato soup
Whole grain cereal and skim milk
Ice pops, made in the blender with fruit and frozen

, Consider taking them to the grocery store with you and letting them choose between healthy snack options. On Sunday evenings, ask them to help you prepare snacks for the week.


Try creating a Healthy Snacks Pinterest board or bookmarks folder that the whole family can contribute to. Let your teen choose among the options on the board or in the folder when it’s time to shop for and prepare snacks.
 Sometimes, as a busy parent, it will be nearly impossible for you to make healthy snacks at home. If you must offer store-bought snacks, choose the healthiest options possible.


Chips, candy, and soft drinks are an easy option when your teenager is hungry. If they are in the house, a teenager will eat them! Though you likely can’t prevent your teen from choosing these options at school or at the movies with their friends, you can provide better options at home.
 These convenient, portable snacks are often packed with sugar and fat. Most have added some vitamins and nutrients, but the amount of artificial flavorings and chemicals they contain usually outweigh the benefits. , These are every bit as convenient as a power bar, but offer a good variety of whole grains, nuts, and fruit. You can also pick up individual trail mix packets with similar ingredients.
 Greek yogurt offers a lot of protein, but any low-fat yogurt is a good option for teens on the go. , You can get these salted or unsalted, in bulk or individually wrapped. Be careful about portion control though, as nuts are high in calories. , These are a great option for a teen who tends to grab chips and dip, but they offer much more nutritional value than potato chips. You can also rotate in healthy dip options, such as hummus. , These packs come in every variety, from sweet treats to nuts to crackers. Some offer less nutritional value than others, but they are all portable and very limited in calories.
 Convenience is key here. Bananas, apples, pears, and oranges are very portable and easy to eat. If you want your teen to grab celery and carrots and don’t have time to cut them up yourself, you may have to opt for the more expensive pre-cut veggies.
 If you made a gigantic batch of granola for your teenager in hopes that they will choose this healthy option, all of your good intentions will fly out the window if they eat the whole thing in one sitting. Package snacks in small ziplock bags or tupperware. Even if you purchased a bag of snacks instead of making it, you can portion it out when you get home.
Ask your teen to help you portion out snacks for the week. This is a great time to teach them about portion control.
 Mindless overeating often happens because of distractions. It’s very easy to lose track of portion sizes if you are watching television or flipping through pictures on Instagram. , It takes about twenty minutes for your brain get the memo that your stomach is full. , The benefit of pre-packaged snacks is that they tell you exactly how many calories they contain. Foods you make at home are often a little trickier. Download them on your own phone, or encourage your teen to get them. Try some of these apps to help you determine what the correct portions are:


Fitpal
Piatto

