 The idea of filling learning time every day may be daunting. Instead of leaving it to chance, create a learning plan that lays out what you want to learn. Come up with a series of subjects, tasks, and activities you want to learn and plan out when you want to do which.This will help you be prepared for learning each day instead of wasting some of your learning time deciding what you want to do.
For example, you may choose a topic for each week. During week one, you may learn the capitals of Europe, during week two you may learn the capitals of Africa, then Asia, South America, and North America. You may choose a new inventor each week and read about their inventions and discoveries. You can choose a historical war and spend a week or two reading about the causes, battles, economic and social effects, and results.
You may decide to take a month and learn how to shoot a bow and arrow, crochet, play the piano, or cook a difficult recipe.
You may make each day a different type of learning. You may read on Mondays and Wednesdays, watch documentaries on Tuesdays and Thursdays, visit websites on Fridays and Saturdays, and choose any method you want on Sundays. If you are learning a skill, spend one day a week reading about the skill, then four days practicing, and one day trying something new you haven't before.
 When you start making time for learning, you don’t want to approach it without goals in mind. Goals will help motivate you to learn more and give you something to work towards. Once you’ve written your learning plan, put in goal markers along the way for each new subject, task, or activity you are learning.


For example, set the goal of two weeks to master a basic knitting pattern for a scarf.You may choose a month to learn as many world capitals or periodic table elements as possible, or learn a basic piano song in two months.
 Not every person learns in the same way. When you are figuring out what to learn, try different learning approaches to see what works best for you.You may like more visual learning through instructional videos, documentaries, or texts with more visual materials. You may be more of a tactile learner and need real examples of things as you learn about them, or a textual learner that needs to read instruction manuals or articles as you learn.


For example, you may watch a documentary from the History Channel about World War Two if you are a visual or auditory learner. For an auditory learner, you may listen to a podcast about whales, while visual learners may go to an interactive website with pictures and video footage of whales. If you are a hands on learner, you may need to practice the same song over and over until you learn it.
It will be a trial and error kind of process to begin with if you aren’t already familiar with how you learn.
Changing your learning environment while you learn can also lend to better learning each day.

