 It's important that you provide the right size prey to your ball python. Prey that is either too small or too large will present problems for your snake. Always make sure that whenever you introduce prey into the cage that it's the correct size.Prey should be no bigger than the widest part of the snake.
Prey that is too large can cause injury to your snake.
Prey that is too small may not provide enough nutrition.
 Snakes need time to be alone and digest their meal after they've eaten. Disturbing or handling your snake after a meal can cause them to regurgitate that meal. Always wait at least one full day before handling your ball python after they've eaten., If your snake doesn't eat a prey item, you will need to remove it. Leaving dead or living prey items in the cage can pose health hazards to your snake. Always remove old prey items from the cage to best care for your ball python.Feeding pre-killed items to your snake is safer. However, these items will decompose and need to be removed if left uneaten.
Feeding live prey animals can bring harm to your snake. Mice or rodents have been known to attack and kill ball pythons.
 It's important that you stick to a schedule when feeding your ball python. The regularity will benefit your snake and will allow you to notice if your snake has any changes in its appetite. Try to follow these basic feeding schedules to best care for your snake's dietary needs:For adult ball pythons, offer food once every one or two weeks.
For young ball pythons, offer food once or twice a week.
Appetites may change normally over the year. Colder months usually result in lowered appetites.
 Your ball python will also need a place to find water in their enclosure. Providing water will give your snake a place to relax and enjoy a good soak. Keep some of these tips in mind when providing water for your ball python:Young snakes should only have about 1” of water.
Make sure the container can't be tipped over.
Water temperature should be between 72 and 79 degrees Fahrenheit.
Your snake will often defecate in the water. Change the water at least once a week.

