 There are several antidepressants available today and educating yourself about all of them would be a huge undertaking. Instead, talk to your physician, mental health professional, or pharmacist about the specific antidepressant you are or will be taking and it’s side effects.Ask your doctor for information about the antidepressant when they are prescribing it. You might say something like, “Could you tell me more about this medication?”
Ask your pharmacist about the antidepressant when you are getting your prescription filled. For instance, you could say, “This is a new prescription for me. Could you tell me about this medication?”
Don’t hesitate to call your physician, mental health professional, or pharmacist any time you have a question about your antidepressant.
Try asking your doctor for a pamphlet or article on the medication so that you can read up on the side effects and learn to manage them better.;
, Once you have your antidepressant prescription filled, you should read the label and paperwork that comes along with your medication carefully.Important warnings, suggestions, possible side effects, and other information are included that can help you manage antidepressant side effects.


Pay special attention to the portion describing possible side effects. Often the label will group the side effects according to how common or rare they are or how severe.
Look at the warnings for taking the antidepressant. Some antidepressants should not be taken when operating heavy machinery or in other situations.
 This can be useful if you take more than one medication, whether they are antidepressants or not. Often medications will have some of the same side effects and knowing this can help you manage these side effects. Your list will help you know what you are likely to experience while taking the antidepressant.


If you take medications that have the same side effects, you can highlight them on the list. For example, if your heart medication and your antidepressant both list drowsiness as a side effect, you could circle that side effect on your list.
Indicate which side effects are severe or require you to seek medical attention. For instance, if a side effect of your antidepressant is suicidal thoughts, you should put a star by that side effect on your list.

