 You can create a power of attorney (POA) document that allows you to make certain decisions on their behalf. However, you cannot become an attorney-in-fact for someone getting inpatient treatment without their consent.Ideally, you should have this conversation before they enter inpatient treatment, so you can get everything taken care of before they become unavailable.
However, if the person is already getting inpatient treatment, you need to work with their healthcare providers to meet with the person and get this taken care of.
Explain to the person that while they are getting inpatient treatment, they will need someone to take care of their financial needs, as well as handling their court dates and other appointments.
With a POA, that person can give you the power to handle those matters for them, so that while they're getting inpatient treatment they can concentrate on their health and not worry about getting in legal or financial trouble.;
, While a POA makes you attorney-in-fact and allows you to make healthcare and financial decisions for someone getting inpatient treatment, being an attorney-in-fact is different than being an attorney-at-law.This can be confusing because of the use of the word "attorney." However, the word itself merely means "agent" or "representative."
An attorney-in-fact represents someone in everyday dealings, whereas an attorney-at-law represents them in court.
If the person getting inpatient treatment grants you POA, that does not mean you can represent them in court or appear in court on their behalf.
It does mean, however, that you can hire an attorney on their behalf to represent their legal interests.
 If you and the person getting inpatient treatment decide to make you attorney-in-fact, you can easily find forms and templates to create a POA by searching on the internet.If you find a POA template, make sure it's valid in your state before you use it. You may want to look at several different forms and use them as guides to create your own.
The POA can specify whatever powers the person getting inpatient treatment wants you to have.
The POA also can state when it begins and ends, so the person getting inpatient treatment can ensure that you don't have the power to make them decisions for them once they're available to do so themselves.
 If the person is already getting inpatient treatment, you may have to complete the POA forms yourself. However, the forms still must be written as though they were created by the person getting inpatient treatment.If you have a fill-in-the-blank form, make sure you read the pre-printed language carefully and understand what it's saying and what rights it's giving you with respect to your representation of the person while they're getting inpatient treatment.
You may want to have an attorney look over your POA before you and the person getting inpatient treatment sign it, so you can make sure it has the legal effect you both intend.
 Once the POA document is completed, it must be signed both by you and the person getting inpatient treatment. You both must sign in the presence of a notary public, who will witness the signatures and verify your identities.Some states require signatures to be notarized as well as witnessed by others. Check your state's law or contact an attorney if you're not sure whether you need additional witnesses.
If the person is already receiving inpatient treatment in a healthcare facility, speak with their healthcare providers to find out what resources are available in the facility.
Most healthcare facilities have a notary public on site who will notarize your POA documents. Nurses or other employees also can serve as witnesses if necessary.
 Although you cannot appear for someone else in court, an attorney can. Helping the person getting inpatient treatment to hire an attorney is one way to handle the court date for them. The type of attorney the person needs depends on the type of court case they're facing. For example, if the person is facing criminal charges, you'll need to look for a criminal defense attorney.
If their court date relates to a civil case, figure out what type of case it is and look for attorneys in your area who practice law in that area.
A good place to start your search is the website of your state or local bar association. Typically you can find a referral service that will provide you with names of local attorneys based on your answers to a few questions about the court case.
If you know attorneys yourself, you might ask them for recommendations. Even if an attorney practices law in another area, they typically know attorneys who practice other types of law.
 Since the person getting inpatient treatment has limited mobility and resources, you can help them hire an attorney by interviewing prospective attorneys on their behalf. When you interview attorneys, keep in mind that you are talking to them on behalf of the person getting inpatient treatment – not for your own needs.
Review the person's legal paperwork so that you have a good idea what the court case is about, and ask each attorney how much experience they have representing clients similar to the person getting inpatient treatment.
It's also important to get a sense of whether the attorneys you interview have worked in a similar situation, in which they communicated primarily with someone's agent or attorney-in-fact while their client was getting inpatient treatment.
 After you've completed your initial consultations with attorneys, you should let the person know what happened and your opinion on who they should hire. If you have the ability to meet with the person getting inpatient treatment before you hire the attorney, you should do so.
Even if you have a POA, it's still important to get their input on this decision. Keep in mind that the attorney you choose will be the person who represents them in court regarding the legal issues they face.
If the person getting inpatient treatment disagrees with your decision based on your report, it's probably a better idea to go with the attorney they want rather than another attorney you would have chosen.
 Unless it's impossible to do so, the attorney typically will want to meet with the person they're going to represent before they start any work for the person getting inpatient treatment.Speak with the person's healthcare providers to find out whether such a meeting is possible. Even if outside visitors unrelated to the person are not allowed, the healthcare providers frequently will be willing to make an exception for an attorney.
If you're the person's agent under a POA document, you may be able to hire an attorney to represent them in court yourself without having the attorney meet the person.
However, it's still important to have the person getting inpatient treatment and the attorney who will be representing them in court meet if at all possible.
 After the attorney is hired, they can handle the court dates coming up for the person getting inpatient treatment. However, you may still be needed to pass messages back and forth or to work with the attorney.If you have power of attorney, you can expect to work closely with the attorney on behalf of the person getting inpatient treatment.
Particularly if contact with the person is restricted, you also may have to pass documents or other information between them and the attorney.
It's also part of your job, especially if you have power of attorney, to do what you can to protect the person and allow them to focus on their own health and the treatment they need.
 The best way to handle a court date for someone getting inpatient treatment is to have the court date postponed until the person is able to appear themselves. Before you can ask the court to postpone the court date, however, you need to know some basic information about the case, including when the person getting inpatient treatment is expected to be in court. You'll need to do what you can to get all of the person's court documents so you can figure out what's going on in the case and when the most recent court date was scheduled.
Get contact information for the other party in the case so that you can get in touch with them regarding the need to postpone the court date.
Keep in mind that if the other party in the case is represented by an attorney, you must direct all communication about the court case to the attorney – not to the other party.
If the person is facing criminal charges, you'll need to work with the prosecuting attorney to address the coming court date.
If you've hired an attorney to represent the person, they'll be able to get the information they need to accurately assess the situation.
 If you want to have the court date continued until the person getting inpatient treatment will be available to attend, the judge is much more likely to approve the motion if both parties agree to the continuance. In some courts, you are required to contact the other party and attempt to get an agreed order to continue the hearing before you file your motion.
However, even if it isn't required to contact the other party, it makes good sense to do so. Judges typically will automatically grant a continuance if both parties agree.
Additionally, talking to the other party before requesting a continuance from the court can avoid a hearing in which the other party opposes the continuance.
 You typically can find basic forms or templates for a motion for a continuance online. The court that is hearing the case also may have forms available that are approved specifically for use in that court. If you've hired an attorney to represent the person, they will be able to draft the motion for a continuance.
However, if you haven't hired an attorney, you can draft the motion yourself. Check with the clerk's office or on the court's website for forms you can use to draft the motion.
Unless you've hired an attorney for the person getting inpatient treatment, they will have to sign the motion for a continuance after you've drafted it.
You cannot sign the document for them, even if you have power of attorney. Remember that your power to act as a representative does not extend to legal representation.
 Once you've finished drafting your motion, you must file it with the clerk of the court that is hearing the case in which the person getting inpatient treatment is involved. Take your original document along with at least two copies. In addition to taking the originals, you'll need to bring at least two copies. One will be for the person's own records, while the other will have to be delivered to the other party.
The clerk will charge a filing fee to file the motion, typically less than $100. If you're filing the motion on behalf of the person getting inpatient treatment, you'll be responsible for paying it.
On the other hand, if you've hired an attorney, they'll take care of filing the motion on behalf of the person getting inpatient treatment. You won't have to worry about anything regarding the filing of the motion.
 After you've filed your motion, it must be served on the other party in the case. The easiest way to do this is to mail it to the party (or their attorney) using certified mail with return receipt requested. Even if you filed an agreed motion, it still must be sent to the other party. This is because all communications with the court must also be sent to the other party.
If you weren't able to get the other party to agree with the continuance and you have not yet hired an attorney for the person getting inpatient treatment, you must hire an attorney to argue the motion.
If the judge schedules a hearing on the motion and the other party opposes it, you cannot represent the person getting inpatient treatment. If no one shows up on their side, the motion will be dismissed. For this reason you must hire an attorney.

