 Prior to starting any weight loss program or diet, it's important to figure out whether or not weight loss is safe and appropriate for you. You'll also need to talk to your doctor whether or not the Dukan Diet is appropriate for you.


Make an appointment to see your primary care doctor. Talk to your physician about your desire to lose weight and get their opinion on how much weight you should lose.
Also talk to your doctor about the Dukan Diet. Ask if this type of eating pattern is appropriate for you.
It may also be wise to ask your doctor for any tips or advice on weight loss. This is especially important if you have any chronic diseases like high blood pressure or diabetes.
If you and your doctor decide that trying out a diet is appropriate for you, ask your doctor for a referral to a registered dietitian.;
, Whenever you're starting a new diet, it’s important to set goals for yourself. Goals can help give you a path to follow and can also be encouraging or motivating to you.In order for you to lose weight and be successful, your weight loss goals need to be realistic. If they're not, you could be setting yourself up for failure.
It's typically only recommended to lose about 1-2 pounds per week. Health professionals consider this to be safe and sustainable weight loss.If your goal is to lose 10 pounds, it’s not realistic to aim to lose this weight in 2 weeks. You'll need to lose it over 4-5 weeks instead.
You may also want to consider setting multiple goals. You can set one long-term goal and then smaller goals along the way. This can help keep you motivated and encouraged throughout your weight loss.
 To make sure you're following the Dukan Diet correctly, it'll be a good idea to prepare your home. Specifically get the kitchen ready - you'll need to stock up on allowed foods and consider getting rid of foods you shouldn't be having.


The Dukan Diet has a list of 100 "approved foods" that you can eat. The diet doesn't provide restrictions on the quantity of these foods. They include all protein sources (like eggs, lean beef, pork, seafood, soy and tofu products and low-fat dairy). In addition all non-starchy vegetables are allowed.Print out the list of these foods so you can use this to grocery shop. You can also use this list to make sure that you don't have foods that aren't allowed in your home.
Consider giving away prohibited foods to a food bank or friends or just tossing them if they've been opened already.
Then, take your approved foods list and hit the grocery store. Stock up on the items you enjoy and that are also allowed on the Dukan Diet.
 The Dukan Diet doesn't give too many rules or restrictions when it comes to preparing foods and meals. However, writing up a meal plan can help give you an idea of what you'll be eating over the course of a week.Take some time to come up with your meal plan. You'll need to have the approved foods list for this activity. Write out what you'll be eating for breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks during one week of the Dukan Diet.
This blueprint of meals can help keep you on track, do meal prep in advance and reduce extra trips to the grocery store during the week.
 The official Dukan Diet websitedoes provide dieters with a lot of extra resources if needed. If you are unsure of how to follow the diet exactly, need extra ideas for meals or need some encouragement, consider getting these extra resources:


Weight loss coaching. The Dukan Diet offers coaching. This is a service you'd pay for but may help keep you motivated and on track while you're trying to lose weight.
Cookbooks. This diet also has several books that you may consider purchasing. They explain the diet in detail, give you information on nutrition and even provide recipes and meal ideas.
Blog and email service. The Dukan Diet website also offers dieters the option to sign up for weekly emails or tune into a daily blog. These blog posts may give a unique recipe, a cooking tip or provide extra motivation.
 With any diet, it’s important to follow approved recipes, foods and cooking techniques. When followed appropriately, you'll see the best weight loss.


The Dukan Diet is made up of 4 distinct phases (the Attack, Cruise, Consolidation and Stabilization phases). Each phase comes with different "allowed foods" and cooking techniques. Make sure you're familiar with what phase you're in so you're following the diet appropriately.
The Dukan Diet typically suggests low-fat cooking methods. Use little to no added fat when cooking.
Download different recipes or print out recipes that are appropriate for the Dukan Diet. Also make a list of recipes you currently make that would fit into the Dukan Diet plan.
 The Dukan Diet specifically lists 68 sources of lean protein that are considered "allowed foods". You can eat these protein sources in any phase of the diet. Make sure you only consume the following types of protein:


Seafood: arctic char, catfish, cod, flounder, grouper, haddock, halibut and smoked halibut, herring, mackerel, mahi mahi, monkfish, orange roughy, perch, red snapper, salmon or smoked salmon, sardines (fresh or canned in water), sea bass, shark, sole, surimi, swordfish, tilapia, trout, tuna (fresh or canned in water), clams crab, crawfish, crayfish, lobster, mussels, octopus, oysters, scallops, shrimp and squid.
Poultry: eggs, chicken, chicken liver, Cornish hen, fat-free turkey and chicken sausages, low fat deli slices of chicken or turkey, ostrich steak, quail, turkey and wild duck.
Red meats and pork: beef tenderloin, filet mignon, buffalo, extra-lean ham, extra-lean Kosher beef hot dogs, lean center-cut pork chops, lean slices of roast beef, pork tenderloin, pork loin roast, reduced-fat bacon (i.e. center cut belly bacon, which is leaner than regular bacon), steak (flank, sirloin, London broil), veal chops, veal scallopini and venison.
Vegetarian protein: seitan, soy foods and veggie burgers, tempeh and tofu.
Dairy products: fat-free cottage cheese, Fat-free cream cheese, Fat-free milk, Fat-free plain Greek style yogurt, fat-free ricotta and fat-free sour cream.
 In addition to 68 allowed protein foods, the Dukan diet also allows over 30 vegetables. These are only allowed on certain phases so make sure you pay attention to exactly when you add these foods.


Try any of the following allowed vegetables: artichoke, asparagus, bean sprouts, beet, broccoli, brussels sprouts, cabbage, carrot, cauliflower, celery, cucumber, eggplant, endive, fennel, green beans, kale, lettuce (arugula and radicchio), mushrooms, okra, onions (leeks and shallots), palm hearts, peppers, pumpkin, radishes, rhubarb, spaghetti squash, squash, spinach, tomatoes, turnips, watercress and zucchini.
You can start adding in some of these nutritious vegetables when you advance to the Cruise phase. However, you do not eat these everyday.
 The attack phase if the first phase of the Dukan Diet. The goal of the Attack phase is to trigger fast and encouraging weight loss. Depending on your weight, you may spend anywhere from just a few days to over a week on the Attack phase.The high protein and no carb nature of this phase will put you into ketosis. This is where your body is mainly burning fat for energy. No fruits, vegetables or grains are permitted during this phase.
You need to drink a minimum of 8 glasses of fluids daily to keep flushing the ketones out of your body. However, the Dukan Diet recommends even up to 13 glasses of fluids daily.
The Dukan Diet also recommends to start an exercise program when you start the Attack phase. Ideally, exercise in the morning to help burn more calories from fat.
 This is the second phase of the Dukan Diet. You'll start adding different foods back to your diet, however it still is skewed towards high levels of protein and very low levels of carbs.The goal of the Cruise phase is to continue to lose a steady amount of weight until you reach your goal weight.In addition, you're eating all 100 of the "allowed foods" at this time.
Although the Cruise phase does allow you indulge in more foods, you need to alternate your menus during the week. The Dukan Diet suggests alternating between days of all protein (like that of the Attack phase) and days where you include both protein and vegetables.
Make sure to exercise for at least 30 minutes daily. The Dukan Diet specifically recommends fast walking during this stage as your main form of exercise.
 The Consolidation phase is one of the longest phases of the Dukan Diet for some dieters. It's based on the total amount of weight you've lost during the diet. This is the phase where you're learning to maintain your weight while adding other foods back to your diet.


The Consolidation phase length will differ for everyone. You're supposed to stay on this phase for 5 days for every pound you lost. So if you lost 10 pounds, you'll stay in the Consolidation phase for 50 days total.The 68 protein foods and 32 vegetables that are allowed during the previous two phases are still the main components of your diet during this phase as well.
During the first half of the Consolidation phase you're allowed to have one serving of fruit daily, one "cheat meal" per week and 2 slices of whole grain bread per day.
The last half of the Consolidation you're allowed to have 2 servings of fruit per day, 2 "cheat meals" per week, 2 slices of whole grain bread per day and 2 servings of starchy vegetables per week.
In addition to adding some foods back to your diet, follow the Attack phase guidelines one day a week (Thursday is the day suggested). Only eat protein on this day.
 Although the Consolidation phase starts weight maintenance, it's the Stabilization phase that really focuses on weight maintenance long-term. You're allowed a significant amount more freedom in your food choices, but you need to follow a certain day to day menu.One of the “non-negotiable rules” of this phase is that you eat 3 tablespoons of oat bran everyday. You can add this to recipes, smoothies or sprinkled on other foods.
The Dukan Diet recommends continuing one day of the Attack phase (protein foods only) to help maintain your weight loss long-term.
As far as exercise, the Dukan Diet wants you to continue exercising and emphasizes the need to increase your lifestyle activity (like taking the stairs instead of the elevator).
 Regardless of what diet you follow long-term, one of the best ways to maintain your weight by weighing yourself regularly. This will help make sure you hold yourself accountable to your goal weight long-term.


Many studies show that people who have lost weight are able to keep it off longer and more easily when they're weighing themselves at least once a week.Make sure to weigh yourself weekly. However, weighing yourself daily won't necessarily give you an accurate information day-to-day. Natural fluctuations in weight occur daily so once or twice a week is appropriate.
Try to weigh yourself on the same day of the week, at the same time and with the same clothes (or no clothes). This will help give you a more accurate trend over time.
Give yourself a small weight range that's acceptable for you. If you go below or over that range, you'll need to address your diet and lifestyle to see where those weight changes are coming from.
 Another important aspect of weight maintenance outside of regular weigh-ins is a support group. Whether you attend a support group meeting or have friends or family that support you, this is a key aspect to being able to maintain your weight long-term.


Many studies have shown that those people who have a support group not only lose more weight, but are able to keep it off long-term.The Dukan Diet has several types of support systems. You can pay for weight loss and maintenance coaching, sign up for a blog or comment on support group forums.
If you're not able to use any of the Dukan support services, ask friends, family members or co-workers if they can be your support group. They may even want to try the Dukan Diet with you.
 A food journal isn't only for weight loss. In fact, it's also a great weight maintenance tool as well. Keep track of your meals and types of foods you're eating on a daily basis to help you maintain your weight loss long-term.A food journal doesn't have to be anything special. You can download a food journal app or your can keep a paper and pencil version.
When you're in the weight maintenance phase, you might not need to journal every single day. Aim to keep track of your foods at least 4-5 times a week.
When journaling, make sure you write down each breakfast, lunch and dinner meal you have. In addition write down any snacks and beverages you consume during the day.
In regards to the Dukan Diet, you may want to make notations on what days are all protein days or days when you're only going to consume lean protein and vegetables.
If you notice your weight increasing more than you'd want, come back to your food journal to check where the gain might have been coming from.

