 There are a number ways to break down the various ways in which people learn.When it comes to rote memorization, your senses are a particularly helpful lens through which to view your personal learning style.



Auditory learners absorb new information most effectively by hearing and/or speaking it out loud.Tactile learners absorb new information most effectively through movement; they learn best by doing things for themselves.Visual learners absorb new information most effectively by reading it, or seeing a visual representation.;
, Just by reading a little about these different learning styles, you may already have an idea which of them you favor. Keep in mind that no one learns through just one of these styles exclusively; we use our senses in combination when we learn. That said, most people tend to rely more heavily on one of their senses (or on a particular combination) when they learn, and understanding this will help you decide which approach to memorization is likely to be most effective for you. If you’re not sure what kind of learner you are, an online learning style self-assessment questionnaire can help you nail it down.If you want to try a less systematic approach, just try the techniques that sound interesting to you, and see what works best.
 Now that you understand your brain a little better, it’s time to consider the best way to go about memorizing those song lyrics. Remember, you don’t have to confine yourself solely to the techniques recommended for your primary learning style; most people will learn fastest if they incorporate elements of all three.



Auditory learners are at an advantage when it comes to learning song lyrics, as songs are by nature auditory. If you are an auditory learner, listening to a song on repeat is likely to be your best bet. Singing or speaking the lyrics aloud to yourself will also help. At first you will need to read the lyrics as you sing or speak them, but with repetition this will become unnecessary.Tactile learners will also benefit somewhat from singing along with the song they are trying to learn, although in this case it has more to do with their propensity to learn by doing than any particular benefit of auditory processing. If you are a tactile learner, you will also find writing the lyrics out by hand a few times very helpful.Visual learners will want to spend some time studying a written copy of the lyrics. If you are a visual learner, watching a music video of the song you are trying to memorize can be a good tool, as it will help you associate visual imagery with specific lyrics. You may find it helpful to highlight different verses of the lyrics with different colors, as well; when you are trying to recall a specific verse later, you can call to mind the color in which it was highlighted, which may help you visualize the words on that part of the page.