 Read to your child nightly to help soothe them to sleep. Allow them to select a book of their choosing or consider purchasing books addressing fears of monsters. The movie Monsters, Inc. has also been helpful for some children to humanize monsters. A list of potentially helpful books include:The Monster at the End of this Book
Can’t You Sleep, Little Bear?
The Owl Who Was Afraid of the Dark
What a Bad Dream

, Do some fact checking about their monsters with them earlier in the day rather than later. Rather than always waiting until right before bed to address your child’s concerns, begin talking about them after school or dinner. This will ensure that their worries are being addressed early on, which will help make their transition to sleep easier and faster., Make a list with your child of different things they are looking forward to, or a list of their general interests. Have them cycle through this list every night so that they have things to think of rather than the monsters.This is a great way to shift their focus at night to something more positive and constructive.
 Many children find great comfort in having an item to hold while sleeping. Give your child a special blanket or stuffed animal that they can sleep with to alleviate their fears.Consider even giving them one of these items from your childhood. Otherwise, you could also go shopping to allow them to pick out one that is special to them.
You may even appoint a favorite stuffed animal or toy as a guardian or watcher to place somewhere special in the room where they will be able to watch over and protect your child.
You can also create a "magic" object that will help protect your child. A spray bottle filled with water could be their monster spray that they use every night before bed.
 Sometimes the monsters that children fear are the monsters they have seen on TV. Though you can’t change what they’ve already seen, you can control what they see hereafter. Don’t allow your child to watch anything scary or anything that is not G or PG rated.Consider placing parental controls on their televisions so that they cannot access this frightening material on their own.
 Though you should not make a habit of this, you can occasionally sleep with your child on nights that they are particularly scared. Don’t do this for two consecutive nights, however, or even on a weekly basis. You don’t want you child to be overly accustomed to your presence., If your child is very fearful at night, tell them that you will check on them every few minutes until they fall asleep. Consider checking in 5 minutes after they have been put to bed, then 10, then 25. This will help assure them that you are there and that nothing can get to them.