 This will greatly help both you and your kids know that you’re not alone. Build or join a network of parents (and kids!) that can help and support one another.Sharing childcare, carpool, and household duties will greatly decrease demands on everyone.
Many of the challenges that arise while raising children are amplified for single-parent households. Of course, the community of support that is necessary (for everyone) to be a great parent can be harder to develop. Be active about cultivating positive relationships with other single parents you meet, especially those with kids your age.
Relatives, neighbors, and other parents you meet at your children’s functions are all likely candidates for friendship, support, and more.
Try to always have someone who you can call at a moment’s notice for help in a serious situation, as well as someone you can call more casually. Recognize that this doesn’t necessarily have to be – and maybe shouldn’t be – the same person.
 They exist, and they’re brilliant. A brief online search should inform you of the options in your area. Formal childcare cooperatives will charge less to watch children, and may even allow you to volunteer in exchange for free childcare.If none exist in your area, start an informal one with other single parents by rotating childcare locations and responsibilities.
This will not only help you save money and get more time free of parenting responsibilities, it will also help you get to know other families in the area.
 There are others who have experienced what you’re going through, and who are even living similar lifestyles simultaneously. Aside from help with the technical and logistical necessities of parenting, pay attention to your mental and social needs as well.Join a support group for single parents. Simply getting together with other single parents to talk about struggles and things you’ve learned will likely prove both enjoyable and helpful.
Seek social services. There are plenty of government programs geared towards helping single-parent families. Family support offices will help you identify programs you may qualify for.
 You may feel as though your children are missing another role model in their lives from whom they might learn. Know that a lack of a male or female parental role model will not necessarily be a detriment to your child’s upbringing, especially if you’re able to convey positivity regarding all genders.Ensure that your children are exposed to positive examples of healthy behavior by both men and women.
Make a point of mentioning characteristics or behaviors in members of both sexes.
Avoid making negative comments about the opposite sex in general.
Contradict negative stereotypes about both genders.
Make an effort to (non-romantically) include members of the opposite sex in your children’s life.
Seek out and maintain relationships with responsible members of the opposite sex who are happy to spend time with you and your children.
Show your children that it’s possible, healthy, and fun to have positive long-term relationships with members of the opposite sex.

