 Most children learn by example and they can be good imitators. What they see you do will most likely be reflected in their behavior. For you to encourage your child to be physically fit, you need to show him that you are doing the same.Go on a run or for a bike ride while your child is doing homework or with a friend. Make sure to tell your child about the sort of physical activity that you are doing.
 Supporting your child means being there during his physical activities. This can simply be sitting on the bleachers while he plays soccer, bringing him to and fetching him from the baseball field, buying him toys or devices that encourage physical activities, and more.
 If you complain about the physical activities you have to do, your child will be much less inclined to perform them. Children learn by example, which means your child will be more likely to complain about physical activity if you complain too.


Make sure to tell your child how much fun you had at your cycling class, or how beautiful the trail was when you went out for a run. If you make exercising sound appealing, your child will be more willing to participate.
 When explaining to your child the importance of physical activity, you need to use language that your child can readily understand. Using medical terms such as obesity, blood pressure, cardiovascular health, and related words should be avoided unless your child is able to comprehend these words. Instead, use simple words and pictures to illustrate your points about physical activities.


You can read your child books about the importance of being active.
 Every child is different. Some kids love playing outside, while other kids prefer not to participate in physical activities. Be alert to your child’s preferences; if your child doesn’t like playing an organized sport, try enrolling him in dancing, swimming, martial arts, rock climbing, or hiking.Involve yourself in your child’s physical activities. Some kids prefer when their parents do the activity with them. For example, sign up to be a coach or assistant coach for your child’s soccer team.
Point out that participating in physical activities will allow your child more time to hang out with his friends, while he will miss out on friend time if he just sits in front of the TV.
 Your child might still be young, but there is a potential that he may suffer from lack of self-esteem and confidence due to his body image.


Don’t focus on your child’s weight and image. Praise your child’s appearance and steer clear of talking about it when you encourage your child to be physically active.

