 Are you really unattractive or are you just being hard on yourself? Interviewing for a job puts the applicant in a vulnerable position––you need a job and the company can decide whether or not you can have it. This unequal position can cause many a person to put themselves down a notch out of anxiety or fear of not succeeding. Dig down deep inside to determine if your feelings are more rooted in cold feet or poor estimation of yourself before considering yourself unattractive.;
, Most people have features that they want to enhance and features that they'd rather play down. Attractiveness is often about impression and playing with your good features while toning down the ones that aren't as attractive. Indeed, even those paid to be supermodels claim that there are features they don't like about themselves but they learn the art of covering up, standing differently, using hair styles and other ways to even out these less desirable aspects of themselves. And the reality is that nobody is perfect; there are always blemishes. However, there is never a need to accentuate these by stooping, slumping, wearing baggy clothing or failing to get a good haircut. Some of the things to do to enhance your features include:


Make-up can help if you think your eyes are too far apart or your nose is too big. Even men can apply make-up techniques to make their features appear bigger or smaller. Consult with a professional make-up artist or read a good, up-to-date make-up book written by a well-known make-up artist for learning which techniques will help you.
Examine your hair. Hair is one of the easiest things you can change. Even if you have a receding, thinning hairline you can still make your hair look better. Indeed, Donald Trump, for all his lack of hair, knows that the side you part the hair makes an instant difference to how soft or hard your face comes across, so even the side your part is on matters!Try both ways and see which hardens and softens your face; you may be surprised by the effect. And instead of a DIY do update, head to a salon and let a pro take care of you. Be sure to ask questions about how you can sustain the look they give you, so that you feel confident about replicating it. See below for more grooming tips.
Review your interview wardrobe. Is the last suit you bought from 1983 or do you own new, clean suits or interview attire? Updated clothing or revamped and well-cared for clothing shows that you care about your appearance and that counts for a great deal. You don’t want any of your interview or business clothing to have holes, stains, rips or missing buttons either. Wrinkled clothing never works; it says "I can't be bothered" and the interviewer will worry that that crosses into your daily work ethics too.
Take inventory of your shoes. According to beloved fictional character Forrest Gump, "There is an awful lot you can tell about a person by their shoes .. Where they're going, where they've been." Indeed, many style mavens and etiquette gurus will say that the state of your shoes says much about you. What do your shoes say about you? Confident and smart or sloppy and outdated? Get a new pair if needed or polish up that old pair. People do look.
Smile. People who smile often and genuinely are always rated as more attractive than people who scowl and frown constantly. Check out people around you and you'll notice this effect instantly.
 Half the battle to building your confidence is knowing about the corporate style and copy it. Is this company like IBM where a crisp, blue suit is standard issue or somewhere like Apple where hippie garb may be acceptable? You want to hit the interview looking the part so nail down the image the company expects employees to project and copy it. Reflecting the expected look is a large part of winning over the interviewer who will be seeking a connection with someone of the same ilk.


Some jobs seem to have a plethora of extremely good looking people. They may not openly state that they have a policy of employing only good looking people but be realistic; some jobs such as flight attendants and airline staff, modeling, front desk service for some types of hospitality, pole dancing, etc. tend to err on the side of choosing people whose appearance is more exceptional than the norm. You won't necessarily find this in their job ads, it's an unwritten statement, but unless you're aiming for quirky or the happy character who smiles constantly, etc. within such industries, it might be less easy for you to break in if your attractiveness is rated lower than usual. Rather than fighting the politically incorrect but real facts, consider the millions of other jobs out there that aren't hung up on looks. Or think laterally; perhaps you're not model material but you might be a great fashion assistant, seamstress, hair stylist, adviser, etc. in the back room (the person who makes it all "happen", without whom the beautiful people would topple and fade).
 If your hair and skin are looking dull and boring, head to the salon for some pre-interview grooming. Tell the stylist or aesthetician about your job interview and your goals. While a chemical peel or a special mask may be in order, avoid doing anything extreme to your appearance before an interview like Botox or any type of plastic surgery; bad results or skin with a rash is not a good look. You can win this interview with your own appearance––you just want to polish and refine it.


Ask the hair stylist to remove any grey and cut the dead ends. Ask him or her the best way to style your hair based on its type. For example, hair that seems limp and lifeless because it's fine can be massively improved by being layered or by cutting the style so that it's shorter at the back and gradually lengthens toward the front. Avoid allowing yourself to stay stuck in ideas about having one length of hair; this can sorely destroy your chances of looking polished and more attractive.
Look for a professional, but updated hairstyle. However, be way of going for anything that is too far off from a look you're currently comfortable wearing. An extreme new hairstyle may take a while to get used to, which could mess with your confidence. On the other hand, a radical change may just be what you need to get a makeover lift. Ask the hair stylist if they have a computer generated program that can show a new hairstyle with your face before going ahead with any radical change.
Request your skin care specialist to provide you with a treatment that will alleviate blemishes and age marks. Make this visit several days prior to the interview as it may take that long for red blemishes or uneven pigmentation caused by aging to disappear.
 Head to a big name department store to search for interview attire. Often business clothing departments offer a special style coordinator who can help you assemble the right outfit for your interview. He or she will take your body type, budget and skin tone into consideration to select a series of wardrobe options that will work in your favor. Alternatively, if you have a local small business that specializes in suits or business wear, seek individual attention from this person as their knowledge is likely to be excellent.
 Remember––you should be hired for what you can do, not how you look. So although you need to attend to your appearance in order to gain confidence, don’t forget that you are right for the job because you are the best person for the position. If necessary, go back through your resume or portfolio as a reminder of your talents.


Remember that looks don't last but expertise, knowledge and skill just keep getting better as you mature. The supermodel who was once at the height of her career is a discard at 40, saddened and possibly embittered if she didn't spend time feathering her career nest by learning other skills on the side.
Unattractive is a state of mind, one easily overcome by being a genuine, skillful and friendly person. Keep your skills honed, your friendliness at the forefront and your belief in yourself strong.
 Put this job interview into perspective––what’s the worst thing that could happen if you don’t get the job? You move on. There is a job out there for you, so if this one doesn’t work out, be prepared to continue the search. Review your talking points before the interview and how you will respond to interviewer’s questions. Make a list of questions you anticipate receiving and then stand in front of the mirror and respond. Breathe deeply and try to relax––tell yourself that you have what it takes!


Remember that every person can look good by dressing and grooming well, being polite, acting confident, knowing the interview material inside out and having respect for the interviewer and the company.

