 The creators of this test believed that everyone is inclined to act and think in a certain way. This test assesses four personal preferences and 16 possible preference combinations. The results of your Myers Briggs test have a big impact on the type of job you should pursue. To find out more about Myers Briggs, see: Determine Your Myers Briggs Personality Type.Myers Briggs assesses the degree to which you are introverted or extroverted. Assume that you enjoy meeting people and being in social situations. You may excel in a job with a great deal of interaction with people, such as a sales position.
The test also determines how you prefer to gather information. Some people need concrete facts, while others are more intuitive. If you want to work as a mechanical engineer, for example, you need to be a person who prefers concrete facts.
Myers Briggs assesses how you make decisions. If you’re an engineer, you probably lean toward a thinking approach using logic. Other people lean toward considering the feelings of everyone involved.
Trained professionals administer the Myers Briggs assessment. Perform a web search to locate a professional who can provide the assessment to you. You can find similar tests online that you can take on your own. One popular site is 16 personalities.com.
Take the results of your Myers Briggs assessment and compare it to each job description you’re considering. Your assessment should fit the preferences required for the job. A person who is strongly intuitive, for example, may not be a good fit for an engineering position.;
, In many cases, the first impression you make on a potential employer is your resume. Much like the home page on a website, your resume is going to be glanced at very quickly the first time a potential employer reviews it. To find out more about the process, see Make a Resume.Because it’s reviewed so quickly, your resume needs to be well-written and organized to get the interviewer’s attention. Many resumes include an objective at the top. Your objective needs to clearly state your interests and your ultimate career direction.
Take a close look at the job descriptions for the types of positions you’ll pursue. Consider what key words are used in the job description. Use those same types of key words in your resume. If, for example, the job requires a strong manager of people, your resume should include words and phrases that explain how you have that skill.
Decide how you want to organize your resume. You can organize your resume in chronological order, with your most recent work experience at the top. Some job candidates organize their resumes by skill type. You may create different versions of your resume to fit different job descriptions.
If you have specific experience in a position, consider using a chronological resume. You can list your work history from the most recent jobs to older positions. In some cases, you may not have experience in the specific job you’re pursuing. Try creating a functional resume that groups your skills together by type. This format helps you tie your skills to a specific job description.
 Many job seekers find jobs through their network of contacts. If you build a network, you may be able to find someone who works in your field of interest. A network contact may know someone at a firm that you’re researching. Building a network can increase your chances of finding the job you want.Consider joining professional organizations. Nearly every profession has a related organization that promotes the interests of the members. If you’re an accountant, for example, the AICPA is a national organization that promotes the profession.
Build your network by attending industry conferences and meetings. One function of a professional organization is to put on meetings and conferences. Attending these meetings is a great way to meet people in your profession.
Put together a comprehensive LinkedIn profile. LinkedIn has become a key factor in any job search. Nearly all employers view the LinkedIn profile of each job candidate. Make sure that your profile is complete and up to date.
Perform a search for “great companies to work for” both nationally and locally. Many publications update these lists annually. These lists can help you find a company mission statement that fits your career goals.
 The people you know are a great resource when you’re trying to find a new employer. You can find a wide variety of careers among the people in your network. Use your personal network of contacts to your advantage.Find someone in your network that works in your field of interest. If you want to work as a mechanical engineer, find someone who works in that field who can help you.
A person who works in your field can clearly explain the type of work you’ll perform. They can tell you what a typical day at your job will be like.
The individual who works in the industry may know about open positions that you can pursue. When you start to target specific companies, they may know people at those firms. Nearly all jobs will ask for references. Your contact can provide a reference for you.
People in your network can help you prepare for answers to interview questions. To find out more about interviewing skills, see: Prepare for a Job Interview.
 Put together the criteria you will use to look for attractive job opportunities. You can consider the type of position, the industry, the size of the company and the geographic location of the job.Say, for example, that you want to work as a marketing professional in the financial services field. You want to work for a mid-size company and you’d prefer to work in the Midwest.
Start with a simple Google search and identify some companies. You could, for example, Google “mid-size financial firms Midwest” and look at the results.
Reach out to your network and let them know about your job search criteria. They may be able to suggest some companies for you to consider.
 Use a company’s name to perform a keyword search. You should be able to access reviews, articles, books, papers, and other publications related to the company. Read these items to get more information about the company.Use social media to browse company profiles. If a company has a social media profile, read through the information and see who else is following the company. Evaluate this information to see if the company seems like a good fit for you. Do you believe in the company’s message?
See how the company treats its employees. Some companies, such as Zappos, focus so heavily on customer service that they will actually offer employees a bonus every year to quit. The idea is that employees who take the quitting bonus wouldn't be a good fit for the company to start with.Understanding the business's culture can go a long way to helping you decide if you'd be a good fit for it.
Read the company website. You can gain essential information about a company by reviewing the website. Start with the “about us” page. That page should give a brief history of the company and state its mission, vision, and philosophy. This information may help you determine if the company would be a good fit for you. Do you share their philosophy?
Do a quick search for available jobs. If the company website lists many job openings, that could indicate either high turnover or recent growth. Look for other clues as to which is the more likely explanation. Noting the length of time each job is posted may also be illuminating. If jobs remain open for weeks or months, the company may be struggling to find qualified applicants.
 Based on your research, create a target list of companies you would like to investigate. For now, don’t worry about whether these companies have jobs available; simply make a list of the best matches. You can refer to this list periodically, searching for any new job openings.Conduct company-specific Internet job searches. For each company, conduct periodic searches for job openings, using both the company’s website and broader employment websites. If you are actively looking for employment, run these searches every few days.
Perform searches on larger employment websites, such as Monster.com. You can narrow your results by adding keywords to the name of the company. For example, do a more defined search using “XYZ Company, project manager.”
Pursue each job lead that is a fit for your background and skill set. It may take months or years for you to find the right job opening at one of your target companies. If you’re willing to wait, you may be rewarded with an opportunity to find a job with your employer of choice.

