 Friendship is when two people respect, accept, and appreciate each other.You may become friends with someone who shares similar interests or values with you. While some aspects of friendship love may seem similar to romantic love, there is one big difference. Romantic love is about melding and blending two people, but friendship is about being fully accepted as an individual.


Some close friends live thousands of miles apart and rarely speak, but when they do it is as if they were never apart.
 Don't take friendship for granted. Instead, work to keep your relationship strong. You can do this in several ways. Put your friend's needs ahead of your own when it counts. Be available for your friend, even if it's inconvenient for you. More importantly, be the kind of friend you'd like to have.The beauty of friendship is that you appreciate each other’s differences. But, sometimes those differences can be dividing. Are you able to set aside what you want to support your friend in making the best choices for himself?

, If you and your friend are fighting, don't be afraid to talk about it. Put yourself in your friend's shoes to understand his viewpoint. If you aren't sure what's wrong or what the solution is, ask your friend. If it's something minor, patch things up. If not, respectfully let your friend you've given it some thought, have listened to him, and disagree.Keep your tone conversational and respectful. Truly listen to his point of view without judgment.
 While this doesn't mean becoming his bodyguard, you should commit to caring for his emotions and supporting him. Part of this means that you'll need to protect your friend from your own selfishness. Selfishness is a part of human nature, but learn to protect and put your friend before your own needs.


For example, if you really want to go see that new movie, but you know your friend has an early appointment, don't pressure them. Instead, support your friend and reschedule for a more convenient time to see the movie.
 Respect your friend even when he's not around. No one enjoys being talked about or discussed behind their back. Avoid starting gossipy conversations, and be firm in redirecting or stopping such discussions if they start. Your friend should be able to trust you with his vulnerabilities.


Your friend may feel betrayed to learn that you didn't protect him or stand up for him. It may even cause the end of the friendship.

