 It's important that you know from the outset: there's no guarantee that machine-washing your item won't do damage to it. Durable items, like boots or jackets, might be the best candidates for machine-washing.Don't wash leather that is brightly colored, as color may fade in the washing machine.
Avoid washing leather items that have delicate seams or lots of detailing, unless you're comfortable risking damage to these features.
If an item is expensive and needs to be cleaned, like a fancy pair of boots or a nice suede jacket, use a spot cleaning method or a professional cleaning service., This gentle soap is relatively easy on leather, which can be damaged by soaps that are more abrasive. Any type of castile soap will do. If you can't find it at the store, you can make your own., Castile soap is used in the same way you'd use regular laundry detergent. Add the soap to your laundry machine in the fashion your machine requires and turn the water setting to “Cold.”







, To prevent your leather item from taking too much of a beating during the wash cycle, you may want to throw in a few other black items to absorb some shock. Use the gentlest setting your washer has.









Turn your leather item inside out, if possible, and then zip all zippers and fasten all fasteners. This process may help “flush” stains out while protecting the visible parts of the leather from damage., Keep an eye on the leather item as it washes. You’ll want to snag it from the washing machine as soon as the cycle is finished, so it doesn't get a chance to dry in there.








Leather that is dried crumpled, creased, or misshapen could cause it to permanently deform in these ways.
 Lay it out flat or hang it up. Smooth out the wrinkles and folds that formed in the wash. In some cases, you may be able to get some additional length out of the leather by pulling in it firmly to stretch it out while it’s still wet.









Be careful when stretching the leather. There’s no guarantee it won’t rip, and if it does it won’t be easy or cheap to fix., Avoid letting leather items dry directly in the sun. The sunlight can bake out important oils necessary to keep your leather supple.Hang the items to air dry out of the sun in a room. Open the windows to increase airflow and decrease dry times.








Don't use a hair dryer or any type of directed heat on your leather item.
If you use the dryer, make sure it's the "low" or "no-heat" setting., Leather conditioner will help restore the leather to its previous texture and protect it. Generally, conditioner is applied by being buffed into the leather with a paper towel or soft, lint-free cloth. After the conditioner is applied, the item is ready for use.








If you don’t have a commercial leather conditioner, try substituting a light application of olive oil. Apply the olive oil as you would a conditioner – by lightly buffing it into the leather.