 If you don't already have chalkboard paint, you can purchase this at most craft and hardware stores. Any other supplies you are lacking can be found at most general retailers or your local hardware store. For this project, you'll need:


Chalkboard paint
Drop cloth (optional; recommended)
Old painting (or print)
Paintbrush
Palette (or paper plate; optional)
Pliers (optional)
Screwdriver (optional)

, You'll be applying chalkboard paint to your old painting to transform it into a chalkboard, so you may want to lay down a drop cloth to cover your work surface with a drop cloth to catch drips or spatter. Work on a flat, level, sturdy surface.


When painting large pieces or multiple pieces at the same time with chalkboard paint, work in a room with good airflow to prevent the buildup of potentially dangerous fumes., Depending on the kind of frame your painting is in, you may have to adjust tabs holding the painting in the frame or remove fasteners with a screwdriver. In some cases, you may need to remove a hard backing, like cardboard, protecting the back of the painting.


When working with especially old paintings, the fasteners may have degraded, rusted, or become otherwise difficult to adjust. If this is your situation, you may have to replace the fasteners.
If your painting has been nailed to the frame, use pliers to remove these by pulling and gently twisting the nail free., For the best results, you should follow the label directions written on your paint to determine the best method for mixing. Generally, this involves closing the container and shaking the paint thoroughly., You may be able to dip a paintbrush straight into your paint container, but if not, pour some on a paper plate or artist's palette. Take your paintbrush and apply the paint in an even layer to the painted side of your painting.Use horizontal strokes (left to right, or vice versa) when painting your first layer of chalkboard paint.After your first layer is completely painted, wait several hours for the paint to dry before adding a second coat., Once your first coat is finished drying, add the second one in the same fashion as the first. However, this time use vertical (up and down, or vice versa) strokes with your brush.


When your second layer is completed, you'll need to let it cure for 24 hours to ensure a strong bond between the paint and painting.After curing, you should condition the paint so that it writes smoothly. Take a piece of chalk and rub its side gently against the paint until it is covered., Take your upcycled painting and return it to the frame, replace the backing if there is any, and refasten the fasteners to lock the upcycled painting in place. Hang the frame, and enjoy your new blackboard.

