 If your phone has a glass screen (instead of a plastic one) you'll have to use a more heavy-duty solution than toothpaste or baking soda to get scratches off your phone. In this case, a cerium oxide polish is recommended.This type of polish can be bought as a soluble powder, or in a pre-mixed form. While the pre-mixed polish is obviously the more convenient option, you'll get much better value if you buy it in its powdered form.









100g of cerium oxide powder should be more than enough when it comes to polishing your phone screen.You may want to buy a larger amount in the event of future scratching however.
 Luckily, this is very easy, and likely worth the money you'll be saving. Pour some powder (approx. 50-100g) into a small container. Slowly add water until the solution has the consistency of dairy cream. Mix regularly as you add the water in order to make sure your measurements are correct.









Measurements don't have to be perfect in the case of this polish, so long as you make sure there's enough water for the polish to soak into an applicator.
This step can be disregarded completely if you buy a pre-mixed polish.
 It can also potentially endanger your phone's cam lens. With that in mind, you should first cordon off the area you'd like to have polished with tape. Cover up whatever parts of your phone that might have problems if they're touched by the polish.









Taping up your phone before cleaning may seem overzealous, but it's highly recommended you follow through with this step before proceeding forward. In the case of a foul-up, your phone can be quickly wrecked otherwise.
 Dab a smooth polishing cloth in your cerium oxide mix, and rub the scratched area in a vigorous, circular motion.Regularly check to see how the scratch is looking as you tend the area. Every 30 seconds or so, it's a good idea to wipe away the mix with the opposite end of your cloth, dab the cloth in new polish, and repeat the process for maximum effectiveness.









When applying an abrasive polish, you'll want to go harder with the application than if you were simply cleaning it. Make sure not to go too hard, however. There would be nothing worse than causing new cracks in the screen while you're trying to fix old ones.
 Once you've applied and cleaned off the polish, it won't hurt to give your phone a quick once-over with a polishing cloth. This will wipe away any excess debris caused by the polish process. Remove the tape you added before polishing and wipe your phone. It doesn't need to take more than a minute or two to do thoroughly, but you may be impressed how much nicer your phone looks once you've wiped away the excess muck.









You should wipe your screen regularly. Twice a day may sound like a lot, but it only takes a second, and will ensure your screen stays healthy.

