 Make niyyah to purify yourself for the sake of Allah – and then wash your hands. Center yourself, quietly, and focus on why you are doing this. Purify yourself.


Swish water in your mouth three times to remove remaining food. Inhale water into your nose to clear your breathing passages.
Wash your face three times: use your hand to spread water from your right ear to your left ear, and then from your hairline down to your chin. Thoroughly wash your feet and your forearms – three times each. Clean your head and wash out your ears.
Bear in mind that you must repeat Wudu if you nullify it. Any form of body discharge (urination, defecation, gas, bleeding) invalidates Wudu, as does a bout of deep sleep.;
, The Qibla is the direction of the Kaaba in Mecca. All Muslims face this place when they pray during salat. There are various online map apps that can point you in the Qibla from your current location.If possible, stand in a high place, like a tower, a rooftop, or an upstairs window.
 Take a few moments of concentrated silence to think about what you are about to do. Think about why you are calling the adhan: consider what this moment means to you, to your faith, and to the people who you are calling.
 Muffle your ears with your index fingers, or clasp your hands over the opening from the outside. This step is optional, but traditional. Plugging your ears may help you set your intention and focus on the words you are about to say.
 Say them slowly, in a loud and clear voice. Consider singing the words, if you feel comfortable doing so. If you aren't sure how to say everything, listen to other people call the adhan before you try. Search the Internet for videos and recordings of this call to prayer.After you recite each sentence, the rest who are praying together (jama'ah) will answer (recite softly) every phrase that the muezzin recites – with one exception. After "Hayya 'ala al-salah" and "Hayya 'ala al-falah," the others should answer with "La hawla wala kuwata ila billah:" "There is no Power or Authority except Allah."

, This means "Allah is the greatest". Group the repetition into two sets of two: "Allahu Akbar; Allahu Akbar. Allahu Akbar; Allahu Akbar!"Be aware that followers of the Maliki Madhab say this line twice instead of four times.
 This means "I testify that there is no god but Allah." Pronounce it "ash-hadu awn-la il-aha ill-all-ah".
 Pronounce it "ash-hadu awn-a Mu-ha-mud-awn rah-sool all-ah"., This means, "Come to prayer." Pronounce it "high-ah-ala al-sal-ah".
 It translates to "Come to felicity." Pronounce it "high-ah-ala al-fa-lah".
 There is some disagreement about what comes after "Hayya'ala al-falah" and before the final repetitions of "Allahu Akbar". The words that you use here will depend on which school of Islam you follow. Be aware of the implications, and be careful not to offend anyone. If you aren't sure what to do, consider skipping this line and moving on to the next phrase.


If you are a Sunni, say "Assalatu khayru min an-naum" here. This means "Prayer is better than sleep."Only use this line when calling Fajr, the dawn prayer.If you are a Shia, say "Hayya- al Khair al amal." This encourages worshipers to "Hasten toward the best thing."

,, Most muezzins only say this once, according to the four schools, although the Imamis say it twice. The Malikis and Shafi’is permit repetition of the last line, considering it sunnah: the adhan, according to them, is not invalid if it is recited only once, as the Imamis hold.
 You do not need to fill this space with a du'a, but it is mustahabb (preferred) to do so.A du'a is a personal prayer or meditation. Say, "Allahumma Rabba Hathihi Al-Da'awati Al-Taamma Wal Salati Al-qaa’ima, Aati Sayyedana Muhammadan Al-Wasilata Wal-Fadilata Wal-Darajata Al-'aleyata Al Rafî‘a, Wa b‘ath-hu Allahumma Maqaman Mahmudan Allathi Wa‘adtahu, Innaka La Tokhlifu Al-Mee'ad.", This is the final call to prayer before the beginning of salah. The exact words and their repetitions will vary from school to school, so consider asking a respected member of your community about exactly what to say. Once you say the iqama, the prayer session can begin.Say the iqama with a lower voice than you called the adhan. People should still be able to hear you, but they should be closer now.