 While contemporary poems don’t always have a steady rhythm, most older poems do. One common rhyme scheme is iambic pentameter.


“Pentameter” refers to how many feet - i.e. groups of syllables - are in the line. There are 5 feet (1.5 m) in the poem, penned by Shakespeare, given below.
“Iambic” refers to how many beats are in each foot and how those the beats are given emphasis. An iamb is an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable. That means it has two beats in each foot, giving the line 10 beats in total.;
, Let’s look at a stanza (one group of lines) in iambic pentameter.


This stanza is from "Sonnet XII" written by William Shakespeare:

“When I do count the clock that tells the time,
And see the brave day sunk in hideous night;
When I behold the violet past prime,
And sable curls, all silvered o'er with white; ”


Read the stanza aloud. Each line has 10 beats or syllables. Notice how it forms a natural rhythm. In the first line, “I,” “count,” “clock,” "tells," and “time” are all stressed, while “When,” “do,” “the,” "that," and “the” are not.
If you’re having trouble identifying the natural rhythm, try tapping a hand along as you read, tapping harder on every second beat; pa-PUM, pa-PUM, pa-PUM, pa-PUM, pa-PUM.
 When annotating a poem, an unstressed syllable is marked with a little curved line (curving upwards like a U, only wider) while a stressed symbol is marked with a forward slash. On the computer, it’s common to use an “x” for unstressed and a “/” for stressed, as follows:


x / x / x / x / x /
“When I do count the clock that tells the time,
x / x / x / x / x /
And see the brave day sunk in hideous night;
x / x / x / x / x /
When I behold the violet past prime,
x / x / x / x / x /
And sable curls, all silvered o'er with white; ”

, While iambic pentameter was used most notably by Shakespeare and other poets of old, it is not the only form and certainly not the most popular. Food for thought:


Some poems use a foot with three beats, which is called anapest (two unstressed beats and one stressed beat) or dactyl (one stress beat followed by two unstressed beats).
Trochee has two beats like iambic, but it is a stressed beat followed by an unstressed beat.
In addition, some poems have different line lengths: monometer (one foot), dimeter (two feet), trimeter (three feet), tetrameter (four feet), pentameter (five feet), hexameter (six feet), and so on.
 You can draw a line between syllables if it helps. A syllable is where the work naturally breaks. For instance, the word “pentameter” has four syllables:“pent,” “a,” “me,” and “ter.”


Most of the time, words will break into syllables in poems the same way they do when you speak them, but poets occasionally cheat to fit a line.
Once you have broken down each word of the poem into syllables, you can start labeling which syllables are stressed and which are unstressed. Read the poem aloud to hear its natural rhythm.
 Once you have your feet, count them. You can now see what type of scansion (rhythm and meter) the poem has. Shakespeare's sonnet has ten syllables, and therefore, five iambs.
 .


In order to identify that rhythm, it is helpful to read an example poem aloud. Poetry is meant to be heard as well as read.
In a contemporary poem, rhythm is usually created with line breaks, punctuation, and spaces. Use these cues when reading aloud to help establish the rhythm and feel of the poem.
 In contemporary poetry, lines sometimes end with periods, which causes the speaker to make a full pause. Lines also frequently continue the sentence on to the next line, which in turn can create a different meaning on each line. This continuation is called enjambment.


Take the first few lines of E. E. Cummings’ poem “”:

“in Just-
spring when the world is mud-
luscious the little
lame balloon man”



, If you are just reading the first and second line, you hear, “In Just- / spring when the world is mud-”, which can mean the world is grimy and primal, a negative connotation.


However, as you move to the next line, it continues the word, making it “mud-lucious,” which in turn can be interpreted into images of wet, beautiful flower beds filled with tiny new plants and the impending birth of flora and fauna in the coming months.
Also, note that Cummings creates his own rhythm in the poem with spaces, hyphens, and line breaks. Circle where you notice the natural rhythm of the poem breaking, as that can be important for the meaning.
 Most of us learned language as children through rhyming. It connects the poem and gives it a certain flow. Remember that words that end differently can still rhyme, and that if the poem is written in a different language or dialect, the different pronunciation can lead to rhymes you are unaware of. When marking a rhyme scheme, you place one letter by all the words that rhyme with each other, and another letter for each other set of rhyming words, as depicted below.


Let’s look again at Shakespeare's poem:

“When I do count the clock that tells the time, A
And see the brave day sunk in hideous night; B
When I behold the violet past prime, A
And sable curls, all silvered o'er with white; B
When lofty trees I see barren of leaves, C
Which erst from heat did canopy the herd, D
And summer's green all girded up in sheaves, C
Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard, D
Then of thy beauty do I question make, E
That thou among the wastes of time must go, F
Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake E
And die as fast as they see others grow; F
And nothing 'against Time's scythe can make defense G
Save breed, to brave him when he takes thee hence. G



, .


Again, while looking at your poem, mark the words that rhyme with sets of letters. Note where the poem breaks rhyme, if it does at all.
 Contemporary poets are less likely to use end rhymes.
 Alliteration is the repetition of beginning consonant sounds, and assonance is the repetition of vowel sounds. Consonance is the repetition of end sounds.


For instance, the first stanza of Robert Frost’s poem, "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening," has a number of “w” sounds:

“Whose woods these are I think I know.
His house is in the village though;
He will not see me stopping here
To watch his woods fill up with snow.”


The “w” sound is very soft, much like the scene; it mimics the softness of the falling snow. Summarily, listen for any repeated sounds. Think about how the sound feels in your mouth.

Is it hard? Does it want to stay in your mouth for a moment? Is it soft? Does it hiss from your throat? Overall, the collection of sounds a poet uses affects how the poem feels, and therefore how the poet wants you to feel while reading it.
 You are looking for anything that is not literal; for instance, a simile is a comparison between two things that uses “like” or “as,” while a metaphor is a similar comparison, but it doesn’t use “like” or “as.” Both of these literary devices are common in poetry, and further emphasize the imagery and emotions evoked by the poem.


Let’s look at "Harlem," a poem written by Langston Hughes:

“What happens to a dream deferred?
Does it dry up
like a raisin in the sun?
Or fester like a sore--
And then run?
Does it stink like rotten meat?
Or crust and sugar over--
like a syrupy sweet?
Maybe it just sags
like a heavy load.
Or does it explode?”



, The deferred dream is compared to a series of things through the whole poem: “a raisin in the sun,” “a sore,” “rotten meat,” “a syrupy sweet,” and “a heavy load.”


Each of these comparisons is a simile because it uses “like.” Hughes uses these comparisons to describe the fate of an unfulfilled dream.
 Go through your poem. First look for the words “like” or “as,” and then underline the phrase after them. Look for what the phrase is being compared to, and underline that as well. Check for other comparisons that don’t use “like” or “as,” and underline them also.
 Look for analogies, onomatopoeia (words that replace a real-world sound, such as “meow” or “buzz”), personification (giving human characteristics to inanimate objects) - anything that isn't strictly literal. Look for symbolism, such as an eagle standing for patriotism. Underline these as you go.
 As you go through the poem, you’re bound to run into phrases or allusions you don’t understand. An allusion is a reference to something else, such as a poem referencing the biblical flood and Noah when describing a downpour. Circle any allusion you find.


Also, draw a squiggly line under any word or allusion that you don’t understand so you can look it up. It's useful to note the different meanings of these words to gain more insight into what the poet is speaking about.
Once you’ve looked up anything you don’t understand, write little notes in the margin about them to jog your memory.
 What kinds of words is the poet using? Do they make you feel angry? Content?


For instance, in Frost’s poem above, he uses a tone that makes you feel contemplative; his words are soft, quiet, and rhythmic, like snow drifts.
List the words from the poem that make you feel pensive and explain why they do so.
 Every poem has a speaker which may or may not be the poet. What does the poem tell you about the speaker? What is the speaker’s agenda?


Jot down notes, based on phrases from the poem, that give you clues about the speaker.
For instance, you can tell that the speaker in Harlem is a bit frustrated, as he or she talks about a dream rotting and exploding.
 Who is the poem intended for? Is everyone supposed to read it, or does it speak to a particular group? Pull out phrases that help support your argument.
 With all of your newfound insights, read the poem again as a whole. The poem will hold more depth and meaning.


Think about how all of these techniques work together to create the feeling of the poem— for example, how the rhythm in Frost’s poem works with the sound to create the feeling of a lullaby and how Shakespeare painted the passage of time through well-chosen phrases. Poets convey emotion through the use of rhythm, rhyme, and other literary devices. All of these elements work in tandem to create a unique experience.

