 This will strengthen your desire to remain tobacco free. Peer pressure is a big cause of teen smoking, so being around positive influences can help you avoid smoking.


Take a tobacco free pledge. Talk to your friends about making a promise to yourselves and others that you will be tobacco free. Join a tobacco-free advocacy group. You can start a club at your school to help others avoid the temptations of smoking. Make not smoking the social norm. Don’t let tobacco use be a part of your group. Use peer pressure to avoid tobacco rather than using it. ;
, Smoking can be tempting if everyone else is doing it.


Realize that smoking will not make you more friends. It’s an addiction that is damaging to your health.
Secondhand smoke can be dangerous and addictive. If someone is smoking, leave the area immediately.
Surround yourself with positive influences. Many teens want to do whatever it takes to fit in.
 Think about ways you can say no and refuse tobacco. Think about how you’ll say no if you are offered tobacco. Having a plan makes you more likely to know how to refuse tobacco from friends and peers.
Be confident when you refuse tobacco. Use humor if it’s appropriate, but be direct and firm in your refusal Stand up for what you believe in. If you don’t want to smoke, be proud of why and don’t let others put down your decision not to smoke.
If you don’t feel comfortable standing up for your tobacco-free lifestyle, consider changing the topic or make a generic excuse. You may not want to have a long conversation about tobacco use.
Leave if you get uncomfortable. No one can force you to use tobacco, so get out of there if it seems like someone is trying to.
 Consider joining health groups, athletic teams, or academic clubs. These groups promote a health lifestyle and discourage tobacco use.


Look into health-conscious groups at your school. Think about joining weight lifting clubs, running clubs, or healthy eating clubs.
Try out for an athletic team. Athletes cannot smoke because it damages their lung power. Also, athletic teams can give you tobacco-free friends to help you avoid temptation.
Join academic clubs. Look into groups like Debate, Model U.N., or Quiz Bowl. Higher academic success usually correlates with lower smoking rates. Focus on your studies and you won’t have time or motivation to use tobacco. , If you can maintain close ties with others that have a shared identity, it’s easier to avoid tobacco use together than by yourself. Religious participation is correlated to less tobacco use. Try attending religious services and ceremonies to be around a positive and smoke-free environment.
Higher academic achievement is also linked to less tobacco use. Concentrate on your studies so you can avoid tobacco.
Ethnic pride is also connected to decreased tobacco use. If you are part of an ethic or racial group, forge those ties in a non-smoking environment. Celebrate your unique culture rather than use tobacco.

