 Exposure to ultraviolet (UV) rays can trigger a cold sore outbreak. You can prevent a cold sore from forming by taking precautions before going out in the sun. Wear good quality sunblock on your face each time you go outside. Make sure your lip balm contains SPF 15 or higher as well.


Even during the winter, the sun can trigger an outbreak. Be sure to wear sunblock all year round.
Tanning beds can also trigger outbreaks. If you're sensitive to the sun, you'll also be sensitive to the UV light used in tanning beds.;
, Your immune system can suffer if you aren't getting adequate nutrition. When you aren't watching what you eat, you're more likely to have a cold sore outbreak. Focus on eating a healthy, balanced diet that includes plenty of produce, protein and whole grains.Increase the amount and variety of raw vegetables and fruit that you eat. In particular, consume broccoli, brussel sprouts and cabbage. These vegetables are high in indole-3-carbinol (I3C), which may interfere with the growth of the herpes virus.
Decrease the amount of processed meat products, saturated animal fats, white and refined sugars, artificial sweeteners, white flour, alcohol and caffeine that you consume. All of these are known to increase the frequency of cold sores.
Avoid foods that have a high amount of arginine. Arginine is an amino acid that serves as a building block for cold sores. Foods high in arginine include chocolate, nuts, seeds, oats, beer and most protein shakes.
 When your body is overtaxed, your immune system suffers and the virus is more likely to make itself known. Many people have outbreaks when they're feeling generally run down and stressed out. Take the following measures to keep yourself well rested and calm:Get plenty of sleep. Pulling all-nighters and rushing around all day takes a toll. Do your best to adhere to a sleep schedule that allows you to get seven to eight hours of sleep, so you feel well-rested.
Exercise regularly. Exercising is a good stress reliever that can help you calm down during anxious times. It also tires you out in a healthy way so you can sleep better at night.
 Getting the flu or a cold is a common trigger for cold sores. The winter months can be particularly trying, so pay special attention to your habits when the weather turns cold and illnesses start getting passed around.


The best way to keep yourself from getting sick is by washing your hands regularly using soap and warm water. Take special care when you spend time in a public setting, such as the subway or train station.
As soon as you start feeling a cold coming on, make sure you're well hydrated and try to get some rest. Avoid staying up to late and drinking alcohol. Sometimes you can stop a cold from taking hold if you catch it soon enough., Menstruation can be a trigger for some women, so it's important to anticipate the problem and head it off each month. As your period approaches, make sure you're getting plenty of sleep, eating well, and staying hydrated. These actions will help to reduce your other menstrual symptoms as well.
 The herpes virus can live on your toothbrush, so it's important to change it often. When you develop a cold sore, throw your toothbrush away. When the cold sore goes away, change your toothbrush again. This will prevent you from getting a second outbreak after the first one goes away.

