 Foam and silicone earplugs are the most common means of hearing protection at concerts, and an effective method to block harmful levels of sound from your ears. Foam or silicone earplugs can protect you from serious hearing damage, and serve to block out harmful levels of sound.You can compress foam earplugs before you put them into your ears, and then they will expand to fill your ear canal. You can shape silicone earplugs to conform to the shape of your ears.
If you’re at a concert without earplugs, never improvise by stuffing tissues or wadded cotton balls into your ears.Not only will these materials fail at blocking sound, but they may cause physical damage to your ears if you shove the tissue or cotton in too deeply.
You can purchase earplugs at a grocery store, drugstore, or in larger stores, like Walmart or Target.;
, If you attend concerts frequently or would like earplugs that offer more protection than everyday foam earplugs, consider being measured for a pair of custom earplugs. These are designed to fit the dimensions of your ears, and are made of a higher-quality material that blocks a higher number of decibels.Another benefit of custom earplugs is that they will not simply mute all levels of sound (like foam earplugs will), but they’ll effectively filter the music so that you can still hear well and not feel like you’re listening to the concert from underwater.There are multiple business that create and sell custom earplugs. You can start looking for one of these companies with an online search: check out companies such as Radians, Ear Peace, and Decibulls.
 Regardless of the type of earplugs you’re wearing, you’ll be at a greater risk of hearing loss if you stand right in front of the speakers and amplifiers, or right in front of the loud band. As a general rule, the back of the room will be quieter than the front. If you’re able to choose your own location at the concert, opt for a setting as far as possible from speakers and amps.Always sit at least 10 feet (3 meters) away from any speakers.
If you’re at a concert with assigned seating, consider purchasing seats farther away from the stage. As an additional benefit, these seats will likely be less expensive.

