 Standing or sitting with your feet flat on the ground can exacerbate edema because growing pressure on your veins hinders the return of blood to your heart.Avoid standing or sitting with your feet flat on the floor for long periods, which may help reduce edema, especially in your feet and ankles.It is impossible to not be on your feet at times. If you are standing, try and take sitting breaks and rotate your feet and ankles while you do to help circulate the fluid.Make sure you wear comfortable shoes during pregnancy. Shoes that are too tight, or even high heels, may make your edema worse and can also increase your discomfort.;
, At times when you are resting, put your feet up. Not only can this help you relax, but it may make it easier for your body to recirculate blood and the fluids and dissipate any edema you are experiencing.You may want to elevate your feet above your heart for best results, but do what makes you most comfortable.Consider elevating your legs slightly with pillows while you sleep., Compression stockings or socks help improve blood and fluid flow in your legs. Wear a pair of compression garments to help reduce your edema.Depending on the severity of your edema, you can get different pressures of stockings — from light to strong.You don’t need a prescription from your doctor to purchase compression stockings, but you may want to consult with her to see if it is a good option for you.
You may be able to get your insurance to pay for compression stockings.You can get compression garments at many pharmacies and most medical supply stores., Clothes that are tight around your wrists, arms, or ankles can become extremely uncomfortable if you have swelling from edema. Wear loose and natural fiber clothing to help minimize discomfort and the risk of constricting your ability to move.You may want to wear clothing designed specifically for pregnancy, which is meant to grow with you and is often less constricting than non-maternity clothes.
Wearing cool, loose, and smooth textured clothing such as cotton or merino wool can also prevent overheating and excess sweating, which can exacerbate edema.
 There is some research suggesting that massage can help reduce edema during pregnancy. Give yourself a massage in the affected areas or consider seeing a professional masseuse to help relieve edema.


Stroke the areas affected by edema in motions toward your heart, which can encourage the excess fluids to back to your heart.Use firm pressure that does not cause you any pain.Ask your doctor to suggest a masseuse that specializes in pregnancy massage.
 Hot weather and sun exposure can exacerbate edema. Seeking out shade, staying inside in air-conditioning, or avoiding the sun may help reduce your edema.If you notice that you’re beginning to swell in the heat, get to a cooler location to minimize your risk of getting edema that is very uncomfortable., If you are outside and don’t have a chance to get inside, you can go for a swim or rest in a pool or other body of water.This can cool you down and take pressure off of your joints, which may reduce any edema you have or prevent swelling.Swimming is an excellent option because it helps circulate blood and the fluids in your body.If you can’t swim, you can float in the water, or even consider just walking in the water., Cold reduces blood flow to areas, which reduces swelling and may also provide some comfort. Apply cold packs or compresses to any areas on which you’re experiencing edema to help reduce it.You can place a cold compress on swollen areas intermittently for 10 to 15 minutes, once every two hours or as needed.Make sure you always wrap ice packs in a towel or t-shirt to prevent skin damage and frostbite.
 Sleep in a bedroom that is comfortable, cool, and well ventilated. In addition, sleep on your left side if you can. By controlling factors such as the temperature and position, and even having comfortable bedding, you may help reduce any pregnancy-related edema you are experiencing.Sleep on your left side if possible. This position puts less pressure on your inferior vena cava, which is the large vein that returns blood from your lower body to your heart, and can help control edema.Set temperature in bedroom to between 60 to 75°F (15.6 to 23.9°C) for optimal sleeping conditions.Use a fan to keep air circulating or open a window.
Make up your bed with natural fabric bedding such as cotton. This can help control your temperature, which in turn may reduce edema.

