 You can get a replacement certificate for a variety of reasons. Principally, if your certificate is lost, stolen, or mutilated, then you can get a replacement. You cannot get a replacement to change a date of birth—unless the wrong birthdate was entered by USCIS. Other legitimate reasons for requesting a new certificate are:Clerical errors made by USCIS
Legal name change (permitted if made through court order or operation of law)
Legal gender change;
, You will need to provide USCIS with certain information in order to request a replacement certificate. You should gather this information before sitting down to complete your form:Personal information (name, address, and date of birth)
Country of birth
Certificate number
Alien Registration Number
Date of marriage or divorce (if applicable)
Information on how the original certificate was lost, stolen, or destroyed
Evidence of a gender change, e.g., a letter from a physician attesting to the change, as well as personal identification that reflects the change (such as a driver’s license or Social Security card), As part of your application, you will need to submit two color photographs of yourself that are identical. They should be taken within 30 days of filing the application.The photographs should have a white or off-white background and be printed with a glossy finish on thin paper. Do not mount or retouch the photographs.
Passport-style photographs must be 2”x2”. Your full face must show, although you are allowed to wear a headdress for religious reasons (provided it does not cover the face).
On the back of each photograph, you should print your name and A-Number with a pencil or felt pen.
 You will need to use form N-565, “Application for Replacement Naturalization/Citizenship Document,” to request a replacement certificate. The form is available for download at http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/n-565.pdf. You may also request a form by calling 1-800-870-3676.You should also download the special instructions, available at http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/n-565instr.pdf. These instructions can help you complete the form and will tell you where to file it.
 You can type in the form online or print it off and use black ink. If you have someone else prepare the form for you, then that person will have to identify him or herself and provide contact information.If you need extra space to explain something, then you can attach an extra sheet. Make sure to write your name and Alien Registration Number (A-Number, if applicable) at the top of each sheet. Also indicate the part and item number of the form to which your answer refers. Date and sign each additional sheet.You will also need to attach your certificate if it has been mutilated, or if you are applying for a name change.
If applying for a new certificate because of a name change, then attach a copy of the marriage certificate or court order showing the name change.Attach proof of gender change, if applicable.
 Make a copy of your application for your records. Then mail the form to the appropriate address. USCIS has two Service Centers for the entire nation: one in Texas and one in Nebraska. Which one you mail to will depend on the state you reside in.


To find which center you should file with, check the instructions.
 A fee of $345 is required, unless you are requesting a replacement in order to correct an error made by USCIS.Your check or money order should be made out to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.” Do not use initials or an acronym for the agency; spell the full name out., After you submit your application, USCIS will review it. The agency may request additional information or documents. Also, the agency may request that you come to an office for an interview., If approved, the new certificate will be issued to you. If you are denied, then you will receive written notification explaining the reason for the denial.