 Many companies have a zero-tolerance policy for interoffice romance. Make a point to familiarize yourself with written policies on fraternization. Your Human Resources department has these policies on file. , Consider your future goals and be clear to yourself about what your job means to you. If you are uncomfortable with the possibility that this rendezvous could end up negatively affecting your career, then it probably is not a good idea to pursue a one night stand with a coworker. Pros may include: having a one night stand with a person you're familiar with because you work together, having at least one thing in common (work) with the partner for the one night stand, and the exciting, “forbidden” nature of the affair.
Some cons could be: one of you could end up being fired, things could become awkward at work between the two of you, work place gossip may spread, and your reputation might be tarnished.
 Do not pursue the affair in order to escape your day-to-day work struggles. Today, many people are unsatisfied with their jobs, but this does not mean you should sleep with your co-worker who happens to sympathize with you; do not confuse sympathy with love or desire. Sympathy is an understanding or common feeling between people, generally in a negative context. For example, you can sympathize with someone who you do not even know because you share a common negative experience.Love is an intense feeling of affection or desire, where you want to get to know a person on a more intimate level.
 If you do decide to pursue the affair, know your game plan. Consider the worst case scenario, and have an exit strategy if things go south. Think about whether you would be willing to quit your job, and have a possible back-up in case things end up badly. Before the one-night stand, you can prepare your exit strategy by doing the following:


Make sure your resume, website, or work portfolio is up to date.
Contact colleagues and people you know from previous jobs for references and recommendations.
Look into the company’s other departments or job banks online to see if there are job openings you can apply to, or register with a temp agency.

