 A guy who's interested in you and who wants to flirt with you is going to be around. End of story. He's not going to be busy all the time, he'll make time for you. Even if he's shows his interest by ignoring you, he'll make sure to be ignoring you in person.


Remember, it's hard to flirt if he’s not even there. If he's never around, he's not likely to be flirting with you.
Even if he's not physically around, he'll make his presence felt by sending texts, calling you, and making sure to show up at the same things you’re going to.
 A guy who's interested in you and wants to spend time flirting with you might try to impress you. When he's doing or saying something "cool" he'll make sure to check in to see if you're paying attention to how awesome he is.


See if he tries to outdo his friends when he’s around you. He outdoes them in terms of the cool things he's done, he wants to outdance them on the dance floor (and show you what a good dancer he is), he wants to try out that new bike trick.
 A guy who likes you is going to laugh at your hilarious comments (even if they aren't that funny, especially if they aren't that funny). Your flirty banter is going to make him laugh, if he's into you.


Just remember, mean laughter is not a good sign. He can laugh at you when you're acting silly, but if his laughter hurts, run away from that guy. You don't want to flirt, or do anything else, with that guy.
 Again, a guy who is interested is a guy who is paying attention. If he's acting very kindly towards you, doing nice things for you, helping you out, there's a definite chance that he might be interested (especially depending on the types of things).


For example: if he brings you flowers, or a little something because he thought of you (even if it's something silly), that's a very good sign.
He also might do something like bring you soup when you’re sick. It shows that he's thinking of you and it shows that he's willing to help you out, especially if it's out of his way.
 This is a big one. A guy who has a flirty personality might be flirting with you, but that might be how he treats everyone. A guy who is looking to flirt with you because he's interested in you is going to treat you differently than he's going to treat other people, especially his friends.


For example: even if he’s giving lingering hand touches and flowers, if he’s doing that for all the ladies or gentlemen, then he might be flirting, but that’s simply how he operates. It’s probably not specific to you.
 There's nothing like a guy who steps in to take your side. If you're having an argument with someone, or someone is being mean to you, see if the guy takes this as his cue to help you out.


If someone is hurting your feelings does he step in? Even if he was teasing you earlier? This is a good sign that not only is he interested, but it goes beyond simply flirting.

