 Staying focused when you have ADHD can be a challenge. Make studying easier by choosing a study spot that is quiet and distraction-free. You may choose to study in your room with the door closed. Or you may pick a quiet spot in your school library.If you are studying at home, let everyone know you are studying and that you are not to be disturbed. Ask everyone in your household to be quiet and respect your need for focus.
 When you have ADHD, you may find working intensively in short chunks may be more effective than trying to study for prolonged periods of time. Break your studying up into manageable chunks, such as 30 minutes at a time. This can help you stay focused and retain information without feeling overwhelmed or distracted.For example, you may try studying for 30 minutes and then getting up and doing something else for 5-10 minutes. Repeat this until you get used to focusing for 30 minutes at a time, followed by short breaks.Instead of cramming the night before, try studying for smaller periods every day for a few days leading up to a test. For example, instead of studying for three hours the night before, try studying for 45 minutes every day for four days., Sitting still can be a challenge if you have ADHD. Do not be afraid to move around while you study. Walk or march while you read a textbook. Pace around as you memorize study terms or read over your study notes. Moving around can make focusing easier for you, especially if you tend to fidget or have trouble sitting still.You can also try sitting on a chair that shifts or rocks to help you stay focused. Get a sitting disk, which is a lightweight portable cushion that fits on the top of a chair seat. This way, you can still move around in a gentle, controlled way and focus on studying.
 Reading out loud helps you use your auditory skills. It can also help you memorize information and retain it better. Try reading your study materials out loud, focusing on each word. Walk or march as you read. This will help you focus your attention on the study materials.You can also try reading a section of your study materials to yourself and then paraphrasing it out loud in your own words. This can help you retain the information better and process the information more effectively.
 If you start to feel your attention start to drift, try changing subjects. This is called shifting, where you shift to a new topic or subject when you start to drift. Have a different subject or topic on hand so you can shift easily. Try shifting back and forth between assignments until all of your work is completed.Make shifting between subjects part of your study plan so you can change subjects easily. Doing this can help you stay productive without feeling overwhelmed.

