 While the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends breastfeeding when possible, the AAP has also noted that breast milk alone may not supply babies with enough iron during their first year of life. Consider that:


Breast milk contains very little iron.
Babies who breastfeed are at a higher risk of developing iron deficiency after four months of age than babies who are given formula.
The longer you continue to breastfeed, the more iron supplementation your baby may need.;
, Because breast milk contains very little iron, babies who are breastfed should be given an iron supplement.


Without some sort of iron supplement in their diet, a baby who is breastfed may become iron deficient.
Breastfeeding babies should be given 1 mg of liquid iron supplement per kilogram of body weight a day between four and six months of age. Do not start supplementation earlier than four months.
Make sure you do not provide too much iron to your baby, or they may get iron poisoning. This can affect their heart, lungs, and liver.Follow advised guidelines and your pediatrician’s guidance as close as you can, and do not give more iron unless you are specifically instructed to do so.
Talk to your pediatrician if you have any questions at all., After learning about iron supplements, you'll have to administer some to your baby. While the process is fairly simple, there are some things you should consider.Ask your pediatrician to recommend or prescribe iron supplements for your child.
Begin administering iron supplement after your baby is four months old (unless your doctor recommends earlier). Continue providing supplements until your baby is regularly eating solid, iron-enriched foods, generally around six months.
Drop 1 mg of the supplement per kilogram of body weight into a small amount of water, breastmilk, or another liquid. You can also use a dropper to put it directly into your baby's mouth.
Do not exceed the recommended dose unless your doctor tells you to do so., Nursing mothers with certain dietary restrictions or problems may need to take supplements. Ultimately, while the baby does not get much iron from breastmilk, it is still important to maintain healthy iron levels while nursing.


Women on vegan or vegetarian diets should take a B-complex supplement.
Women who have a history of iron deficiency or anemia should take iron supplements.
Consult your doctor if you have any questions about supplements you should take when breastfeeding.