 Having friends on your side during this ordeal can give you the encouragement you need to not let the bullying bring you down. If you make new friends in the same area in which the bully resides, chances are, you’ll make friends with someone who was bullied by her before. If nothing else, having a friend you can vent to and talk about what is going on may make you feel better about the situation.


Look for local mom groups in your area to find friends. You can also join groups that focus on your interests and meet people who like the same things you do. You can also try to meet people at church, through work, and in your neighborhood., If the bully is really getting you down, you may want to seek professional help. The therapist may help you realize that what the bully says isn’t true, or what she does doesn’t need to have an effect on you. The therapist can also give you techniques to calm down and de-stress when the bully has you feeling anxious and upset.


You may also want to consider joining a support group for victims of bullying. Being around others and creating relationships with them may give you the help you need to get through this difficult time.Try to look at the experience as an opportunity to grow and gain a better understanding of why you reacted to the bully in the way that you did.
 You may feel like giving the bully a taste of her own medicine. You may want to spread rumors and gossip about her to others to make her feel the same way you are. Remember, however, that your children are watching you and learning by your example.


Whenever you are upset about the bully, do something fun with your kids. Allow them to protect you with their laughter and fun. Let them remind you that what this bully says or does doesn’t mean anything. Your kids and family are what is most important, not her., By distracting yourself with other things that you need or want to do, you will avoid having too much time to ruminate on your encounters with the bully. This will prevent the bully from overtaking your thoughts and energy.


Make a to-do list each day to help yourself stay focused. Check off items as you complete them.
Try out a new hobby or activity to fill your free time. For example, you could take your kids hiking, take a cycling class, or teach yourself how to knit.

