 For a wooden block ornament, you have the freedom to use up to 6 different pictures. Sort through your photos and set aside your favorites. Trim each photo so that it will fit squarely on the face of the block with a small portion of the block visible around the edges.These can all be recent images, or you could select one photo from throughout the years for each side of the block to show how the subject has grown and matured.
Making a wooden block ornament is like a unique form of scrapbooking that you can show off during the holidays.
 Paint the faces of the block with an array of colors and patterns, or glue a square of patterned paper onto each side for a stylish collage effect. Or, if you prefer, you can leave the wooden surface plain or finished with a thin coat of stain to preserve the more rustic, down-home look. The block base is a blank canvas for this project, which means you’re free to be as imaginative as you want.Shop around for dazzling glitter and metallic paints, instead of ordinary solid colors. These will stand out more beneath the photos.
Get creative decorating the block. Use found materials like newspaper or eye-catching bits of fabric in place of ordinary paint, or to create stylish borders for each photo.
 Apply a thin layer of craft glue (a glue stick could also work well for this purpose) to the back of each photo and line them up with the faces of the block. Press down firmly on the picture to stick it in place. Run the pad of your finger over the surface of the photo to make sure it holds.


Work with a craft glue that isn’t too thick or runny and only use a small amount to keep from ruining the photo.
 Dab a little acrylic sealant onto each face of the block and use a thin paintbrush or sponge to spread a thin coat over the photo and wooden edges. Not only will this guarantee that the photo will stay right where you want it, it will also provide a permanent glossy finish. Let the acrylic sealant dry completely before hanging or handling the ornament.Applying a sealant will preserve and protect the ornament, ensuring that you get years and years of use out of it.
Brush the acrylic sealant thinly and evenly on each side.
 Finally, take the screw-in hook and drill it by hand into the flat part of one corner of the block. Test the hook to see if it’s firm and secure. You can now tie on a length of ribbon or fishing line and use it to hang the ornament, or simply slide the hook directly over a thin tree branch or nail. You’re finished!Find a place to screw in the hook where it won’t damage one of the photos.
If you’re feeling particularly crafty, add other embellishments like lace, beads or tassels to the ornament.

