 It's best to go with a pair that fits you snugly around the hips. Stretchy denims works well.









Wear them inside-out. Take a crayon or marker, and draw a line on both legs to show how tight you want them to be. Remember to make the line on the inside so when you wear them you can't see the seams on the outside of the leg. Make sure you draw the line on the opposite side of the manufacturer's original seam.
You can use pins to tack, but you might end up poking yourself or the pins might end up coming out when you take the jeans off.
As an alternative, take a pair of skinny jeans you already own as a guide. Spread out the pair you want to reconstruct inside-out and lay the skinny jeans on top (lining up the crotch). Make sure the seam is evenly on the edge (of both pairs) and take your chalk down the side of your pants, starting about mid-thigh, mirroring the line of the skinnies.

Iron your jeans first to make everything easier. Flat, unwrinkled jeans are easier to work with.

;
, Choose thread that is preferably dark and blends in with the color of your jeans. Jean thread is best as it can withstand the wear and tear your jeans will go through. Thread your needle after slipping off your jeans, and begin to sew. Trace over the line you drew with the running stitch.









Start on the seam that is already there, backstitch a few times, and carefully follow your line all the way down making sure the edge of the denim remains flat. (Pins work for that.)If you're using a sewing machine and concerned the first go-round may not be ideal, set your machine to the loosest stitch in case you have to take it out.
 Walk around in them to see that the legs fit well, or you may want to jog a little -- sometimes jeans can come loose if you start moving around, in which case you'll need to tighten them.









If you're unhappy, remove the stitches. But if they're tight, short, and spaced closely so that there are no bumps in your jeans and the stitches won't be pulled out in the wash, you're good to go. Work over each stitch as perfectly and as carefully as you can -- there's nothing worse than having a brand new pair of skinny jeans for one day and then having the stitches all pulled out the next. This will be hard work, but it is essential.
 Cut any excess fabric if necessary (use a zigzag stitch beforehand) or go over it with a serger, which will seal off the edge and cut off the fabric at the same time.









However, you might want to wear and wash your jeans at least once before you start cutting them up, in case you want to go back and fix something later on.

