 It’s just a fact that most vehicles tend to have reduced efficiency in the winter months. The Prius is no different.


The problem is that the climate control system in the car must run constantly in order to heat and defrost the inside of the car. This keeps your engine in constant motionThat in turn reduces fuel economy for the Prius in winter, usually to the 34 to 42 miles per gallon range for the Gen. II Prius and 38 to 46 miles per gallon for the Gen III model. Sometimes Prius drivers notice the reduced winter efficiency more than other drivers because they’re more focused on the multi-display screen on their dashboard that provides such data.Some people say gas mileage falls to between 33 and 40 miles per gallon down from 50 average in the summer. Battery capacity also goes down in cold weather.
 Some people worry that a Prius can’t handle ice and snow at all, so they avoid buying one if they live in colder climates. However, that’s not true.


The Prius is a front-wheel drive car. This means that the car’s heaviest portion is on the drive wheels, which will give the Prius better grip on snow and ice than a back-wheel drive car.
Furthermore, electric motors provide an advantage in the snow because of how they distribute torque. The car has a traction control system that will brake a spinning wheel.
Some people think the Prius won’t be good in snow because it has 5.25 inches of clearance above the ground. However, that’s usually enough clearance for roads, especially plowed roads. Non plowed roads in severe snowstorms will be a challenge for all cars, not just hybrids.
 Simple tips like not letting your tank go almost empty can make it easier to drive a Prius in the winter.


If you have more gas in your car, it should get better traction. That is because the gas will add weight to the car, which makes it drive better in snow and ice.
The other problem with almost empty gas tanks is that they are susceptible to condensation. This can then form in the tank, and it freezes the fuel lines. That in turn could stop your car from starting.
Never run your vehicle in an enclosed area like a garage.