 Find out whether the nursing homes you're considering are covered by private medical insurance or government funding. It may be necessary to pay a portion of the care cost out of your own pocket until insurance kicks in.
 If using an online search engine, enter specific keywords such as "Alzheimer's care" or "dementia care." You can also go to government Web sites such as Medicare's Nursing Home Compare, independent review sites such as CareGrade.com or SeniorsApprove.com, or background-checking sites such as LexisNexis' ChoiceTrust.
 Use their online forms to specify Alzheimer's disease or dementia care when contacting them, if they have such forms available.
 These experts may include family doctors or specialists in dementia care, as well as social service agency representatives, clergy and state and county health departments. They can direct you to which nursing homes have good track records in taking care of dementia patients and who to contact at those homes to arrange an interview.
, Look at the quality and cost of care, as well as how far away the home is. While it may be tempting to put someone suffering from Alzheimer's or dementia in an out-of-the-way facility, both you and the loved one suffering from dementia will be happier if you and other friends and family members can visit regularly.
 Look at a nursing home's overall appearance and cleanliness. Also look at how well-staffed the home is on both weekdays and weekends and the overall attitude of the staff. Note how frequently the residents are visited by observing how full the home's parking lot is. Look at the residents themselves to see if they appear clean, well-fed and reasonably happy.
 They'll help you determine what you should be looking at if you don't trust your own common sense.
, If you hear something that sounds like the home may not provide adequate care for your loved one, trust your instincts and validate it in the interview before deciding to place your loved one in the home.
 In addition to looking over the nursing home inside and outside, interview the home's administrator and members of the nursing staff to evaluate whether or not the nursing home would be suitable for your loved one.
 You should also get copies of recent health inspection reports and ask how the home remedied problems identified in those reports.
, If the nursing home is to undergo a change in management, the change could be either beneficial or negative. You'll need to investigate the incoming owner as you did the home itself.
 It's helpful to corroborate the information given by the nursing home's administrator and staff with the observations of residents' family members to give you a more complete picture of the home. Ask them how the home handles nutrition, falls and incontinence and how well it manages their loved one's dementia care, as well as their opinions on the residents' quality of life.

