 It's a blue app that contains the image of a sealed, white envelope.


Your Mail app was likely configured with your email account (such as iCloud) when you set up your iPhone. If it was not, add an account ↓ before you attempt to send an email.;
, It looks like a pencil writing on a sheet of paper in the bottom-right corner of the screen.
 Tap the field labeled "To:" and use the iPhone keyboard to type the email address of the recipient.


As you type, Mail will suggest addresses similar to what you're typing. If the correct address is suggested, tap on it to autofill the "To:" field.
Tap the "To:" field again to enter more email addresses if you're sending to multiple recipients.
 Tap the "Subject:" field and type the subject of your email message.
 Tap the blank field below the subject line and type your message with the iPhone keyboard.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen. Now, your email message has been sent.
 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.
 It's in the section of the menu with other native Apple apps like Contacts and Notes.
 It's at the top of the menu.
 It's at the bottom of the first section.
 The preset options include iCloud, Microsoft/Outlook Exchange, Google, Yahoo!, AOL, and Outlook.com. If your email account is not from one of these services, tap Other at the bottom of the menu.


If you have a Hotmail account, tap Outlook.com, which is Microsoft's new name for the service.
 Enter the email address for the account you want to add to your iPhone.
 It's at the bottom of the menu.
 Enter the password associated with your email address.
 It's at the bottom of the screen.
 Depending on the account type, you may be asked to update security settings or to give the Mail app permission to access your account.


If prompted, tap Allow.
 It's at the top of the menu and will turn green.


Slide the buttons next to other types of data, like Calendars and Contacts, to the "On" (green) position to merge them onto your iPhone, as well.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen. Now you can send emails from your newly added account using your iPhone's Mail app.