 If you’ve tightened or replaced screws, filled stripped holes, and tried shims, but the door still sags, you’ll have to plane or sand. Scribing, or marking, the door will give you the line at which you stop removing wood by planing or sanding. First, use a carpenter’s compass to draw a line an 1/8 inch from the edge on the side of the door that rubs against the jamb. Trace the line with masking or painter’s tape to make it more visible.A carpenter’s compass is the easiest tool to use, and is inexpensive. If one’s not handy, use a pencil and straightedge.
Fix the masking tape to inside of the line you marked off: for example, if you scribed the left side of the door, fix the tape to the right side of the line.
 You don’t need to bother with unscrewing the hinges from the door face. You’ll be sanding or planning the strike edge rather than the hinge, so just pop the hinge pins and remove the door. Take the door to an open area, like a garage, and store it on a level surface, like sawhorses or a worktable.
 Using a belt sander is a great option. For the first 1/16 inch, use an 80-grit sanding belt. Keep the sander moving so you don’t wear a hole in one spot. Switch to 150-grit for the second half, then a 120-grit belt when you’ve gotten to the line in order to smooth it out.Remember, the humidity that causes the door to swell and stick at the bottom may disappear and leave the door too short during dry spells. Don’t remove too much of the door.
You might reattach the door and find you haven’t planed enough, in which case you’ll have to repeat the process one or more times. Remember you can take away more door but you cannot put back what you’ve already removed, so sand carefully.
If you’re sanding the latch edge of the door, be sure to first remove the latch hardware. You may have to use a sharp chisel to dig out the latch hole so it doesn’t protrude from the door after planing. If it sticks out a bit, you can often sand or plane it down in place., When you’ve determined that the door has been properly planed, remember to refinish and repaint the raw edge. Don’t do so until you’re sure you’ve finished sanding. A coat of varnish and paint will help prevent moisture from penetrating the wood, so you’ll be far less likely to have to fix a sag in the future.

