 In order to adjust your privacy settings, you'll need to log into the Facebook website.
 The arrow looks like ▼.
 This will open your Facebook settings.
 This will display your account privacy settings.
 You can hide your posts so that no one else besides you can see them, or limit them to a small set of close friends.


Click "Edit" next to "Who can see your future posts?" This will allow you to change the audience for who can view what you post.
Select "Only Me" to make all of your posts private. This will prevent anyone from reading any posts you create from appearing to anyone other than yourself. You can choose different groups, such as Close Friends or any custom lists, but be aware that anyone that can view your posts can share your posts with their friends.
Click the "Limit Past Posts" link. This tool will automatically change your old posts to Friends Only. This will limit who can see what you've posted in the past. If you want to change the audience to "Only Me," you'll need to find each individual post and change the audience manually.
 You can turn posting for your timeline off so that no one else can post anything to it. This will allow you to use your timeline just for yourself, or completely lock it down and turn it off.


Click the "Timeline and Tagging" option in the left menu. This will open your Timeline settings.
Click "Edit" next to "Who can post to your timeline?" This will let you change who can post content to your personal timeline.
Select "Only Me" to make your timeline completely private. This will prevent anyone from posting on your timeline. Combined with the previous steps for hiding your posts, your timeline will be completely private.
Click "Edit" next to "Who can see what others posts on your timeline?" This will change who can see content that other people post on your timeline.
Select "Only Me." This will prevent anyone from seeing any content posted on your timeline.
 Each entry in your profile, such as your employment, age, location, and more, has a separate privacy control. You'll need to make sure all of these things are set to "Only Me" if you don't want them to appear to others:Click the Facebook button in the upper-left corner.
Select "Edit Profile" at the top of the menu on the left.
Click the "Edit" button next to each entry in your profile.
Click the "Audience" drop-down menu and select "Only Me" to hide that piece of profile information. Click "Save Changes," then move on to the next one.

