 Turmeric contains a substance called curcumin which prevents the release of histamine in the body (which causes allergy symptoms). It also acts as an anti-inflammatory, soothing the inflamed airways of the throat following an allergic reaction.You can increase your turmeric intake by adding a pinch of turmeric to any vegetable, fish or meat dishes you make. It doesn't have a strong flavor, but gives the food a pleasant yellow/orange color.
The recommended daily intake of turmeric is 300mg per day.;
, Bee pollen in raw honey helps to boost your immunity and prevent allergies and infections. By consuming a small amount of pollen each day, you are essentially vaccinating yourself against pollen allergies.It's best to eat local honey, as the pollen it contains will be specific to your local area, making it much more effective as an antihistamine substitute.
Try to eat two tablespoons of raw, local honey daily for best results.
 Basil contains antihistamine properties that help to prevent inflammation caused by allergies. It can also be used to remove bee or insect venom from a sting. To increase your basil intake, you can chop fresh basil leaves and add them to your salads, soups and dressings.
Alternatively, you can make basil tea by chopping fresh basil leaves and adding them to a cup of boiling water. Allow the leaves to steep for 5 minutes, then filter the tea and add honey to taste before drinking.
 Onions contain a chemical compound called quercetin, which helps to check your body's production of histamine and reduce the symptoms of pollen allergies.Try to include more onions in your cooking. Eat raw onions where possible, as they contain a higher quantity of quercetin.
Quercetin also helps to open up your airways, making breathing easier.
 Ginger possesses anti-inflammatory and antihistamine properties, both of which help to prevent allergic reactions.To make a ginger tea, cut an inch of ginger root, mash it or grate it and add it to a cup of water of boiled water. Allow it to steep for 5 minutes before filtering the ginger and drinking the tea.
You can also add grated fresh ginger to curries, stir fries and salads for a burst of Asian-inspired flavor.
 Garlic suppresses certain enzymes that cause inflammation in the body. It is also a natural antibiotic that boosts your immune system and helps you to fight off allergies and infections.


Raw garlic is more effective than cooked garlic, so try to eat two or three small cloves of fresh garlic each day.
If the flavor of fresh garlic is too strong, add chopped or grated garlic to soups, stir fries and salad dressings.
 Green tea contains a compound called catechin which prevents the conversion of histidine to histamine, thereby stopping an allergic reaction before it has the chance to produce symptoms.Aim to drink two to three cups of green tea a day for the greatest antihistamine benefits.
Green tea also helps with other types of allergies (dust, dander, etc) not just pollen allergies.
 Apples contain a flavonoid called quercetin which controls the release of histamine, thereby limiting allergic reactions to pollen.Everyone has heard the phrase "an apple a day keeps the doctor away", but an apple a day can also help to prevent pollen allergies.
 Vitamin C reduces the release of histamine, helps to break down released histamines faster and decreases the sensitivity of your airways to histamines.


Foods that contain high levels of histamines include: Papaya, banana, mango, guava, pineapple, broccoli. cauliflower, cabbage and sweet potatoes.
The recommended daily amount of vitamin C for allergies is 1000mg.
 Omega-3 fatty acids contain anti-inflammatory properties that help to reduce sinus inflammation caused by sinus allergies. Omega-3s also improve lung health and boost your immune system, helping your body to fight off pollen allergies.Foods that are naturally high in omega-3 fatty acids include flaxseeds, walnuts, soybeans, cauliflower, sardines, salmon and shrimp.
The recommended intake of omega-3 fatty acids is 1000mg, three times a day.
 Peppermint contains a substance called menthol which helps to decongest a blocked nose and relax the muscles of the respiratory tract, thereby promoting free breathing.Peppermint also contains anti-inflammatory and mild antibacterial properties, helping your body to fight off infection.
To make peppermint tea: Place 1/2 ounce of dried peppermint leaves in a one quart jar. Fill two-thirds of the jar with boiling water, and steep for five minutes. (You can inhale the steam for added benefit). Let cool, strain, sweeten if desired, and drink.

