 When lifestyle and medications don’t control your blood sugar, you may need to take insulin directly. There are long-acting and short-acting types of insulin, and you and your doctor will have to work together to decide on the right dose, timing, and type of insulin for you. You will need to test your blood sugar regularly at home if you’re taking insulin.Keep a blood sugar log so you can manage your treatment. Ask your doctor if you should check your sugar before or after meals. Write down the time, if it’s before or after you ate, what your blood sugar is, when you last had insulin, and what the dose was.
Keep track of changes in your blood sugar before and after you exercise., Insulin is often given as an injection using a syringe. Giving yourself insulin shots properly is important, so have your doctor demonstrate how to do it correctly. Ask any questions you have, for instance, “At what angle do I inject myself?” or, “Where are the best places to inject insulin?” Your doctor can probably refer you to a diabetes specialist to help you manage your insulin. Follow these general guidelines for insulin injections:Keep your insulin in the refrigerator.
Use a new syringe for every injection.
Rotate your injection site.
Do not use expired insulin.
 Managing diabetes may be easier, and more comfortable, if you use an insulin pen. These hand-held devices use smaller needles than syringes and can be conveniently carried around. Have your doctor or diabetes nurse show you how to use your pen properly, and follow similar guidelines for rotating injection sites and properly storing your pen., Insulin pumps are small electronic devices that are attached to your body and deliver insulin through a small tube implanted into your side. It provides insulin continuously, which helps to avoid big spikes and drops in blood sugar. Discuss the risks and benefits of using a pump with your doctor – the convenience and comfort are often factors for users.You still have to monitor your blood sugar at home.

