 For this project, you'll need a total of four strands of rope that are each 8 feet (2.44 m) in length. Take your tape measure and scissors and cut these four strands from your cotton rope. Lay out all strands evenly on a flat surface., Take all four strands and thread them through your metal ring so that each strand hangs from the ring at its midpoint. Each strand should hang evenly at both ends. Then:Hold the rope firmly with one hand at the base of the metal ring to gather the strands together.
Wrap embroidery floss around the base of loop around the metal ring. Wind the floss tightly around all strands until the windings are about 2" (5 cm) long.
Tie off the loose ends with a simple, sturdy knot. You can further strengthen this by adding a layer of transparent glue., Hang the ring and attached rope from a hook or other suitable location to make knotting easier on yourself. Measure 2 feet (.61 m) down from the hook and gather two neighboring strands together. Tie these together using an overhand knot.The overhand knot is relatively simple. Form a loop with your two strands of rope and feed the loose ends of the strands through the loop. Pull the ends tight, and the knot is tied.
Continue tying knots to connect neighboring strands at 2 feet (.61 m) below your metal ring. In total, there should be four knots.
 Below each knot should hang two stands. Take one strand apiece from neighboring knots, and tie these together in the same fashion as before with an overhand knot at 6" (15.24 cm) below your first row of knots.The base of your pot will rest in the knotted portion of your rope. If it looks like the planter may not fit, untie your knots and increase the space between the two rows., In the same fashion you fastened the top of the rope at the base of the metal ring, you're going to close off the bottom of your hanging rope basket.


Begin wrapping your embroidery floss around all strands at 3" (7.62 cm) below your second row of knots.
Wrap the floss so there is no space between windings and the strands are held together firmly.
Tie off the end of your floss when your windings are about 2" (5 cm) in length. You can strengthen the hold of your floss by applying a suitable transparent glue., Unless you had to significantly adjust the distance between rows of knots to better accommodate a large planter, you should have some extra rope at the bottom of your planter. This can be cut away with your scissors.