 If you are at least 16 years old, consider getting a small part-time job that will allow you to pick up shifts after school. A job that requires late night hours after school may not be the best job. However, there are many employers that look for teenage employees. It will also look good on your college application to maintain good grades while working a job.Grocery stores, retail stores, and restaurants frequently hire teenagers.
Put your entrepreneurial skills to work by starting a small babysitting or lawn mowing business.;
, Explore your passions and interests by serving your community. Volunteering is a great way to get work experience while you are still in school. Volunteering, like maintaining a job, will look good on your college applications.Volunteer somewhere that interests you like an animal shelter or local non-profit.
Consider volunteering or shadowing in a field that you would like to work after school, such as a hospital or nursing home.
 Spend some quality time with your closest friends after school hours. Go to each others houses or meet up at a local restaurant. Invite your friends to attend community or school activities that are planned in the evenings.
 Extracurricular activities, like part-time jobs and community service, can also look good on your college application or resume. It shows diversity and commitment to something other than school. Extracurricular activities will also help to teach you time management. You can find extracurricular activities within your school or community.Join a physical activity such as a sport, dance, or gymnastics.
Increase your musical ability by learning an instrument or taking voice lessons.
Challenge your knowledge by joining a debate or trivia team.
 Since you have spent the majority of the day sitting in a desk, it is important to get some exercise after school. Get some fresh air by taking a walk, run, or bike ride around your neighborhood. Consider joining a gym or utilizing your school’s weight room if it is available to you. Challenge your friends to a game of basketball.