 Take the time to cushion each individual cookie, or each pair of cookies with the flat bottoms placed together. You should use plastic wrap, cellophane bags, or foil to wrap the cookies without leaving any room for air or moisture. You can even wrap them twice if you're using plastic wrap or foil to maximize their freshness., You should pack the crunchy cookies together, and the softer cookies together, or the crunchy cookies will get soft and the softer cookies will get crunchy. You don't need to place them in separate containers to separate them by type, but you should separate them with resealable bags, or even cellophane goodie bags if you want to be fancy.


If you're only shipping one type of cookie, then you can put sheets of waxed paper between the layers of the cookies.
 Use a Snapware container, tin container, or at least a plastic food storage container to store the cookies. The container will need to be able to be sealed tightly with a lid, so if you use a tin container, you'll need to tape around the lid to make sure that the lid doesn't pop off while the container is in transit.
 Once you've chosen your container, you should line it with cookie-cradling packing materials, such as crumpled waxed or parchment paper, crumbled up newspaper or thick paper, bubble wrap, or foam peanuts. You can also stuff resealable bags with real popcorn and use that as stuffing, so the recipient will receive an extra treat as well as an even more buttery and delicious-smelling package.If you want the cookies to stay fresh, then you'll need to use to package the cookies tightly so that they don't have room to bounce around or fall apart.
On the other hand, make sure you don't pack them too tightly, or they'll get squished and will lose their original texture.
 Once you've individually wrapped the cookies and separated them by type, you should place them in the container, so that they're surrounded by the stuffing. Once you've placed them in the container, you can use stuffing to fill the top of the container and to fill any empty holes, as long as you don't seal the container too tightly. Then, seal the container with tape or tie it tightly with ribbon.
 If the container doesn't fit snugly into the box, then add more bubble wrap, foam peanuts, crumpled newspaper, or any other stuffing material to keep the container from shifting -- try to have at least 2 in. (5 cm) of stuffing around the sides of the container. Try lightly shaking the box once you've filled it with stuffing -- if you hear the container bouncing around, then you'll need to use more stuffing. Write the recipients address inside the box for extra measure, in case the outer address is lost.When you're done, seal the box with packaging tape.
Write "Perishable" and "Fragile" on all sides of the box.
 Write the recipient's name and address, as well as your own name and address, on the box, and include the correct amount of postage. Most likely, you'll need to take it to the post office to mail it and find out the postage fee, unless you requested a special shipping service.
 Once you've packed the cookies in the box and addressed it, there's nothing left to do but to mail the cookies to your recipient -- whether it's through your local post office, Fed Ex, or UPS, and wait to receive a call about how amazing the cookies were.

