 It can be either hard plastic, or metal. Don't use less than a 25 gallon (94.6 L) can, but the bigger the size, the more composting materials it will hold. Do NOT use a liner.;
, You can begin to add the bottom table of compost. This can be several types of materials, and can be compacted down to about the first 6 or 7 inches (15.2 or 17.8 cm) of the bottom of the can.
 Fill the bottom of the can with these materials first, making sure that you cover the bottom part of the trash can. The next layer can be mostly any materials that you want to put in. Table scraps (except meat and bones), manure, fill dirt, leaves and small twigs, etc. At this point, mix some pulverized limestone in water, and pour this mix of limestone and water onto the top of the compost materials. Continue to stir the limestone so it will stay in the solution of the water. Be liberal here, as this sweetens the acidic soil, and helps add calcium to the bin.
 If you are going to leave the bin somewhere for a long long time, you may want to add lots of materials at one time. One good thing about a trash can is that it does have a lid. Keep it covered with the lid as much as possible at first, then if you know its going to rain, take of the top and let natures rainwater give a dose of moisture as often as possible. Put the trash can upon brick, blocks or rocks and put a tray below it to capture organic fertilizer that will be useful in many ways.
 Alternate between leaves, cured grass clippings, dirt and manure, chopped up greens of any kind, table scraps, and fill the can about three quarters of the way to the top with these items. Once again, be liberal with the pulverized limestone mixed in rainwater, or non chlorinated water. You can also use pelleted limestone, as it will break down over time.
 Red Wigglers are the normal choice, and you can get them pretty cheap. They work the compost materials quickly, and you don't need to feed them anymore at the top. You can use night crawlers too, but they often need shade, and cooler temperatures. Red Wigglers can often breed rapidly, and they can stand a range of temps. Use as many as you want to, but using at least 6 to 8 pounds or more of these worms for this bin is a good idea.
 Materials should be extremely damp, but not soaking wet. Put a tray below the compost bin to catch the water that flows out. This is highly enriched organic fertilizer that you can use on flower gardens, plants, or just about any other use.
 After 3 months, empty your compost bin completely, and remove castings, replace materials and put your worms back into the bin for the next session. Put castings into your garden, flowers bins, or sell them for profit. Gardeners will pay you for this type of composting fertilizers. It makes plants grow and produce many more garden veggies.

