 The way you dress makes a difference when adopting. First, try to be a member. Then, dress in clothing such as: a skirt, flower hat, and a necklace. Do not dress in clothes like vampire teeth, black cape, or dragon wings, this can scare newborns!;
, If you are a member, try to get bigger dens, but not too big so you can still keep track of your baby. Make a kitchen, playroom, and bedrooms. In your baby's room, give it a crib, plushies, and make the room colourful, and include pillows or a rug on the floor, so if the baby falls out of it's crib, it won't get hurt.
 Go to the pillow room in Jamaa Township to adopt your baby. First look around to see if there are any in the pillow room. If you spot a baby you like, look at it, and see how it behaves! Here is an example of what might happen: You: Looks at newborn with interest. Baby: goo goo! ga ga! You: aww, your a cutie! Picks newborn up and holds tiny body in arms. Baby: Mama! holds onto mama with tiny paws and nuzzles fur. You: Takes baby home. If that happens, make sure to buddy your baby so it can come to your den.
 When you find your baby, take it home. When you get home, say: Picks newborn up and carries around the house. Make sure to show your baby around so it gets used to the house.
 If your baby is only a few days old, you will have to feed it milk from yourself, or feed it a bottle. When you want to feed your baby, say: feeding time sweetie! Or, your baby might cry for you to feed it. After feeding remember to burp it. As it gets older, start feeding it mashed up bananas, or baby food from a store.
 After eating, pick up your baby and say: Time for bed my darling! Then carry your baby to it's room, and put it in its crib. Tuck the baby into bed, and turn off the lights. If your baby cries as soon as you leave, rock it to sleep, or sing it a song.
 To give your baby a bath, get a swimming pool, or pond. Say: picks up and carries to bath. takes off your baby's clothes. Then hold your baby as you put it in the water. Remember: Your newborn cannot swim! so hold onto it as you wash it.

