 The CHAMPS model is a way to define how you expect students to behave in the classroom. This approach works well for a variety of settings and learning goals. Use the following points as your guide for designing how students will complete an activity with good behavior and success:C – Conversation: Can students talk during this activity? With whom? About what?
H – Help: How should students get your attention if they need help?
A – Activity: What is the objective of the activity?
M – Movement: Can students get out of their seats for the activity?
P – Participation: How will students demonstrate that they are participating?
S – Success: If students complete the CHAMPS expectations, they should be successful with the activity and good behavior.
 Students need to know what to expect in the class. Middle schoolers especially appreciate knowing your expectations and boundaries. It is important to follow a routine. Keep your class relatively structured so that students know what’s coming next., Middle schoolers tend to get distracted easily. It’s good to mix up your routine every so often with spontaneous and unexpected activities. They appreciate active learning experiences that come out of the blue., Your students are curious about you and want to hear stories about your life. Don’t share everything, of course, but relating stories about yourself from time to time helps transform you into a human being that students can relate to. Likewise, get to know your students. If they feel that you’re invested in their interests, they will be more likely to respect you and behave properly., Treat every day as a new opportunity for success in your classroom. Middle schoolers can swing wildly with emotions at this age, and having patience and positivity will make your job more enjoyable.
 When you speak in a normal voice, students will typically respond by also speaking in a normal voice with moderate volume. If the classroom is noisy, don’t respond by raising your voice. Rather, you might start speaking in a normal voice so that the students need to quiet down to hear you. Or, you might wait to speak until the students are quiet, Assign new seats to your students every month. This mixes up who sits next to whom, and can help eliminate some behavioral problems. Place a name card on each desk to assign seats., Having an orderly classroom may help students act more orderly. If the classroom is messy or disorganized, students may not take you as seriously., One of the easiest ways to bring on discipline issues is to bore your students. If your lessons are unclear, disorganized, or not engaging enough for the students, they may lose attention. Keep students engaged and focused by delivering lessons that elicit interest., Keep moving throughout the classroom when you’re teaching and when students are doing group or individual work. Students notice that you’re engaged with their progress. Give hints to students as they work on problems., 