 For example: "Jones, Don D., Sr.," Do include suffixes, such as Sr., but do not include titles or degrees like Sir or MD. Follow the name with a period, unless the suffix already ends with a period. In that case, use a comma.


If more than one author contributed to the work, list each author's name in the order they appear on the title page. Separate each name with a comma. If more than three authors contributed to a work, you may follow the first author's name with the abbreviation "et al."
If you're citing multiple works by the same author, each title gets its own Works Cited entry. Use three hyphens (---) to represent the author's name in subsequent entries, and alphabetize the entries within the author grouping by title.
 List the title in italics and follow it with a period.
Place of publication. End with a colon.
Publishing company. Follow this with a comma, then the year the author published the work. End with a period.
The medium of publication (for example, Print, DVD, etc.) End with a period.
 The title goes in quotes, followed by a period, unless the article title ends with a punctuation mark. The period or other punctuation goes inside the quotes.
Periodical title--italicized.
Publication date for the issue in question. Format the date as Day Month Year--Example: 12 Aug. 2008--then end with a colon. Next, add the page numbers being cited.
The page or pages being cited. Insert a period, then the medium of publication, also ending with a period. Example: Print.
 Place a period at the end of the title, unless it already ends with other punctuation. The period or other punctuation goes inside the quotation marks.
The journal's title. List this in italics and end it with a period.
The volume number, followed by a period and then the issue number. There's no space to either side of the period.
Publication year, in parentheses. Follow this with a colon.
The page or pages being cited. End with a period.
The medium of publication. Again, in this case you can simply put "Print."

