 Positivity is contagious. If you surround yourself with genuine, encouraging people, you'll have more self confidence. This can allow you to be more open to the kinds of opportunities that can lead to good luck and good fortune.


Seek out friends who look on the bright side of life. Make plans with the co-worker who always has nice things to say. Invite your friend Tina, who's known for her bright and sunny attitude, out for a cup of coffee.
Call family members who tend to be more positive. If your brother has a gloomy outlook on life, do not phone him after a bad day. Instead, call up your mother who always sees the positive.
 It's very hard to be open to good fortune when you're surrounded by negative people. Negativity, like positivity, can be contagious. You may be unable to embrace new opportunities if you're surrounded by people with a defeatist attitude.


Learn to disengage with negativity. People who are chronically negative usually do not actually want help. They just want to continually complain. If a friend or family member is going on about a problem ceaselessly, do not try to offer solutions. Instead, say something like, "I'm sorry you feel that way, but I'm sure you'll figure it out." Then, end the conversation.Limit your contact with draining people. You do not have to end a friendship or relationship completely. However, see that person less. Do not call, text, or interact with a negative person every day or every week. You'll end up getting dragged into their worldview, resulting in you missing chances for good luck., If you believe you're chronically unlucky, you may have an underlying psychological condition. Depression, for example, can often lead to a negative overall outlook about oneself and one's prospects.If you worry you suffer from depression or another mental health issue, see a therapist.


You can find a therapist by going through your insurance provider. You can also ask your regular doctor for a referral.
If you're a student, you may be entitled to free counseling from your college or university.

