 The best product to use is cholesterol, which is sold in jars and can be easily found in most beauty supply stores. If you can’t get that, use the strongest deep conditioner you can find.


Run a wide-toothed comb through your mane to untangle it and distribute the conditioner well.
This step is only necessary if your hair is currently dyed black. If black is your natural hair color, you can go straight to the bleaching process.;
, After you finish each section, let it cool for 5-10 minutes before blow drying the next section. By concentrating on one section at a time, you are allowing those hair follicles to open and soak up the deep conditioner.


Letting the section of hair cool immediately after blow drying will seal the moisture into your hair.Once you’ve dried all of your hair, allow it to completely cool before you moving on to the stripping process.
 After you open the box, you’ll find 2 small packets. Put on a pair of plastic gloves and mix the content of the 2 packets together. Be prepared to apply the mixture immediately after mixing it for full potency.


The ingredients in these packets are non-toxic, so if you accidently get a little on your skin, it won’t harm you.
If you are allergic or sensitive to sulfur, you should not use hair dye remover. Sulfur is one of the ingredients., Immediately after mixing, apply and massage the product into your hair until it is thoroughly covered. After 20 minutes, shampoo your hair. As you shampoo, you will see the previous hair color rinsing out of your hair. , After shampooing, condition your hair well and then blow dry it. At this point, your hair is probably an unbecoming shade of orange, but don’t worry! It’s just temporary.If possible, give your hair a short break from the chemical processing and bleach it the next morning (waiting 3 days is ideal).
However, if you don’t want to wait, you can begin immediately.Keep in mind that your hair as a higher chance of additional damage if you do this.
 The ratio of bleach powder to developer is usually 1:1, but check your product’s instructions for any variance or specifics. Dump 1 scoop of bleach powder into a mixing bowl. Measure out 1 scoop of developer and add it to the bowl. Mix well.Start with this amount of mixture. You can mix more as you go along, if needed.
If possible, use salon-grade bleaching powder for best results.
Bleach is a dangerous substance, so wear plastic gloves for this entire process. Purchased bleach products usually provide them for you.
 Working in sections will make the process much easier. Middle-part your hair at the crown from forehead to neck to get your first 2 sections, then clip them up. Part the remaining lower portion of your hair from ear to ear and clip those up, too.You should have a friend or family member helping you with the rest of the bleaching process.You’ll end up with better results and the process will be far less stressful and taxing if you have some help.
 Starting at one of the clipped-up sections at the top of your head, take down small, thin layers of your hair, one at a time, and apply the bleach.Be sure to brush the bleach onto both sides of your hair.Continue this process for the rest of that section, starting at the top and working your way down, until the entire section is covered in bleach.
Move on to the next sections and follow the same procedure until your hair is completely and thoroughly covered in bleach.
Potential damage to your scalp and hair follicles is possible during bleaching. If you have a very sensitive scalp and/or you don’t mind having visible roots, consider excluding them from the bleaching process., Do not leave it on longer than 1 hour.Then rinse until the water runs clear and wash your hair with purple shampoo. If you’re using a bleaching kit, purple shampoo is probably included. If not, you can get it at any beauty supply store.


Rinse the shampoo out thoroughly.
Blow your hair dry and then consider taking a little break before moving on.
At this stage your hair should be a light yellow or orange color.
 If your hair is light yellow after bleaching, you’ll need a light ash, silver or pearl shade of toner. Pearl blonde toner is usually the preferred choice, but choose the shade that is 1 shade lighter than your current hair color.The cool tones will counteract the warmth and prevent brassiness.If you have short and/or very fine hair, you’ll only need 1 box of toner.
For those with thick, long hair, you’ll need to get 2 boxes.
If possible, use a high quality salon brand of toner for best results.
 After bleaching once, it’s possible that it won’t be as light as you want (unless you were going for a darker blonde look). This is especially true if you began with black hair. In this case, you’ll need to bleach it again. However, bleaching again on the same day would be too damaging on your hair, so you’ll need to wait a week.The dark ash blonde toner will counteract the orange and yellow tones and give you a dark blonde mane that will be tolerable and presentable until you bleach it again.If you have any orange after bleaching, you must use the dark ash toner to neutralize the orange.
Never choose a “matte ash” shade, which could result in a greenish tint., You will apply the toner in the same way you did the bleach, so divide your hair into 4 sections and clip them up. Repeat the same application process, starting at the crown of one section and working your way down.


Repeat the same process when applying the toner to the remaining 3 sections.
Apply the toner as quickly as you can for best results.
 Check your toner packaging for specifics, but 20-30 minutes is pretty standard. You may not even need to leave it on for that long – check your hair every 5-7 minutes to see if it has reached the tone shade that you want. If so, go ahead and rinse it out.


Rinse until the water runs clear and immediately apply a strong, high quality conditioner to your hair.
The toner probably included some conditioner for this purpose in the box.
Rinse the conditioner out after 2-5 minutes. Blow dry and style your brand new blonde mane!

