 You might receive photographs from many different sources. For example, a friend might ask you to post a photograph. Or someone might submit a photograph claiming the image is in the public domain. You should always assume you will need permission., Someone might steal someone else’s image and then claim to give you permission. However, if they stole the image, then they can’t give you permission to use it. You should double check that the person submitting the image is the true owner.


You can ask for details, such as when the picture was taken and where.
You can also check to see if the image has already been posted online. Save the image to your hard drive. You can go to Google Images and then click on the camera icon in the search bar.Paste in the image URL or click on “Upload an image” and click on browse. If you see that the image has appeared elsewhere under someone else’s name, follow up with the person who submitted the photo.
 You should have a permission form that you can have the person who submitted the image sign. You can send it by email and they can sign it by typing their name and returning the release to you. Though oral permission is acceptable, especially if you know the person, something in writing in best.The release should contain important information:your name
your contact information
the website where you want to post the picture
identification of the work you want to use (such as its title or a description)
why you want to use it (e.g., to display on your website)
how you will use it on your website
how much you are willing to pay, if anything

, Wait until the person claiming to be the copyright holder signs and returns the permission form. At that point, you can publish the image online. Be sure to hold onto your signed permissions and store them in a safe place.


You might also want to keep an electronic copy of each signed permission.
Also write down other information, such as how you actually used the work and any conditions the copyright holder put on your use., Some copyright holders won’t let you post an image unless you agree to pay for a license to reproduce the work. You should know this before you post anything. The fee can be based on many different factors:the number of visits per your page
the number of hits per page
where the page is located on the website (such as whether it is the home page or a page deep in the website)
whether your website is informational or commercial

