 Most lisps in children are frontal lisps, in which the tongue is pushed too far forward when the child tries to make the "s" sound. Many children have this lisp, but most of them grow out of it naturally. If a child does not, professional opinion is divided on whether the child should start speech therapy for a frontal lisp at the age of four and a half, or wait until he turns seven. Consult with a doctor or speech therapist for advice specific to the child, but know that there is no need for concern if a child under four and a half years old has a lisp.


If the lisp has a different form, with the tongue positioned further back, consulting a speech therapist is recommended.
 Drawing attention to the lisp can cause embarrassment and shame, which does not help the child get rid of the lisp., If the child frequently has a stuffy nose, sneezing fits, or other sinus complaints, this may be affecting her speech. This is especially likely to be a cause if the child makes many sounds with her tongue pushed forward, not just "S."Seek the advice of a doctor for child-safe treatments for allergies and sinus infections.
 While thumb sucking is usually harmless in toddlers, it can contribute to a lisp by pushing the teeth out of position.If the child continues sucking his thumb after the age of four, stop the habit by substituting a favorite activity of the child's, one that uses both hands. Telling the child to stop or pulling the thumb out of his mouth is less likely to be effective than positive reinforcement, or rewarding the child when he stops on his own.
 Oral motor exercises are sometimes recommended for toddlers to help develop speech, but for ordinary circumstances research shows that they are not effective.However, it is possible that a lisping child may benefit from better mouth musculature, and the relevant exercises are simple and harmless: give the child a straw for her drinks, and encourage her to play with toys that involve blowing, like toy horns or bubbles., People with "tongue tie," or ankyloglossia, are born with a short attachment, or frenulum, between the tongue and the base of the mouth, or an attachment too close to the tip of the tongue. If the child has trouble licking his lips, or sticking his tongue out, this short attachment may be the cause of the lisp.This does not necessarily mean the child needs surgery, but a doctor may recommend it in some cases. The surgery, called frenectomy, takes a few minutes at most, and typically results in no side effects other than a sore mouth., If the doctor does recommend tongue surgery and the child's guardians decide to go through with it, make sure to follow the surgery with tongue exercises. These will strengthen the tongue, help prevent speech problems, and prevent the frenulum from reattaching, which can happen in some versions of the surgery. If the baby is still breastfeeding, her doctor will likely recommend that you gently stretch the baby's tongue yourself, after cleaning your hands.For anyone older than breastfeeding age, follow the advice of the surgeon and the speech therapist.

