 If the webcam is built-in to your computer, skip down to Step 4.


Plug the webcam directly into your computer, not into a USB hub.;
, Most operating systems will automatically detect and install the necessary software for your webcam. If this doesn't happen, read on.


You may be prompted to search for the webcam drivers. Your operating system can usually search online automatically.
 This should install the drivers for the webcam, as well as any additional video software that may come with it. If you don't have the disc, read on.
 If the webcam doesn't install automatically, and you don't have a disc, you can download the drivers from the manufacturer's website.


Logitech is the most popular brand of webcams. Microsoft, Creative, Belkin, and DropCam are all also popular manufacturers.
If your webcam is built-in to your laptop, you can get the drivers from your laptop manufacturer's support site.
 If you can't find the model of your webcam, there are usually pictures to help you determine which model is yours.
 You may be prompted to restart your computer.
 This will allow you to see if your webcam is working properly.
 The process for this varies depending on the program you are using. In Skype, for example, click Tools and select Options. Click "Video settings". You will see an image from your webcam appear in the window.


There are several websites that will allow you to test your webcam as well. you will be prompted to allow Flash to access your webcam.
 Most webcams have a microphone built-in that activates alongside the camera. Programs like Skype will show levels when you talk so that you can see that your microphone is working.
 Use your webcam test to see what image the webcam is capturing. Some webcams come with clips that allow you to attach it to the top of your monitor.
 Some laptops have a function key that will toggle the webcam on or off. You may have to hold the Fn key to activate it.
 Make sure you are not plugging it into a hub. Try plugging it into a different USB port to see if the problem gets fixed.


Check the cable for any frayed wires.
 There may have been an error during the driver installation. Double-check that you downloaded the correct driver for your model and run the installer again.

