 As obvious as this sounds, removing exposure or limiting the amount of time your child is exposed to cats will drastically improve their allergy symptoms., If you're going to visit someone with a cat, warn the hosts about your child's allergy. Ask them to keep the cat out of the the room where your child will be from now until the end of your visit., If you are taking your child to a house where you know there are cats, give your child an allergy medicine a few hours before exposure. This can minimize his reaction and he won't have to be uncomfortable waiting for the allergy medicine to kick in if he takes when he is already exposed to the cat.
 Keep your cat out of bedrooms, playpens, off the couch, and generally away from any area where your child spends a lot of time. If you have a finished basement that your child doesn't go into often, keeping the cat segregated in the basement can be viable solution., Reducing the amount of airborne allergens in your home can go a long way in relieving your child's allergy symptoms. Air conditioners with allergen control filters, such as HEPA filters, successfully reduce the amount of airborne allergens in your home., Cat fur and skin can buildup on your couches, in your carpet, on the drapes, and generally anywhere else the cat goes. Invest in a good vacuum cleaner and use it often. Also, use carpet shampoo, de-sanitizing sprays and anti-bacterial wipes often on the surfaces in your home to eliminate any unnecessary allergens left by your cat.Cats, by nature, have a tendency to get into, under, and on top of everything in your home. So make sure you pay attention to areas that you wouldn’t usually consider high-traffic, such as behind the couch or under the bed.
 Bathing your cat regularly can help to reduce the amount of dander and excess fur she leaves around the house. As such, washing your cat is another effective step in combating your child’s allergies.It is important to remember that cats don’t like baths, and they naturally do not need them very often. Be sure to check with your vet about safely giving your cat a bath, as bathing her too often can have a negative impact on her physical health.

