 This might be at a grocery store near you with a great produce section, or perhaps you know of a coconut tree nearby. Make sure that you have a good selection of coconuts to choose from.


Although the best coconut season is from October to December, coconuts are being harvested all year long.;
, Pick up a few different coconuts from the pile you’re choosing from. When you pick a coconut, you should pick one that doesn’t have any cracks in it and feels heavy and full. Put it up to your ear and shake it. It should sound like there’s water in it.A browner coconut will have more white meat on the inside, while a green coconut will be filled with more electrolyte-filled juice. Browner coconuts are older, and greener ones are younger., On every coconut there are three “eyes,” or black spots. If these are moldy or not completely dry, avoid that coconut., You might want to keep your coconut unopened for a while, but if you want to open your coconut, you should first drain the coconut water from it. Find a long hard object, such as a skewer or a screwdriver, and stick it in one of the holes in the coconut. One will usually be softer than the others. Stick the skewer all the way through the coconut and make a hole in the coconut.You can also use a corkscrew, if you have one, to open it like you would open a bottle of wine.Put the coconut upside down and drain the water. You can drink this water or store it., Wrap the coconut in a towel. Hit it with a mallet or a hammer until it breaks. Split it apart into the amount of pieces that you want. Rinse off the coconut., If desired, use a knife with a rounded tip, such as a paring knife, to make an inverted V, about an inch long, into the meat of the coconut. This inverted V shape should allow you to pop that triangle of coconut meat out of the shell. Repeat this process until you’ve taken out all the meat., If you want to store your whole coconut, you can keep it at room temperature for about a week, in the refrigerator for 2-3 weeks, and in the freezer for 6-8 months. If you take the meat off of the coconut or open it, you should eat it the same day, put it in the fridge for a week, or keep it in the fridge for 6-8 months.Put it in an airtight container. Chill the coconut water in the refrigerator. Drink it as soon as possible.However, if the outside of the coconut turns grey or the meat inside turns a yellowish color, the coconut is expired and should not be eaten.If coconut water smells sour and tastes bad, you should throw it away immediately.