 Take a look at what makes your dog bark and find a way to remove that motivation. If your dog likes to bark at passing pets they see through the window, close your curtains or blinds. If they bark at the doorbell, encourage individuals to call or text you and let you know they’re at your home.If there is a stimulus you can’t get rid of completely, such as your dog barking at their reflection in the window or mirror, try to limit their access. Keep the dog away from the stimulus as much as possible.;
, Barking may often be the result of pent-up energy. Help your dog expend that energy by keeping them active and mentally stimulated. Make sure they go for daily walks, and set aside time for one-on-one play every day.Provide your dogs with physical activity by making sure they get a long walk every day, or multiple walks a day.
Play games such as fetch and tug-of-war to help your dog release physical energy.
Challenge your dog mentally with agility training, obedience courses, or puzzle toys.
 Shouting only excites your dog further. Your dog understands a limited amount of words, and will mostly only hear your tone, which your dog will think is you joining in. Be stern, but remain calm and avoid raising your voice when your dog barks.Use a consistent word such as “stop,” “quiet,” or “wrong,” to indicate to your dog that they should stop barking. Consistency helps your dog recognize that word and the actions you expect when you say it.
 Distract your dog by giving them another command to which to respond instead of barking. Tell your dog to sit or perform a trick to get them to refocus on you instead of whatever is causing them to bark.


For best results, use a command your dog already knows, instead of one they are currently learning. Using a new command may confuse or frustrate your pet.
 If your dog’s barks are demands for attention, simply ignore them. This habit is often reinforced when owners pay attention to their dog simply to stop the noise. It will be loud and take time, but if you ignore it long enough, your dog will stop barking to get your attention.To make this especially effective, be sure to shower your dog with positive reinforcement when they aren’t barking. Pet them, play with them, and let them know you care. Just don’t give into their demands for your affection.
 Many veterinary offices can also offer behavior therapy if you have a dog that just won’t stop barking. Consult with your dog’s vet to see if they offer programs to help determine why your dog is barking and what you can do to break the habit.Barking can often be exacerbated by both mental and physical health problems in your dog. During therapy, ask your vet to check and make sure your dog is not in any pain.
Make sure that you teach your dog the "quiet" command. Ask your veterinarian for a referral to a certified dog trainer for help with teaching your dog the "quiet" command.

