 If you want to expand your mind, travel is a great way to do so. If it's in your budget, plan a trip to a faraway place that contains many people of different cultural backgrounds.When you are only exposed to a single culture, you begin to see your culture as the only appropriate way to live. This can make prejudiced thoughts harder to break. Traveling to a different place can help expose you to alternative ways of thinking.
If you travel to an area with a vastly different culture, you will begin to get a sense of how irrational the term "normal" really is. What is perceived as normal in, say, India will be much different than what is perceived as normal in the United States.
 Studies indicate when we're all working towards a common goal, prejudice tends to fall aside. The environment is something everyone has an investment in saving. Try working towards protecting the planet's natural resources. You can also look into work with organizations aimed at ending poverty, hunger, or other issues that affect many.See if you can join a local grassroots organization dedicated to protecting the environment. Donate some of your time to working for a cause.
Look for opportunities in your area to help underprivileged communities. See if you can volunteer on a can drive or to deliver meals to underprivileged families.
 The more you understand prejudice, the more you can recognize it in yourself. A course on prejudice will help you learn about your own unconscious biases, and teach you how to better address such thoughts. Studies indicate prejudiced thoughts tend to drop after taking a course on prejudice.If you are currently enrolled in college, consider taking a class on prejudice offered by your school.
If you are not a student, look into enrolling in an online course. You also may be able to find free course materials online from some universities.
 Some studies indicate mood can actually affect prejudice. One study showed prejudiced thoughts lessened after participants watched a happy video clip. Another study showed that, when people smiled while looking at photos of people of different races, they were less judgmental. Work on being a happier person and some of your prejudices may fall away.If you find yourself in a bad mood, do something to lighten up a little. Watch a funny movie or read a funny book. Hang out with a friend that always makes you laugh.
If you're going into a situation where you fear you may judge others, prepare beforehand. Try doing something fun or silly to relax and lighten up a bit.

