 If you are struggling with a stuffy, itchy, or runny nose due to hay fever or allergies to pollen, mold, dust, or pets, nasal spray should help to relieve your symptoms. You should not use nasal spray to treat symptoms of a flu or cold, as it will only provide temporary relief. Go see your doctor about other, more effective medications if you have nasal issues due to a flu or cold.The most common type of over-the-counter nasal spray is Fluticasone nasal spray, which is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. Corticosteroids improve your nasal issues by preventing the release of natural substances that can cause allergy symptoms. They should only be used for chronic allergies.
You can also use a nasal spray that contains xylitol, purified water, salt, and grapefruit seed extract. This type of nasal spray has no side effects and contains no drugs. It is also safe for all ages., If you are using the spray as an adult, you will begin with a higher dose of the nasal spray and then decrease your dose as your symptoms improve. This is usually one spray in each nostril once a day, or one spray in each nostril twice a day (once in the morning, once at night) if your doctor recommends a higher dose for your symptoms. If you are giving the nasal spray to a child, begin the treatment with a lower dose and then increase the dose if the child’s symptoms do not get better.Always follow the dose directions on the nasal spray label and ask your pharmacist to explain any instructions you do not understand. Never use more or less than specified on the package or as recommended by your pharmacist. If you miss a dose, do not double up on the dose. Instead, wait until the following day and continue on your recommended dose for the day.
Children younger than four years old should not use nasal spray. Children younger than 12 years old should be assisted by an adult when using nasal spray.
Only use nasal spray in your nose. Do not spray it in your eyes or mouth. As well, you should never share your nasal spray with someone else as this may spread germs and bacteria.
 Shake the nasal spray before each use. Then, remove the dust cover on the spray. If you are using the spray for the first time, you will need to prepare the pump so you can use it properly.Hold the pump so your forefinger and middle finger grip the applicator and your thumb rests on the bottom of the bottle. Point the applicator so it if facing away from your face.
Press down and release the pump six times. If you have used the pump previously, but not within the last week, press down and release the pump until it releases a fine spray.
 If your nose is very stuffed up, this may be difficult to do. Do your best to clear your nose of mucus before you use the spray as this will ensure the spray enters your nose properly., Tilt your head forward and place the nasal applicator tip into your other nostril. Keep the bottle upright so the spray releases properly. You should still be holding the applicator between your forefinger and your middle finger.Breathe in through your nose. As you breathe in, use your forefinger and middle finger to press down on the applicator, releasing the spray into your nose.
Once you have released the spray, breathe out through your mouth.
If you have been instructed by your doctor to use two sprays in each nostril, repeat these steps again on the same nostril. If you are only using one spray in each nostril, repeat these steps again in the other nostril.
 It is important that you keep the applicator clean so you do not spread germs and bacteria in your nose when you use the spray. You should also keep the nasal spray covered with the dust cover to prevent tiny particles from getting into the spray.Store the nasal spray in a dry spot at room temperature, not in your bathroom where the air can be humid and moist. If the applicator becomes clogged, you can soak it in warm water and rinse it with cold water. Dry it well and store it properly. Do not use pins or a sharp object to remove the blockage as this can contaminate the nasal spray.
 Always check the nasal spray label for a list of ingredients. If you think you may be allergic to fluticasone or any other ingredients in the spray, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. If you are on any antifungal medication or steroid medications, you should tell your doctor or pharmacist. You may need to adjust your dose or be monitored for side effects of the spray. If you experience any of the following side effects, you should stop taking the nasal spray and see your doctor immediately:Headache, dizziness, nausea, diarrhea, or vomiting.
Dryness, stinging, burning, or irritation in your nose.
Bloody mucus in your nose, nosebleeds, or thick nasal discharge.
Vision issues or severe face pain.
Fever, chills, coughing, sore throat, or other signs of an infection.
Hives, a rash, or severe itching.
A whistling sound from your nose.
Swelling of your face, throat, lips, eyes, tongue, eyes, hands, feet, ankles or lower legs.
Hoarseness, wheezing, or difficulty breathing or swallowing.
If you have had surgery on your nose in the past month or injured your nose, you should go see your doctor before using nasal spray. As well, if you have sores on your nose or any eye issues, you should talk to your doctor before using any medications for your nose.

