 This article tries to emphasize the importance of amino acids and their derivatives in the body of humans and in mammalians in general. Nature has selected these organic compounds as building blocks of macromolecules in the body that serve important functions that sustain states of homeostasis in the body or put it in simple words it supports the maintaining of life in the individuals. Amino acids are among many other chemical compounds that have biological importance in living systems of variable structural complexities. It is known experimentally the role of these organic amino acids in the body of humans. Their importance in the body stems from the fact that they are used as the building blocks of proteins in the body.;
, Proteins are polymers of amino acids that have diverse structural and functional roles in the body of humans. These proteins are constructed biochemically in the cells of the body using metabolic reactions that are very organized and accurate in its chemical selectivity as far as metabolic products are concerned. Besides its use in constructing proteins in the various cells of the body amino acids have other biological uses in the body of humans. This includes their use as chemical precursors for the synthesis of various neurotransmitters of neurons of the nervous system.
 These neurotransmitters are very important for the normal functioning of the various branches of the nervous system in humans. For this reason the study of the chemistry of amino acids at the biochemical level is very crucial to the understanding of the various metabolic products that arise from these amino acids in the body. There are 20 known amino acids in the body of humans. Also there are unusual types of amino acids that have no biological roles that are concerned with the production of proteins in the body such the atypical amino acid that is called gamma-amino-butyric-acid or shortly GABA. This atypical amino acid is known experimentally to have biological effect on the central nervous system that is inhibitory in its biological nature. Most information about the biological effects of these amino acids come from experimental observations from experiments on laboratory animals. Amino acids are unusual organic compounds that have both amino group and a carboxyl group on the same molecule.
 This chemical structure is very unusual in the sense that this type of compounds contains both an acid and a base at the same molecule that are adjacent to each other within the molecule. This chemical structure of amino acids is pH dependent. This means that deprotonation of the Bronsted carboxylic acid is dependent on the pH or acidity of the blood or the solution that contains them. Humans have the biochemical machinery to synthesize part of the 20 naturally occurring amino acids. They are synthesized in the cells of the body using specific metabolic reactions that are catalyzed by using specific enzymes that serve this function of amino acids synthesis.
 Unfortunately not all 20 amino acids that are usually incorporated into the molecular skeleton of all proteins in the body are possible to synthesize in the body. This is so due to the absence of suitable metabolic pathways in the body which are specific for the synthesis of these essential amino acids in the body. Also there is absence of suitable enzymes for catalyzing these absent biochemical processes of essential amino acids synthesis in the body.
 The metabolic pathways for the biochemical synthesis of these nonessential amino acids are well known and have been reported in the various chemical literature. Their incorporation into the molecular structure of proteins is also a well known biochemical process that is called translational process. This process of proteins translation is based on genetic coding of amino acids using codons of DNA bases. Each codon constitutes of three DNA bases that code for one amino acid. These amino acids are transported in the cells to a cellular organ that is called a ribosome. At this site all amino acids are combined together to form the molecular structure of the specific protein that they serve to synthesize.
 This translational process is very dependent on the normal function of the genetic material in the particular cell that is used to synthesize the specific protein. Defects in the genetic material of the body cell can lead to defective biochemical synthesis of proteins that can be very crucial to the normal body function. This can occur for example with the biochemical synthesis of key enzymes in the body. Enzymes are one type of proteins that serve as catalysts for biochemical reactions in the body. These enzymes are a special class of enzymes that differ than other types of proteins by the presence of active site within their structure. This active site is known to be the place where the catalysis of certain biochemical reactions occurs. Amino acids in this active site are also suspected to participate in the catalytic process of the various metabolic reactions in the body. Also amino acids have biological roles that are concerned with the biochemical production of neurotransmitters in the neurons of the nervous system. Most known neurotransmitters of the nervous system of humans are derivatives of amino acids.
 These two neurotransmitters have biological effects on activating the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system in humans. Also other known neurotransmitters that are synthesized from amino acids precursors include the two neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin. These two neurotransmitters have psychiatric effects such as their effects on the mood of the person and their effect on the cognitive function of his brain. Some other amino acids are known to be neurotransmitters of the neurons of nervous system by themselves. An example is the amino acid glycine. Other atypical amino acid that has function as a neurotransmitter is called GABA. This atypical amino acid is known experimentally to induce sedative effects on patients that administer this amino acid. This amino acid is not incorporated into the structure of all proteins in the body of humans but is used clinically to treat patients that have episodes of anxiety and who suffer from panic attacks.

