 Sleep is a key component. You need at the minimum seven to eight or nine hours of sleep. Put yourself to sleep early every night.


Take naps or siesta time now and then. You deserve it.;
, This not only helps you to stay in shape, but clears your mind for thinking straight, gives you decent breaks from work and study and builds your stamina.


Keep your body in shape. Work out, but do not go overboard. Start jogging or lifting weights slowly and get into your own cardio routine.
 Since what makes your stomach feel good or bad can be quite personal, learn by listening to your body.


Cook food in batches, then assign portions for freezing. This gives you more time during the week to do other things you enjoy than just cooking; it also ensures that the food choices you make are healthy, even when you are tired.
 It is not self-absorption––it is ensuring that you give yourself the chance to be your best self, that you are taking care of physical, emotional and spiritual needs and that all of this enables you to be a stronger and more resilient person who can give to others. Self-care is enabling for your life and to help other lives. It is not selfish.
 This is time in which you do what you enjoy completely, whether it's resting, a hobby or catching up with friends. Denying yourself this time can lead to feelings of frustration, burnout and a sense of a lack of purpose in life. Block out me time in your diary each week and spend it focused solely on you.


Don't be a stress mess 24/7. Always allow a small fraction of your day to be dedicated to what you like to do. This keeps you sane, and more relaxed. Go you!

, When many people place pressure on you to meet their expectations and to do things for them, it can become overwhelming. You may feel as if all you do is people please and never say what you really think. If so, this isn't taking care of yourself, it's stretching yourself too thin. Check out how to say no without feeling guilty for some tips on taking back the power.


Check yourself when you feel it's too much––if you're trying to be everyone else's anchor, you might just be drowning under that wave of expectations.
Ask yourself: "Is my saying yes to X also saying no to myself?" The answer will be most revealing.
 Avoid allowing these feelings to build up in fester––instead, address them as they arise so that you can deal with what is driving them and causing you to feel a lack of control or a loss of calm.


If it feels wrong, don't do it or subject yourself to it. It's not for you.
 Fears underpin many justifications for not taking good care of yourself, such as working yourself into the ground or neglecting to put your needs ahead of others some of the time. You may have fears about loss of people, relationships, property or objects. Whatever the source of these fears, tackle them so that you can live life without being driven by external worries and can instead make informed decisions to only have the people and things in your life that truly matter.


Some fears can only be addressed by removing toxic people from your life. This can be hard to do but is essential for keeping yourself whole and in control of your own destiny. See How to deal with toxic people for more information.
 Not just with that special person but with your life, with the beauty surrounding you, with the amazing parts of your day, with those special moments. Learn to spot the wonderful things amid the mundane and hectic. These will help you to take better care of yourself by reducing the negativity.


Fall in love with taking care of yourself. Make it a daily ritual, to do the little things that add up to caring for you.
 This is more than about sleeping. It's about taking a break from other people, from work, from chores and just being. Remind yourself that an empty vessel can give no more––rest restores that essence of giving and doing, so be sure to take good care of yourself by allowing yourself sufficient rest.
 Take a bath or a shower at least once a day. Use scented soap or gel that you enjoy.
 Choose a style that works for you and makes you feel confident and happy. If you don't have good hair or lack hair at all, seek other ways to shine, such as wearing beautiful scarves or getting a style that reduces the amount of care your hair needs.


Use shampoo and conditioner each time you wash your hair.
Brush your hair every day. This helps to maintain its healthy shine and appearance.
Try to avoid applying heat to your hair. Whether you're curling or straightening it, it's best to let your locks lie naturally.
 Put lotions on to moisturize your skin and your face.
 Try the get the dirt out of them each day. That way, they will look as clean as glass.
 It's natural. Nearly everyone has it, although it's more noticeable in darker hair. Use a dandruff shampoo and a fine-toothed comb to rid your dandruff, and be sure to brush your hair regularly.
 Don't get a buzz-cut if you have a soft face. You want something that matches your personality and also matches your bone structure. Go to a salon and they'll have professionals helping you.
 Even if you don't wear makeup, cleaning your face regularly is important for removing grime and feeling fresh.
 Use mouthwash to keep your breath always fresh.
 This means trying on clothes for fit, not for the label's sizing. If this means you wear a mixture of small, medium and large, so be it! Every body is different and what matters ultimately is that it looks good, not that it is all the same manufacturer's size. Also choose colors that look good on you, ones that match your eye color, hair color and skin tone.
 Your body is known best by you and what it needs can only be determined by you. What you do need to do is pay attention and heed those needs, which change over time.

