 Double check dates, names, descriptions of events, and other items you're including in your book to make sure you've gotten all the facts down correctly. Even though you're writing the story of your own life, you shouldn't publish incorrect information about what occurred.


You can stretch the truth about your own goals and intentions, but don't include fabricated conversations with real people, or altered versions of events that really happened. Of course you won't remember everything perfectly, but you should reflect reality as best you can.
Get permission to use people's names or quote them if you're including content on what other people said or did. Some people don't appreciate appearing as a character in someone else's autobiography, and you should respect that by altering the way you describe them or changing their names if necessary.
 Once you've finished your first draft, go back through it with a fine-toothed comb. Reorganize passages, paragraphs and even chapters where necessary. Replace mundane words and make your phrasing more interesting and clear. Correct your spelling and grammar.
 Present your autobiography to your reading club or a friend so you can get an outside opinion. Stories you find impossibly funny might seem dull to someone else. Get feedback from several people if you can, so you'll have a better idea of how your book comes across to other people.


If several people recommend cutting a certain section, strongly consider making the cut.
Try to get opinions from people outside your circle of family and friends. People who know you might try to spare your feelings, or they might be biased - especially if they appear in the story.
 A good copyeditor will clean up your writing and make the dull parts shine.Whether you're planning on getting your book published at a publishing house or going the self-publishing route, it's never a bad idea to have a professional polish your book at the end of the writing process.
 It should match the tone and style of your book, in addition to being attention-grabbing and intriguing. Keep the title short and memorable, rather than wordy and difficult to grasp. You could title it with your name and the words "My Autobiography" or choose something less direct. Here are some famous autobiography titles that perfectly capture the stories inside:



Bossy Pants, by Tina Fey.

My Confession, by Leo Tolstoy.

A Long Walk to Freedom, by Nelson Mandela.

The Sound of Laughter, by Peter Kay.