 Perhaps you are the person who likes to have "Star Trek" playing in the background, but make sure that you do not spend too much time watching the television or just staring at the ceiling. It may be uncomfortable to sit in your chair the entire time; you can occasionally walk around for a few minutes. If you about an hour for one task, make sure that you are working most of the time.;
, Getting started is the most difficult step, and once you get started, you are much more likely to finish.
 Do the most important things first to ensure that they will get done, even if you know that you will not have time to do everything.
 Start out by giving yourself plenty of time in the morning to get ready. If this means getting up half an hour earlier than normal, accommodate this - simply go to bed half an hour earlier to make up for it. You may want to read the paper, exercise or just listen to music. Whatever it is, make this time special and uninterrupted.
 Do not skip this important meal that provides your with morning energy.
 It can be a written list to begin with, and as you familiarize yourself with it, you will form a mental checklist. Before heading to or from work, school, activities, etc., use this checklist to make sure you have everything, such as your briefcase, backpack, purse, wallet, swimming gear, sports equipment, and notes.
 Some people like to work on a project until they finish; others need many breaks. Some prefer long sessions; others prefer short, concentrated sessions.
 If you concentrate too much on one thing, one project, or one person, time may start to disappear on you. You may have more fun if you have several projects that you are working on at once. You probably have several tasks to tackle each day, so spend some time on one and then spend some time another. This is especially important if you become stuck and do not know what to do next for that task. If you take a break and come back later, you may be able to see something that you missed before. Spread your talents, your time and your interests more widely and it will also seem as if time stretches a little to accommodate these things. Remember not to overdo commitments, however. This is just about making your focus wider.
 Do not rush into household chores, but relax for about an hour. Sit down over a cup of coffee or a snack and then start to attend to other things once your relaxation time has settled you back in comfortably. Work, chores, laundry, dinner, homework, etc. will all benefit from a rest and your rejuvenation.
 When you have finally finished your chores and activities for the day, start to get ready for bed. If you have children, put them to bed and make a little "me" time at night. You will want to be well rested for the next day.
 A reward can be something as simple as a small snack or a walk around the neighborhood.

