 This will allow you to easily absorb fat-soluble nutrients, which include many of the vitamins (A, D, E, and K, for example). It may seem counter-intuitive to encourage consuming fats in your salad dressing, but in fact this will help your body absorb necessary nutrients without giving you too much in the way of harmful fats.


If the meal contains another small dietary source of oil, you may forego dressing altogether and use lemon or lime juice as a healthful alternative.;
, Iceberg lettuce, spinach, romaine, arugula, and radicchio all have their own advantages, so using a combination lets you make the most of each of them. It also adds color and flavor that improve your salad. For the optimized nutrition intake, mix all of these in a same bowl of in everyday routine.


Emphasize darker greens like spinach, kale, and arugula, rather than iceberg lettuce, which has little nutritional content.
Add herbs like parsley and basil to get even more anti-oxidants and flavor from your salad.
 Cheese is a great source of calcium, and helps release the saturated fats in your food more quickly to make you feel more full. It looks and tastes great in salads, but don't overdo it. Use only small amounts of cheese and select types with low fat contents. Grated cheddar or parmesan, or small balls of mozzarella, can make a huge difference in your salad.
 Proteins release extra fats to make you feel satisfied, and they are an important part of your diet. Great sources of protein to add to your salad include salmon or chicken, tofu or edamame, seeds and nuts, and beans. Use a healthy serving size - don't overdo it - but make sure they're there!

, Different fruits and veggies contain different nutrients that you need, so the more you eat, the better. The variety of textures and tastes makes for a delicious and exciting salad. Vegetables like broccoli, cucumbers, carrots, and bell peppers work well together in a salad, and they're only enhanced by fruits like strawberries, pears, oranges, and raspberries.
 These have almost no nutritional content but add a lot of sugar and calories. Use walnuts or flax seeds for the same crunch without destroying the health factor.

