









Insecticides are poisonous to humans and pets as well as stink bugs. Keep them out of reach of small children and pets, and strictly follow the application instructions on the label.
Residual dust treatments can kill many stink bugs, but the bugs may die in hard-to-reach places as a result of the delayed effect. Carpet beetles and other pests may invade your home to feed on the dead bugs afterward.
Aerosol foggers will kill stink bugs, but the effect only lasts for a limited amount of time, and any stink bugs that enter the area after the room is aired out will not be killed.
Only use insecticides that are labeled to kill stink bugs. Otherwise, you run the risk of choosing a chemical that is not effective against these particular pests.
 Use a "kills on contact" aerosol insecticide to attack stink bugs as you see them.









Understand that "on contact" is not necessarily as instantaneous as the term would imply. These chemicals usually begin to attack the stink bug's nervous system after they dry, but it could take several hours after initial contact before the bug dies.










Residual sprays tend to work best when sprayed along window sills, doorways, and baseboards.
Residual dusts tend to work better when dusting the attic, crawl spaces, or interior wall space.
 Spray an outdoor residual pesticide along the ground around your home's foundation.









Stink bugs always invade from the outdoors, so any stink bug entering your home for the first time will be affected and killed.
 Soak a pack of shredded cigarettes in 1 gallon (4 liters) of warm water. Strain the solution and mix in 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of dish detergent.









Fill a spray bottle with this solution and thoroughly coat the stink bug with it.
The liquid dish detergent allows the solution to stick to the insect more effectively, and the nicotine poisons the stink bug.
Wear disposable gloves as you work with the nicotine solution to avoid accidentally absorbing the poison through your skin.

