 Pour the entire 1 gallon (4 L) of water into a large saucepan and bring it to a rolling boil over high heat.


Let the water boil for 1 or 2 minutes, then remove it from the heat and allow it to cool down to room temperature.
This step is only necessary if you are using tap water, since tap water tends to have contaminants like chlorine and hard minerals. If you decide to use distilled water, you can skip this step.;
, While it is not necessary, you can flavor the tej with edible blossoms, like dandelions or violets, or other herbs.Collect the herbs and wash away any dirt and other contaminants.
Chop the blossoms into rough pieces, then scatter them in the bottom of the crock or jar you plan to use.
 Pour the full 1 quart (1 L) of honey into the crock or jar you wish to use. The honey should be poured directly over the previously prepared blossoms, if applicable.


Raw, unpasteurized honey works best for this process, but commercially prepared honey will also work if it is the only available option.
It is easiest to use a large crock or similar earthenware pot when preparing a large batch of tej. If necessary, though, you can use smaller glass jars instead.
Make sure that you distribute the ingredients evenly among all vessels when using multiple jars.
 Pour 1 quart (1 L) of your prepared room temperature water into the crock of honey. Stir well until the honey is dissolved.Use a wooden spoon for best results, and use the same wooden spoon to stir the tej throughout the entire fermentation process. Do not wash the spoon in between steps. “Good” fermentation bacteria can build up in the porous wood, thereby encouraging better fermentation and enhancing the final flavor of the beverage.
 Pour the remaining 3 quarts (3 L) of water over the diluted honey in the crock. Stir well to combine.


The texture of the mixture should be even throughout the entire batch.
If you taste the mixture now, it will seem very sweet. This sweetness will become more subdued as the drink ferments, though.
Make sure that there is at least 1 or 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of space at the top of the crock or jar after you pour the water in. This extra space will make it easier for you to stir the mixture.
 Cover the top of the crock with a cheesecloth or clean dish towel. Set it aside in a warm place and allow it to ferment for several days, or until fizzy froth begins to appear on the surface of the liquid.


Mix the beverage two or three times a day during this step.
Covering the crock with a cloth will prevent dust and pests from finding their way inside, but the porous quality of the cloth will allow natural yeast to slip in and work on your beverage. Do not cover the crock with a tight lid.
Ideally, the liquid should ferment in temperatures between 60 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit (15.6 and 26.7 degrees Celsius). Sitting it on a table or counter out of direct sunlight will usually be sufficiently warm.
The exact amount of time can vary, and the beverage will need a longer initial fermentation period if the air around it is somewhat cold.
 Once the initial fermentation period is over, pour the beverage through a fine mesh sieve and into a large glass jug.


If you do not have a sieve, you could line a funnel with cheesecloth or coffee filters and pour the tej through that. You simply need to strain out any herbs, blossoms, and solid contaminants.
You could also use a siphon to transfer the beverage from the crock to the jug.
Leave as little empty headspace as possible in the jar. Less access to oxygen is better for the final part of the fermentation process. If necessary, you can fill extra space with additional honey and water in a ratio of one part honey to four parts water.
 Fit an airlock into the top of the jug. The seal between the airlock and the jug should be very tight.


Different airlock designs work differently, so it is a good idea to read the instructions that come with your airlock to determine the proper way to install it.
Usually, you will need to insert a special cork or rubber stopper in the top of the jar and fit the airlock into a hole positioned in the center of that stopper. Add water, brandy, or vodka to the airlock, filling it halfway, before securing the the lock with its cap.
 Return the beverage to a warm location and allow it to ferment for two to four weeks.


As before, the ideal temperature range is between 60 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit (15.6 and 26.7 degrees Celsius).
The exact amount of required fermentation time can vary. Essentially, though, you simply need to wait until bubbles no longer form in your airlock. Once the bubbles stop, the yeasts inside the beverage are no longer consuming sugar and producing gas.
 Pour the finished tej into glass bottles. Seal the bottles with corks or snap tops.


You may find it easiest to pour the tej into the bottles using a funnel. A siphon could also be used to transfer the tej from the jug to the bottles.
Note that you will need to remove the airlock cap before you can bottle the beverage.
 The tej is now ready and can be enjoyed immediately. If desired, though, you can store the tej at room temperature for several years before enjoying it.


Aging the tej will mellow the natural sweetness of the drink, creating a richer, more mature flavor.

