 Tell your doctor if you experience airborne allergies. The first step in determining whether you have oral allergy syndrome is to assess whether you have related allergy conditions such as hay fever or mold allergy. If you have airborne allergies and you react to eating fresh fruit and vegetables, there is more basis to suspect oral allergy syndrome. To determine whether you have any airborne allergies, you should review your medical history or consider whether you experience any symptoms. In particular, look to see if you have any of the following symptoms of common airborne allergies such as hay fever or an allergy to mold:Symptoms of hay fever include sneezing, stuffy nose, an itchy nose, and swollen eyes.Symptoms of mold allergy include dry skin, stuffy nose, cough, itchy throat, nose and eyes, and watery eyes., It is important for your doctor to know if you have any specific allergies such as allergy to grass pollens, alder, mugwort, ragweed, or birch. People with oral allergy syndrome usually have these specific allergies.So, it will be helpful for your doctor to know about these specific allergies when they are making a diagnosis. You may want to tell your doctor:


“I have an allergy to ragweed and pollen. Do you think this is related to my strange reaction to fresh fruit and vegetables?”
Also tell your doctor if you have an alder allergy. If you have an alder pollen allergy, you may have trouble ingesting fresh apples, cherries, pears, and peaches.The same applies for a mugwort allergy, so let your doctor know. If you have a mugwort pollen allergy, you may experience oral allergy syndrome in response to carrots, apples, melon, celery, watermelon, spices or Chamomile tea., In particular, it is important to tell your doctor your exact age and whether or not you have had any past reaction to fresh fruits and vegetables. If you are an older child, teen, or young adult and have been eating fresh fruits and vegetables for years without a problem, you are in an at-risk demographic. In many cases, oral allergy syndrome is adult-onset.Younger children do not typically experience oral allergy syndrome, although some older children do experience it.

