 The most direct way of supporting a dairy farmer’s endeavors is to simply purchase their milk regularly. That might seem obvious, but regular customers have a greater impact than sporadic customers.


You can also join a Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) co-op. When you join a CSA, you pay a fee for a season, and fresh, locally harvested agricultural products are delivered to you or reserved for you. As long as you can find a CSA that includes a dairy farmer’s produce, it can be a great way to save a little time when you purchase., It won't be available in all areas, but if you can find a milk delivery service in your area, it's another great way to become a regular supporter of your local dairy farmer.Contact the dairy directly to find out about their home delivery. While there are a few services that deliver from multiple dairies, like Farm to Home Milk of Asheville, NC, most delivery services are run by the dairies themselves.
 Many dairy farmers actually open their facilities for tours to the public, especially school classes. Taking a tour helps give the farmer a secondary income stream while exposing visitors to a world they often don’t get to see.The best way to find out if a particular farm offers tours is to ask them directly, although some of the larger dairy farms list information about tours on their websites.
 Once you’ve established a relationship with the farmer, a great way to support him or her is by sending more and more business their way. Since the vast majority of milk is sold in grocery stores, convincing a grocer to stock the farmer’s products is a great way to help boost the farmer’s income.


While you might not have any luck getting the Walmart down the street to stock a local farmer’s milk, local and regional grocers are often surprisingly willing to stock products individual customers ask to be stocked.
 If you've got a good relationship with some local restaurant owners, talk to them about the superior quality of local dairy products. Good ingredients mean good food, which is something that any restaurant owner should appreciate.
 Purchasing goods locally carries with it a number of benefits. Money spent at local merchants (including farmers) stays within your local community, the products sold have a smaller carbon footprint, which is better for the environment, and local produce and animal products are inherently more fresh than an alternative shipped in from afar.Most of the larger metropolitan areas actually have established eat local organizations. You can get educational materials and infographics from them, as well as learning about even more local products for sale in your area.

