 If something is different with your child (behavior changes, developmental regression, injuries your child didn't mention), take them aside and gently ask what happened.


"I see a big bruise on your arm. What happened?"
"You seem very sad and withdrawn lately. Would you like to talk to me about what's going on?"
"You used not to wet your bed anymore, and now it happened twice in the last week. Would you please talk to me about what's going on?"
There's a chance it isn't caused by abuse: a bruise from soccer, sadness over a friendship problem, eating less due to an illness, et cetera. Giving them time to talk will help you figure out what is bothering your child, and how to help them.
If a child responds secretively, there is a greater chance that something big is going on.
 It's normal to feel a wave of difficult emotions, from anger to disbelief to fear. Take a deep breath keep your temper under control.


If you're having trouble staying calm, say so, placing the blame on the abuser and not the child. "I'm very upset to hear that she did this to you. It's hard to stay calm for me right now. I want to hear what you have to say, so I'm going to take a few deep breaths and then I'll be ready to keep listening."

, Go to a private place to talk about this, and listen carefully to them without immediately offering judgment or advice. Gently ask them to explain as needed, and respect it if they don't feel comfortable retelling all the upsetting details right away.


Don't doubt their words or state that they misinterpreted it.
Avoid prying. Your child may feel very distressed, and pressuring them to answer questions they aren't ready for may only make things worse. Take it slowly, and trust that they'll tell details if and when they're ready.
 Say that you're glad they told you, and they did the right thing by being honest. Remind them how brave they are to handle this, and that none of it is their fault.


Put your child's well-being and freedom from danger first. Take him/her to see a physician if he/she has a bad-enough, even severe, body damage. You should also notify your office for protective services about this. Let them know about what happened, the abuser, what type of abuse it was, etc.
 Explain to your child that because this is important, it needs to be reported to authorities who can handle the abuser and keep the child (and all other children) safe from the abuser.


Try calling a child abuse hotline to figure out the steps you need to take to care for your child and report the abuser.
 Remind your child how much you love them, be patient with them, and let them come to you when they are upset.

