 Do this sitting up to prevent yourself from falling asleep. Close them as tightly as you can to help your eyes relax.


Hold this position for a few seconds, and then quickly open your eyes. Repeat it three to five times to help your eyes relax.After doing it quickly a few times, close your eyes very tightly and hold the pose for about a minute. Focus on your breathing to help you relax even further.;
, Rub your eyes very gently with your fingertips, as if almost tickling them. Then, cover your eyes completely with the palms of your hand to block out any light. Make sure your hands are clean before doing this, and wash them if necessary, to prevent picking up an infection.


Rubbing your eyes can help to relax them, and following this with total darkness can have a very soothing effect.
 Your eyes are very sensitive so not much heat is required to have a noticeable impact. Simply rub the palms of your hands together to create friction, and then gently place your warm hands over your eyes while they are closed. The heat can have a very soothing effect.


Note to always wash your hands first to prevent the spread of infection (as touching your hands to your eyes without washing them first is one of the fastest ways to catch a cold).
 There are a number of exercises you can try to help your eyes relax. Not all of these work for everyone, but by trial and error you can see which ones work for you.


Try blinking. Particularly when looking at a computer screen, which can be straining on the eyes, practice blinking every four seconds. See if this helps to relax your eyes.
Roll your eyes. Close your eyes, and then roll your eyes in all directions. This can provide a very relaxing sensation, almost like a massage, and also can ease the tension in your eye muscles.
Try "visual scanning." Especially if you have been focusing on close-up objects like a computer screen for a long time, spend some time focusing on far away objects. Look to the corners of the room and take note of the visual detail of your surroundings (this is called "scanning").

