 Physicians know that there is little that they can do to prevent the subject's death due to terminal (life-ending) illnesses. In such instances, is it okay to help a patient kill themselves peacefully, or should they be kept alive as long as possible? Meat production and consumption causes suffering to animals and the environment -- is it morally wrong to eat animals when you know that vegetarianism may be better for the planet? If you do, is it ethical to let your pets eat meat, or is it immoral to force carnivores to skip meat? If there is a war in a foreign country and civilians are being murdered, is it more moral to risk US troops to save them or to let each nation decide its own fate without intervention from outsiders? There are no right answers here -- only difficult questions that need to be asked.


Having an answer to a moral quandary, like those above, requires thought and detail. To truly determine moral principles, you'll need to do some research.
Keeping your arguments based on facts and reason often helps avoid the traps imposed by religious moral thinking., Socrates, and many of his fellow Greeks, believed that ignorance or lack of information creates evil and bad behavior.They argue that most people want to do the right thing, but never fully think out the repercussions of their actions. Most people do the "right" thing because it makes them happy, but you only know the right thing through honest review of the facts:


What are the long-term consequences of my choice?
Who else will my choice affect? Will it positively or negatively affect my relationships?
What is being lost in this decision? What is being gained?, Throughout most of human evolution, people lived in small bands where the members were closely related and likely to remain in contact with each other throughout their lives. Being altruistic to other members of the band strengthened the community, allowing its members to produce more successful offspring. The closeness of the community also put other members in a position to reciprocate, which directly aids and reinforces the moral codes. Colloquially, one might call this a win-win situation -- where helping others instead of competing with them allows everyone to be better off. From meerkats to schools of fish, and of course humans, morality doesn't come from a god, it comes from the evolutionary benefits of supporting each other.


Treating people with decency, honesty, and kindness is almost always repaid by favors from others and a safe, productive community to live in

, This seems much more heartless than it seems, as the "ends" is much more complicated than choosing the most selfish moral principle. Developed over many years and under many names, such as utilitarianism, this philosophy decrees that whatever produces the best results is the most moral principle to take. Of course, it is up to you to decide what "best results are," and there are only so many ways to determine this. Still thinking about the future results of your actions is a great way to develop useful, concrete guides for a moral life.


What counts as a "good consequence?" Make sure you consider how your decisions will affect others -- as your relationships ultimately affect you as well.
The outwardly "right" act, according to religion, is somewhat irrelevant. For example, stealing is "wrong" in most religions. But is stealing from the rich to feed your starving children really "immoral" if you consider the actual consequences?

, Independent cultural overlap generally suggests that a moral principle is valid. For example, the Golden Rule ("Do unto others as you would have them do unto you") is not uniquely Christian and is, indeed, echoed throughout ethical philosophy across the globe. People everywhere agree that you should treat others with respect, indicating that this is a solidly human moral principle.


The ideas outlined in The United Nation's Universal Declaration of Human Rights are generally considered a worldwide, though incomplete, framework for basic decency and morality.
 While the reader may consider many parts of religious (and philosophical) texts amoral and lack a belief in any deity, that does not discount the positive ideas of those writers. The writers of such texts were definitely human, and their ideas can be valid outside of the context of religion. Some famous ethical and moral tracts to start with include:



Beyond Good and Evil, Friedrich Nietzche

The Moral Landscape,' Sam Harris

Ethics, Benedict de Spinoza
The writings of St. Augustine, Christian theologist

Nicomachean Ethics, Aristotle

A Vindication of the Rights of Women, Mary Wollstonecraft