 Place 1 cup (250 ml) of ice in the bottom of a cocktail shaker.Add the matcha, water, milk, and any desired sweetener to the shaker, as well.


Consider sifting the green tea powder into the shaker. Matcha may develop clumps as it sits, and breaking up these clumps before mixing the drink should allow the powder to disperse more evenly.
You can use any dairy or non-dairy milk for this drink. Iced lattes are naturally less foamy than hot lattes, but the type of milk used will further affect the amount of froth produced. Whole dairy milk will usually create the most, while non-fat dairy and non-dairy milks may produce very little.
Cocktail shakers work especially well for this process, but if you don't have one, the next best option would be a jar with a lid. If neither option is available, you can still prepare the iced latte in a wide-mouthed glass; combine all of the ingredients except the ice in a wide glass or bowl capable of holding at least 8 oz (250 ml).
 Close the shaker and vigorously shake it for at least 60 seconds. Check the contents; if ready, the drink should look evenly colored and foamy.


When preparing the drink in a glass instead of a cocktail shaker or sealable jar, vigorously whisk the matcha, milk, and water together using a bamboo or metal whisk. You can also combine the three ingredients using an immersion blender; process them together for approximately 10 to 20 seconds before continuing.
 Evenly divide the remaining 1 cup (250 ml) of ice between two serving glasses. Each glass must be able to hold a minimum of 1 cup (250 ml).


Alternatively, you can make one large latte instead of two smaller ones. Add all of the ice to a tall glass capable of holding at least 2 cups (500 ml).
 Pour the green tea latte through the shaker spout and into the prepared serving glasses, retaining the original ice rather than allowing it to enter the glasses.


For lattes mixed in a glass or bowl, simply pour the prepared drink over the ice. If it isn't as cold as you would prefer it to be, try chilling it in the refrigerator for 10 minutes or in the freezer for 1 to 2 minutes.
 The green tea latte should be finished and ready to drink.


If you were unable to produce a satisfactory amount of foam while mixing the drink, consider garnishing your iced latte with a small amount of whipped cream. Sprinkle the whipped cream or froth with additional matcha, if desired, to improve the overall presentation.

