 Pop singers have a large amount of variability and tones, from traditionally beautiful singers like Adele up against modern, more unique voices like John Mayer or Bruno Mars. Think about the songs you love and want to sing: do you want to work on epic, dramatic songs or more fun, loose bits.What does your natural singing voice sound like? Try to use this to your advantage instead of fighting it. Mick Jagger doesn't have an amazing voice, but he and the Rolling Stones rode the top of the pop charts for decades because he uses his growly, high-energy style to it's fullest potential.
Singing like Adele, Beyonce, Michael Buble, and other "classic" voices generally takes years of training. While you can learn without a teacher, these voices are very hard to develop without professional help.;
, Your voice sounds different to others than it does to you, and you need to hear both versions to find out where you miss notes or need improvement. Make sure you turn the background music as much as possible, as the original singer can cover up your mistakes if you're not careful. Listen to the recordings, then work on trouble areas until you can sing them fluidly.


Sing whatever you want to sing -- there is no "right" style for pop singers.
 Your range is the group of notes you can hit comfortably without cracking or missing notes. A large range covers both high and low notes, like Marvin Gaye's famous 3-octave range. A small range sticks to simple, easy notes, like Joe Strummer's infamous 3-note range. Any range can work in pop music, but only if you know yours and know how to stay in it. The better your singing technique, the better your range.


Hit your highest notes without cracking or struggling -- this is the top of your range.
Hit the lowest note you can -- this is the bottom of your range.
Practicing can expand your range. Working on higher and lower notes will pay off, as you can teach yourself to grow your range with proper technique.
 Vocal chords are living cells and need to be healthy to perform well. As such, proper hydration is one of the small, secret keys to unlocking your best vocal potential. Furthermore, alcohol, tobacco, and even dairy products will hamper your chords ability to move freely, limiting your range.Make sure you start drinking at least 30 minutes before performing so that your body has time to absorb the water.

