 Since your body makes its own glutathione, you can aid its production by eating foods that will help your body make more of it. Glutathione is composed of three amino acids — cysteine, glycine and glutamic acid. These amino acids are present in high quality lean protein sources, so eating high quality lean protein will help your body to make more glutathione.Make sure that your diet includes high-quality lean protein sources such as lean poultry; whey protein; soy protein; antibiotic and hormone-free dairy products; and yogurt. Aim for two to three servings per day.;
, Many fruits and vegetables provide glutathione. To get the most glutathione from this food group, eat fresh fruits and vegetables, not overcooked or processed ones. Overcooking and processing will decrease the level of glutathione in these foods.The fruits and vegetables that contain the most glutathione per serving include: asparagus, potatoes, peppers, carrots, onion, broccoli, avocados, squash, spinach, garlic, tomatoes, grapefruit, apples, oranges, peaches, bananas and melon. Also, bok choy, watercress, mustard, horseradish, turnips, rutabagas, kohlrabi, okra and ripe seeds of green beans contain precursors of glutathione.Cyanohydroxybutene, a chemical found in broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts and cabbage, and chlorophyll in parsley are thought to contribute to raising Glutathione levels.
Beets have been shown to have a positive effect on the activity of GSH enzymes as well., Some spices — like turmeric, cinnamon, cumin, and cardamom — have compounds that can assist in restoring healthy levels of GSH and boost the activity of GSH enzymes.Curries often feature cumin, turmeric, and cardamom. Try a curry recipe to incorporate more of these spices into your diet.
Cinnamon is easy to incorporate into your diet. Sprinkle a little on your morning coffee or on a bowl of ice cream.
 Selenium elevates the levels of glutathione peroxidase — the cysteine molecule appearing in the process of digestion of plants grown in selenium-rich soil contributes to GSH production.In other words, it is necessary to form glutathione-containing enzymes.


Foods rich in selenium include sunflower seeds cereals, oats, Brazil nuts, walnuts, legumes, tuna, beef, poultry, cheese, eggs, turkey, chicken breast and brown rice.
You can also take a selenium supplement. The recommended daily intake (RDI) for adults is 55 mcg.
 Alpha-lipoic acid, or ALA, promotes glutathione synthesis in the body, thereby increasing glutathione levels.It is a natural antioxidant with free radical scavenging abilities and has the ability to regenerate oxidized antioxidants like Vitamin C and E and helps to make them more potent.


Foods rich in alpha-lipoic acid include: spinach, tomatoes, peas, Brussels sprouts, rice bran and mayonnaise. Many of these foods are naturally high in glutathione, too.
You can also supplement your diet with 100 – 200 mg of ALA daily, but check with your doctor first to determine if this supplement is right for you.
 It is not always possible to get everything that you need from diet alone, so taking a daily multivitamin is a good idea. Read the label on your multi-vitamin to make sure that it includes the following vitamins and minerals. Some of these vitamins and minerals are difficult to get in sufficient quantities from food, but they are required for many biochemical reactions.Vitamin C
Vitamin E
Vitamins B6
Vitamin B12
Folate
Riboflavin (Vitamin B2)
Selenium
Magnesium
Zinc
Vanadium

, MSM provides a source of sulfur, which is necessary for the synthesis of glutathione. If you think that your diet is lacking sulfur, ask your doctor about including an MSM supplement. The common dosage is 500 mg of MSM three times a day.Do not take MSM if you are taking anticoagulants (blood thinners), unless you are advised to do so by your physician.
 Exercise is a great way to increase your metabolism and stimulate your body to produce more glutathione to fight external toxins. Begin your training program with light aerobic exercises such as walking, then move to jogging, bicycling, and swimming.


All forms of moderate exercise have been shown to increase blood levels of glutathione. This includes aerobic exercise training, circuit weight training, and combined training aerobics and circuit weight training.You can also start with ten or fifteen minutes of activity and work up to 30 or 40 minutes per session. Try to exercise at least four times per week for best results.