 Before you can get someone to fall in love with you, you have to make sure s/he knows you exist and you are interested in him or her. Making eye contact is a simple, effective way to indicate your interest to someone. Research has shown that prolonged eye contact can increase feelings of attraction between two people. Use eye contact to flirt with your love interest to get him or her interested.Try gazing into the person’s eyes for a few minutes and then slowly turn your gaze elsewhere. Or, if a long gaze does not seem appropriate yet, try checking in with the person with frequent, quick glances.;
, Mirroring body position can also indicate your interest in a person and provide opportunities for him or her to do the same. For example, if the person is leaning in towards you with one arm on the table, you can lean in with the opposite arm so that you look like a mirror image of the person.Make sure that you don’t overdo this one or make it too obvious that you are trying to mirror their body position. You may even find yourself mirroring the other person without trying, which is even better because it will seem more natural.
 Smiling is an easy way to show that you are interested in someone and it can also make you seem more attractive.Make sure that you smile at your date now and then to indicate your interest.


Try to keep your smile as natural and relaxed as possible. Don’t force it or smile in a way that is unusual for you.
 As you show your interest in someone, watch for signs that s/he is also interested in you. If you notice that the person is also smiling, making eye contact, and facing you when s/he talks, then this might be a good sign. Watch for other positive body language as well, such as playing with the hair, touching your arm, or fidgeting with clothes.If someone does not seem interested in you, don’t take it personally or get discouraged. Just keep looking!

, If the person seems interested, ask if s/he would like to go out with you sometime. Asking someone out can be a bit scary, but if you don't ask, you might never know if s/he is interested in you. Take a deep breath and just let him or her know that you'd like to get together sometime.


Try taking an even more casual approach if you are nervous. Say something like, "What have you got going on this weekend?" If the response is something indefinite like, "I was thinking about going to the beach on Saturday," use it to your advantage. Try saying, "That sounds fun. Maybe later that evening we can grab some dinner together."