 Some windows are designed in an unusual fashion and do not follow the crank or sliding opening pattern. Luckily, there is a method you can use that works for most windows. You'll need the following supplies, all of which can be purchased online or at a hardware store:


Measuring tape
Velcro strip
Glue
Lexan sheetIf you cannot find a lexan sheet, try another see-through plastic or light glass. Someone at the hardware store should be able to point you in the right direction.
The advantage of a clear window guard is not limited to the fact it fits on most windows. A clear window guard also lets in light, preventing your home from feeling dark or dreary due to a window guard.
 You will be attaching a lexan sheet inside your window using velcro. In order to determine how big of a sheet you'll need, measure your window vertically and horizontally. Write down these dimensions., Take your lexan sheet to a hardware store. Ask a worker to cut the sheet in the dimensions of your window. As a lexan sheet is made of plastic, it can be dangerous to attempt to cut it yourself unless you have experience working in hardware., Attach four strips of velcro along each side of your lexan sheet. Then, attach four strips of velcro hooks along the side of your window. Use your glue to attach the velcro. As a child is not very strong, simple craft glue should be strong enough to keep your lexan sheet in place.With very young children, velcro should be strong enough to hold the windows in place. Also, as the sheet is fit so tightly in the window, it would be difficult for a child to get a grip on the Lexan sheet to begin with.
If your children are older, consider screwing the lexan sheet into the window frames. If you're renting, you should check with your landlord before drilling into the window.
 Once the glue has dried, place your lexan sheet into the window. It will now be hard for your child to slide or push open your window, as there is a guard in place. The advantage of lexan is that it also lets light through, avoiding your room becoming dark due to a window guard.If you want to let airflow in through the window, consider drilling holes through the plastic with a power drill. Read the manufacturer's instructions on your lexan sheet first, however, to make sure you take proper safety precautions for the brand of lexan you're using.