 Even if you are not Asian, you can still be Kawaii. Being Kawaii is more than just about race or ethnicity. Your body shape doesn't matter either, Kawaii girls can be short, tall, flat, curvy, or skinny!;
, Kawaii girls have sweet, nice attitudes that everyone loves! They giggle a lot, are super kind to everyone around them, never pick fights, and are just pleasant to be around! Kawaii is all about being adorable, so find things that you like. Hello Kitty is super adorable and loved by many so that's a good place to start. Don't just get something because it is Kawaii, get it because you like it.
 Here's where the innocent, lovable image comes in. Kawaii girls dress in bright, frilly clothes that just scream "cute!". Think outfits like floral, childish/elegant, scalloped designs, patterned overalls, balloon shorts with bows, etc.


Go out shopping find the most adorable clothing you can find. Look for colour and cuteness, but, if you don't love and don't think it would look good on you, put it back. Don't buy something you don't like just because it is Kawaii.
 Put lots of key chains and things like that on your backpack or purse. Kid robot has some Kawaii stuffed animals.Accessorize well and make sure your outfits look good together.
 Use black gel and/or liquid eyeliner, pink cream blush, sparkly pink lip gloss, and light concealer/foundation. You want a clean but innocent makeup look. For a good Kawaii makeup tutorial, I suggest watching Jemma Kuma's video on Kawaii makeup on YouTube.
 Look videos up on Youtube if you want a good idea for DIY ideas. Often Kawaii girls wear fake, long and accessorized nails. This might be too much for you, so you got to find out what suits to you. Neatly manicured nails are also good and can work in lots of looks.
 In pictures, Kawaii girls always have eyes wide open. You can lay an ice-cold washcloth on your eyes for about five minutes, then apply some pearly eye shadow to under your eyes, on your crease. Big eyes are cute, but don't worry if your eyes aren't big.<brand>
, For hair, think "young child." Pigtails, side ponytails, braids, anything you'd see on a student in elementary school. Don't forget to add bows!

, Add your own flair to the Kawaii style using whatever you like, and make the style your own.
 It is super fun and interesting and there is something for everyone. It's not all fighting and things like that! For example, try watching Peach Girl. It's great!

, Really, labels don't matter at all. All that really matters is how much love and support you surround yourself with.
 Look around online for great Kawaii women you can look up to. Make sure they make good decisions, are super nice and sweet, and use good language, because Kawaii girls never curse.

