 The Eastern Front involved the most massive military endeavors in the history of the world with enormous casualties and an incredible amount of weaponry used. This confrontation involved the European Axis Powers (mainly Germany and Italy) against the Soviet Union and other Allied Powers.The Eastern Front was where the majority of concentration camps were located and, thus, played a major role in the Holocaust.
The major battles fought on the Eastern Front include Stalingrad and the battles that led to the recapture of Kharkov by the Soviets.;
, The Western Front was the site of many conflicts between Germany and other Western European countries like Denmark, Norway, Luxembourg, Belgium, France, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands.The first phase of the war in the Western Front involved many of these western countries fighting Germany in attempts that culminated with the Battle of Britain.
The second phase saw a lot of ground combat between the two sides that began with the landing in Normandy and lasted until the German defeat in 1945.
The major battles fought on the Western Front include the Normandy D-Day landing, the Battle of the Bulge, the Battle of Britain, and the Battle of Arnhem., After the Japanese attack on American’s military bases at Pearl Harbor, the US launched a counterstrike against the Japanese who had overextended their military forces, resulting in massive air battles that usually resulted in greater losses for the Japanese than for the American Allies.The major battles fought in the Pacific Theater included Pearl Harbor, the Battle of Midway, and the Battle of the Philippine Sea.
 The major players in World War II included the Axis and the Allied Powers. These were the entities between which most of the major battles took place.The Axis Powers included Germany, Italy, Japan, (and less significantly) Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, Thailand, Finland, and Iraq.
The Allied Powers included Britain, China, France, the Soviet Union, the United States, (and less significantly) Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Greece, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, South Africa, and Yugoslavia.
 Books can be the most important source for gathering information. Primary sources are books that are written by someone with firsthand experience about the topic. So, in this case, primary sources about WWII would be written by people who actually participated in the war in some way (mostly memoirs and autobiographies).Keep in mind, though, the relative bias of sources because you’re usually just getting one person’s point of view. Some notable primary sources include:


Memoirs of the Eastern Front


A Writer at War by Vasily Grossman


Memoirs of the Western Front


The Second World War by Winston Churchill

To Hell and Back by Audie Murphy (America's most decorated WWII soldier)


Memoirs of the Pacific theater


Goodbye, Darkness by William Manchester

Isles of the Damned by R.V. Burgin



, Secondary sources are written by people who don’t have firsthand knowledge of the event, but who have done extensive research on the topic. Be aware these are interpretations by people who were not necessarily there. Some notable secondary sources include:


Eastern Front


Berlin by Anthony Beevor

Stalingrad by Anthony Beevor


Western Front


Armageddon by Max Hastings

Overlord by Max Hastings


Global


The Meaning of the Second World War by Ernest Mandel

The Origins of the Second World War by A.J.P. Taylor



, Many public libraries contain books and encyclopedia articles that can give you a broad overview of World War II or more specific information about individual events or aspects of the war.. There is a vast array of information available in a public library. You might even stumble upon something you didn’t know you were looking for.
 Watching films about WWII can be a great way to learn about what happened during this time in history. Just be careful to watch movies that are historically accurate and not simply sensationalizing the past for entertainment value.


Remember that few films are primary sources except for propaganda films.
 The Eastern Front was one of the most volatile areas of the entire WWII conflict. Nearly half of all of the casualties from the war took place on the Eastern Front.Some examples of historically accurate films about the Eastern Front include:



Cross of Iron (1977)

Stalingrad (1993)

Enemy at the Gates (2001) (Stalingrad)

Downfall (2004) (Berlin)

Defiance (2008)

Valkyrie (2008)

, The Western Front consisted mostly of air warfare between Germany and Britain as well as the infamous D-Day landing in Normandy.Some examples of historically accurate films about the Western Front include:



Das Boot (1981)

Saving Private Ryan (1998)

The Longest Day (1962) (Invasion of Normandy)

A Bridge Too Far (1977) (Operation Market Garden)

Band of Brothers (2001). This is a mini-series produced by Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks that is based on Stephen E. Ambrose's book of the same name. The series follows Easy Company, a company of paratroopers in the 101st Airborne Division, 506 Parachute Infantry Regiment, from their training in Fort Bragg to the occupation of Germany, covering scenes such as Operation Overlord (commonly known as D-Day), Operation Market Garden, the Battle of the Bulge, and Easy company capturing Hitler’s Eagle Nest.
 The Pacific theater mainly involved the conflict between Japan and the United States during World War II. This includes the attack on Pearl Harbor, the Battle of Iwo Jima, and many other crucial events in the war.Some historically accurate films to watch about conflict in the Pacific include:



The Thin Red Line (Guadalcanal)

Flags of our Fathers (2006) (Iwo Jima)

Letters from Iwo Jima (2006)

The Pacific (2010). Like Band of Brothers, this is a miniseries produced by Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg. Unlike Band of Brothers, it details the stories of soldiers of the 1st Marine Division at Guadalcanal, Cape Gloucester, Peleliu, Iwo Jima, and Okinawa and is based on three separate books. It is also an extremely accurate depiction of World War II.
 Talk to a veteran and get their perspective on the war. Having a conversation with a veteran could be one of the best ways for you to get information about WWII because you can get actual firsthand recollections from someone who experienced it.If you have trouble finding a veteran to talk to, you might try attending your community’s Veteran’s Day parade. They often participate in such events.
You can also ask older relatives what their experiences were like. While not everyone went to war, those who stayed home can give you insight into what the world was like at that time. And many of them contributed to the war effort at home.
 Many of the bigger museums pertaining to World War II are in Europe, but there are also quite a few in the United States. No matter which one you go to, there will be plenty of accurate information for you to learn about World War II. Here are some museums you might want to visit:


The National WWII Museum of New OrleansThe Museum of World War II in BostonThe Wright Museum of World War II in Wolfeboro, New HampshireThe WWII Japanese American Internment Museum in McGehee, ArkansasThe Imperial War Museum in LondonThe D-Day Museum in Portsmouth, EnglandThe Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum in Hiroshima, JapanThe Bergen-Belsen Memorial in Germany, Many colleges give courses in the history department that focus exclusively on World War II. Look at the class catalogue for your college (or one in your area) and see if they offer something similar.This is a great way to learn about WWII, especially if you are not a very good self-motivator. If you take a course, you’ll have teacher-imposed deadlines to complete your learning.
 This is probably a step few will accomplish, but this is the best way to get a feel for what the war was like for the soldiers. Visiting the actual location of the D-Day invasion will help you visualize what happened on that day in history.


There are also monuments, cemeteries, and memorials for you to visit near D-Day site in Normandy., One of the best ways to fully understand the truly devastating implications of World War II is to visit the site of a former concentration camp. It will be a powerful and moving experience to visit the actual sites of such tragic events. These sites also contain memorials and museums with plenty of information about the events that took place during the war.Try visiting Auschwitz-Birkenau, Sachsenhausen, or Buchenwald.