 Many scrunchies, especially those popular in the '90's, were famously thick and had a lot of excess fabric bunched around the elastic band. It is no longer fashionable to have a scrunchie dominate your look. Therefore, look for thinner scrunchies without a lot of excess bulk due to fabric. This makes for a more mature, classy look.However, a thick scrunchie is sometimes necessary if you're doing something like a bun that requires extra support.;
, Modern scrunchies now come in a variety of patterns and styles. Sites like Etsy sell scrunchies in a variety of prints and patterns.Select a scrunchie with a pattern that works for your particular outfit.


For example, you can try a scrunchie to match your outfit. Try pairing a checkerboard dress with a checkerboard scrunchie.
 Scrunchies often come in bright, noticeable colors. You should opt for a scrunchie with a color that matches or compliments your outfit. When wearing purple, for example, go for a purple scrunchie or one in a complimentary color such as yellow.
 A scrunchie can be used at the end of a long braid in place of a hair tie. Braid your hair together in the back. You can either tie it with a scrunchie or a tie it with a hair tie and then place a scrunchie over it.Thicker hair may need to be tied with a tighter hair tie before you put in the scrunchie.


When using a scrunchie with a braid, the scrunchie will become the primary focus of your hairstyle. If you want to highlight a scrunchie with an attractive color or pattern, a braid is a great way to do so.
 A thick bun on the top of your head can be held in place with a scrunchie. This provides a slight '90s throwback appeal. It also puts the scrunchie front and center. This can work great if you're matching colored scrunchies with your clothing., Part your hair to the side and then gather it together near the nape of your neck. Keep it loose enough that your top ears are covered by your hair. Loop the scrunchie around your hair slightly lower than the nape of your neck. This will make a fun, casual ponytail. Your scrunchie will look great with a more casual look.If you want your ponytail a little loser, shake your head back and forth a little after putting your scrunchie.
 A scrunchie can prevent the awkward dent often found in the middle of a high ponytail. To make a high ponytail with a scrunchie, flip your hair over the front of your head. Brush your hair upward to remove lumps. Then, secure your hair together at the top of your head with a scrunchie., A bubble ponytail looks cute and a little quirky when secured with scrunchies. It's simple to do. Make a low ponytail. Then, add two more scrunchies to the ponytail. Keep all the scrunchies at equal distance from one another.If you want a very quirky look, use scrunchies in different patterns or colors.
 Flashy scrunchies are no longer considered fashionable. Things like glitter and metallic materials are no longer popular for a scrunchie look. Avoid scrunchies with a lot of flash or scrunchies made from unusual materials, such as very fuzzy scrunchies., Scrunchies were often used as eye-catching accessories. They tended to be bright and flashy and attracted a lot of attention.Now, they should generally be blended into your main look. Pick scrunchies that go with your outfit rather than working against it. Similar colors and patterns can help your scrunchie blend into your attire.


For example, if you're wearing a checkerboard dress, select a matching checkerboard scrunchie.
 Some scrunchies come in extremely gaudy shades. While very bright colored or neon scrunchies were popular in the '90s, they are no longer considered in style. Opt for scrunchies in more played down colors.