 Before a student can learn syllabication, she will have to understand how vowel sounds work. She will also have to learn the fact that some vowel sounds are spelled using two vowel letters, such as the "ou" vowel sound in the word round.Before moving on to syllable division, ask your student to accomplish the following tasks:


Know the difference between a short vowel sound and a long vowel sound.
Be able to determine a vowel sound for one-syllable words based on the consonants around it.
Recognize common English word patterns. For example, they should learn that many consonant-vowel-consonant words involve a short vowel sound, as in rat or tot, whereas many consonant-vowel-consonant-e words involve a long vowel sound, as in rate or tote.

Memorize common vowel sounds that are spelled with two vowel letters, such as "ou," "oi," "ie," "ea," and "ei."

, Many of the rules of syllabication are approximations. There are no exact rules that can be applied 100% of the time. Much of correct syllabication has to do with instinct and experience. This is why it is essential that you are helping to build your students' vocabularies and reading skills at the same time that you teach syllabication.For example, continue to ask students to read increasingly difficult texts to expose them to new words, longer words, and new sounds.
Assign vocabulary lists to memorize. Make sure you tell students how to pronounce these words as well.
Encourage your students to listen carefully to other speakers to hear how words are pronounced and divided into syllables.
 Whether you are teaching young children, new learners of the language, or native speakers, you should introduce the concept of counting syllables as early as possible. Read off several words of varying lengths, and ask your students to identify the number of syllables they hear. They should be comfortable with counting syllables well before they begin syllabication themselves., Ask young students or people who are having trouble understanding syllables to hold his own chin while saying words. In general, the chin will drop each time there is a new syllable. This physical activity will help make the idea of syllables more concrete., This is especially useful for younger children. Ask your student to clap along with words of varying lengths: one, two, three, and four-syllable words. While clapping might not help your student understand where exactly a word will be divided, this exercise will help your student begin to understand how syllables work, and how many syllables are found in common words., Practice and application are the most useful ways to teach syllabication. Having students memorize dozens of minor rules will not help them get the experience they need to understand syllabication.Only have them memorize the most useful rules of syllabication:


1) Compound words should be divided in-between the two base words.
2) Bound morphemes often comprise their own separate syllable.
3) If two consonants appear in the middle of a word, divide them in half.
4) But never divide consonant digraphs, vowel digraphs, or diphthongs in have.
5) When one consonant is sandwiched by two vowels, first try to divide the word before the consonant. If that doesn't work, then try to divide the word after the consonant.
 The Syllable Sort exercise asks students to make lists of words that adhere to various rules of syllabication. At the top of a piece of paper, list four major categories of syllabication: 1) Divide a compound word; 2) Divide a word in between two consonants; 3) Divide a word in between a vowel and a consonant; 4) Divide a word in between a consonant and a vowel. Ask students to brainstorm words that might fit each of these categories, and have them divide the word according to the relevant rule., Many students already know how to pronounce the names of their classmates and friends. Use this knowledge as a tool to emphasize syllabication lessons. Have your students divide up each other's names into correct syllables to reinforce your syllabication lessons., Write 50 common English syllables on separate index cards. Make sure that these syllables can be combined in various ways to create real English words. Then ask your student to combine these syllables in various ways to create real words and nonsense words. Ask your student where each word should be divided.
 Give your student a list of words that are two-, three-, and four-syllables long. Ask your student to divide each word according to the rules of syllabication. If you notice that your student does not understand a particular pattern, review the rules once more and re-test.

