 The hood latch is typically located to the lower left-hand side of the driver's dashboard. Some cars feature hydraulic hoods that stay propped open automatically. Either way, it's important to make sure that your hood will not fall onto you while you're rooting around in the engine.;
, The wires are typically located next to the valve covers in the cylinder head. On one end, each wire will be attached to a spark plug and on the other end, to a distributor or ignition coils., Due to the high voltage constantly sent through the spark plug wires, they have the tendency to increase in resistance over time. Eventually, this creates too much resistance for any electricity to flow. With the increase in resistance in the wires, there is a decrease in the amount of electricity arriving through the spark plugs — which results in the incomplete combustion of gases inside the cylinder. If there is damage to the protective shield encasing the spark plug wires, then you need to replace the spark plug wires., Age alone does not necessarily indicate that you need new spark plug wires. Look for damage to the wires, and listen for engine malfunction. If you see sparks jumping from the wire to the engine, it is a sign that you need to replace the wires.


Be aware of some of the obvious engine symptoms: rough, bumpy idling, and a deep "coughing" sound. The engine symptoms can also be caused by faulty spark plugs and other, deeper issues, so you first must prove that your wires have gone bad and need to be replaced.You may need to replace the wires if you see sparks jump to the ground at night with the hood up and engine running. Depending on the conductivity of your wires, there might be sparks leaping from the whole front of the car, or just from one spot.
Look for obvious flaws in the wires. You may encounter frays, cracks, and even burnt spots. Any or all of these damages can indicate that you need to replace the wires.
 Now that you have determined the number and type of spark plug wires, you can buy them at any local auto parts store. The clerk should be happy to help confirm that you are getting the correct type and amount of wires.
 You must buy an entire set, even if you only need to replace one wire. Thus, if you have a six-cylinder engine, you must purchase all six wires, all of which will vary in length. You must be aware of the length of the wire you are replacing compared to the old wires on your engine. Try to stay as close as possible to the old wire length.


Different makers have different lengths, and replacement wires are often sold longer than the originals. This allows them to sell more assemblies of wires to fit more applications, so you may have slight differences. Check the length before you start, and it'll be okay.
Quality is important. Stay away from most of the "make your own length" kits unless they are high quality and you are very comfortable installing your own boots.
Oftentimes, the manufactures do not allow repairs on their wires. Don't start cutting the wires to a certain length unless you know for certain that new ends can be safely put on the wires you cut. Otherwise, you may regret it!
Some spark plug wires can be purchased individually from some auto parts stores fully assembled.

