 Rum is king in Tiki bars, and even if you don't feel like mixing up cocktails or blended drinks, a couple bottles of rum will cover the basics for you. You should consider a light rum, a dark rum, and an overproof rum at a minimum.


Citrus juices, from pineapple to orange, are also good mixers and common Tiki ingredients.
Orgeat is an almond-flavored spirit common in many Tiki drinks.
Many tiki drinks, like the classic Piña Colada, require a blender as well.
 Best served with an authentic swizzle stick -- a branch from a long Caribbean plant -- these classic drinks go well with a cinnamon stick in a pinch, which should be used to stir everything into a nice froth. Mix the following in a pitcher and shake or churn until it is frothing, then serve over ice:


4 ounces dark rum
4 ounces light rum
8 ounces pineapple juice
8 ounces orange juice
.75 ounces Grenadine
5-6 dashes bitters, These strong cocktails disappeared from the bar scene for years, only to reappear in the fog-soaked San Francisco Bay. They have since become a staple of Tiki bars across the country. Mix everything but the sherry, which you pour on top of the finished drink. Top with a fresh mint leaf when available.


2 ounces orange juice
1 ounce lemon juice
1/2 ounce orgeat
1 1/2 ounce clear rum
1/2 ounce gin
1/2 ounce brandy
1/2 ounce sherry (poured on top at the end), This is the quintessential Tiki cocktail, and if you want to make a Tiki bar you're going to need to know how to make one.


3/4 ounces lime juice
1/4 ounce simple syrup
1/4 orgeat syrup
1/2 ounce orange curacao (orange juice can be supplemented in a pinch)
2 ounces rum, The classic beach cocktail, immortalized in songs and Tiki bars across the country, is the Piña Colada. Making it requires a blender, and, if you have it, a tall, curved glass to serve in.


1 1/2 ounces light rum
2 ounces coconut milk
2 ounces pineapple juice, This cocktail, like most Tiki drinks, has its roots in Trader Vic's, the original Tiki bar from the 1950's. To make it, simply blend the following ingredients for 10-15 seconds in a blender:


2 ounces orange juice
1 1/2 ounce lemon juice
1/2 ounce orgeat syrup
2 ounces light rum
1 ounce brandy
1 cup crushed ice