 Non-reaction is so much more effective and attractive. In general terms, people who are non-reactive are the ones considered as 'cool'. It's because they don't react to content and take life too seriously. Below are few pointers that can help you in your practice to become non-reactive.


Feel your body from within, as much as you can. Keeping some attention within your body, while doing anything, brings immense joy and aliveness from within you. Your body is like an ideal sink that can drain all your mind-made negativity and all you are left with is joy and peace of no mind. It is highly recommended that you read Stay Rooted in Being for more depth.
Be aware of your breath and sense perceptions. Awareness of breath and/or sense perceptions gets you out of mind or content. Here's a practice for you: keep some attention within your body and/or sense perceptions and/or breathing while doing anything; especially while interacting with someone. Then monitor the quality of interaction as compared to when you are not aware of them. Read Stay Rooted in Being for more insight.
Rather than running away from your reactions(emotional, mental or physical), go deeper into them. Its cause there's no escape; the only way is through. So feel them fully and don't let your reactions rise up and turn into thinking. Read Stay Rooted in Being for more depth.
 It means letting the real 'you' out of you and not playing roles, while interacting with anyone. Do you talk to your boss the same way you talk to a cashier at the supermarket? If not, you are playing roles and subsequently you will play different roles while talking to different people in your life. That's what makes people look gamey and ingenuous.


People who practice humility are a lot easy to talk to and are a lot friendlier and 'real'. It's because they are not suppressing their 'true' (negative or positive traits) self with fake confidence or something else. Humility means trusting your natural or real self and never needing to be defensive. Its cause through becoming "vulnerable" can you discover your true and essential invulnerability.
This doesn't mean to force yourself to not play roles. Instead just be aware of the role-playing patterns and this awareness will take you beyond them. As when you are aware a different dimension of consciousness emerges through you. Far more intelligent than human mind.
According to Tao Te Ching "Humility means trusting the Tao, thus never needing to be defensive." Read Practice Humility for more insight.

