 Craft stores are the best place to find all kinds of different beads, buttons, and other cool things to make into stud earrings. Look for items that have a flat surface on one side. This will make it much easier to attach the items to the earring flatbacks.


If using buttons for your earrings, you may want to paint over the button with some clear nail polish before gluing it onto the stud flatback. This will make the button shiny if it is a matte button.Let the nail polish dry completely before gluing it onto the stud.
 If you want to create your own beads to glue onto the earrings, then clay beads are a great option. Try getting some air drying clay in your local craft store and then shape the clay into bead to glue onto your earring flatbacks. You can use multiple colors of clay to create interesting designs in the clay.
 Look for ribbon that is narrow enough to tie into a small bow. Then, tie two equal length pieces of ribbon into bows and glue them onto the earring flatbacks.
 If you want to make a special pair of earrings for a holiday, such as St Patrick’s day, Halloween, or Christmas, then you can look for holiday themed pieces to glue onto stud earring flatbacks. Craft stores are the best place to find these kinds of items.


For example, you could glue a four leaf clover charm onto an earring flatback for St. Patrick’s Day, or glue a jack-o-lantern piece onto an earring flatback for Halloween. You can make yourself a pair of holiday themed stud earrings for every holiday of the year!

, If you don’t want to buy any new beads or other notions to turn into earrings, then you can also convert your old, unwanted jewelry into stud earrings. Try taking apart old necklaces and bracelets and using the beads and charms to create stud earrings.


Be sure that you no longer want the item and that it is something you can break apart before you try to harvest the beads and charms from a piece of jewelry.
Use scissors to cut the string holding the beads and charms together.
Break apart the old jewelry over a bowl or other container to ensure that the beads do not go everywhere.

