, He's been registered as being in Mortos Der Soulstealer, Bad Bad Rubber Piggies, Plague of Babies, Tak: The Hideous New Girl, Backseat Drivers From Beyond the Stars and The Fry cook What Came from All That Space. Nick is showing Invader Zim for this March only.


To find Bad, Bad Rubber Piggies, watch closely as the final pig goes through the Space Time Object Replacement Device when the portal flashes white. You can see a very faint image of Bloody GIR. It is easier if you have a laptop, you can tilt the screen, it is very easy now
To find the Plague of Babies Watch the Voot ship crash sequence. You will notice several instances of Bloody GIR looking into the window at the left side of the screen.
To find Tak: The Hideous New Girl, watch as Tak's ship falls from space. As it crashes, Bloody GIR is faintly visible at the center of the screen. Or, as the meat ship lands, when the door is about to be completely opened, near the back wheels of the ship, a Bloody GIR is seen.
Look for the Backseat Drivers from Beyond the Stars. Watch as the Almighty Tallest discovers the Resisty's Vort ship. A Bloody GIR appears on Purple's head as he says, "That's a Vort Ship."
When the Frycook What Came from All That Space, during a flashback of when Zim first started working, a scene is shown when alien customers start spitting their soda at him. When this is going on watch the window, a very familiar ship passes by. When it gets to the left of Zim's head you see Bloody GIR on the ship. You have to go frame by frame or pause very quickly to see this one. After the ship flies by, the customer throws a cup at Zim. When two cups are visible in midair, pause right at that second and very very faintly visible over the cups will be Bloody GIR. Pause this video at exactly 6:35.At the start of the episode of Game Slave 2 when the flaming piggies fly past the moon a Bloody GIR can be seen near the trail of the top middle one. When Dib is attacking the mutant Santa in The Most Horrible X-mas Ever Bloody Gir is seen in his mouth under his tongue.
When the Poop Dog is talking to the students in Door to Door the screen turns to students sitting next to Zim. Look in the Centre. It's very faint, but it is there. Look very Closely.
In Dark Harvest, when the chase between Zim and Dib starts, you can faintly see one eye of Bloody GIR.
In the The Sad, Sad Tale of Chickenfoot, as the microwave explodes, in the bottom-right corner, Bloody GIR is spotted. The background is red, so it might not be as easy to spot in the background as other ones.
In The Girl who Cried Gnome, when Zim is in disguise on tv, right when it doesn't show his face, but you can hear him, near the roof of the green house near Dib, is a Bloody GIR.
In Planet Jackers, as Zim is zooming in on Invader skutch, the top-right part of the biggest planet is a Bloody GIR.
In Walk of Doom, when Zim and Gir get in the taxi, look in the mirror by Zim's head. You will see a Bloody GIR.
In Mortos Der Soulstealer, during the theme song, right as the pipes snake out of Zim's house, the big pipe is right in front of the camera, a Bloody GIR is noticeable in the center of the screen for several frames. This sighting is easier than some, if you can find the right frames.



In The Best of Invader Zim DVD, when they are showing the clip where ZIM is saying to GIR, "Little fellow, you're so cute!" and GIR says "I am!" EXACTLY after Dib hits Zim with a candy cane, you can see a very faint Bloody GIR.
 Everything else might be unclear, but the eyes are still bright red.

