 There are a number of ways that anyone, though most commonly athletes, can injure their Achilles tendon. Some of the more common activities that can lead to Achilles tendon injuries are running, gymnastics, dance, football, and baseball. The most common injuries are due to:Overuse
Increasing your physical activity either too quickly or without stretching or warming up
Wearing high heels
Foot problems, such as flat feet, also known as fallen arches, or overpronation, which is the inward rolling of the ankle, often related to flat feet
Muscles or tendons in the leg that are too tight
Heel bone spurs

, There are multiple different afflictions that can happen to the Achilles tendon. These injuries vary in severity. The main injuries associated with the Achilles tendon are:Inflammation, known as tendinitis.
Tendon rupture, which can occur anywhere but commonly in the middle of the tendon or at the heel. Midpoint ruptures are more common.
Achilles tendinosis, which is a degenerative condition of the tendon where the tendon fibers are scarred and damaged.
 Achilles tendon injuries may present with different symptoms. The main symptoms of Achilles tendon injury are pain, swelling, and tightness in the tendon.These symptoms can appear suddenly or become progressively worse over time.


You may also have pain or difficulty climbing stairs or running.
You may wake up with pain at the heel and tendon.
There may be a bump in the middle of the tendon or at the heel that may be tender to touch. #*Sometimes the pain only occurs when you are wearing higher heels.
 If you believe you have an injured Achilles tendon, you should go see your doctor. Diagnosis depends on the history of the injury and a physical examination by a doctor. Possibly some imaging test such as X-rays, MRIs or an ultrasound may be required.The calf squeeze test is a relatively straightforward test to screen for Achilles tendon rupture. A simple test for Achilles tendon injury is the Achilles tendon pinch test. The degree of soreness roughly correlates with the degree of injury.

