 Set aside time each month to pay your bills. If you get paid monthly, you might pay bills once a month. If you get paid twice a month, you may have two days a month that you pay bills. Whatever system you use, be consistent. Bills are often late because people do not have a time set aside to pay them.Mark your calendar or create a reminder on your phone to help you remember to pay your bills.You may need to adjust your payment day for holidays or vacation times.
 Your bills may fluctuate each month. At the beginning of the month, create a checklist of the bills you are expecting. Have a place on the checklist to mark if the bill was received and when the bill was paid. The list should be kept in the area where you pay your bills.If you are expecting a bill but do not receive it, check with company to see if there was an error. You do not want to pay a bill late because you were not on top of things.
Your list can be handwritten or electronic. Do what works best for you.
 Automated bill pay is good for expenses that do not change every month such as phone bills, student loans, rent, and mortgages. Find out on which dates the money will be deducted and write them down so that you are sure there is enough money in your account to cover it.


Automated payment is not good for bills that may change every month like your credit card bill. You can throw off your budget if the bill is higher than you expected.
If you are using automatic payments for your credit card bill, make sure that you are at least paying the minimum amount.Some companies charge for automatic bill pay. Make sure that it is a free service.When you create your online account, sign up to receive notifications about your upcoming bills. These can remind you to check your account to make sure the funds are there and to pay your bill on time.
 Set up an online account for each of your bills. You can even connect the account to one of your bank accounts so you do not have to enter your payment information each month. Paying online saves you time and resources. You will not have to buy envelopes, stamps, or checks if you use this method.An online account also gives you immediate access to other helpful information about your account such as due dates, payment history, and account balances.
Online payments are also processed faster than checks. There will be less lag time between your payment and your bank account balance.
 If you are sending a check in the mail, be sure that the check arrives by the due date or at least is post dated before the due date. If you can, pay your bill as soon as it arrives to avoid forgetting about it or mailing it in too late.


Make sure you are always stocked with the necessary bill-paying supplies such as envelopes, stamps, and checks.
Keep in mind that the post office is closed on Sundays and Federal holidays.

