 Cut flowers may look great in a vase in your kitchen but inevitably, bacteria in the water and on the surface of the flowers will clog up the stems. You will need to re-cut the stems to remove the clogged portions of the stem and prevent the flowers from wilting and dying. Use garden shears, pruners, or a sharp knife to make a clean cut at a 45 degree angle. This will ensure the cuts are clean and smooth.Cut about 1 inch of the stems, making sure that are the flowers are relatively even in length, as this will ensure they all perk up at the same time.;
, Do this as soon as the stems have been cut to prevent air bubbles from becoming trapped in the stems. The air bubbles can block the flow of water up the stems and lead to wilted, dying flowers.Though some florists advocate for the use of cold water or warm water, lukewarm water will help to revive the flowers just as well. Warm water can bring moisture to the flowers faster, but may shock the flowers and lead to wilting.
The exceptions to this rule are bulbs like tulips and hyacinths. These flowers prefer cold water.
 Leaves that sit in the water or fall into the water can foul up the water as they rot and deteriorate. Only remove leaves that sit below the water line in the vase of water as higher leaves can help to pump water to the stems.You should also remove any other debris that is sitting in the water, such as fallen petals or bugs. This debris can introduce bacteria into the water that can cause the flowers to wilt.
 The cooler and darker the environment around your flowers, the longer they will live. Avoid placing them in direct sunlight. Look for a spot in your home that is cool in temperature and does not get a lot of light.The exception to this rule is sunflowers, which often need more light than other cut flowers.
You should also keep the flowers away from ripening fruit, such as bananas. Ripening fruit give off a gas called ethylene, which can significantly shorten the lifespan of your flowers., Keep your flowers looking fresh by replacing the flower water with fresh water every three days. The rule is, if you wouldn’t drink the vase water yourself, it probably isn’t clean enough for your flowers.If there seems to be a lot of gunk and debris in the flower vase, you may want to quickly rinse out the flower vase before replacing the water and putting the flowers back in the vase. A clean vase will prevent bacteria from infecting your flowers.