 It will be sitting on a throne in the dimly lit room. Make sure you have your sword and shield equipped. Then take a swipe at the Iron Knuckle.;
, It will either swing its ax twice in a horizontal motion, or swing it towards the ground.


The best way to avoid it is to Z-target the Iron Knuckle and backflip right before they strike. After it finishes its attack, hit it with your sword in the time it takes before its next attack.
 For the first phase of the battle, the Iron Knuckle moves slowly and steadily. You have a few choices of how to beat him. Equip the following items:

Bombs
Bombchus (if you have them)
Sword (Biggoron's Sword recommend)
Hylian Shield
Nayru's Love (optional, but makes the battle easier)

, Z-Target the Iron Knuckle. Make sure that it's far away from you. Back up and throw a bomb at him. This is the safest way to beat him, but it's slow and takes lots of bombs (you probably need the bomb bag update if you want to do it this way), and can be dangerous in such tight quarters., This method is slightly safer than using Bombs, but still not the best way. Z-Target the Iron Knuckle and let loose a Bombchu. This method takes lots of Bombchus; you might not have enough space to keep all the Bombchus you'll need. Using Bombchus makes for a slow, boring battle (but that's what some people want)., Z-Target the Iron Knuckle and wait for him to move towards you. Step (cautiously) towards him, and wait for him to swing its axe. You can either side step or jump back.

The Iron Knuckle's axe will be stuck in the ground, and you can hit him then. Remember, stay well out of reach but close enough to hit him (Biggorn's Sword can accomplish this feat nicely).
 Wait for its axe to get stuck in the ground, and then step forward and beat him up. Make sure to stay so close that it can't swing again., Halfway through the battle, it will lose its armor. Without its armor, it will move faster, and take less time between attacks.


Fortunately, this makes him more vulnerable. Keep bashing him until it crumples and dies. Walk through the opened door to receive The Mirror Shield!

,