 A health and wellness consultant can work independently, but it might be difficult to set up your own practice right away. A variety of institutions hire consultants regularly. Try looking for work at some of the following places:


Fitness and Wellness Center
Medical Center
Private Practice
Yoga Studio
Day spa
Natural food store
Restaurant
Corporation
SchoolIt's also a good idea to return to any institutions you previously worked, interned, or volunteered at and see if they're hiring. If not, they may be able to recommend you to an institution that is hiring and put in a good word for you. Networking is one of the main ways people find quality work.
 In order to land a good job, you need to work on your resume. Start drafting your resume as you prepare for your job search.


A resume should have a consistent format throughout. There are no hard and fast rules about punctuation and using bullet points versus small paragraphs for job descriptions, but know that any choices you make should be consistent.You should also use resume "buzzwords." These are impressive words to make your work experience sound as impressive as possible. For example, instead of saying, "Helped customers make good choices while shopping for organic food" you could say something like, "Enhanced customers' shopping experiences by educating them on a variety of organic products." Many websites include lists of buzzwords.Only list relevant experience to the job you're looking for. For a health and wellness consultant, stick to experience related to health, fitness, nutrition, and other aspects of health and well being. The fact you're a certified yoga instructor, for example, is more important than talking about waiting tables in college.You should always have a friend or family member proofread your resume for you. Many people become typo blind when reading their own work and might miss obvious spelling and grammatical errors.
 Good interview skills are a must have when you're on the job hunt. Make sure you practice interview skills while sending out your resume so you'll be prepared when an interview offer arrives.


Show up about 5 minutes before the interview time. Make sure you're dressed in professional attire. If you're unsure of the company wardrobe, it's better to overdress than to underdress.Always prepare for an interview. You should read up about the company online ahead of time and have a sense of its philosophy, ethics, and goals.At the end of the interview, ask questions. When the interviewer asks you if you have any questions, pick a question that's open ended rather than a logistical inquiry about when you can expect to hear back about the job. Something like, "What is your company's philosophy?" or "What does an average day in your company looks like?" are sure to impress your interviewer.