 Foundation can make or break a look, so you want to choose a one that will work for your style and your needs. You can use foundation to get anything from a nearly naked skin look to a flawlessly smooth matte finish.For a luminous glow, choose a lightweight water based liquid foundation. Apply sparingly to skin. Finish the look with a pressed powder that has a little sparkle. You can also skip the powder and instead try spritzing your finished face with mineral water for an extra glow.
A dewy face looks healthy and fresh. Make sure you choose a foundation that has a moisturizer in it and is oil based rather than water based.
You can get a matte finish from several different forms of foundation: a matte liquid, a mousse, or a matte powder. You want to make sure your skin is oil free before and during applying the foundation, so start with a very clean face and try using a primer base. Use a brush or sponge to apply the makeup so that you don't get oil from your fingers on your face.
 For instance, if your plans include physical exertion or humid conditions, a foundation that is water-resistant or sweat-resistant but still breathable would be appropriate. If you're attending a formal event, a foundation that has staying power but has shine control will help you look your best in photographs.If you're heading for the gym or the tennis court, a sweat-proof foundation that isn’t too heavy and won’t clog pores, with an SPF of at least 20, is a good choice.If you are selecting a foundation for work or school, avoid going too cool in tone. The fluorescent lighting in most buildings can make you look pale, so adding a little warmth can compensate.For proms, formal events, or weddings, choose a foundation that won't fade and will keep your skin looking picture perfect. A semi-matte to matte foundation is a great option because these foundations are usually long-lasting and cut down on shine.If you are typically in and out all day, or in natural light most of the time, look for a sheer foundation that won't make you look too "made-up.” Water based liquid foundations or a tinted moisturizer are good choices for you.
 You should change your foundation several times a year in order to match your coloring and adjust your look to the season. For example, if you tan during the summer, you should adjust your foundation to fit your new skin tone., Your skin is unique and you may not find one shade that works. Try mixing colors or tones to create the perfect shade for you., If you find a great match but don't like how it feels on your skin, you can probably make it feel lighter just by adding a few drops of moisturizer. Experiment with the ratio of moisturizer to foundation until you get a good balance of texture and coverage.
 Your skin’s texture and complexion changes as you get older, as do the skin problems you may want to address. Different formulations and types of foundation can make you look your best as well as take care of your skin as it ages.For teens and early twenties, oily skin and breakouts can be an issue. Choose a water based foundation or a light mineral powder foundation. Use clean brushes or makeup sponges, and wash your hands before applying the foundation.Your skin may begin to show signs of aging in your thirties and forties, so choose a foundation that will nourish your skin and keep it looking and feeling youthful as well. A cream foundation with an oil based moisturizer is a good choice, such as L'Oreal or Maybelline cream foundations.As skin ages, look for a foundation that not only hides the signs of aging, but can help repair and revitalize your skin too. L'Oreal makes foundations with silicone to soften the appearance of fine lines, while Estee Lauder's foundations have anti-aging properties that may help slow down or prevent new lines from forming.Foundation for older skin should be lightweight and moisturizing. Stay away from powders that can cake in skin creases and make you look older.

