 While your main concern may be to take care of your loved one, it is incredibly important that you spend some time taking care of yourself. If you are constantly thinking about how best to help your loved one, you are sure to get tired. When you are tired, you are more likely to lose your patience, which can make matters worse. Because of this, make sure to set some time aside each day to relax and recharge.
 While you are supporting your loved one, it is also important to talk to others who can support you during this difficult time. Talk to people you trust, like other family members or friends, about what you are going through.


Simply expressing your emotions can make the situation seem more manageable.
 Aside from talking to family or friends, you may also find it helpful to talk with people who are not involved in your specific situation, but have gone through what you are now going through. Support groups are good places to share your experiences and learn from others who may have insights into ways that you can make your situation more positive.To find a support group, run an internet search for support groups for families of people with PTSD in your area. You can also look at community bulletin boards, or talk to a therapist about where to find support groups.
 Family member frequently devote themselves totally to those that they care for, and in the process, neglect their own needs. Pay attention to yourself. Watch your diet, exercise, and get plenty of rest. Take time to do things that feel good to you and that keep you healthy.


Make time to do things that you love each day. Whether that is going to see a movie, reading a book, going on a hike, or simply relaxing in a bath, set aside some time to do things that make you happy each day.
Try doing yoga or meditation, both of which can help to center you and keep you refreshed.
 These family routines could include gathering together for dinner, game night, or a recreational outing. Maintaining these family traditions can help both your loved one, and the rest of your family feel like there is a semblance of normality.
 If you feel like you are having trouble coping with your situation, do not hesitate to seek professional help. Talking to a therapist may help you to come up with strategies regarding how to cope with your loved one’s PTSD, as well as ways to keep yourself happy and healthy.


You can also call a support line that is designed for caregivers living with someone who has PTSD. Call the National Caregiver Support Line at 1-855-260-3274.

