 Anytime you touch your jewelry, it’s possible you are transferring germs to the piercing site. While you should avoid touching it in general, it is especially important to only handle body jewelry with clean hands when you are about to clean it. Use a basic antibacterial soap and dry your hands with paper towel or a clean towel. A towel that you already dry your hands on frequently can have bacteria that has accumulated on it., If the piercing has been in place for a long time without being removed, be sure to take the jewelry out slowly as it might be stuck to your skin. You don’t want to damage the piercing by pulling the jewelry out too quickly.
 Take a clean cup or bowl and fill it with warm water. Squirt or pour about a palm full of soap into the water. Swirl it around to make sure the soap doesn’t glob in one spot. Place the jewelry in the water and allow to soak for about 3 minutes.Perform this soak on a regular basis to keep the jewelry clean and keep the piercing healthy. It is best to clean your jewelry every day, but you should do it least every 2-3 days.
A good alternative to soapy water, if you want to buy something extra, is to get saline wash that is specifically made for cleaning piercings.
 You want to make sure that all of the soap residue is off the piece of jewelry before putting it back in. Soap can dry your skin and possibly cause irritation if it sits in the piercing for a long time.


While you are rinsing, it is good to inspect the piece of jewelry and make sure there is no dirt or debris left on the piece. If there is, further cleaning will be necessary.
 Either allow the piece of jewelry to air dry or gently dry it with a paper towel or gauze pad before putting it back in. If you dry it with a towel, make sure the towel hasn’t been used since it was washed because used towels tend to have bacteria on them, so you will be counteracting the cleaning you just did.If you plan to clean your jewelry regularly, you could cut paper towels into small squares and store them in a sealed plastic baggie for drying purposes. Since jewelry is small and doesn’t need a whole paper towel, you can avoid waste doing it this way.
 Now that you have a clean piece of jewelry, you need to make sure the site of the piercing itself is also clean. You can use a little more soap and water and dip a Q-tip in it to gently swab out the piercing. It is good to do this every couple days anyway to maintain a clean piercing.It's best to avoid the use of rubbing alcohol when cleaning jewelry or piercings because it can cause damage to the jewelry.
Allow the piercing to dry before replacing the jewelry.

