 Determine the size of the carpet to be cut out, and whether you want to cut a rectangular or circular replacement patch to fill the area in.


Rectangular patches can be cut using a utility knife, while circular patches can be cut using a circular carpet cutter.
 Use a utility knife or a carpet cutting tool to gently cut away the carpet. Apply just enough pressure to cut through both the surface of the carpet and the backing, but not enough to damage the underlying layer of padding. Once the section is completely cut, lift it off the carpet surface.


You may want to save the damaged section in case you need to patch a smaller area that can be cut from this section.
 Turn a carpet remnant face down and measure a patch for the carpeting, using the measurements obtained earlier as a guideline. Or remove a piece of carpeting from an inconspicuous area, such as the inside of a closet. Mark the lines of the patch with the pencil, and then use a utility knife or carpet cutter to cut out the patch.
 Carpet patch pads are used to iron on specially made adhesive disks that activate with the help of heat. Your carpet patch pad may be aluminum-sided on the top and contain a previous material on the bottom. Wet your carpet patch pad under water and wring out the excess; the pad should be damp but not dripping.
 Make sure the adhesive pad is adequately bigger than the patch, specially made for heat-application, and centered for even distribution. Smooth out any wrinkles if necessary

, Go over the patch with a carpet brush to remove loose fibers. Make sure that the direction of the fibers on the patch matches the direction of the fibers on the carpet.
 Make sure the patch pad is centered and you know where the patch is underneath.
 Press down on the iron so that the heat transfers from the patch pad, through the carpet, to the adhesive pad underneath. Remember that the adhesive pad activates when subjected to heat.


You should hear a light sizzle when you touch the iron onto the patch pad. This is the water reacting to the heat, not the carpet burning.
If the patch is big, go over different spots the patch with the iron — enough to cover the entire patch. You don't want to fail to activate the head beneath the patch.
 The glue on the adhesive pad won't fully dry until the carpet is cool. Go over the patch with a carpet brush and remove any loose fibers from the edge of the carpet.

