 Acacia doesn't have acne, so if you do, try to get rid of it. Use a good face wash suited for your situation/type, but be patient; your acne won't disappear overnight. If your acne is severe, talk to a dermatologist. Even if you have acne, you can cover it with makeup so you don't have to have flawless skin.;
, Acacia's makeup is simple. She has tutorials on YouTube also. Apply foundation or BB cream. Acacia then uses a mixture of powders, but any will do. Apply mascara and curl your lashes. Acacia's favorite is Falsies by Maybelline in black. Put a small line of eyeliner on the outer edge of your top eyelid.
 She used to have long hair with a deep part and side bangs, but now has it cut shorter and parted in the middle. She has dyed it colors ranging from blonde to brown to black, so choose a neutral color that you like. Take some time in the morning to straighten or curl your hair. Acacia has been seen with high, messy buns, and low buns.
 Acacia became internet famous on Tumblr, then moved out to others. Acacia has Tumblr (littlesqueal.tumblr.com), Instagram, Pheed, Twitter, YouTube, etc. Get a quality camera and post pictures of yourself or look up some of Acacia's pictures.
 Acacia dresses like most other teenagers. She wears things like shorts, high-waisted shorts, crop tops, cardigans, leggings, sweatshirts, beanies, etc. For shoes, she usually wears combat boots, Uggs, or Converse/Vans. Acacia doesn't wear heels and she is pretty tall (5'9").
 Smile and make sure that this picture shows your personality.
 Make funny faces in pictures.
 This usually includes lipstick (sometimes she doesn't wear it, but when she does it's usually very red). She wears concealer and also a little bit of eyeliner.
 Acacia loves to dye it different colors, and try out new hairstyles.
 Acacia wears some cute things in summer like a crop top, shorts with studs, boots/converses.
 If you'd like to have her personality too, learn to keep mean things behind you. There's always going to be people that will judge you by your past, but as Miley Cyrus says, "Forget the haters cause somebody loves ya". Acacia was and is bullied, but she stays happy whether she is in a bad situation or not.
 This is probably the most heard and cheesiest line ever, but don't try to be exactly like her. Acacia's motto is "Stay Weird!", so try to still keep a little uniqueness while doing something.

