 A Persona is a new way to log in instead of the conventional user name and password. Popcorn Maker uses Persona to authenticate users.;
, Currently, the application is in development stages and is supposed to be released in November 2012. You can access the application from its official landing page, or you can access the development snapshot. Click "Start from scratch" to start the application.
]
]

, This is an optional step. You can still try-out the application without an account. However, you won't be able to save your projects.
 See the section "Popcorn Maker Interface Components" below for details.
 Try adding events of each type to see first hand what they do.
 You can add the following types of content to a video:



Text and hyperlinks. The font and color of the text is customizable.

Images from other locations. Images added can be re-sized and stacked.

Google Maps.

Twitter word or user searches.

Wikipedia pages.

Popup texts and annotations.
 Control events include:



Loops. Using loops you can make the final video repeat selected portions of the original video a set number of times (or infinitely).

Pauses. These will pause the video at a certain position for a set number of seconds. This is great to make sure the viewer has the time to read the text or any other content you added to the video.

Skips. This will skip a portion of the original video. This can be used to delete certain portions of the video that you don't want in your final project.
 For example, you can add a loop that encompasses a portion of the video that extends for a 1 minute. At the last 20 seconds, in another layer you can add a pause and a text saying repeat this step three times. The video will then repeat the steps aforementioned three times, pausing at the end for 20 second each time to give the viewer time to see the instructions.
 To save a project, you must at least give it a name. You can also add an author. The project will then show up on your Projects List.
 The Popcorn application will provide you with HTML code to embed in your websites, emails, and posts to forums and community websites. The "Share" tab interface also includes buttons to share your video using Google+ and Twitter.

