 Casper cannot be found on the Google Play Store since it violates Snapchat's terms. You can download Casper from other places. This requires adjusting your Android's settings first.

Casper will not allow you to retrieve Snaps that you viewed before installing it.
Using Casper may get you blocked from Snapchat for 24 hours if you don't keep it up to date. Your account will typically be unlocked after the block is up.
 Doing so displays your device's security settings., It will turn green.

You'll be warned that enabling this may pose a risk. Tap OK to proceed.
 Use your device's browser to do so.

APKMirror is a trusted source and the developer posts the app there directly. The actual Casper site does not host the app.
 It will be at the top of the list and have the most recent date next to it., Make sure you're downloading the latest available version of Casper by verifying the date next to the download file.

Using an older version will likely get your account locked. Confirm that you want to download the file when prompted.
Tap OK if you receive a security warning.
 If you're not prompted to do so, start the installation by tapping the Download Complete notification in your Notification Panel. You can also find and tap the APK file in your Downloads folder. Confirm that you want to install the app., Casper requires your Google login information in order to access Snapchat's files. The Casper developers themselves recommend creating a dummy account so that you don't have to worry about giving your real account information. You don't need to use the same Google account you use on your phone.See Make a Google Account to quickly create a new free Google account.
 You can find it in your App Drawer after installing it.

The App Drawer button looks like a grid of squares, and can usually be found in the center of your home screen at the bottom.
 You'll be prompted for your Snapchat login information. Use your regular Snapchat account., After entering your Snapchat login information, you'll be prompted to log in with a Google account. Use the new account that you just created., Once you're logged in, you'll see your recent Snaps listed on the screen.

Tap ☰ in the upper-left corner and then tap Stories to view Stories instead.
 This will make it available to view and save on your device., The Snap will load without a time limit., You'll see the Save button at the top of the screen when you have a Snap open. It's a square with a downward-pointing arrow. This saves the Snap so you can view it as many times as you'd like.

The sender will not be notified.
 It's in the upper-left corner., All of the Snaps you've saved with Casper will be displayed here.

You can also find your saved Snaps in the io.casper.android directory on your phone, in a folder named "Saved Snaps." You can do whatever you'd like with the images and videos that are saved.

