 To use a family partnership or LLC to protect your liquid assets, the entity you create should have more than one member. Otherwise, creditors may be able to seize assets held by the family partnership or LLC to satisfy your debts.You cannot form a partnership without at least one other partner. Therefore, you need to find a family member who also is interested in doing something to protect their liquid assets.
You can create an LLC by yourself. However, generally your assets will be more protected if you have more than one member of your LLC.
If a creditor wants to seize your assets from an LLC, they must first go to court and request an order. This process is designed to protect other members. For that reason, your assets may be more protected if you have at least one other member of your LLC.
Keep in mind that if you create a family partnership or LLC and put your liquid assets into it, you no longer have claim to all of those assets.
Rather, you only technically have title to your ownership share of the partnership or LLC as defined in your organizational documents.
 Before you decide to use a family partnership or LLC to protect your liquid assets, it's a good idea to talk to an attorney about your plans. Laws vary by state, and the attorney can let you know whether your plans will adequately protect your assets.Keep in mind that you can't expect a family partnership or LLC to completely protect all of your liquid assets. There will still be a percentage share to which you're entitled, and creditors can seize those assets.
However, they must first go through a legal process and get a court order to do so. Depending on the amount of liquid assets in the LLC to which you're entitled, they may decide the process isn't worth it.
An attorney will be able to explain to you exactly how the law works in your state. If you describe how and why you want to protect your assets, the attorney can let you know if a family partnership or LLC would work for you.
 To legally form an LLC or family partnership, you must create documents that describe the organization, its legal name, and its members. The types of documents you must create vary among states.It isn't necessary to have an attorney draft your organizational documents. You can easily find forms and templates online that are designed to meet the requirements of each state.
You'll have to choose a unique name for your LLC or family partnership. Typically you can find a business name database on your state's website for the secretary of state.
For a small fee, you can reserve your name so nobody else takes it while you finish completing the documents and setting up your organization.
 Once your documents are complete, you and the other members of your LLC or family partnership must sign them before they have legal effect. Typically your signatures must be notarized.You may have to sign multiple copies to file originals with different government departments. You also should make sure you have copies for each member of your family partnership or LLC.
Check your state's formation laws to find out what formalities are required for signing. You typically can find these requirements on the secretary of state's website, or on the website of your state's chamber of commerce.
If you're forming a family partnership, you typically won't have to follow the same formalities that you will if you form an LLC.
However, you should consider completing similar organizational documents anyway for the security of your partnership's members.
 You'll want to open bank accounts in the name of your family partnership or LLC to deposit your liquid assets. To do this, you must first request an EIN.Despite the name, you need an EIN for your family partnership or LLC regardless of whether it will have any employees.
Rather, an EIN is similar to a Social Security number of an individual, and is the unique tax identification number for your LLC or family partnership.
You'll need an EIN to open bank accounts in the name of your family partnership or LLC, which will be necessary to transfer your liquid assets into the organization.
 Most states require you to register an LLC with the secretary of state and file your organizational documents. Some states also require partnerships to register.Registering a partnership typically is voluntary. However, it may be in your best interests to go ahead and do it.
You'll have to pay filing and registration fees when you register with your state. However, these fees are considerably cheaper than forming and registering a corporation – typically only a few hundred dollars.
Once you've registered your family partnership or LLC, you'll receive a certificate from the secretary of state's office. You may need to present this certificate to open bank accounts in the name of the LLC or family partnership.
 Once all the formalities are complete and you've opened the bank accounts, all you have to do is deposit your liquid assets into the accounts owned by the partnership or LLC.Ideally, you should complete these transfers as quickly as possible after your organization is formed.
Contact the financial institutions where your assets are being held to find out how you can transfer ownership of them.
In some cases, you may be able to change ownership of the account rather than moving the assets to a different account.

