 Click the apple symbol in the top left corner and select About This Mac. Look for your laptop model near the top of the About window. You'll need to know the size and manufacture date of your MacBook Pro in order to choose the correct battery.;
, Before you decide to install the battery yourself, make sure tools and know-how for the job. Ideally, you should review an online guide specific to your model, but there are three general categories of repair:


13-inch and 15-inch models from Early 2009 or earlier have removable batteries.Some 17-inch models do as well, which you can test by looking for release catches on the underside of the laptop.These batteries are very easy to replace.
Since 2012, the 13-inch and 15-inch MacBook Pros with Retina displays have had glued-in batteries.These are relatively difficult and dangerous to remove, and may require a specialized tool such as the iOpener. If you have not repaired computers before, consider using the Apple Store.
All other MacBook Pro batteries are "non-removable," but easy to handle if you have taken apart a computer before. You may need a Y1 Tri-wing screwdriver, plastic spudger, and Phillips head screwdriver.
 Apple may replace your battery for free in one of the following circumstances:


Your laptop was purchased from Apple less than a year ago, or less than three years ago if you bought the AppleCare Protection Plan.The problem is due to a manufacturing defect and not later damage. A defect is more likely if the cycle count was below 1000.Visit  → About This Mac → System Report → Power and look for "Cycle Count" to check this number.
 Even if you aren't covered by warranty, Apple officially recommends that you take laptops with built-in batteries to the Apple Store or an Apple Authorized Service Provider. Although you can ignore them and replace the battery yourself, check the estimated repair cost on the Apple website first before you shop for other options. This is usually more expensive than third-party options, but you are guaranteed to receive a genuine Apple battery appropriate for your device.


In the US, Apple's battery replacements are covered by warranty for one year.Different terms may apply in other countries.
 If you decide to go the Apple-recommended route, look up Apple Authorized Service Providers in your area using the Apple website. Contact these to get an estimate of the price, and how long the replacement might take.
 Unfortunately, the cheapest batteries online are often knockoffs or heavily used. These typically have a short battery life, and there's a small chance of a dangerous defect. Avoid auction sites, and look for sellers with some signs of legitimacy. These include:


Positive user reviews, especially on other website (not their own)
A physical address and telephone listed on their company website (call the number if you suspect the site is impersonating another business)
A return policy with full refund within a limited time of purchase

, Make sure the seller lists the exact models the battery is suitable for. A MacBook Pro from 2010 does not use the same battery as a MacBook Pro from 2015.


See the instructions at the start of this article if you're not sure what model you use.
 Batteries that match one of these descriptions are likely to be poor quality. Buy at your own risk:


"Brand-new Apple batteries" are probably counterfeit unless sold by Apple or an Apple Authorized Reseller.
Batteries that cost less than half of Apple's replacement fee (see above) probably have something wrong with them.
 If the seller claims the battery was made by Apple, test the claim while you still have the option to return it. After installing the replacement battery, return to About This Mac → System Report → Power. Look for the following information:


Check the Serial Number under "Model information" and compare it to the serial number provided by the seller or listed on the packaging. If these do not match, the product is likely a fake. A number beginning "0123456" is another sign of a fake.The Manufacturer should be SMP, or DP for some older models.Under "Health Information," the Condition should be Normal. The Cycle Count should be 0 or a single-digit number if the battery is new.

