 Having a knowledge of scripture will help you understand what God intends for you, and will help guide you. Read slowly, internalize the text, and see how it relates to your daily life. Many times, you'll have to read passages much more than once for the teachings to fully sink in.In 2 Timothy 3:16-17 it says, "In All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness, so that the servant of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work."The Christian Bible is made up of The Old and New Testament.
There are different translations of the Bible that exist, including the King James Bible, the Common English Bible, the English Standard Version, the Holman Christian Standard Bible, among many others.Talk to a member of your church to see which book is preferred for your congregation.
Reading scripture with others may give you different perspectives on the text and help you better understand it.;
, The purpose of mass is to unify Christians in worshiping and praising God's grace.Usually, during mass the pastor, priest, or reverend will perform a sermon which will have stories from the Bible and occurrences from real life. Not only does attending mass make your relationship with the Lord stronger, but it also gives you the opportunity to interact with other Christians.


Most Christian churches celebrate the Eucharist which is also known as The Holy Communion or The Lord's Supper, which is a reenactment of Jesus's last meal.Going to mass may clarify questions you have from reading scripture at home.
 If you have questions about scripture, mass, or your faith, a priest, pastor, or minister may be able to explain things to you. If you attend a Protestant or Baptist church, try visiting your priest after mass, or during the weekdays. Write down any questions that you have such as, questions that arise when reading scripture, questions about a sermon, or a dilemma you're facing in your life.


You can ask your priest by saying something like "Do you have some time to talk about my faith? I have questions that I can't answer myself."
In Catholicism, it's regular practice to confess your sins to the priest., Look online for Christian meetups in your area, or if you're younger, ask your parents if you can join your local church's bible group. Being around other people with the same faith can help solidify yours and give you unique insights into how other people praise God. Usually, churches will have youth bible study or classes to help you learn more about Jesus.


Your teacher will also have additional insights in how to be a better Christian.

