 If you'd like to make a ground nut coating, you can take whole or sliced almonds, pecans, or macadamia nuts and grind them into a meal that you can use to coat food. Grind the nuts until they reach the texture that you desire. Make sure not to over-grind your nuts, or you'll create a nut butter with them.Using 1 to 2 cups (125 grams to 250 grams) of nuts will be enough for most recipes.Decide on whether you want a coarse or light coating for your food.If you want a finer coating, grind up your nuts more.
You can use blanched, unblanched, whole, sliced, slivered, or toasted nuts.;
, If you don't have a food processor, you can finely chop your nuts with a knife to create a nut coating for your food. Pecans and almonds are great as a coating for different proteins like fish, chicken, and vegetables. If you're going for a fancier touch the more expensive macadamia nut make a great replacement for breadcrumbs.Make sure to be careful and to use a sharp knife when cutting nuts apart. If you don't have good knife skills, make sure to take your time., If you can't settle on a single type of nut, you can mix different types of nuts together to create a unique and tasty coating. Combine your nuts before you chop them up and mix the chopped nut coating with a spoon before using it in your food.

Mixing more expensive nuts, like macadamia nuts with pecans or almonds, will also lower your costs at the grocery store., Nuts like pine nuts burn easily, and shouldn't be used in a ground nut coating.Think about your food and how the nuts will enhance the taste. For instance, nuts coated in sugar will add a caramelization and sweet taste to your food. Also, you should talk to whoever is eating your food and make sure that they don't have a common nut allergy, such as an allergy to peanuts., Almond meal and almond flour are two products that are available at many grocery stores and can act as a replacement for breadcrumbs. Almond meal is made from skin-on unblanched almonds, and the texture is coarser than most bread crumbs.Almond flour, on the other hand, is created with blanched almonds and is finer than almond meal.

Almond flour makes a great coating for fish such as tilapia.You can use almond meal to create almond chicken.