 This may sound silly, but never shut your daughter out or give her the silent treatment because she hurt your feelings. Teenage girls can sometimes say hurtful things to their parents, but remember that it might just be the hormones talking. You raised her, so you know the person underneath the angst.


Decide on whether or not you can let the issue go. If either of you is upset, waiting to talk about about it is usually a good idea. Giving yourself some time will allow both of you to think, calm down, and proceed rationally when your conversation resumes.
"Let's set a time to talk about this tomorrow," or "Why don't we go for a walk after dinner to discuss this?" are good ways of giving each of you some breathing room.
 Talk about everything – not just the “big things.” Don’t pressure her to talk. Sometimes it's enough to let her know you’re interested and wait for her to respond. Knowing that you’re concerned might encourage her to come talk with you later. Try to keep an on-going dialogue with her about her friends, school, relationships, hopes, and dreams.
 Remember that you are the adult, so you are the one who sets the tone for your relationship with your child. If you are condescending or sarcastic with her, chances are that she will be that way with you, too.
 It’s tempting to lash out when your daughter is being mean or aggressive toward you, but don’t do it. Even though it’s hard not to “fight back” or defend yourself, if you do this it will only escalate the conflict between the two of you. This will eliminate the chance for the two of you to have a productive discussion.Make a habit of pausing every time you feel emotionally triggered by your daughter. Instead of focusing on her, notice your own emotions.
Intentionally relax your body. Instead of tensing up when you feel angry or emotional, try to relax instead.
Just breathe. Your brain functions better when you take deep breaths and you will slow down your emotional reaction.
Visualize your emotions. Picture water running over a rock and think of how your emotions are doing the same thing. You’ll be surprised how much it helps you calm down.

