 If you're going to keep in contact with old friends, then you need to remember why you're doing it. If you're only doing it for the purpose of having more friends, then it's not going to work. However, if you truly care about each individual friend and remember all the fun times you've had together, then it's much easier for you to want to keep them as a chum.;
, Each friend (new or old) should be equal in your eyes. If you tell your old high school friends you can't hang out with them because you're hanging out with your new college friends, then they could get very upset and hurt and will think that you've changed. To avoid this, make sure you even out the time spent with new and old friends and don't be afraid to introduce your new friends to your old ones so that you can all hang out together.
 This means things like: home address, home phone number, mobile phone number, social media accounts, and email addresses. However, it's meaningless to have a list of all your friends' contact details if you never use them. Contact your friends regularly. The more regular you are in contacting your friends, the closer you will be with them.


For example, if you only talk to you old friend once a year via email, then you're unlikely to have the same close relationship you did in high school.
 Although contacting friends online and through the phone is a great way to catch up without going all the way over to see them, if you really want a close relationship with them, then you'll have to see them in person every so often too. Whether it's just going on a jog together through town or a 3 day sleepover at their house, you have to make the time to keep your old friends.
 College work is very time-consuming, especially in your final year. This makes it hard to spend quality time with new friends, let alone old friends. However, this is why it's necessary to manage your time efficiently, so that there is time for work and play. Your work is very important, but too much work and no play can make you unhealthy and overly-stressed. Also, your friends might get the wrong idea and think that you don't care about them at all.
 Forgetting these things might not affect your life in college, as your friend's birthday isn't the answer to question 6 in the final exam, but if you want to maintain a successful friendship, these things are absolutely critical. If you really find it hard to remember these things, write them down in a notebook. That way, when you need a little recap, you can just flick through your notes.


For example, don't forget your old friend's birthday, but also make sure you remember the name of the new guy/girl he or she is dating.

