 Low-impact exercises aside from stretching and strengthening routines are also helpful ways to improve your health and prevent back pain. After a day that includes lots of sitting, be sure to do a gentle cardio exercise for 30 minutes. The most low-impact options include speed-walking, swimming, and riding a stationary bike. Each of these prominently engage the muscles in your core, and thus also increase the flexibility and strength of your lower back and abdominal muscles.Talk to your doctor about what type of cardio may be the best for you, depending on your age, level of fitness, and any medical conditions.
Swimming is a good option when you have back problems because it will not put much pressure on your back.
Before any more strenuous, higher impact exercise such as running, be sure to do a stretching routine.
Cardio exercises also help you maintain a healthy weight, which reduces strain on your back and prevents low back pain.
Wearing supportive footwear may help to relieve some of the pressure on your back when you exercise or during your routine activities during the day. Get some good sneakers or use some gel or foam inserts in your shoes.
 You can find a BMI calculator online to help you assess whether your current weight is healthy. Once you establish whether or not you need to lose weight to be healthier and to help prevent lower back pain, you’ll have a better idea of whether you need to adjust your dietary choices and eating behavior. Again, daily meal planning tools are freely available online, and can help you determine the number of calories you need to eat to achieve your weight goals., Avoiding excessive weight gain is an important component of preventing lower back pain. One of the best ways to become more aware of what you’re consuming is keeping track of the calories you’re eating relative to the amount of calories you’re burning. Especially if you need to lose weight, you need to burn more calories than you eat. This is why it’s important to both exercise and eat healthy – and making yourself aware of the calories you’re eating will help you make necessary adjustments to your eating and exercise habits.There are many different apps that make it easy to keep track of what you’re eating throughout the day, and even include the calories common foods include.
Find a system of tracking the food you eat that works for you. The act of recording the food you eat, and when, will help you identify potential changes you can make to reduce the number of calories you’re eating.
Make sure that you drink at least eight 8 ounce glasses of water every day to maintain good hydration.
 Quitting will immediately help to prevent back pain. This is because smoking reduces the blood flow and oxygen to your lower spine. In turn, your spinal discs may degenerate more quickly. Smoking also increases the risk of osteoporosis and impedes healing of any minor injuries of strains you may experience. Even smoker’s cough can contribute to lower back pain. , You can adjust your own lifestyle and behavior to diminish any back pain you've begun to experience. There are even some forms of proactive treatment that may allow you to get rid of back pain and adjust your posture before you develop more serious back issues. Consider beginning a daily yoga routine that is focused on stretching your back. Further, get in the practice of icing your back and taking an NSAID pain reliever to see if you can knock out the pain on your own.You should also consider changing your mattress for one that is more firm. This will provide greater support for your spine while you sleep.
 If home treatments and posture adjustments do not diminish the symptoms of lower back pain enough for you to go about your day-to-day activities unhindered, you may need to seek professional treatment. A doctor will be able to provide with you stronger pain relievers, steroidal injections, and a more specific diagnosis regarding the potential cause of your back pain and a corresponding treatment plan.There are also many alternative ways to relieve lower back pain, though there are some symptoms that require immediate medical attention.
 If you develop back pain, see a doctor as soon as possible to talk about specific forms of treatment that will be best for you. There are countless sources of lower back pain, and different forms of treatment will be necessary to treat different causes of pain. However, if you have any sort of back pain in addition to any of the following, see a doctor immediately, as they may indicate something more serious than common lower back pain:Rapid inexplicable weight loss.
A high fever.
Loss of control of your bowels or bladder.
Loss of feeling in your legs, or the sensation of weakness in the legs.
Problems with your legs.
A history of cancer.

