 Makeup primer is a good foundation for any eye shadow look, but it’s especially important when you’re using bold shadows. Nothing will ruin your chrome eye makeup more than it creasing or smudging all over your face. A primer will smooth out and perfect your skin while also giving your makeup a sticky base to adhere to. It will help your makeup stay put and last all day and night.You can find primers at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store. A regular makeup primer will work fine, but there are also primers made specifically for your eyelid.
Let your primer soak into your skin for a couple minutes before starting to apply any product.;
, Like with any other look, you want to avoid stark borders. The key to this chrome look is to make it look blended and dimensional. Before you begin brushing on the chrome shadow, use a fluffy eye shadow brush to apply a soft brown or cream color to your crease and outer corner. This will help to carve out the crease, adding dimension before you begin applying your main color.Blend out your transition color with your fluffy brush.
 After you’ve applied your transition shade, it’s time to apply the showstopper. To apply this most precisely, use a flat concealer brush or a flat shadow brush. Begin brushing it onto the center of your lid, staying below your crease. Brush your chrome shadow to the inner corner, and then bring it outwards until it meets the transition shadow at the crease and outer corner. An added bonus of applying the transition color first is by creating a border for you to apply your chrome shadow within.If you’re using a powder shadow, you may want to spray your flat brush with a bit of setting spray to dampen the product before applying it. This will help you get that really pigmented, opaque chrome color that you want without having to apply several layers of powder., Pick up a bit of light brown shadow onto your fluffy brush. Bring this around the chrome shadow you just applied. By bringing this shadow along the crease and the outer corner, you will soften up the border of the chrome color. Continue blending this until the edges of the chrome shadow are soft and more gradual., Like with most shadow looks, you want to apply your darkest color yet to the outer corner. For this chrome look, a dark brown or a black will do the trick. Using your fluffy brush, pat the dark shadow along your outer corner. Then, start blending again! You want to blend this dark color into your chrome color so that it appears as though the chrome transitions into the dark shadow seamlessly., It’s important to add a bit of balance to this look by bringing product below your eyes as well. Pack a bit of your dark, outer corner color onto a small brush. Then, carefully sweep that along your lower lash line, bringing it about half way across your eye., You can find a variety of silver and glitter eyeliners at pharmacies and beauty supply stores. Rather than lining your entire eye with it, simply apply it your bottom lash line in the inner corner. Bring it outwards until it meets the dark eye shadow you smudged on your bottom lash line, about halfway across your eye.This glitter eyeliner helps to create a more cohesive look on your eyes, bringing the metallic chrome color to the bottom of your eye.
Additionally, the light color and sparkle adds a highlight to your inner corner, which makes your eyes appear bigger and brighter.
 This technique is called “tightlining.” By applying a black eyeliner on your thin waterline where it will sit between your shadow and your eye, it will create contrast with the whites of your eyes and really make them pop. With heavy eye shadow looks, it’s easy for the shadow to weigh your eyes down and make them look small. Tightlining will combat this, making your eyes look big and bright.To tightline your bottom waterline, gently pull the skin below your eye a bit so that your waterline is fully exposed. Then, carefully sweep your eyeliner along your waterline from inner to outer corner.
To tightline your top lid, simply apply your eyeliner as close as you possibly can to the base of your lashes.
 It’s crucial to have dark, full eyelashes to stand out against the shadow. First, curl your lashes using an eyelash curler. Bring the tool to the base of your lashes and press down for about five seconds. Then, apply your favorite black mascara. Position the wand at the base of your lashes and gently wiggle it as you sweep it down your lashes.For extra volume, apply a second or even third coat of mascara. Let each coat dry in between.
If mascara isn’t cutting it, pop on a pair of false eyelashes.

