 All snakes, including ball pythons, will grow quite a bit over the course of their lives. Ball pythons in particular will grow quite large and will require a proper living environment as they do. You should be prepared for this before you attempt to care for a ball python.Ball pythons will grow to around 5' in length.
You will need to provide enough space for a fully grown ball python.
You will need to feed a snake of this size large rodents.;
, Caring for any animal is a serious commitment. You will need to feed, clean and maintain the health of your ball python over the course of its entire life. Make sure you are ready for a long-term commitment before deciding to care for a ball python.Ball pythons have lived up to 40 years.
Generally, ball pythons will live between 20 to 30 years.
 Once you've decided that you can provide proper care for a ball python it's time to go find your new friend. Thankfully, ball pythons are very popular amongst pet owners and they are easy to find in most pet stores. Start looking for a ball python that is right for you once you feel prepared to care for it.Reptile breeders will likely have ball pythons available.
Attending a reptile expo can also help you find your new ball python.
Ball pythons should already be eating and well fed before you buy them.
 Snakes aren't used to being held in the wild. Because of this, you will need to know when it's acceptable to hold your snake and when it will only cause stress. Take a look at some of these key ideas when considering if it's the right time to interact with your snake:Allow your snake to eat one meal in it's new home before trying to handle it.
Young snakes should be held no more than once a week.
Adult snakes can be held around once a week.
Don't interact with your ball python after it's eaten. Wait around two days after your snake eats to make sure it is comfortable.
 If you plan on caring for a ball python, you will need to be dedicated to maintaining and protecting its health. Keeping your snake healthy will require you to watch its behavior and actions for any changes or indications of illness. Keep an eye out for some of these common signs of illness:A ball python should normally sit in a coil. Snakes that lay straight out or keep their head up may be ill.
Ball pythons that spend a lot of time soaking may be ill or uncomfortable.
In the case of respiratory issues, your snake may wheeze or have mucus come out from its nose.
Runny of bloody stool can indicate a digestive issue. Snakes who don't void after ten days may be constipated.
Refusal of food may indicate an infection.

