 After the court certifies the plaintiffs as a class for the purpose of a class action lawsuit, the plaintiffs must notify anyone who may have been injured or suffered damages due to the defendants' conduct. If you actually were or could have been injured or suffered damages, you will receive a notice in the mail. In many cases, people receiving these notices may not realize that they are part of a potential class or that they are potentially entitled to settlement.
Because class action lawsuits tend to involve a large group of individuals, the settlement may amount to only a small amount for each class member, from pennies to a couple of dollars.;
, When you receive a class action notice, you have three choices. You can choose to remain a plaintiff as a member of the class, you can choose to become a named plaintiff, or you can opt out of the suit altogether. You may choose to remain a member of the class if you have no desire to bring an individual lawsuit against the defendant(s) at a later time. If you take no action in response to the notice, you will automatically become part of the class in the lawsuit. Once you are a part of the class, you are bound by the decisions and resolutions made by the court in the class action lawsuit, as well as any settlements reached by the attorney for the class. Therefore, if the case settles for $1,000 and there are 50 class members, you will receive $50, regardless of the amount of the damages that you suffered.
You may want to become a named plaintiff if you incurred significant damages in the form of money or injuries. This means that you would be a primary member of the class and could participate in settlement discussions with the attorney for the class.
 If you don't want to be bound by the court's decision in the class action suit, you may want to opt out altogether. Opting out of a class action suit means that you won't be a part of the group of people who are involved in the class action lawsuit. However, you will have the right to bring a separate lawsuit on your own against the defendant if you choose, and you can seek whatever amount of damages to which you believe you are entitled.


You typically should not opt out of a class action lawsuit unless you are planning on filing an individual lawsuit against the defendant.
 If you opt out of the class action lawsuit, you won't share in any judgment issued by the court or a settlement reached by the class. You also won't be bound by any of the decisions made by the judge in the class action suit. You would be free to bring a lawsuit on your own against the defendant(s) without being involved in the class action., If you opt out, you will not receive any part of any settlement from the class action lawsuit. If your individual suit is not successful, then you could end up receiving nothing. Some of the more common reasons for opting out of a class action are as follows:You want to bring a lawsuit against the defendant(s) on your own for specific damages done to you, and you think that you might get a larger amount of damages by going to trial individually.
You may believe that your circumstances, injuries, or damages are different than the other class members, so the proceeds from a class action lawsuit wouldn't cover your damages.
Another reason for opting out is the ability to file a lawsuit in a favorable state. Most class action lawsuits are filed in federal court. In fact, all class actions that are valued at over five million dollars must be filed in federal court. However, if you have a state with laws that favor your claim, you may want to opt out of the class action and pursue an individual suit in state court. An attorney can advise you whether your state laws would be favorable to you in this situation.
You also may be uncomfortable with the named plaintiffs or attorneys who are handling the class action lawsuit. If you don’t think that they can get the best settlement for you, or you don’t think that the named plaintiffs properly represent the class as a whole, you may wish to opt out so that you aren’t stuck with whatever settlement the class reaches. If you are more comfortable with your own attorney, you may be better off proceeding on your own.
 No matter what your reason for opting out of the class action lawsuit, you also must determine whether an individual lawsuit against the defendant would be cost-effective or successful. You also must look at the cost of pursuing an individual lawsuit against what very well may be a large corporation with a great deal of resources. If you are not likely to recoup your losses as well as the costs of bringing the lawsuit, then you may want to forego filing an individual lawsuit., Along with the notice regarding the class action lawsuit that you received in the mail, you will have instructions about how to opt out of the class action lawsuit. You should only complete the opt-out documents that you received with your initial letter if you don't want to be a part of the class action lawsuit. , You also could look online, as a class action lawsuit usually has a website set up with all of the necessary paperwork available. You may be able to print off the opt-forms from this website.
 You should return the paperwork on the address stated on the paperwork prior to the stated deadline. If you fail to return the paperwork by the deadline stated in the paperwork, you may risk being unable to opt out of the class.

