 His body language can be a big factor in showing you if he wants to get closer to you, or if he just sees you as a buddy. If he puts his arm around you, you need to know it's because he likes you, not because he's just palling around. Here are some ways to see if his body language means he likes you as more than a friend:


Notice how he sits next to you. Does he always try to move closer until your knees touch, or is he sitting miles away?
Try to see if you can catch him stealing a glance in your direction. If you catch his eye and he even blushes and looks away, then he knows he's been caught!
See if he's always looking for excuses to touch you. Does he get physical if you're playing a friendly game of volleyball or soccer, and does he always ask you to be his partner when it's time for chicken fights in the pool?
See if his body is directed towards you when you speak. Does he stand with his body towards you and his arms gesturing or at his sides? If so, then he wants to give you all of his attention.
See how he touches other girls. Does he put his arm around every girl, or only you?
See if he ever gently pats your hand, even when he’s joking. This is a very intimate gesture, and it may show that he really likes you.
 He may just be a really good friend, or all of those favors he's doing for you may mean something more. Notice all of the things he does for you and think about what they mean. Here's how to tell:


See if he's being very thoughtful. Does he bring you coffee when you're having an intense study session, or get tickets for a movie you hinted that you want to see? If so, then he's probably hanging on to your every word and just wants to make you happy.
See if he does nice things for everyone. Is he just "Mr. Nice Guy" and loves giving rides and buying lunch for everyone in town, or does he do these things for only you? Remember, if he likes you, then he'll treat you differently than everybody else.
If he helps you out with your chores, like doing your laundry, then he definitely wants to be your boyfriend.
If he offers to help you with your car, he's not just being friendly - he wants you to be impressed by his manliness.
 You need to check out how he talks to other girls to see if he treats them just like he treats you, or if he thinks you're special to him. You don't have to stare or stalk to get a sense of how he treats others and to have a sense of where you stand with him.


See if he's a perpetual flirt. Does he flirt with every girl in the room, or only you? Remember, he may still like you if he flirts with other girls, but it makes it less likely that he's singling you out.
You can also look for the opposite sign. Does he flirt with every girl except for you? Then maybe he’s not flirting with you because you’re the only one he really likes. He may respect you too much to tease or flirt with you like he does with every other girl.
Does he seem embarrassed or shy if he hangs out with a new girlfriend in front of you? If so, then he may not want you to see his relationship unfolding because he’d rather be with you.
See if the other girls he hangs out with know who you are. If he’s with another girl and she gives you an, “Oh, I’ve heard about you” look, then the girl may be jealous because you’re important to the guy.
 If he likes you, then he’ll want to be around you as much as possible. He could try to do this in subtle and not-so-subtle ways. Here are a few signs that he wants to be around you because he sees you as more than a friend:


If he acts like you’re the only person in the room when you’re hanging out in big groups. If you’re at a party, concert, or a bar, and you realize you ended up talking to him for most of the night, then he definitely wants to get closer to you.
If you have a class together and he always tries to sit next to you and even saves you a seat, then he may want to take things to the next level.
Notice if he sometimes just happens to run into you in your favorite coffee shop or bar. If he’s always around, then he may have a stalking problem, but if he’s just “in the area” occasionally, then it may be because he’s hoping to run into you.
 Paying attention to how and how often you hang out and to when and where you hang out can give you great insight into whether he just wants to see you ask a friend or if he wants all of your hang-sessions to be more like dates. Here are some points to consider:


Notice where you hang out. Do you see him in romantic locations like gardens, nicer wine bars, or places where you see couples hanging out for date nights? If so, then he may want the same for you.
Notice who is around when you hang out. If it’s always just the two of you, then he may see you as crush material. But if he’s always inviting ten of his closest bros along, then he may see you just as another friend.
Notice when you hang out. If you only see him once a month, then he may not be trying to spend more time with you. But if it feels like you haven’t gone more than a day without seeing him recently, then yeah, he probably likes you.
Notice what you do when you hang out. Going out for coffee or a quick lunch is more meant for the friend zone, but going out for dinner or seeing a movie in the evening is a more-than-friend activity.
 This may feel like a no brainer, but it may be harder to tell if he’s flirting with you than you think. Every guy has his own flirting style, and there will be a variety of ways to flirt with you to show that he definitely likes you. Here are a few signs that he’s flirting:


If he’s always trying to make you laugh if you have a class together, and even doodles in the margins of your notes, then he’s definitely flirting with you.
If he sends you a lot of emoticons when he’s texting, then he’s flirting with you.
If he’s always playfully hitting you or giving you a gentle shove, then he’s flirting with you.
If he loves dunking you underwater when you’re in a pool, then he is definitely flirting.
If he’s always trying to make you laugh or giggle, then he’s definitely flirting. If he blushes when you’re both laughing, then he’s definitely feeling flirtatious.

