 Sit down with your child and ask them about what they know about elections, politics, and politicians. Get a feel for what your child knows and how they understand the political ads. This can help you gauge their understanding, their fears, and their questions. Knowing your child’s understanding can help guide you to talk to them in an age-appropriate way that addresses their concerns.For example, your young child may be fearful that a politician is saying things in a strong or powerful way, yet may not know what that person is talking about.
Your child may get information from political ads, social media, and friends. Even though they can parrot words, it does not mean they understand them.;
, For younger children, start getting them thinking about political issues. You can ask, “Why is it important to have schools? Are there good things about paying taxes?” For older children, engage them in their thoughts and ask them why they have those beliefs. What examples can support their view? Engage with your child and allow them to express and develop their own opinions.If your child’s opinion differs from your own, that’s okay. Ask them about it and let them know it’s okay to have different opinions from others. This can help them to develop tolerance for other viewpoints.
 Remind children that political ads are just that, advertising. Why else would they play around other commercials on television or the radio? Just like advertisements for toys, cars, and other items get people thinking about and wanting that item, political ads try to sway people toward a certain candidate through advertising.Tell your child that the ads may play to their emotions. Talk about any emotions they felt after watching an ad and what they think about it.
Talk about manipulation. Ads sometimes use words or images to manipulate a person’s feelings. Say, “What did it feel like to watch that ad? Did you feel like it made you feel something?”

, While your kids may not be old enough to vote, they likely will be one day. Set a good example for your children by explaining what voting is and why it is important. Let them know why it’s important to be informed before voting. Remind them that political ads are meant to help sway votes, yet nothing can replace the research you do on your own to make an informed decision.When you’re preparing for an election, get your kids involved in gathering information. Have them do internet searches about propositions or important issues facing the election. Then talk about it with them.
By expressing the value of voting, this can help encourage your children as they do reach the age to vote.
 If your child feels scared or inspired by issues raised by political ads, talk about ways to get involved. While politicians can make legislative decisions, each person can make a difference regarding social action. If your child is concerned about social issues, get them involved in volunteering at a soup kitchen or homeless shelter, animal shelter, or making steps to live with less environmental impact.Talk to your child about petitions and how they can help to voice concerns or support. You might want to include your child if you choose to sign a petition to show how each person’s voice can be heard.

