 This means to try to prevent the factors that lead up to hypothermia in the first place. Wear hats and gloves; bundle up warmly. Pay attention to the weather; when the weatherman speaks of the wind chill factor, know that this is a serious factor that contributes to more cases of hypothermia than any other.;
, Be extremely cautious around water, and don't walk on ponds or lakes that look frozen over, unless you see a truck drive by on it. Even solid looking ice can be deceiving. If you are exercising outside and perspire, though you might feel hot, take precautions with the cold air and the wind. Stay covered up and only remove clothing when you are out of the elements.



Violent shivering, then pauses. This is a sign that the body is trying desperately to generate heat, but is not compensating enough.
Pale skin. Some people are naturally pale; however, if their pupils are dilated also, you have a real problem on your hands. If you haven't called emergency services by this point, stop anything else you are doing and get on the phone.
Hallucinations. This is a very good indicator that the person is suffering from severe hypothermia. In general, any hallucination is not good and the paramedics need to be called at any rate.
 Improper re-warming can cause shock and cardiac arrest from metabolic acidosis.


Slowly remove any wet clothing and replace with dry clothing or blankets. No sudden movements.
Do not rub the victim's skin or move their joints or excessively cause them to move around. If they are conscious, you may give them some room temperature (not hot!) beverages, such as water, juice or tea. Do not give alcohol or caffeine.
Skin to skin contact is the best method for re-warming the victim. Remove clothing (be modest and considerate) and lie next to the victim's body. An electric blanket can be used if it is not already at the maximum temperature. It needs to come up gradually.
Put a dry hat on the victim. Most body heat leaves through the head. One of the defense mechanisms of the human body is to try to keep the central organs warmest with blood flow, so the extremities will not have as much blood flow so be sure to cover up the hands and the feet as well.
 Even if a light or very faint pulse is present, do not attempt CPR; this could cause more damage than good.

