 The stuffed heart will be larger and heavier than the other paper hearts and is thus excellent for larger decorations or gifts. The edges are stitched together and the heart can be decorated as much as you like., Fold the papers in half width-wise or "hamburger style," bringing the two short ends together. Choose a color that suits your preferences for the heart.


Crease the paper well in order to hold the halves in place.
 If you feel confident in your ability to free-hand draw the heart, you can do so without a pattern or template. Otherwise, find some sort of template that you can trace.


You can use a heart-shaped cookie cutter or paper weight as a template, or you can print a heart template onto standard printer paper and cut it out to use as a template.
 Cut along the outline you traced and unfold the paper to reveal a symmetrical heart.
 Fold the heart in half once more and use this shape to trace the same half of a heart outline on the other paper. Cut out the second heart as well. You should now have two hearts that look the same., If you plan to decorate the paper heart at all, you should do so before sewing and stuffing. You can decorate you heart with stamps, stickers, markers, colored pencils, crayons, paint, glitter, craft sequins or anything you can think of.
 Use a thick sewing needle to poke small holes in even intervals along the perimeter of the heart. If young children are completing this project then they should use a slightly blunted needle for safety.


You could also use a paper piercer or the sharp pointed end of a compass instead of a sewing needle.
Make sure that the two pieces of paper are stacked and pierced in the same places.






Pierce near the edge but not so close that the edge of the paper may rip. About ½ inch or 1.25 cm would work well.
 Thread a sewing needle and start stitching the two paper hearts together, weaving the thread in and out of the holes you pierced. Only sew up 3/4 of the holes so that you can still stuff the heart.


Use thick thread or two to three pieces of thread wrapped together.
Begin your stitches from the back, toward the bottom tip of the heart.
Do not pull the thread taut through the first hole. Instead, leave about 3 inches (7.6 cm) of thread free and loose at the start of the heart.
You can also stitch using the blanket stitch. Which will provide a nice edging for your heart as shown in the picture. The blanket stitch involves tying the thread to the first hole and then pushing the needle through both layers of the heart. Before tightening the thread, bring it up through the loop created around the edge. Tighten the thread and that is a blanket stitch.
 Use plastic grocery bags, batting, or bundled tissue paper to stuff the heart through the open section of the heart. Stuff the heart gently to prevent it from tearing.


Use a pair of scissors or a pen to help push the stuffing into the heart.
 Stitch the remaining holes closed. Tie the two ends together in the back of the paper heart. You should now have a lovely decorated stuffed heart to admire!

