 All electric cars have a different style, and so do their electric car chargers. Not all car chargers are the same. Each car from different manufactures will assign a specific car charger to you.

There are electric cars like the Nissan Leaf, Toyota RAV4 Electric, and BMW i8 which are electric powered. However, they use different power inputs and use different car chargers with different designs. If you need further assistance, go contact your car dealership. Even if you probably know it, you want to double check anyways. Better safe than sorry.;
,

Your car manufacturer's website usually shows the specifications for your vehicle, and are genuine. Other sites may have false information, so sticking with the website you know and trust is a better choice.
If your car manufacturer's website does not show the specifications for your vehicle, go to your dealership for your vehicle specifications, as they can give true information about your car. It's better to go drive to your dealership than to go on your computer and use wrong information.
 The garage is the place where your electric car will charge. However, electric car chargers only work in certain garages, so check your garage to see if you are fit for installing an electric car charger.

If you have an open garage, this is for sure that an electric car charger will not work.
An electric car charger only works in garages that have a roof. If your garage does not have a door, it is still possible that an electric car charger can be installed.
Check your car charger's specifications and see if your garage has enough power to maintain the power of the car charger.
If you share a garage with a neighbor or 100 other tenants, there might be an electric car charger installed. If not, you can install one yourself. Just know that somebody else can use the car charger, unless if you call it your own private property.
 If all else fails and you still want an electric car, try looking around your neighborhood and find any nearby electric car charging stations. You technically don't need your own electric car charger to own an electric car. As long as security isn't a worry for you, you are fine.

Only do this at your own risk!

, When you have made the decision to install an electric car charger in your garage, go contact your dealership as soon as possible.

More electric cars are being used every year, but gasoline and diesel vehicles are still the norm of the car business. Your nearby car dealership may not be ready to install your electric car charger immediately, so it is better to tell your dealership now so that you can get the installation done as soon as possible.


Many dealerships will start off with "Is your garage compatible with the car charger?" If so, tell them that your garage is compatible, and don't tell them what type your garage is yet. Only be more specific if they ask more questions.


A 4 square sheet has 4 squares, each square for a different category that you need to look at and approve with your signature. 4 square sheets are not what you call an actual contract paper. If you receive this paper, just simply decline and walk away, and try again at a later date, at a different dealership if possible.
 This allows the dealership to say a problem with your house configuration, only if your garage is part of the house.

If the dealership says that your house fixtures can interfere with the car charger, that means your garage is not compatible.
 You can relax now, and wait until a workman arrives., If you see anything suspicious or anything dangerous that is happening, report to the engineer immediately. For an extra note, contact the dealership and any friends nearby.