 Personalizing setbacks can result in feelings of hopelessness and helplessness. People who are mentally aware tend to accept the things they cannot change. Strive to do so yourself.


Unconsciously, you probably personalize circumstances quite a bit. Try to catch yourself personalizing throughout the day. For example, say you get to the office early one morning and a normally chatty co-worker gives you a hasty "Hello" without stopping to make small talk. You may immediately start blaming yourself. Did you do something wrong? Does this person not like you? You are personalizing a situation that may have nothing to do with you.When you catch yourself in these moments, try to pull yourself out of your head for a moment. Ask yourself, "In all likelihood, does this have anything to do with me?" Take the co-worker example. Maybe she was running late for a meeting. Maybe she isn't feeling well. Maybe there's something going on in her personal life that's causing her stress. Chances are, her quiet nature this morning has nothing to do with you., Without realizing it, people often make predictions about the future. Mentally aware people are able to accept they have no way of knowing what the future holds.


Keep in mind you cannot control what is yet to come. The only moments you have control over are those that occur in the present. Try to keep your mind focused on the present moment and do not let your mind wander in "What if?" scenarios.When your mind lingers in the future, you'll end up making critical mistakes in the present. If you spend your work day daydreaming about how you'll one day run the company, you're not engaged with the work at hand. You'll end up doing a sloppy job at work and your dream of success will not come into fruition., Holding onto the past can result in disengaging from the present reality. If you're wishing things could go back to a former state, let go of this wish. Accept and be aware of the present moment instead.


Mentally aware people understand the past, however great it may have been, no longer exists. They do not waste time longing for times gone by but instead strive to make the best of the present moment, even if the situation is not ideal.Reminiscing about the good times can be fun. However, keep in mind that you may miss positive aspects of the present moment by romanticizing the past. Appreciate your memories but do not let them tether you.