 Do you want to be preppy, alternative, etc etc? You don't have to channel just one thing when personalizing your uniform - but don't be channeling complete opposites. However, don't feel like you have to conform to any norms. You ARE yourself; and yourself is probably a mix of a lot of things.;
, For most people, this means: Getting in the shower, exfoliating face, then cleansing face, then washing body, then exfoliating body, then washing hair (again, if necessary). Get out of shower, and MOISTURIZE!!! Then apply deodorant.
 Keep you're sparklers sparkling!!

, You could shave, wax, really, the possibilities are endless!! Trim your eyebrows, as well. You may think this step, and the two steps above aren't that important. Honestly, no one will care how individual if your don't practice good hygiene.
 Some people don't have to wash their hair as often as others - but hair that you can fry chips on really IS NOT attractive, or personalized. Wash your hair whenever it starts to feel greasy. If you use blow-dryers, or straighteners, make sure you apply some form of protection. Don't use too much hairspray, or product - honestly, it's better to embrace what you've got, and accessorize it, than have it all fall out.
 The possibilities are endless. You hair is YOURS, and yours only - no one has exactly the same hair as you. Experiment with what style you have - bob, long, short, up, down, bun, messy, sleek, straight, curly? Your hair is YOURS, and has pretty much personalized itself already. If your hair is naturally curly, please don't straighten it everyday, and vice versa. Yes, it's nice to change it up a bit every once in a while, but it's not you!

, The possibilities really are endless. Bobby pins are amazing for creating quite a natural look, and you could use bobbles, clips, slides, Alice bands, bows? It's all up to you. Work your personality in your hair., But, PLEASE don't go overboard! There's nothing more distasteful than a young lady with too much make up on. And, plus, it's school, not a party! Bright lipstick is a definite no-no - it looks tacky, and like you have your mum's make up on. Not good. Tinted moisturizer is a lot more natural than foundation, and is less likely to cause a breakout. All you really need is mascara, lip gloss, bronzer, and tinted moisturizer. You may think that personalizing your make-up means drawing things on your face. Don't. It looks childish, and teachers will not take you seriously, and will probably put you in detention. Keep it natural - and if you don't want to wear make-up, don't! Lots of boys prefer a girl that doesn't wear too much anyway.
 There WILL be some. You really don't want to get into trouble for personalizing your uniform.
 If you only have to conform to colours, rather than a particular shape or size, than you are definitely in luck. Look in shops you like for items on your list - the shapes are more fitted, and will look better on you, and will be different from your peers. But, you may have to buy your uniform from a certain shop, and, therefore, it's similar to your peers. These next few steps are for you.
 It looks tacky, and your parents and teachers will kill you!!! If you want to shorten it, go to a tailors, or, if you can't afford that, use safety pins to shorten the hem.
 Blazers look better when they're oversized, but don't swamp you. Go two sizes over what you're meant to be.
 School's probably won't notice if you buy a slightly different style, and there's more choice.
 If you wear a large blouse, wear a small skirt, or you'll look swamped. And vice versa.
 Don't wear heels - you'll get into trouble, and they're not very practical. Pick a hard wearing shoe, so they'll last you the whole year.
 Tribal, and weaved bracelets look AMAZING, and individual. Don't make it frumpy. Make it edgy, and cool.
 But, a lot of schools aren't picky about the style. So, go all out. Express yourself. Box coats, with a Peter Pan collar are very in right now, but you don't have to go with what's 'in'. The whole point of personalizing your uniform, is that it's what YOU like!!

, For winter, a woolly, block colour scarf looks cool, and in summer, you can experiment with more floral, and more patterned numbers.
 Totes, backpacks, handbags - choose whatever you want!!! Or, you could get a plain bag, and decorate it yourself! That really makes it personal!! Add badges, decorate it with Sharpies, whatever you want.
 Cover your books with wrapping paper, and scrawl your fave lyrics on them. Look for your supplies, and pick out ones you like.

