 You can use the USB cable that you use to charge your phone.
 If your screen is locked with a passcode or pattern, it will need to be unlocked before it appears on the computer., This may happen in the background when the Android is plugged in for the first time., This will open the notification panel., The wording for this notification will vary depending on your Android, but it will always say USB somewhere and you'll usually see the USB logo., The wording will vary, but you want to choose the option that allows you to transfer media files to and from the Android., This button can be found in the lower-left corner of the desktop and has the Windows logo.
 In Windows 10, the File Explorer button looks like a folder and can be found on the left side of the Start menu. In Windows 8, you can find the File Explorer button on your taskbar. In Windows 7, clicking Computer will open the Explorer window.


In any version of Windows, you can press ⊞ Win+E.
 You'll see it listed underneath Computer or This PC. It may be listed as a model number instead of an easily-identifiable name.
 All Android devices will have an Internal storage folder when you open them. If your Android also has an SD card inserted, you can open its folder instead., You can move files from your computer to any of the folders already on your device, or you can create a new folder. There are several premade folders that may be useful for your files, such as Pictures, Music, Movies, Documents, and Ringtones., Open the folder on your computer that contains the files that you want to transfer to the Android device., This will start copying the files.
 The time this takes is dependent on the number and size of the files you're transferring. Don't disconnect the Android while the transfer is taking place., Your files will now be accessible on your Android device. You can browse for them using a file manager app, or load them from apps that support those files. For example, if you added music files to the Music folder, your music player app will load the files automatically.