 This is a light-purple, gear-shaped app in the App Drawer., It's near the top of the screen., This switch should turn green, signifying that your Android's Bluetooth is now active.

You'll also see the Bluetooth symbol appear in the top-right side of the screen.
If the switch here is green, Bluetooth is already enabled.
 This device could be a laptop, a tablet, or another phone. Depending on the platform, the process for enabling Bluetooth will vary:


iPhone/Android - Open Settings, tap Bluetooth, and slide Bluetooth right to the "On" position.

Windows - Open Settings, click Devices, click Bluetooth & other devices, and click the "Bluetooth" switch.

Mac - Click the Apple Menu icon, click System Preferences, click Bluetooth, and click Turn Bluetooth On.
 You should still be in the Bluetooth menu; if not, navigate back to the Bluetooth menu before proceeding., After a moment, you should see the phone's, tablet's, or computer's name pop up in the Bluetooth menu.

The name you'll see here will vary, but you can expect to see some variation of the device's manufacturer, product name, and/or serial number.
 Doing so will begin the pairing process.

If you don't see the device's name, turn off and then on again its Bluetooth.
 If the code displayed on your Android matches the one on your Windows device, it's safe to tap Pair.

Perform this step quickly, or the pairing will fail and you'll have to try again.
If pairing a Mac, you may first have to tap Accept before the pairing will complete.
 Once the connection is successful, the device will show up in your Android's Bluetooth menu and vice versa., It's in the top-left corner of your Android's screen., This option should be near the top of the Settings page., It's near the top of the Connections page., It will turn blue., To do so:


Android - Open Settings, tap Wi-Fi, tap your Android's name, then tap the Internet Access box.

Windows - Open the Wi-Fi menu, right-click the Android's name, select Connect using, and click Access Point.

Mac - Open the Wi-Fi menu, click the phone's name, click the settings gear at the bottom of the window, and click Connect to Network.
On iPhone, the connection should automatically be enabled as long as Wi-Fi is turned off or otherwise unavailable.
 You should now be able to get online on your tethered device.