 For best results, get the large or extra-large size. Make sure that they have no wires inside and are white. You will be covering these with several layers of pantyhose, so you want a good base color. If you get black or brown, you may have a hard time getting and even color at the end., Stack the two left bra cups together. Make sure that the breast cups are facing in the same direction, then slide them apart slightly so that the bottom part of one cup rests over the center of the other cup. Once you are happy with the breast shape, secure both cups with fabric glue, hot glue, or super glue.Repeat this step for the right set of bra cups.
Set the breast cups aside when you are done.
 Get four to five pairs of extra-large pantyhose that match your skin tone. Cut the legs off, then cut off the toes. Slice apart each leg along one of the seams to form a flat sheet. Discard the toes and seat/waist or save them for another project.


You will need at least seven pairs of pantyhose for this. The larger, the better.
Some types of pantyhose have control tops that extend to the thighs. They will be darker than the rest of the material. You need to cut below this.
 Take one of your pantyhose sheets and drape it over one of your prepared breast cups. Wrap the edges of the pantyhose sheet over the edges of the beast cup. Secure the pantyhose to the underside of the breast cup with a fast-drying glue as you go.Hot glue will work especially well for this step because of how fast it sets up.
Pull the pantyhose taut over the breast so that there are no gaps. It will look sheer, but that's fine.
Start working at one end of the pantyhose. This way, you may have enough left over to cover the other breast.
 Wait for the glue to dry first, if necessary, then flip the breast cup over. Trim off the excess pantyhose as close to the glue line as you can. When you are done, repeat the entire process for the other breast cup.If you have enough pantyhose leftover from the first breast cup, you can use it for the second one. Make sure that the bra cup doesn't show through, however.
Save the remaining pantyhose sheets for later.
 Tuck the sleeves inside the shirt first, so that you have nice, curved edges for the arm holes. Place the shirt on top of the craft foam. Trace around the shirt, including the arm holes, stopping a few inches below each arm pit. This will be the base for your chest plate.


If you can't find craft foam, thin, flexible cardboard may also work. Make sure it's white.
Stay on the safe side, and add a few extra inches to the top of the shoulders.
 Test it over your own chest. The top edges should wrap over your own shoulders. The bottom edge should extend a few inches past your armpit.


Don't worry about it wrapping all the way around your torso.
 Make sure that the breast cups are touching each other in the middle (this forms the cleavage). The top edges of the breast cups should be just below the arm pit of the chest plate. The bottom edges will likely hang over the bottom edge of the chest plate.The thinner part of the breasts should be pointing upwards. The thicker, fuller part should be pointing downwards.
 Once the glue dries, flip the chest plate over. Trim off the excess chest plate until you can see the entire inside of each breast cup again. This will make the breasts more comfortable to wear, especially if you are a girl.
 Drape a pantyhose sheet lengthwise across the breasts. Find center of the top, long edge, and glue it to center of your chest plate's neck. Just a drop will do. Hot glue is recommended for this section because of how fast it sets up.For a neater finish, glue the pantyhose to the underside of the collar, not the front.
 Stretch the bottom edge of the pantyhose sheet across the bottom edge of both breasts. Glue it to the inside edge of each breast. Start with the outer edges first, then work your way to the bottom and inner (cleavage) edges.


Give it an extra tug when you reach the bottom of the cleavage so that you get something that looks like an upside down "m".
 Working a little bit at a time, wrap the pantyhose around the outer edge of the chest plate and glue it to the underside. Make sure that you cover the entire collar, shoulders, arm holes, and sides.The covering will be very sheer, and the chest plate may warp. This is fine.
 Using the same technique as before, add five more layers pantyhose sheets to your breasts and chest plate. Make sure that you have no gaps or holes showing, otherwise the skin tone will be uneven. With each layer that you add, you may notice the color getting darker and more consistent., The pantyhose covering will likely cause the chest plate to curve or warp. Flip the chest plate over, and measure from the top of one shoulder down to the top of one breast. Cut a piece of thin cardboard according to that measurement, then glue it to the back of the chest plate. Make sure that it's not visible from the front.Repeat this step for the other shoulder and breast.
You can also use plastic boning, featherlight boning, or thermoplastic/worbla.
 Cut thin strip out of foam. It should be a little longer than your chest plate's collar and a little shorter than your next. Cover it with six layers of pantyhose. Glue it to collar of the chest plate. Make sure that there is an equal amount of foam sticking out on each side. This will wrap around the sides of your neck., Cut four equal lengths of elastic. You will be crossing the elastic pieces over your back in an X shape. Make sure that they are long enough. Hot glue two of the pieces to each shoulder of the chest plate. Hot glue the other two pieces to the sides of the chest plate, right below the arm pits.If your costume will be light colored, use white elastic.
If you added a collar, you will need to glue a short piece of elastic to each side of the collar.
If you are female, you can glue an old bra inside the chest plate. You may need to use extra padding between your bra and the breast cups. Glue the shoulders of the chest plate to the shoulders of your bra., You can use hot glue, but sewing the elastic to the buckles or Velcro would be better. You will be crossing the left shoulder elastic to the right chest elastic, and the right shoulder elastic to the left chest elastic. If you need to, trim and cut the elastic first so that it is short enough to do this.If you added a collar, you will need to add small buckles or Velcro to each elastic.
If you are using an old bra, you can skip this step.
 Place the chest plate over your chest. Cross the elastics across your back in an X-shape and snap (or Velcro) them together. Put on your costume, and adjust it until it rests over the fake breasts naturally. If you need to, use makeup to help match your skin tone to the breasts. You can also get clever with carefully-placed accessories, such as scarves, collars, or necklaces.


If you added a neck piece, then remember to fasten the buckles/Velcro there as well.
If you attached the chest plate to an old bra, then put it on like a bra.

