 Every guy likes hearing that he looks good—even when you’ve been in a relationship for a long time. Even if he’s not confident about his looks, sincerely let him that you are attracted to him. Give him a specific compliment every few days, like how great he looks in a certain shirt.If he goes to the gym, say “Your workouts have been really been paying off lately. You look irresistible.”
It wouldn’t hurt to tell him that other people would drool over his good looks. That doesn’t mean he would want those people. It would just make him feel good that someone thinks he’s attractive that isn’t intimately involved with him.;
, Make a big deal out of it when he accomplishes something. It could be a promotion, a finished art project, or something as simple as finishing a household task that took a while for him to complete. Let him know how proud of him you are. You could make him his favorite dinner, give him a gift, or throw him a surprise party. It will make him feel special.If he has recently been promoted, say “I knew you would get that promotion. I am so proud of you. How do you want to celebrate?”

, Think of something you’ve been struggling with for a while. Perhaps you have had a fight with a friend and aren’t sure how to solve it. Or, it could be something bigger. For instance, maybe you were offered a job but aren’t sure you should take it. Ask him for his advice. Then, compliment his ability to give you helpful and thoughtful advice.You could ask for advice when it comes to something small, like choosing an outfit. Ask him which dress or outfit he thinks you should wear.
You don’t have to take his advice, but asking for it will make him feel valued.
 Men are often very physical creatures. A physical relationship isn’t everything, but it would boost his ego to know that he is pleasing you. You can tell him that you he’s the best you’ve had or could have. Or, tell him specific things you like that he does.For example, you could tell him that you love how thoughtful he is when it comes to your needs.
 Ideally, you should do this in front of other people while he’s around. You could say something about how he recently got a promotion, or how great he has been with the kids. Knowing that you are proud enough of him to brag will be an instant ego boost.You could say “He always has been a great partner, but he has been especially great lately. I feel so luck to have him!”
Even if you brag while he’s not around, it might get back to him. It will make him feel great if a friend tells him that you complimented him when he wasn’t there.

