 After peeling your potatoes, cut them into one inch bite-sized pieces. Take your cauliflower and also cut them into one inch pieces.The tomatoes can be diced and will be cooked down, so don’t worry about cutting them into uniform size; however, chop your onion into bite-sized pieces.If your eyes begin to water and burn when chopping onions, cut the onion under running water. Cutting onions under water prevents the sulfuric compounds from rising up and irritating your eyes.;
, Put the potatoes in a microwave-safe bowl with water. Microwave on high for four minutes or until you can easily prick through the potato with a fork.Next, microwave the cauliflower in a microwave-safe bowl with water for three minutes. After you have microwaved both vegetables, pour the water down the drain and place them together in a single container.Microwaves can be finicky. Watch your food closely to be sure that you don’t overcook the potato or cauliflower.
An alternative to using a microwave is to steam the cauliflower and potatoes. Simply add both vegetables into a steamer, cover, and steam for 3-4 minutes., In a medium-sized wok, heat up cooking oil. Once the oil is sizzling, drop in your cumin seeds. Fry the seeds until they are golden brown and begin to swell.Frying cumin seeds bring extra flavour to the dish.
 First, add the chopped onions to your oil-cumin mixture. Saute and stir the onions and cumin seeds frequently for three minutes. Next, add your tomatoes and cook for another three minutes.Be sure to keep stirring the mixture to prevent anything from burning.


If you like a creamier curry, add ¼ cup (60 ml) of coconut milk or yogurt. Mix in the coconut milk until the color is even. If you accidently add too much, allow the mixture to cook down over heat until the correct consistency is achieved., Combine the potato-cauliflower mix into the pan. Top with curry powder and salt while using a wooden spoon to gently fold the mixture into the oil, cumin, onion and tomatoes.


Serve over fluffed up rice with toasted naan.

