 The single biggest thing most people who view themselves as losers can do to improve their social situation is to get a greater sense of self-confidence. This is related to having a good sense of self-worth. When you believe that social situations aren't scary and that you have what it takes to have a good time talking to people you don't know, it becomes so much easier to actually do it. There are many, many guides on the internet that can give you different instructions for improving your self-confidence (including wikiHow's How to Be Confident). Below are just a few of the most common tips you'll find:


Spend a few minutes imagining yourself having a great time in an upcoming social situation. Imagine what you're saying and what you're doing, then use this as a guide.
View social failures as instances in which you learned a lesson.
Listen to exciting or uplifting music to "pump yourself up" before social situations.
Don't give yourself to dwell on what could go wrong. Just jump in to social situations that have you worries!
Ask yourself, "What's the worst that could happen?" In most social situations, the answer is, "Not much."

, If you can rely on yourself, rather than others, for your happiness, you don't have to worry about having a bad time in any social situation you may take part in. Try to keep your thoughts positive when you're about to be in a social situation you're dreading. Don't think about what could go wrong — instead, think about what could go right! Think of the people you could meet, the good impressions, you could make, and the fun you could have. Generally, unless you're really unlucky, reality will turn out to be closer to this possibility than to one where you embarrass yourself and leave unsatisfied.
 When you can't think of anything to say in a social situation, it's almost never a bad idea to ask the person you're talking to about herself. Doing this shows that you're interested in what she has to say and keeps the conversation active and interesting. While you listen to your partner's response, you can chime in with short acknowledgements like, "Oh?", "Uh-huh," "Yeah?", and so on to show that you're listening without interrupting.


Though it can be tempting to pry for personal details, try to limit your questions to pleasantries until you become somewhat familiar with someone. For instance, if you've just met a stranger at a party, you'll want to ask questions along the lines of, "Where are you from?", "What did you study?", and, "Have you seen this movie that just came out?" Try to avoid questions like, "How much do you make, before taxes?", "Did you have a good relationship with your mother?", and "Do you kiss strangers at parties?"

, When you're in a social situation, you shouldn't ever feel like you need to lie about yourself in order to "fit in". As long as you remain polite and friendly, you don't have to agree with everything the person you're talking with says. Having the confidence to politely disagree with someone shows that you respect her enough to be honest with her. Conversely, constantly agreeing with someone can make him think that you're trying to suck up to him.


In fact, friendly debates and disagreements can make for spirited, engaging conversations. Just ensure that you keep things lighthearted. Don't ever resort to low-blows like insults and personal jabs to prove your point. Remember, if you can't prove that you're right with pure logic, you might not be right!

, If you're having a really great time talking with someone, it can be tempting to bring up serious topics to hear what he thinks about them. To a certain extent, you'll want to resist this urge until you really know someone. Bringing up overly serious or emotionally charged topics with someone you don't know well can kill your conversation's momentum, making your interaction awkward or prompting an abrupt, forced change of subject. Below are just a few of the sorts of subjects you'll want to avoid when you're talking with a stranger or an acquaintance, rather than a close friend:


Emotional problems you're having
Relationship difficulties
Recent personal losses
Morbid subjects (death, genocide, etc.)
Overly raunchy subjects (off-color jokes, etc.)

, If you find yourself worried about an upcoming social interaction, remember that, no matter how intimidating she may be, the person you have to talk to is a human being, just like you! This person has hopes, dreams, fears, flaws, and everything in between, so don't get caught up thinking that she's perfect. This is especially important to remember when it comes to the conversational abilities of the person you're talking to — he may or may not be a great conversationalist, so if your conversation gets awkward, you don't necessarily have to blame yourself.


Remember: no matter how cool and collected someone seems when you're talking to her, at the end of the day, he still has to put on his pants in the morning one leg at a time. If someone seems intimidating to you, it can helpful to think about him in a less serious context (e.g., in his underwear, shopping for socks, watching TV with a bowl of chips on his stomach, etc.)

, In stressful social situations, this can be one of the hardest things to do, but it's easily one of the smartest choices you can make. Being relaxed makes almost everything about interacting with other people easier — you'll have a better sense of humor, conversation topics will arise naturally, it'll be less intimidating to approach people, and much more. If you have personal techniques or habits that you use to relax, applying these before a social situation that has you stressed out can be tremendously helpful.


Everyone's different, but some common techniques can help most people relax. For instance, many people find that spending a few minutes in meditation can make it much easier to relax. For others, exercise or listening to calming music may be the key.
For more information, see How to Relax.

