 Plan on each guest eating 10-15 wings if main course, or 5-7 wings if served alongside other food as an appetizer. These instructions are for 2 pounds of wings, which should comfortably serve four people, but do not hesitate to multiply or divide the recipe to fit your guest's needs.






;
, If frozen, thaw your chicken wings. You can thaw them by placing your chicken wings in the refrigerator overnight, or in a cold bowl of water on the kitchen counter for 4 hours.
 When thawed, use a sturdy knife or kitchen shears to cut the wing at each of the joints. This will result in three pieces. Discard the wings tip.









Use sterile techniques. When handling raw chicken you need to be clean. Wash your hands after handling raw meat. Bleach your cutting and cooking surfaces when done to prevent cross contamination. Do not allow any produce (or any other food items) to come in contact with the raw chicken, or surfaces that have touched raw chicken.
Alternatively, instead of discarding the wing tips, you can save them for making chicken stock.
 It is up to you, but many chiefs like the extra flavor that a good marinade can add to chicken wings. Common marinade sauces are "Honey Garlic Sauce" or "Hot Sauce", but feel free to try others. If you choose to marinade your wings. Place your chicken wings in a shallow container and submerge in your sauce of choice for 1-2 hours in the refrigerator.









Recipe for "Honey Garlic Sauce", enough for 2 pounds of chicken: 3/4 cups honey, 1 gloves garlic, 3 tablespoons soy sauce. Combine and mix in small bowl.

If you want to also use this marinade recipes also for your wing sauce at the end, double the recipe. Doubled "Honey Garlic Sauce" Recipe for 2 pounds of chicken: 1.5 cups honey, 2 gloves garlic, 6 tablespoons soy sauce. Combine and mix in small bowl; and split, save half for later "Sauce your wings" step.


Recipe for "Hot Sauce" Recipe, enough for 2 pounds of chicken: 1/4 cup hot sauce, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 clove garlic, 6 tablespoons melted butter. Combine and mix in small bowl.

If you want to also use this marinade recipes for your wing sauce at the end, double the recipes. Doubled "Hot Sauce" Recipe for 2 pounds of chicken: 1/2 cup hot sauce, 2 teaspoon salt, 2 clove garlic, 3/4 cup melted butter. Combine and mix in small bowl; and split, save half for later "Sauce your wings" step.


Note: Do not sauce you chicken wings in the same sauce, in the "Sauce your wings" step, that you used for marinating. If you do choose to use the same type of sauce for both the marinating and final saucing, make sure you aliquot the sauce out ahead of time. You should never apply to cooked chicken any sauce that has come in contact with raw chicken.
 It is a matter of personal taste whether you want to bread your wings. If you do choose to bread, below are two popular breading recipes.









Recipe for "Basic Breading", enough for 2 pounds of wings: Sift 2 cups of all purpose flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoon pepper, and 1 teaspoon garlic powder in a large bowl or plate. Remove your marinated wings from their sauce and dredge them in this flour mixture. Make sure to get both sides of your chicken wings, shake off the extra, and place on a new clean dish.
Recipe for "Buffalo Breading", enough for 2 pounds of wings: Sift 2 cups of all purpose flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon garlic powder, 1 teaspoon paprika, 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper in a large bowl or plate. Remove your marinated wings from their sauce and dredge them in this flour mixture. Make sure to get both sides of your chicken wings, shake off the extra, and place on a new clean dish.
For optimal flavor, after breading allow your wings to sit for 1-2 hours in the fridge before cooking

