 When it comes to spider identification, the first one you'll want to rule out (if you live in North America) is the brown recluse. This is the most dangerous spider in the US, and is found most often in the Southeast and Midwest.A brown recluse bite can cause infection, and medical attention is usually necessary. Here's how to know if the spider is a recluse:


Look for the tell-tale violin shape on its back. The brown recluse has a medium brown body and legs, with a slightly darker brown violin shape on the back.
Count the eyes; if there are six, it might be a recluse. The recluse's eyes are arranged in pairs, with one pair in front and a pair on either side.Analyze where you found the spider; if it's in a warm, dry place, like a shed or woodpile, it might be a recluse.
The brown recluse is known to be aggressive, rather than hanging back when it encounters someone.;
, Black widows are common in the Southern and Western states in the US. When they bite, they release a neurotoxin that causes pain and other severe effects, especially in children and the elderly.Here's what to look for:


These aptly-named spiders are a striking shiny black color, with a bright red hourglass shape on the abdomen.
Black widows commonly dwell in woodpiles and under eaves.
They have long legs that taper into points.
 This is the third major venomous spider in the US. It's commonly seen in the Pacific Northwest. It is not quite as dangerous as a brown recluse or black widow, but medical attention is still necessary when a bite occurs.


Hobo spiders are brown with chevron-shaped yellow markings.They make their webs in cracks, corners and holes, and can be found in woodpiles and other sheltered places.
 All spiders have a small amount of venom, but many spiders that look decidedly creepy won't actually cause a dangerous reaction when they bite. If you’re in North America and the spider you see can't clearly be identified as a brown recluse, black widow, or hobo spider, it probably won't cause you any harm.


In fact, having some spiders around is beneficial to the environment; they keep insect populations down so you don't have to use pesticides.
If you live outside of North America, consult one of several widely available guides to learn about the dangerous spiders in your locale.