 Your demeanor impacts your dogs in everyday life. If you’re running around bursting with energy, your dog might become excited, too. If you want to tame your dog, you need to stay cool and calm. The same applies when you are training your dog. He won’t get it right on the first try, nor maybe even the 10th. If you can stay calm, as an Alpha should, he’ll be more calm and more able to learn commands.Your dog will sense and associate unhappiness with training if you become frustrated or use a mean tone of voice.
Always reward your dog when he or she obeys the command. You can use verbal praise, food, or affection like a belly run or a pet.
Finally, you should not teach commands until you have bonded with your dog and he trusts you. And you should always praise your dog when he responds as you want.
 Begin in a quiet environment when teaching all commands so your dog isn’t distracted. Hold your dog’s leash (use one that is 6 feet long) in your right hand and position him on your left facing forward. Gently run your fingers along your dog’s spine to his hip joints and give a firm but gentle squeeze while saying, “Sit.” Push his hips down with your left hand and raise the leash with your right. Stretch out the word “sit” until he is sitting. When he sits, be enthusiastic and praise him. Repeat until your dog responds and then do the command without pushing down on his hips.


Once he’s mastered this, simply say, “Sit,” and don’t pull up on the leash.
If he’s not responding after several training sessions, give the command “Sit” and gently jerk the leash while you push down on his hip joints., With your dog on your left, hold the leash in your right hand, kneel on your left knee and say “Down” in a firm voice. While doing this, lift your dog’s two front paws slightly and pull them forward so he’s on the ground. Praise him after each repetition. Once he learns this, introduce the hand signal for lie down. Get him in the sit position, kneel on your left knee and extend the leash about 12” to the right of your dog. You don’t want slack in the leash. Then bring your hand – flat with your fingers closed and your palm down – above your dog’s eye level and slightly to the right of his head. Say “Down” as you lower your hand to the ground.


After this, combine the command and hand signal, moving further away from your dog each time until you’ve reached about 6 feet between the two of you., Place your dog in the sitting position on your left and say “Stay” in a firm voice. At the same time, quickly place your hand – flattened with your fingers closed – about 4” from his face. Don’t touch his face, only block his vision. Next pivot your right foot and step in front of your dog, extending the leash about 18” straight up so the leash and collar are both high on his neck. Praise him every time he remains in position.


After he’s got this down, practice by moving backward as you say the command. If he starts to move toward you, step toward him and raise the leash. Do this until he stays, and then continue to step further away., Place your dog in the sit position and stand facing him, with just a little slack in the leash. In an excited tone of voice, say, “Okay, , come!” If he doesn’t immediately come, tug the leash gently on the word “Okay.” When he comes to you, praise him. You can add a hand gesture by saying “Okay," moving your right hand up and swinging it around toward your left shoulder, and finishing with “come!”


You should only use your dog’s name with movement commands such as this., Position your dog in a sitting position on your left-hand side. Hold the leash firmly yet allow it to drape between you and your dog, who should be about 3 feet ahead of you. Begin walking and then say, “heel!” in a firm voice.


If your dog runs ahead, wait until the leash is fully stretched and then say “Heel!” in a loud, authoritative voice.
While doing this, make a sharp U-turn to the right and walk quickly in that direction.
If your dog is lagging behind, use words of encouragement to get him to pick up the pace or to start walking. If that doesn’t work, gently jerk the leash., If this isn’t working for you – or if your dog is aggressive – get a trainer to work with him. Ask how long they’ve been training, how many dogs they’ve trained, which breeds, etc. You can also go and sit in on a training class to see if it’s effective and if the trainer is using praise not punishment. Check out the Association of Professional Dog Trainers’ website by clicking here to find a trainer.

