 Cheesy kale chips are a great low-calorie, nutrient dense snack that doesn’t take much time to prepare. Simply tear fresh kale into large pieces and spread them out onto a baking sheet. Spray the kale lightly with olive oil and bake them at 350 degrees Fahrenheit until the kale becomes crispy. This should only take a few minutes.Once the kale chips are crispy and warm, sprinkle parmesan cheese over them.
Serve kale chips right out of the oven or store them in an airtight container for later.
 Pumpkin seeds can be purchased at the store, or you may even want to use the seeds you pull from your own autumn pumpkins. Add Chinese Five Spice powder to sesame oil, then toss your pumpkin seeds in the mixture. Once thoroughly coated, bake the pumpkin seeds at 350 degrees Fahrenheit until they become crispy.If you are using fresh pumpkin seeds, you may want to salt the pumpkin seeds before baking.
Pumpkin seeds will go stale if not stored in an airtight container.
 When you’re craving chips with a bit of kick, try making your own healthy alternative instead of heading down the potato chip aisle. Cut up corn tortillas into one inch triangles, then toss them in a mixture of two tablespoons of vegetable oil, one tablespoon of chili powder, a half teaspoon salt and a pinch of cayenne. Spread the chips out onto a baking sheet and bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit until they turn golden brown.It should take twenty to twenty-five minutes to bake each batch of chips.
Try dipping your chips in a healthy, organic salsa.
 Mix four teaspoons of brown sugar with a quarter teaspoon of salt, two teaspoons of Five Spice powder and a pinch of cayenne. Brush twenty wonton wrappers with vegetable oil, then sprinkle half the spice mixture. Flip the wrappers over and repeat. Bake the chips at 375 degrees Fahrenheit until they turn golden in color.It should take approximately ten minutes to bake your chips adequately.
Allow the chips to cool before serving.
 Granola is made up of two kinds of ingredients: wet ingredients and dry ones. Start by gathering raw rolled oats, almonds, cashews, flaxseeds, pumpkin pie spice and salt. These constitute the dry ingredients. The wet ingredients are an unsaturated fat such as olive oil or sunflower oil, honey, and egg whites. Combine the ingredients by mixing one part wet ingredients with six parts dry, then spread the mixture out onto a baking sheet.Bake the granola at 300 degrees for 45 to 60 minutes, moving the ingredients around on the pan every fifteen minutes with a wooden spoon.
You may want to add dry fruit after removing the mixture from the oven.
Allow to cool and then serve or store your granola in an airtight container.

