 Conquest for power for the wrong reasons, money or addictions that at the end harm others directly or indirectly. Details of the things to get rid of need not to be listed here for they are written in your heart. Avoid what you know you must avoid. Goku never needed money to be happy. All the things he needed were added to him as long as he was still being who he was.;
, Appreciate all the people around you and if you happen to encounter in your journey anybody asking for help. Do not hesitate to help. This is what allowed Goku to have thousands of friends and knowledge from unknown rich people to the poor and wise and gain something as rare as the flying nimbus which he won by helping a turtle.Bulma refused to help

, Do your thing always smiling unless you see someone depressed or in need of help.
 Such as an "infant" or an "animal". Just focus on what you are doing at that moment and try not to think of anything radical from it. This will allow you not to worry about tomorrow, later, the past or make up in your mind negative scenarios.  Goku at every moment, except when his friends were killed, had his mind clear as water. When the evil man tried to find a single negative thought in Goku's mind, he found none and lost.
 Most of the characters in the DragonBall series were once enemies of Goku such as Piccolo and Vegeta. However at the end they became his best friends and in return his enemies made Goku's life much more meaningful and happy to the point of them risking their lives to save Goku. Goku saw something worth saving in them and he saved it. The enemy that once tortured and killed Goku like nobody else did in the series risked his life for Goku and even took care of his family many times.
 Listen to others regardless who they are or what they say. You may learn something or you may miss something important. Goku always was humble to everyone even though he was the strongest person in the universe. This allowed Goku to gain an enormous amount of friends all over the world.
 For example trying to be rich for yourself, abuse of your current status, etc. If your motives at the end are evil, get rid of them. Goku's motives and personality automatically allowed him to have all the things he needed such as love, money and health. Even though he was the strongest man in the universe at many points, he used that power only to protect others which allowed him to keep his body for eternity as a reward in the afterlife.

