 Many spiritual people hold on to a notion that money or success are bad and therefore should be avoided. The problem with this is that it leads to never having enough or having continuous money struggles. Remember that there is a joy in wealth, a joy in financial security, a joy in being free from debt and a joy in owning. All of these things are spiritual in themselves and so can be thought highly of., Through delighting in the joy of others at receiving a service they truly need or find helpful in their daily lives, you realize the many ways in which you can offer a service to them. This, in turn, leads to financial success for you. By remaining sensible and joyful yourself, you make sure that you carry on making good decisions and handle people well. Through focusing on other people's joy, you can create a dynamic that is not entirely about the money.


Delight in doing yourself favours. Much success comes from simply delighting in doing yourself favours because you begin to identify things that would benefit you and be of use and value and have a constant energy to go and do them.
 A business that is not sustainable will not survive for long. Thus, by finding ways to reduce the wastefulness of your business, be it recycling or otherwise on a small and large scale, you create a sustainable environment within your business that can allow it to continue to flourish.


If you don't like accounting, get an accountant to handle that side of your business. Not liking that aspect of the business doesn't stop you from running it but you must have someone stay on top of it at all times.
 All of the persons relevant to your business, including customers, business partners, advertisers and so on, will not want to do business with you if you practice without any morals. Having good morals gives you strong disposition in making deals. In your business dealings, be considerate of the following:


Do not steal or allow yourself to be stolen from.
Do not cheat or allow yourself to be cheated.
Do not take negative advantage of others or allow others to take negative advantage of you.
Do not rip people off or allow yourself to be ripped off
Do not exploit others or allow yourself to be exploited.
Do not make promises you cannot keep.
 Keep contacts of other business owners, and begin to keep a book of contacts. These contacts allow you many opportunities and advice and allow you to do favours for others. By keeping good company in your personal life, you stay motivated and in sight of what is important.
 The more creative people there are in your business, the easier it will be to solve the problems. Most creative people find ways to turn problems into a solution.
 As well as making the business operational, make sure that it is for humans - do not neglect aesthetics, values or brilliance in the making. For instance, you may wish to have a calligrapher write meaningful poems onto the walls, displaying messages to all-comers that promote a joyful and sensitive environment. Or, have a graffiti artist paint a beautiful mural on the wall, symbolic of greatness.
 Be mindful of how you are treating them. A business works because because of the people involved. Through developing mindfulness of the people who work for you, interact with you and purchase from you, you become aware of many of the mistakes that people make and many of the struggles that they face. As a result, they are more included in the company and more willing to do what they can for it.
 Through inspiration comes motivation and energy. And from this comes a drive for success. If you are able to transfer the reasons and goals of the company successfully, they will want to work and do their best because they will enjoy it.
 Ignorance and business do not mix well. The more you pay attention, the less ignorant you become. Be conscious of your own suffering and stress so that you do not fall into disaster; it will never do to let yourself go until you break down and cannot work anymore.
 Find time for yourself to prevent burnout. If you do not take care of yourself, then your work will suffer also. A human being needs exercise and play as well as work in order to function. Make sure that you look after yourself well and find time for yourself.
 Through enhancing yourself, everything you do will be enhanced. enhance your perceptions, your intelligence and your capabilities, these are good places to start but make sure that you keep on doing so that you can reach your fullest potential.

