


For those of us who are incapable of understanding the difference between sarcasm and common jokes, they are clearly not up to the level that you are at. Sarcasm uses wit often coming across as the common joke. Common jokes are for those who are incapable of comprehending higher levels of intelligence. If someone were to begin with telling a knock-knock joke, begin to walk away because you are better than they are. So what have you learned? If someone says "just kidding" after a joke or begins to laugh at their own joke, clearly they do not understand how to use sarcasm in any shape or form.;
,


In our social world, it is easy to overhear conversations. Half of the time, people feel the need to talk about useful information that they think will interest the people that they are around. False. Really, the people listening to the conversation could care less. In this situation it is important to listen carefully because often, people set themselves up. In this case, it's time for action!

,


If you have followed step two, you are ready for step three. If you find that someone has just set themselves up for a so-called "burn," it's your chance to step in. This is your target. However, if you haven't been listening to a conversation, choose a target that looks the weakest, like the runt of the group. This way, it is easy to make fun of them or blurt out an inappropriate comment. The truth of the matter is, always go for the one that looks like it would be easy to put down.



Before you use a witty comment, think before you act. You don't want to look stupid because you already know that you are better than everyone else, so act like it. If you say something stupid, you will look like a fool, but if you say something that was well thought out, you will look like a champion.



Now here is your chance to really utilize your talent. When you say the comment have a set tone to your voice, like you could care less what the other person's response will be. Make sure your comment is bitter and ironic. This helps confuse the other person and make them feel uncomfortable.



Once the comment has been said, make sure you keep a straight face. If you start to smile, you obviously do not possess the ability that the rest of sarcastic people do. The importance of the face confuses the person hearing the remark who once again becomes uncomfortable in the situation.



If you just delivered the remark and you are caught in an awkward stare with the person, explain that it was a joke. If you have to explain it was a joke, you are definitely more intellectual than the other person (but you already knew that). It is necessary to explain the situation, especially when you can tell that the other person is getting upset.



Even if the other person did not understand your sarcasm, walk away from them knowing that you are better. Your confidence drives every move that you make. So self-satisfaction will improve your sarcastic experiences for the future.

