 Stories like Adam and Eve, Noah and the ark, Zacchaeus, or Jesus calming the storm are great places to start.
 Getting children excited is good so that way they will pay more attention and be excited to learn about Jesus. Sound enthusiastic when you ask, too., Making it interactive and fun will help them like the story even more.,  Don't go right for the deep Biblical message. Keep it simple and fun. Make it easy to understand and entertaining., Do not be monotone and read it and be done. Sound excited, ask questions, make funny jokes, and be silly. For example: When reading Noah's ark, you can make comments like, "How can all those animals fit into a boat?" or "Did the penguins sleep with the lions?", For example, after hearing about Noah's ark, your kids may ask, "Why did the flood come?" or "Why only two of each?" If they ask questions don't tell them in a sad voice of how terrible the world is, or how they are a sinner. Tell them those bad people got punished for sinning. This can then turn into a life lesson., This will help them remember the Bible and its meaning in their life better.

Know the verse well; memorize it yourself, print the letters in large clear letters, or print on a posterboard if you're instructing a whole class.
Explain the verse and use childlike terms. Walk the children through the verse in a fun way. Tie it to the lesson.
Teach it to them through motions (if possible) voice inflection, and or song. Say the verse to the children over and over. Use a variety of changes- whispering, loud voice, exaggerated motions, repeat after you. Remember this is the Word of God. This is the best gift you can give the children!

, This will put the Bible into context.

Make the craft yourself first. Complete an example before class (or your playtime with your own kids) to show them the end result.
If you're teaching a class, have all items needed and organized and ready for use. Show them which materials will be used and where they will be available.
Model to children step by step. Show them how each part of the craft is to come together, slowly! Ask questions along the way to make sure they understand. Communicate time frame and then let them go.
Communicate the purpose of the craft. Throughout the assembly using child like terms, remind them what the craft is suppose to help them remember about the lesson.
Praise them for every positive thing. f you're teaching a class, roam the room and look at each child’s work. Praise them for their talents and their crafts no matter what the finished product looks like.
 Keep reading more stories to them. Find ways to get making them excited to learn about Jesus and the Bible. Help them grow in their relationship with God.

Be patient and let them learn to love God on their own as they grow up. Don't not force it on them.
Encourage them in their faith and help to to learn how to read the Bible on their own. Help them learn to set special times to read it, once they're old enough.
Tell them how much Jesus loves them. This is the most important part. Tell them all about his love for them and how they are his master piece.
 There, they can find other young children learning the same Bible and all the behaviors of a Christian. Not only are they growing up in the church, but could be making long time Christian friends.