 Keep the conversation light and fun.


If in doubt, ask questions about her. Ask her where she's from, who's she on vacation with, and what sort of things she's seen since she got here. All of these questions can lead to positive conversations.
 If you're out on vacation, there should be a wide range of activities available to you. Whether it's swimming, hiking, partying or seeing a show, you should keep the activities on-the-go and exciting.


When one activity ends, start up another. This will show the girl that you are fun and spontaneous.
 If you're looking to meet a woman abroad, you should take advantage of this excitement. This is especially true if the woman is out vacationing herself. While you interact with her, don't hesitate or be afraid of potentially making a fool of yourself. Because you may only know this girl for a short amount of time, there are far fewer repercussions than if you were approaching someone domestically.
 You can just as easily share these things with someone you just recently met. Whether it's going to a resort club, taking a long swim or watching a tropical sunset together, the girl will associate positive feelings with you as she shares worthwhile experiences with you.
 Here are some of the things you should keep an eye out for if you're trying to figure out if she's interested:


If she's messaging you frequently throughout the vacation, it's a good sign that she's interested in seeing more of you.
She's likely interested in pursuing things with you if she singles you out in a crowd, or spends more time with you than the party she originally came on vacation with.
Typical body language signs of attraction, like twirling hair and sustained eye contact, should also be taken into account in this instance, although you should consider potential differences in culture. Women from certain cultures will manifest their attraction in more subtle ways than what you're used to dealing with.
 Although you shouldn't jump in the second you meet a girl, you shouldn't wait to make your feelings and intentions known to her. If you feel you've arrived at an appropriate time, jump on the chance and see what happens.


If it turns out that the girl isn't interested in you, you shouldn't take it to heart. Vacation romances seldom work out as it is, and any pain you feel will be lessened by the time you get back home.
 Although part of this is the impression that someone won't be judged if she's away from the people she knows, it's still paramount that you approach any potential sexual encounter with safety in mind. Failing to do so could result in sexually transmitted diseases or even pregnancy.

