 The AKC marketplace provides info for breeders who do not have litters available right now but will in the future. The breeder profile gives you information about the breeder so you can determine if you would like a puppy from the breeder.The profile provides a breeder or kennel name, a location, and a phone number.
You can also fill out a form on the breeder profile containing your contact information and a message stating you would like to be discuss buying a dog when the breeder has a new litter.
 Almost every dog breed that can be AKC certified has their own parent organization, such as the Dachshund Club of America, Inc. or the United States Neapolitan Mastiff Club. These clubs are dedicated to helping the owners of specific breeds and showcasing respectable breeders. Visit the parent organization of the breed you are interested in and find their list of approved breeders.If you cannot find breeders on the parent club website, contact the parent club. Speaking to someone can help you find breeders.
 The American Kennel Club provides a list of breeder referral officers. These people are located in your area and may be able to provide you with information on breeders who specialize in the breed you want.You just have to select which breed you are interested in and your state. The search engine will provide you with a list of breeders who you can contact for information.
Be aware these breeders do not necessarily specialize in the breed you want. They may refer you to a different breeder.
 The AKC also provides a list of breed-specific rescue organizations. These organizations may have puppies along with older dogs who have been given up, found, or rescued and are in need of a home.The rescues are listed in alphabetical order by breed. Some breeds have multiple breed rescues you can consult.
 There are other websites, like PuppyFind where breeders place ads for their puppies. They list the sex, age, price, and additional information. Many of the dogs on these websites are listed as AKC registerable.Be careful buying dogs off websites. You should always see the dog before you buy it.
 Before you buy from a breeder, you should make sure you are buying from a reputable breeder. Your breeder should do all medical checkups recommended by the AKC, and they should provide all documentation of those tests upon request. The puppies should be brought up in a clean, nurturing environment, and you should be allowed to visit the mother and where the puppies live.You should make sure the breeders can provide proper documentation on the following:


All DNA tests that are recommended by the AKC.
All genetics certification to show the particular line is free of genetic disorders.
Proof of Purchase in case you decide to purchase from that breeder.
Documentation of vaccines and shots, and of spaying/neutering if applicable.
AKC registration papers, if you decide you want to register your new dog.

