 Although an adult cat is in many ways easier than a kitten, there is nothing that beats the level of playfulness and entertainment value offered by a new kitten. Tumbling, rollicking, silly kittens may offer you and your family hours of entertainment.If you decide on a kitten, remember that they should be between nine and twelve weeks of age before you adopt them. In order to socialize properly, kittens need lots of time with their mother.;
, When you buy or adopt an adult cat, what you see on day one is more or less the cat you will end up with. In contrast, kittens may change in any number of ways, such as hair color, temperament and level of sociability. With an adult cat, you at least know what you are getting. On the other hand, with a kitten, you have a chance to witness and help shape their development and personality., Kittens can be playfully annoying. They often knock over cups of juice or wine and otherwise make a mess. Although kittens can be adorable, this kind of behavior can get really annoying. On the other hand, an adult cat will be more calm and collected., If you take a look at your home from a kitten’s perspective, you may notice all kinds of things that could hurt them, such as electrical cords. You may also notice things they could easily break, such as fragile pots. If the thought of kitten-proofing your home is formidable, you may want to get an adult cat instead., If everyone in your family is away from home during the day, it may be difficult to devote enough time and energy towards training a kitten. As such, an adult cat may be a better choice if you are a working family., By pairing a kitten with your adult cat, your adult cat may feel less threatened by the new pet in your home. Whereas adult cats can get quite threatened and territorial with the introduction of a new adult cat into the household, they are often more accepting of kittens, who are less of a threat.If you really want a second adult cat, choose a second adult cat that is very laid back and similar in personality and physical stature., Toddlers tend to be a bit hard on kittens, often grabbing their tale or fur in a rough manner. In this sense, it might make more sense to get an adult cat. Regardless of your decision, you should teach your toddler how to safely and respectfully play with the cat or kitten.If you have children and want a kitten, you can train your kids to interact in a respectful manner with the kitten.
 There are few better ways of spending your time than with a kitten, whose love and affection will continue to pay dividends for many years to come.It is important to keep in mind that kittens are at a crucial stage of learning that will shape their entire adult lives. As such, you need to devote time to teaching your new kitten how to be well-behaved and sociable around other animals and humans in your home.
 Your schedule may be a factor in this decision, since adult cats require less of a time commitment. If you are very busy at work or with other personal commitments, an adult cat may be a wise choice., Veterinary care can be expensive for the first year, if you choose a kitten. On the other hand, if you choose an adult cat, they may have their vaccinations done and already be declawed. If it is an older cat, however, veterinary costs could get expensive.Kittens need several vaccinations and examinations during their first year, such as fecal exams and calicivirus vaccinations.If you get a kitten, consider the expensive first-year veterinary costs, which range from $491, on the low end, to $3,125, on the high end.If you get an adult cat, yearly veterinary costs range from $310, on the low end, to $1,169, on the high end.