 If you are playing at a casino, this step will help you determine if there are any biases. Some wheels may be more likely to land on odd numbers, for example, than others. Take a look at the electronic board above it, too.


Observe casino game workers if they are the ones spinning the wheel. The worker may have been playing the game for so long that he or she spins the wheel with the same force every time, resulting in a bias.
 This will help you get a feel for the game, increase your confidence, and determine what works and what doesn't. You can also talk to the dealer, think about how much you'd like to wager, and take a moment to study other players' strategies.
 The American Roulette wheel has an extra slot, 00, which slightly decreases the odds of winning. If you are given both options, choose European Roulette to increase your likelihood of winning.


The house edge on a European wheel is on 2.63%.With the American wheel, it's twice that.
 The last thing you want is to give over your money to some scam. Make sure the site is reputable, associated with a reputable casino, and always, always, always, publishes their payout. There are too many untrustworthy sites out there to just take your chances.


Also, make sure they have a random number generator. There are sites that rig the computer system against you. If you can verify this with others, do so.
 When it comes to roulette and any other gambling game, you should only bet an amount that you know you can afford to lose. Things can get out of hand quickly, especially with a game that goes so fast.


Once you have determined how much money you are willing to lose, stick to that amount and don't be tempted to bet any more. While this may be easier said than done, some ways you can help control temptation is to limit the amount of alcohol you consume, write the amount down on a piece of paper to hold yourself more accountable, and ask a friend to keep tabs on you.
 If you start off betting $100 and end up with $150, then you should withdraw your profit ($50) and keep it separate. Continue playing with the same $100, and that way, the maximum loss you can have is $50. The more you win and withdraw your money, the more likely it is that you will at least break even, if not make a profit.
 Sure, the profits are less grand, but if you keep your bets to red/black, high/low, or odd/even, you have a much better chance of not losing your money. The return is only 1:1, but the odds of the wheel being friendly to you are much better.


The house edge remains the same, but your odds of winning are just slightly under 50% (because of the 0 or 00). Obviously, the fewer numbers you bet on, the lower your chances; however, the house edge on 00-0-1-2-3 (first five) is the worst of all possibilities (coming it at 7.89%).So clearly, don't bet 5 numbers.


Two outside bets works as well. For example, red and odd -- that way you have most of your numbers covered and some covered twice.
 If you are betting on black versus red or odd versus even, then try the following strategy: each time you lose, double up the amount that you bet the first time and then bet on the same color until you win. This is called the Martingale Strategy.


For example, let's say you bet $5 on red and it lands on black. On your next turn, bet $10 on red so that you can win your money back and make a profit. If it lands on black again, double your amount again, betting $20 on red. Continue doing this until the wheel lands on red (which it inevitably will), to win your losses back and gain a profit.
Start off by betting the minimum amount that your table allows. Remember that some tables have a maximum amount you can bet, meaning you may reach the maximum before you see a win.
This strategy requires that you have enough money to be able to afford doubling up each time.
 This betting system is the same as the Martingale Strategy, but instead of doubling up, the player doubles up and adds another unit. The "unit" is whatever bet you started off with.
 This system involves betting $200 total, distributed as follows: $140 on the high numbers (19-36), $50 on the six numbers (13-18), and $10 on zero. This increases your likelihood of winning by spreading out your bets.


If the number is between 19 and 36, you will have an $80 profit; if the number is between 13 and 18, you will have a $100 profit, and if the number is zero, then you will have a $160 profit.
The only way to lose is if a number between 1 and 12 comes up, which means a loss of $200, in which case you may employ the Martingale Strategy for losses.
 This is generally only applied European wheels -- and even then only sometimes. It's a rule that brings down the house edge to 1.35% on even money bets. Here's how it works:


Let's say you bet on black. If the ball lands on zero (it must land on zero), the house keeps your $10 and the ball spins again. If it lands on black, you get your $10 back. You don't win anything, but you don't lose your $10!

