 Distract your opponent with your wardrobe. If it’s sunny out, wear bright, reflective clothing and/or jewelry that will catch the sun when you stand in your opponent’s line of sight. If it’s raining or seems like it might start to, bring an umbrella along and “unconsciously” tap it on the ground or against your thigh while they putt. If it’s windy, wear loose clothes that flap excessively.


Official games and tournaments may have dress codes.Dress within these limits as best as you can.
 Keep your own cellphone on during the game. Have your opponent’s number ready to dial. As they line up a critical shot, wait for them to swing. As soon as they draw up their backswing, “accidentally butt-dial" them to throw them off.In an official game, all cellphones must be turned off.If you have a willing partner-in-crime, have them call your opponent during the game in case they left theirs on.
 Keep plenty of change and/or keys in your pocket. Jostle them around “absently” as your opponent tees off or putts.Sniff, sneeze, or cough when they swing. Act startled by an imaginary bee. Be strategic about when you do this to avoid accusations.If the game is supervised by a judge or referee, make a show of trying your best to not distract your opponent. Fake a few sneezes here and there and mention allergies to establish credibility. When it is your opponent’s turn to play, stay within their line of sight and pretend to fight down a sneeze. Create an air of suspense that will take their mind off their own game.
 Utilize the party behind you, who has to wait for you and your opponent to finish each hole before they can advance.Slow your own game down as much as possible so the other party has plenty of time to finish the hole behind you. Then comment to your opponent how people are waiting for the two of you to finish up. Make your opponent feel as though the onus is on them to hurry up and free the hole for the next party.


According to strict rules, the first player to tee off at any given hole has 90 seconds to do it once they reach it. Use all 90 seconds to give the next party more time to catch up.

