 Vitamin supplements, as you may have guessed, are meant provide any vitamins and minerals that are lacking in your diet. Track what you eat to see if there are specific vitamins and minerals lacking in your diet, and look for supplements that include those nutrients.


If you are vegetarian or vegan, for instance, some key nutrients like vitamin B12 are mostly found in animal products. In this case, you will want to take vegan B12 supplements. It may be helpful to track what you eat for a week, then bring this information to a dietitian to assess what vitamins you might need to supplement.;
, If you have an existing medical condition, such as chronic muscle pain, acne, depression, high blood pressure, and so on, you may want to consider vitamins that have been known to help alleviate the symptoms of your condition.


While not a cure for depression, studies have shown that vitamin C can have mood-elevating effects. Vitamin D can be a useful supplement for those with muscle pain. Vitamin D and calcium can be used to help treat osteoporosis. , Vitamin D is an essential nutrient that we get from many foods as well as exposure to the sun. Being exposed to the sun for as little as 10 minutes is thought to prevent deficiency, but if you rarely or never get sun exposure, taking vitamin D supplements can help you maintain healthy levels of this important nutrient. , Ask your doctor if a vitamin supplement is right for you. Vitamins can be purchased online or in most pharmacies without a prescription, but your doctor will be able to help you decide which, if any, supplements best suit your health needs.


Never start a supplement without talking to your doctor first, especially if you are taking other medications.
 While standard multivitamins, taken as instructed, are considered to have health benefits, you may want to consider a whole food vitamin. Standard multivitamins contain several isolated and processed ingredients that are selected by the manufacturer. Whole food multivitamins, on the other hand, are derived naturally from whole foods, and are considered a healthier way to get vital nutrients if you aren’t getting these nutrients from your diet. Consider whole food multivitamins specialized for your gender or age.
Specialized formulas may include women’s formulas, men’s formulas, senior formulas, and prenatal formulas.
 Nutrients like Vitamin A and Calcium are most often found in animal products, such as meat, dairy, and fish oils. If you are vegan or vegetarian, many stores and websites sell supplements specifically targeted towards vegans and vegetarians.
 This is where multivitamins come in handy. If you find you need several nutrients, you will find it’s more convenient (and less expensive!) to take a whole food multivitamin rather than taking several individual vitamins.
 After you have determined what vitamins and nutrients you need, carefully read the label on the package to identify what nutrients are included and how much of those nutrients you get with each serving. Look at the Daily Value (DV) percentages on the label, and choose a supplement that has a 100% DV for most of the nutrients.


Avoid supplements that contain more than 100% DV, as some nutrients, taken in large doses, can be dangerous to your health over time. Avoid supplements that contain dangerous ingredients such as artificial coloring, hydrogenated oils, talc, or titanium dioxide. , Unfortunately, vitamins and supplements are not regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), so they don’t need FDA approval before being sold to consumers; however, supplements with a “USP Verified” label have been inspected by the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention and ensures the supplement:Contains the ingredients listed on the label, in the declared strength and amounts
Is made according to FDA and USP Good Manufacturing Practices, using sanitary and well-controlled processes

, You can find most vitamins in a variety of forms. Some pills may be very large, so if you’re the type who doesn’t like to swallow pills, consider chewable or gummy vitamins. You can also consider taking vitamins in powder form — you just mix the powder with a drink.
 Pharmacies and reputable vitamin shops will have quality products and professionals available to help you with your decision. There are also hundreds of websites where you can purchase vitamins, but it can be very difficult to verify the quality of these products.
 Use common sense when checking out supplements that seem too good to be true. Supplements that make outrageous claims about weight loss or boosts in energy probably can’t support those claims. Remember, these claims do not have to be verified by the FDA. Be wary of supplements that offer a “quick fix” or money-back guarantee.
 Some vitamins are taken once a week, while others are taken multiple times per day. Read the labels on your vitamins to find out when you should take them.


You may want to set a reminder on your phone or computer to make sure you take the vitamins at correct time.
 Follow the dosage instructions on the vitamin’s label. It is important not to take more than recommended. Your vitamins will also have suggestions on how best to take them, whether as soon as you wake up, on a full stomach, or with a glass of water. Follow these instructions for best results.


Keep in mind it is possible to overdose on certain vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins, such as vitamins A, D, E, and K, are stored in your body and excess is not eliminated when you urinate, as with water-soluble vitamins. This means it is possible to, over time, have dangerous levels of these vitamins in your body, leading to toxicity.
 If you take the vitamins every morning, consider keeping them on a nightstand or in the bathroom. If you take them during the day, you may want to keep them in your purse or bag.


Make taking your vitamins a habit. Try taking them before brushing your teeth at night or making coffee in the morning, so the task blends into these daily rituals.

