 It would be a good idea to start a rough draft to begin with so you can get all your ideas scribbled down so none of your ideas slip away from you. That will help with your organization when you start to write.
 Write down what your inspirations are and keep a journal of your thoughts. It will help you get to where you are used to writing all the time.
 This will help you decide what you want to do your story on. Whether it's action, drama, romance, fantasy, biographies, or nonfiction, I'm sure you will find the right genre for you.
 Something happens or you think of something that could play apart in your story but you can't write it down. This is why you should carry a journal and pencil with you. That will help you get more material for the start of your story when you begin to write it.
 Every story needs a plot and characters as well as the main character. This is where your imagination plays a part. You need structure after you do your rough draft and creating your characters in the beginning will let you know what direction to go in.
 Let the story write itself. If you start to stress over it, walk away and cool off. If you write when you're stuck or upset, it could vary the outcome. Don't get me wrong; some good stories are written with varied emotions but when you first start your story, you want to play it out easy and gradually alter the emotion.
 Play it like a movie so you can visualize the detail so when you begin to start your story you can describe the detail like you saw it in your head.
 Get your inspirations, creativity, imaginations and scribbled on journal paper and begin to write. Let the words go where they go, remember you can always go back and change it; it's not set in stone, so don't be afraid to take risks. After you start your story and put all your ideas in story format, read it!! After you have conquered the beginning of your story you can add on to it. After you get the hang of that, try to put a little more structure and thought into your story through the rest of it.

