 Make sure you don't tear it from one corner to the opposite corner (thereby making a triangle). Fold it as if you were making a paper-styled greeting card.;
,,


This article will come back to point totaling (another column later).
 Keep all these items on their own separate line.



As long as you realize that the top 6 items are only a total of total amount of successful dice that fit the category, write down "Multiply by (x-number written on line) for each number of dice thrown" for each line. The official scorecards say "Count and only 1s(they call them Aces), 2s, 3s, and so-forth).
Bonuses for the total amount of points adds 35 points to the score at the end. Remind yourself of this fact, and write an area after the 1-6's that have totals for upper section and the bonus points (which, according to an official scorecard, says If score is 63 or over, and on next column write "Score 35".
Add another line for the grand total of the top portion of the page.
The special rolls area below has special rules.

3-of a Kind is the total number of points scored on all dice. Write down this information.
4-of a Kind is (again) the total number of points scored on all dice. Write down this information too.
Full House has a flat-rate score of 25 points, so write down "Score of 25" as a reminder.
Small-straights, which are a sequence of 4 successive dice, have a flat-rate score of 30, so write down "Score of 30" as a reminder.
Large-straights, which are a sequence of 5 successive dice, have a flat-rate score of 40, so write down "Score of 40" as a reminder.
Yahtzee, the best rolls in the game, have a flat-rate score of 50, and can be achieved when all 5 dice display the same exact number of each and every one of them, so write down "Score of 50" as a reminder.
Chance is the sum/total of all dice, so leave the next column blank.
You can also flip the placement for Yahtzee and Chance around, and add Yahtzee bonuses, if you feel you might be able to get more than one Yahtzee (a rare occurrence for most players). Each extra Yahtzee bonus has a score of 100 per Yahtzee Bonus earned. Write down this scoring point total as a reminder, and create a space for amount of checkmarks you might earn. Realize that each checkmark though corresponds to one and only one extra bonus item



, Record your scores in each successive column.
