 In our society, it's tempting to just throw out items when they break. However, if you're trying to reduce waste, try to repair the items instead. That way, you aren't just throwing it in the landfill. For instance, if the sole comes off your boot, take it to a cobbler instead of just throwing it out. If your television has a problem, get it repaired instead of going out to buy a new one. As an added bonus, repairs are usually cheaper than buying a new item., Instead of purchasing throwaway items like paper plates, plastic zip top bags, and one-time use batteries, opt for reusable items. Depend on washable plates and reusable containers and bags. Invest in rechargeable batteries so you're not always throwing them away. As an added bonus, this tip will save you money in the long term., Plastic grocery bags seem to multiply, particularly if you go shopping often. Of course, you may reuse some of them in your house, but you likely throw away a good number, too. The best solution is to bring reusable cloth grocery bags with you to the store. In addition to being reusable, they hold more than plastic bags, and they are less likely to bust on you.Store your canvas bags in your car or leave them hanging right beside your door as a reminder to use them.
 If you're like most people, you receive a large amount of mail that goes directly into the trash. Take steps to reduce that mail. You can call catalog companies and ask to be taken off the list, for instance, if you're not interested in seeing the catalog.You can also use websites like https://www.catalogchoice.org/ and https://dmachoice.thedma.org/ to cancel junk mail. The site https://www.optoutprescreen.com/?rf=t will let you opt out of credit card offers.
 In a consumerist society, you may feel the need to buy, buy, buy. However, the next time you're eyeing that new thing you want to buy, step back and ask yourself, "Do I really need this?" More often than not, the answer will be, "No."Before you buy, think about if you own something that could serve the same purpose. You may be able to repurpose something you already have to fill a need.
It also helps to avoid temptation by taking fewer trips to the store.
 When you're not using something anymore, try to find a place to donate it. Furniture, clothes, and other household items can be donated to thrift stores. Old books and magazines can be donated to libraries or schools. Donating items will help you reduce the trash you produce., If you hate to just give something away (after all, you paid good money for it), consider holding a yard sale instead. You likely won't pull in the big bucks, but you can make a little cash and clean out items from your house at the same time. Plus, you can donate anything you have leftover.Advertise your yard sale online or in the newspaper to increase attendance.
Spring and early summer, when it’s warm but not too hot, are excellent seasons for yard sales.