 You should get people who are very trustworthy, reliable, and quiet, but are stealthy, sneaky and skilled. You may want to recruit your friends, and people you know at school, or in your neighborhood. You can gather members before or after you start making the actual club, whichever you want. Just remember to be patient with any loud members. Remember to get people who will help you such as someone who knows how to use the computer well or a short person so they can fit into small spaces, people who have sharp eyes and smart.


Tech spy






Be sure that the people who have joined tell no-one, not even their moms, and make sure they follow all the rules.;
,: S.A.C., Secret Agency of Children) Make it something catchy and have it end with something cool like S.S. (Spy Squad)., Remember that you can have more than one of these positions in your club. It's good to have at least five members in your group for safety, fun and success.

Other positions you might consider are:


The Head Spy-the Head Spy controls the whole entire club and can change anything they want, whenever they want. This person is the most powerful person in the club.
The Vice Spy-whenever the Head Spy is not there (maybe he/she is sick), the Vice Spy takes his/her place.
The Computer Spy-the computer spy finds information, maps, and other things on the Internet, and sends the information to the head spy.
The Conclusion Spy-The rest of the spies give all their information to the Conclusion Spy, and the Conclusion Spy tries to solve whatever case you are working on with all the information he or she has.
The Regular Spy-the Regular Spy does a lot of the spying. He/she must be stealthy and must blend in easily, and also must be able to befriend even the worst people you could meet.
The Photo Spy-the person who take the photos, videos, and recording. They gather information and give it to the conclusion spy.
Trainee Spy-Trainees are simply people who are being trained to spy on people. The Head and the Vice Spy usually are the ones training a trainee.
The Secretary-This should be someone everyone knows so they can come to them and you have a case!
The Wheel Artist-This member has all of the transportation: It would be cool if they had a car, but a fleet of bicycles, scooters, or skateboards will do well too!






Spy Dogs-Spy Dogs are well-trained dogs that can be allies of the tracker: You can even put a tiny spy camera on their collar!







, or let them make their own. If they can make their own, you can give them guidelines to follow, like if your club is called The Shadows, you could make everyone have 'shadow' in their name (Shadow Dragon, Shadow Hawk, Shadow Bomber, etc.).
 You could all wear rings of a certain style to show your membership, with other information scratched into the ring band, or have bracelets that can easily be hidden under a sleeve.
, It is a good idea to have multiple headquarters, like an out-of-the-way spot at school, and maybe a secret area at each spy's hive where you can all meet if you are at their hive.

Also, you can find a place that is a fair distance from everybody's hive so that no one has to drive there. The clubhouse is where you should make all your meetings and stick special secret papers to the wall so that everyone in the club knows what's happening around the club.
,, (Uniforms can make you stand out and that is not usually desired with a spy club).

