 She is very casual, which means she is not into high fashion or trends.


Shirts: We usually see her wearing spaghetti straps with a sweater or jacket on top and long sleeved blouses. Her usual colours are dark blue, purple, brown, dark green, dark red, black, etc. She's not big on bright colours. Although in the episode where she's kidnapped by Trevor she is wearing a light pink sweater and a white tank top underneath.
Pants: Jeans, black or brown pants, sweatpants (only at home)
Shoes: In almost every episode Elena is wearing Converse shoes. You don not have to wear Converse everyday; you can switch from Converse to Vans, or even sandals. But remember: it's all about being like Elena.
Dresses: Buy pretty and fancy dresses. Nothing that shows too much, not too long either. Make it a little sexy but still classy. Elena is never seen showing her parts to everyone.;
, Elena has clear skin and medium coverage makeup. Not too little but not too much. Search for tutorials on YouTube based on Elena's makeup and wear the one that you like and suits you the best. For clean skin try washing your face every morning and every night with a gentle soap or face cleanser, but be careful not to dry your face too much.


Hair: Elena's hair is dark brown and sleek parted near the middle. If you have a lighter colour try dying it dark brown or you can just leave it natural. She has brown eyes.
 Elena wakes up every morning at 6:45am. She isn't lazy and gets things done straight away!

, Elena is adopted but she loved her parents before they died. She cared about them and also her brother Jeremy. She looks out for her friends Bonnie and Caroline and she's willing to die for them. She's nice and warm but strong, brave and determined when she has to. Never mean or obnoxious. She never tries to be the center of attention or make people feel bad in any way. She dislikes her real parents. She loves her boyfriend Damon and has a friendship with his brother Stefan,even though he's her ex., too.
 Elena met Damon the day her parents died but as he compelled her to forget this and the fact that he told Elena that he loves her, but she becomes a vampire and gets those memories back. Soon, they start dating and they had the cutest little hate love relationship ever! Damon is seen as rude and standoffish to everyone but Elena, she sees the good in him and she makes him a better person and he brings out the wild side in her, and he's willing to do anything to protect her and keep you safe from any harm. Don't settle for anything less than that. Never go out of your comfort zone or flirt with any other guy. Whether she was with Stefan or with Damon, #TeamDelenaEndgame!, she always remained completely faithful to her significant other so never go out of your way to cheat on your partner.
 Elena keeps a journal where she writes everything that happens in her life. She writes constantly, so write in your journal even if you're life is not as interesting. Try to get a light green journal but if you can't find one, any colour would be fine.
 As we see in almost every episode Elena is always surrounded by drama. She has a badass vampire boyfriend, her boyfriend's brother is her ex., her best friend is a witch and her other close friend is a vampire. Tyler, who she has known her, her entire life, is a werewolf. Be serious when you have to. Be very down-to-earth, not plastic or shallow. Also, Elena smiles and laughs very naturally - but it's not overdone to appear fake.
 She's always helping around in her community events like the Founders Party, school dances, etc.
 She has a big round silver necklace that Stefan gave her. You can buy cheap but good quality necklaces that look exactly like her necklace on eBay. Keep your cell phone at all times.
 If you are not as fit as she is, don't worry. Simply start having an exercise plan. Read the article How To Get Fit As a Teenager for more details.

