 Most modern electric waffle irons come with nonstick plates, and they have to be cleaned without immersing the appliance in water. You definitely don't want to burn yourself trying to clean a piping hot waffle iron. Instead, unplug it before enjoying your waffle.By the time you're finished and ready to clean, it should be cool.;
, If you have a nonstick waffle iron, you may not have used any oil. If you did, however, there maybe little puddles of grease. You can dab these up with a dry paper towel. It may be helpful to fold the paper towel into a point, so that you can push it between the ridges of the iron., Often times, there will be bits of dried batter stuck within the ridges, or even dripping over the sides if you filled the iron generously. Do a once over, brushing away those big pieces with a soft-bristled kitchen brush.It's important that the bristles really are soft, because you don't want to risk scratching the nonstick surface.
 If there is a lot of batter dried to the iron, it can be extremely annoying to loosen and scrape each one, bit by bit. Instead, soften all the batter up first. Grab a dish towel or rag and soak it with hot water from the sink. Ring it out a bit so that it isn't dripping, but still saturated. Place it on the waffle iron, and close it. Let it sit for a few minutes, so that the heat and moisture from the rag loosens up those pesky crumbs., These rubber kitchen utensils might as well have been made for cleaning a waffle iron, because they're ideal.The rubber won't scratch the surface, and it's thin and malleable enough to get in between the rows of the waffle iron. Once the dried batter has been softened by the wet rag, you should be able to use your rubber spatula to scrape the rest of the batter off.


You can also use a sponge to gently remove the loosened batter. Make sure you purchase one that is specifically for nonstick surfaces.
 Make sure that your cloth is damp, not wet.It's important that you don't accidentally get water into the electrical parts of the iron, which could cause you to get shocked next time you turn it on, or break the iron altogether. Clean everything that has batter on it, or looks dirty.

