 Purchase a rustic white bread or sourdough bread. If your bread came in a loaf, cutting it into slices first will make cutting it into cubes easier. Stack up three to four slices of bread and cut the bread into half-inch (1.27 centimeter) strips, then cut your strips into half-inch (1.27 centimeter) cubes.Using a sharp serrated knife is best when cutting bread.;
, As an alternative to toasting, you can also leave out your cubes of bread for a day so that they become hard.If you'd rather use fresh bread, toasting your bread will give you a similar effect and harden your bread cubes.
 While your bread is baking, take the time to prepare the remainder of your ingredients. Mince up your garlic, dice your celery and chop up your onions. These vegetables will go into your stuffing and add flavor to it.
 Melt butter under medium heat and throw in your vegetables. Wait for them to soften, and continue cooking them in a pan for 10 minutes. Once they are soft, add your sage and continue cooking for another 2 minutes.If you are using mushrooms, you can cook them in when you start cooking in the rest of your vegetables.
 Beat your eggs until they are smooth and combine it with your chicken or vegetable stock. Continue mixing it together and add your pepper and nuts or dried fruit if you are using them.
 In a large bowl, combine the stock and egg mixture with your toasted bread and cooked vegetables. Stir the mixture with a large spatula and fold all the ingredients together., Spoon your mixture into the basin for the slow cooker. Remember to grease or spray the inside of your slow cooker so that your stuffing does not become stuck on the sides. Once you've transferred the mixture, your stuffing is ready to be cooked.
 Set your slow cooker to low with the lid on. Continue to check on your stuffing every hour so to make sure that it's not burning or becoming stuck to the sides.Don't stir or fold your stuffing until it is done. If done correctly, the stuffing on the sides and bottom of your slow cooker should be crispy while the middle should be soft and flavorful.
 If you want to make a vegetarian stuffing, you can replace your eggs with 1/4 cups (56.7 g) of melted butter. Instead of using chicken stock, replace it with vegetable stock. If you'd like to make your stuffing vegan, you could use a vegan butter and bread.