 It’s very important that you can maintain a civil and cordial relationship with your ex. If you never speak, it will be easier for your child to take advantage of the situation and play you off against each other. It can be difficult, especially immediately after an acrimonious divorce, but you have to put your children first. It may be easiest to keep things professional, with open lines of communication, but clear limits on your interactions.


Just being polite to each other can make a difference and will affect how your child experiences the divorce.
Try to take the emotion out of your encounters and keep it business-like.
If you find talking face-to-face or over the phone difficult, email and text messages can be good ways to keep the lines of communication open.
If you are respectful, you will encourage your ex to treat you in the same way.
Try to think more in terms of making requests than making demands., It’s important that you don’t end up using your child as go between, messenger, or even a peacemaker, between you and your ex. If there is a disagreement between you, or communication breaks downs, remember it is your responsibility to sort it out. You should keep your issues away from your kids, or else you will be putting your children into the centre of their parent’s conflict.Using your child as a go between, puts him in a difficult and pressurised situation.
It also enables him to more easily play you off against one another.
 Parenting after divorce requires clear communication and a clear understanding. It also demands some flexibility and patience from everybody involved. Maybe you have an arrangement in place that falls through with very little notice, or your ex is late to pick up your child and you miss an appointment.Keep your calm, and don’t criticise your ex in front of your child. This will encourage them to think that it’s okay to get between you.Try to understand these things will happen to both of you at different times, so take it on the chin.
Aim to create an atmosphere of compromise and cooperation between you and your ex. This will radiate down to your child.
 It’s important to maintain consistency in the parenting of both you and your ex in certain areas. Doing this will help establish a clearer framework of behaviour and your kids will better understand the expectations. If rules are clear and consistent there is less possibility for your children to try to take advantage of the divorce, or complain of unfair treatment form parent compared to the other.Try to have clear understand of the rules and how they will be enforced by each parent. Things such as homework, curfews, and chores should be consistent across both houses.
If rules are broken, you need to similar responses from each parent. You can connect the two houses in certain instances.
For example, if your child has TV lost his privileges at his father’s house, you can follow through with this when he returns to your house.
You should try to have consistency in daily schedules, such as mealtimes and bedtimes. Having regular daily patterns can help your child adjust to the upheaval more easily., When you are splitting custody your child will find himself suddenly torn between two homes, so it’s important that you give him time and space to adjust to the new arrangements. There may be times when he wants to spend more time with one parent than the other, but you should try not to take this personally.Keep to the schedule that you and your ex have developed, but consider involving your child in the discussions.
Try to be flexible and adapt to your child’s needs. It might simply be more convenient for them to spend more time in one place due to school, work, friends or sports commitments.
Always put your child’s needs first and avoid fighting over the visitation schedule.

