 Working with a narcissist can be draining. Balance your workdays by going home to people who value and support you. This may translate to coworkers with whom you are friendly, family members, non-work friends, or a significant other. Lift your spirits by making regular plans after work to be with people you care about and vice versa., Spending 40+ hours each week around someone who dominates conversations, exploits others, and constantly gloats can be a hit to your self-worth. It’s easy to feel like you and other coworkers have faded into the background when a narcissist takes center stage. Counteract any threats to your self-esteem by reminding yourself of your positive attributes.Make a list of your best traits. Place the list in your car visor or in your handbag or wallet. You can also keep a digital version in your phone. Review the list whenever you need reminding of why you are valuable and effective at your job, or at life, in general.
Engage in hobbies or activities that play to your talents and help you feel better about yourself. You could try a local sports league, art classes, volunteering, or anything else that makes you feel good.
 Even if you avoid being competitive with a narcissist, they may exaggerate a perceived slight that pits you against them. If a narcissist is waging war against you in the workplace, it’s best to document everything. If this ever gains the attention of your boss, you want to be able to show proof of any abuse.Save emails and notes of criticism or harassment. Ask other coworkers for eyewitness statements when they observe the narcissist playing dirty. This may be the only way to save your job if the narcissist decides to sabotage you.
 Working with a narcissist can create a toxic working environment for everyone nearby. If a narcissist has targeted you as their biggest competitor or is already starting to sabotage your work, you may feel as if your sanity is at risk. It may be best to switch departments or quit your job altogether. If you love your job, visit a mental health professional. They may be able to help you work on the issues you need to resolve to keep your job, or they can help you transition to a new one.


If you have adequately documented their misdeeds, you may stand a chance discussing the matter with your superiors. If not, they will likely present their best face and have the boss on their side.