 You experience many benefits from gratitude, like bettering your physical and mental health. But you might not know that gratitude also reduces aggression and strengthens empathy.Your partner will likely interpret as an expression of love.;
, Men have a tendency to keep thoughts to themselves and to build relationships while working on tasks, which can be interpreted as coldness. Even if you don't agree with what is being said, acknowledge it and respond appropriately.
 A text, phone call, or email might be the easiest way of getting in touch with your girlfriend, but taking the time to pen a letter yourself and either mail it or deliver it shows your girlfriend she's worth the time to do something nice., Use your own words to come up with a unique message that conveys just how much you love your girlfriend. Vocalizing your feelings can help you manage and enrich those feelings.Try starting with:


"It's hard for me to say sometimes because I feel it so strongly, but I love you more than anything."
"There is nothing better than having you in my arms."
"Whenever I see you, I..."

, Negative surprises have a measurable effect on satisfaction. Prevent negative surprises for your girlfriend to maintain a higher level of satisfaction.Conversely, positive surprises will give your girlfriend a higher sense of satisfaction.
 If your girlfriend articulates a need to continue a conversation even if it is unpleasant for you, take note of her emotional need. In the event that you are unable to calmly carry out the conversation, voice your own feelings while acknowledging her own., It can be easy to take for granted something you know absolutely to be true, like your love for your girlfriend. Reawaken yourself to this truth by reminding her frequently.Look her in the eyes, or wait for an unexpected moment, like when the lights dim before a movie plays in the theater, and whisper, "I love you."

, The very act of asking this question to your girlfriend will signal to her that her happiness is important to you. Showing you care for her emotional well-being is a powerful indicator of love.You might ask:


"What are your guilty pleasures?" This can be useful down the road when she's unhappy or when you want to give her a small surprise.
"If you could ... in the world, what would you...?" This pattern is great for making future plans. You can kill an afternoon talking about exotic places or things you've always wanted to eat, then use this later when planning a trip or gift.
 Talk to her and sincerely ask her how she feels. Women frequently communicate by sharing personal details and feelings of vulnerability.Respond in kind to communicate your own feelings more clearly to her.


Remove, "What's up?" from your vocabulary. Ask direct questions, "How was your morning? What did you have for lunch? Was it good?" Respond to her answer with your own opinions and observations.
 Even if you don't know what to tell her, a hug or a shoulder to cry on can be enough. Though being around an emotional person can be difficult, by staying with your girlfriend through the ordeal, you demonstrate your dependability. It's important to let her know that:


"Everything's going to be OK."
"Sometimes I feel the same way."
"I'm here for you."

, Comparisons are a natural part of human communication, but by comparing your girlfriend to your ex you may accidentally make her feel like she's in competition with a previous girlfriend.


Research has shown that closeness and affection in a relationship are influenced when you make comparisons to a prior partner.