 This is a very inexpensive and easy method for hanging wall tapestries although it still requires the tapestry to have a rod pocket on the back.









Your tapestry will be hung very straight by using this method.
This method also ensures that the tapestry is hung flush against the wall., Cut a piece of baseboard or another flat piece of wood so that it is slightly shorter than the width of the tapestry.









The bar can also be made from metal or plastic but these are harder to drill through properly.
Make sure your baseboard fits in the rod pocket on the back of the tapestry., Drill holes at each end of the baseboard that are equal distances from the ends of the baseboard and centered. These holes should fit the size screws that you will be using.
 Use a stud finder to locate the studs in the wall. Although this is not always necessary it will help you to find the most secure location to hang your tapestry.









If you cannot use the studs, do not have studs or would like to put the tapestry in another location you can use drywall screws or masonry screws, depending on the type of wall you are hanging the tapestry on., Use the baseboard to mark the location of the screws on the wall. Once holding the baseboard level against the wall you can insert a pencil or screw to make a small mark on the wall. Drill holes into the walls at these locations to align with the holes made in the baseboard.









Make sure the baseboard is level while you do this to ensure that your tapestry is hung straight., If you require wall anchors, for example if you are hanging directly into the drywall or have masonry walls, then you should now insert these into the drilled holes.









Wall anchors will provide extra stability and ensure your screws do not slide out from drywall or masonry walls.
 The rod pocket should be located at the top on the back of the tapestry.
 Start with one side at a time and screw through the baseboard into the hole or wall anchor on that side. Repeat with the screw on the other side.
 Now that the tapestry is hung, take a step back to make sure everything looks even and level. If everything is good then you are finished!








