 Summer time is a great time to have longer days with warm weather and free time. Your new schedule may be a shock to your system so don’t underestimate how tired your body will be as you change from easy late nights to early morning class. Sleep early during school nights because you don’t want to be grumpy and lackadaisical in class. If you need to take a nap, limit it to 90 minutes at most to make sure you’re able to do your homework and still fall asleep at a decent hour.
 The first couple of weeks back can be very hectic as you try to settle in to your classes and extracurricular activities. Prepare your lunches, outfits, school bag the night before. Use the weekend to map out your week., You may put a lot of pressure on yourself to do well in your studies. Having a strong support system and an outlet for stress can help you get through the school year. Check in with friends and family to let them know how your transition back to school is going. If there is anything causing your stress, they may be able to provide help or at least someone you can vent to., It may be easy to think that transitioning back to school will come within time but you have to understand that only you can can make a smooth transition. Continuing to stay up late or follow your holiday schedule will make it more difficult to transition back to school. Your friends may have easier schedules or may not have as many responsibilities as you do. Let them know that you have to limit your time with them now that school has started.
 Food plays a major role in how much energy you have during the day. Stay away from junk food and replace them with fruit and vegetables. Keep your mind and body healthy to get yourself through what can be a stressful transition., The transition may be more difficult than you anticipated. It’s okay to get a low grade on your first assignment or find it difficult to make new friends. Ask yourself what you can do differently to assure that you won’t repeat it. Everything is school can be a learning experience especially failure., Teachers know that this is a difficult time of year and understand that you are not the only one going through the transition. Teachers can not only help you develop effective study habits and work habits but they can also help you if you’re finding it difficult to make friends.
 Your school may have changed a few small things or you may be in a new school completely. Know the rules so that you don’t find yourself in trouble for small infractions. For example, there may be rules about using a mobile phone or the length of your skirt so make sure to check., Make sure to enjoy the remainder of your holiday. Creating lasting memories will help you when you're stressed or anxious during the transition back to school. It may also allow you to build your social circle and concentrate in school as you have gotten the holidays out of your system and are now looking for other things to occupy your brain., Make a habit of homework, early nights, and early mornings. It’s easy to feel overwhelmed if your life feels chaotic and out of order. Ask parents, friends, and teachers to help you with your routine if you don’t know where to start. Better yet, let everyone know your new routine so they know when you’ve fallen off track and can remind you what your routine should be., Your calendar should not just include your activities. Including the activities of the entire family gives you a snapshot of when your parents can help you best especially if you have other siblings. It also will remind your parents when you have important exams or due dates so they can support you in anyway they can.