 In the context of the iPhone community, jailbreaking means removing the many restrictions Apple has implanted in iOS. For those who are very committed to having a customizable iPhone, this is perhaps one of the best options. However, it isn't for everyone.Check if jailbreaking your iPhone will void its warranty. Unless you are very experienced with jailbreaking, you may want to wait to jailbreak your iPhone until the Apple warranty expires 1 year after purchase. Apple has attempted to create an environment that--because it is highly regulated--is safe for virtually all users. You don't have to worry about malware or scams like you would without the protections provided by Apple restrictions., Make sure you have a backup of your files before you make any switch, just in case anything bad happens.


Update iTunes to its latest version.
Back up your iPhone on iTunes and/or with use of a cloud.
Select a jailbreak program. Programs like RedSn0w or RageBreak are options. You should research the newest and best programs for jailbreaking your iPhone model. There are a number of options out there, but determining which is best can be tricky unless you know people who have had success with one particular program. These are, after all, not Apple-approved programs and thus have not been professionally vetted.
Many of these programs are updated to work on particular versions of iOS and not on later varieties (often because Apple intentionally alters the operating system to prevent jailbreaks). It is very common that, for example, a program can work on iOS 8.1.1 but not 8.1.2. There should be information available discussing what the program can and cannot do.
 You will actually have to download the file to a separate computer in order to complete the jailbreak process.


Download a jailbreak program onto your computer.
Install the program onto your computer. Remember, it may provide you a passcode to use later. Do record it and keep it at hand.
Download the latest iOS firmware. You can find the firmware file . When you run the jailbreak program as an administrator, you will need to select this firmware file.
 Check that your phone and computer are connected to the same wireless connection.



Place the iPhone in device firmware upgrade (DFU) mode. (To put the iPhone in DFU mode, you should hold down the Power button for 3 seconds. Then, hold the Home button down with the Power button for 10 seconds. Release the Power button while keeping the Home button down.) Turn off the phone and connect it to the computer. Then, you will prepare to place the programs you just downloaded on the iPhone.
The jailbreak program should activate on your iPhone. Release the home button on the phone. Wait for the iPhone to reboot.
After the jailbreak tether is activated, you will be asked to place it in DFU mode again. Your iPhone may need to reboot a few times.
Find the IP address your iPhone uses. It is listed in the Settings app in the Wi-Fi area.
Launch the terminal on your computer. Type the following command: “ssh root@<IP address>.” (Type your iPhone’s IP address between the brackets).
Type the password that was given to you when you installed the jailbreak program.
 Cydia is an application that will allow you to download new programs to your iPhone after the jailbreak. Some jailbreak programs will automatically install Cydia, and so there is no need to install it separately. If the program that you used did not, then type the following code into your Terminal: "wget -q -O /tmp/cyinstall.sh http://downloads.kr1sis.net/cyinstall.sh && chmod 755 /tmp/cyinstall.sh && /tmp/cyinstall.sh."

, You should have a Cydia app on your Home screen.
 Search for a program that will allow you to customize substantial parts of the iPhone interface, such as text or iMessage colors. Two of the most common options are Winterboard and Dreamboard, but others exist as well. Install it to your iPhone. A new app should appear on your home screen., Check the mark next to the message bubble colors you want to use. There are a number of colors you can use with outgoing and incoming messages.