 Make sure you're not putting yourself in harm's way by administering CPR to someone unconscious. Is there a fire? Is the person lying on a roadway? Do whatever is necessary to move yourself and the other person to safety.


If there is anything that could endanger you or the victim, see whether there is something you can do to counteract it. Open a window, turn off the stove, or put out the fire, if possible.
However, if there is nothing you can do to counteract the danger, move the victim. The best way to move the victim is by placing a blanket or coat underneath their back and dragging it.;
, Gently tap his or her shoulder and ask "Are you OK?" in a loud, clear voice. If he or she responds agreement "Yeah" or such, CPR is not required. Instead, undertake basic first aid and take measures to prevent or treat shock, and assess whether you need to contact emergency services.


If the victim does not respond, continue with the following steps.
 The more people available for this step, the better. However, it can be done alone. Send someone to call for emergency medical services (EMS).


To contact emergency services, call
• 911 in North America
• 000 in Australia
• 112 by cell phone in the EU (including the UK)
• 999 in the UK and Hong Kong.
• 102 in India
•1122 in Pakistan
• 111 in New Zealand
•123 in Egypt
•120 in China
Give the dispatcher your location, and notify him or her that you're going to perform CPR. If you're alone, put your phone on speaker mode so your hands are free to start compressions. If you have someone else with you, have him or her stay on the line while you do CPR on the victim.
 Unless you're a trained medical professional, odds are you'll spend too much valuable time looking for a pulse when you should be doing compressions.
 And, make sure that the airway is not blocked. If the mouth is closed, press with your thumb and forefinger on both cheeks at the back of the teeth to help open the mouth and then look inside. Remove any visible obstacle that is in your reach but never push your fingers too far inside. Put your ear close to the victim's nose and mouth, and listen for slight breathing. Watch for rising and falling of the chest.If the victim is coughing or breathing normally, do not perform CPR.
 Make sure he or she is lying as flat as possible - this is to prevent injury while you're doing chest compressions.Tilt their head back by using your palm against their forehead and a push against their chin.
,, Don't flex the arms to push, but nearly lock your elbows, and use your upper body strength to push.
 Press down with both hands directly over the breastbone to perform a compression, which helps the heart beat. Chest compressions are more critical for correcting abnormal heart rhythms (ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia, heart rapidly quivering instead of beating).


You should press down by about 2 inches (5 cm).
Do the compressions in a relatively fast rhythm. Some agencies recommend doing compressions to the beat of the chorus of "Stayin' Alive," a 1970s disco hit, or at roughly 100 beats per minute.
, Place your hand on the victim's forehead and two fingers on their chin and tilt the head back to open the airway.


If you suspect a neck injury, pull the jaw forward rather than lifting the chin. If jaw thrust fails to open the airway, do a careful head tilt and chin lift.
If there are no signs of life, place a breathing barrier (if available) over the victim's mouth.
 The American Heart Association no longer considers rescue breaths necessary for CPR, as the chest compressions are more important. If you are trained in CPR and totally confident, give two rescue breaths after your 30 chest compressions. If you've never done CPR before, or you're trained but rusty, stick with only chest compressions.Keeping the airway open, take the fingers that were on the forehead and pinch the victim's nose closed. Make a seal with your mouth over the victim's mouth and breathe out for about one second. Make sure you breathe slowly, as this will make sure the air goes in the lungs and not the stomach.
If the breath goes in, you should see the chest slightly rise and also feel it go in. Give a second rescue breath.
If the breath does not go in, re-position the head and try again. If it does not go in again, the victim may be choking. Do abdominal thrusts (the Heimlich maneuver) to remove the obstruction.
 If you're also doing rescue breaths, keep doing a cycle of 30 chest compressions, and then 2 rescue breaths; repeat the 30 compressions and 2 more breaths.


You should do CPR for 2 minutes (5 cycles of compressions to breaths) before spend time checking for signs of life.
, If an AED is available in the immediate area, use it as soon as possible to jump-start the victim's heart. Make sure there are no puddles or standing water in the immediate area.
 It should have voice prompts that tell you what to do.
 Remove any metal necklaces or underwire bras. Check for any body piercings, or evidence that the victim has a pacemaker or implantable cardioverter defibrillator (should be indicated by a medical bracelet) to avoid shocking too close to those spots ().


Make sure the chest is absolutely dry and the victim is not in a puddle. Note that, if the person has a lot of chest hair, you may need to shave it, if possible. Some AED kits come with razors for this purpose.
 Follow the instructions on the AED for placement. Move the pads at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) away from any metal piercings or implanted devices.


Make sure no one is touching the person, when you apply the shock.
 If a shock is needed for the patient, the machine will notify you. If you do shock the victim, make sure no one is touching him or her.
 Stick on adhesive electrode pads are intended to be left in place.
, Then position the free hand onto the opposite shoulder, and roll the victim onto the side with the straight leg. The raised knee/bent leg is on top and helps stop the body from rolling over onto the abdomen. The arm with the hand tucked under the edge of the hip is kept from sticking out in the way when rolling the patient onto that side.
 This position keeps saliva (spit) from accumulating in the back of the mouth or throat, and helps the tongue to hang to the side without it falling/flopping into the back of the mouth and obstructing the airway.

