 Use this method if you want to export an HD video to a folder on your Mac. Once the video is exported, you can view and share it as you wish.;
,,,,


If you want to share your video directly to a website, click the name of that website (Facebook, YouTube, Vimeo, etc) instead.,


If you’re sharing the video to a website, this text will become the title of the movie.
 This is helpful if you’re sharing to YouTube or Vimeo and want to make it easy for others to find your video.
 Choose 720p, 1080p, or 4k for HD. Not all options will be available for all movies as you can’t turn low quality video into HD.720p is HD at 1280 x 720 resolution. Choose this for a high quality file that uploads quickly and doesn’t take up much hard drive space.
1080p is HD at 1920 x 1080 resolution—5 times the quality of 720p. You’ll have a bigger file and longer upload than with 720p.
4k is Ultra High Definition (UHD), which is 4096 x 2160 resolution. This is times the quality of 1080p, so expect a large file with a lengthy upload time.
 If you’re exporting to a file, you can skip this step.


Click the “Categories” menu to choose a YouTube category.
Click the “Viewable to” or “Privacy” menu to set the privacy.
 You won’t see this if you’re sharing to a website. To get an idea of how each setting affects the file size, click an option to see the file size beneath the preview.Choosing “High” will give you the best results without making the file too large.
Choosing “Best” will use ProRes, which is professional quality. The size will be very large.
 This option is only visible if you’re exporting to a file.


Choose “Faster” if you’re worried about file size. The quality won’t be as good, but it should still be better than SD (standard).
Choose “Better Quality” if you prefer the clearest possible audio and video and don’t care about file size, this is the option for you.



If you’re sharing to a website, you’ll be prompted to enter your account information for that site. Follow the prompts to sign in and complete the upload. When the upload is complete, you’ll see “Share Successful.”

,, Save the file to a folder you’ll remember, like Documents or Desktop, so it’s easy to access when you want to upload it to YouTube, burn it to DVD, etc.
 After a few moments, you’ll be able to find the HD version of your movie in the folder you chose.Now that the video is saved as an HD file on your computer, you can upload it to sites like Facebook, LinkedIn, Google Drive, Dropbox, and any other site that accepts high-quality video.

