 When using your iPod Touch, you may occasionally run into problems:


Unable to locate or join a nearby Wi-Fi network
The Wi-Fi signal strength is weak or low
You are connected to the Wi-Fi network, but are not able to access the internet.
 Many Wi-Fi issues can be fixed with a few simple steps. Try these things:


Tap Settings > Wi-Fi and turn off Wi-Fi, then turn it back on.
Verify you are in your Wi-Fi station's signal range.
Confirm your Wi-Fi router and cable/DLS modem are connected and powered on.
Check to see of other network-aware devices (laptops, phones, tablets, etc.) are able to access Wi-Fi and the Internet.
Update your Wi-Fi router to the latest firmware.
Restart your iPod Touch.
If you are still experiencing a Wi-Fi problem after trying these steps, continue reading.
 Check to see if the network is available by tapping Settings > Wi-Fi and choose from the available networks listed there. Note: It may take a few seconds for the Wi-Fi network name to appear.


Wi-Fi networks configured as closed or private do not broadcast the network name to Wi-Fi devices.

Join a closed or private network by tapping Settings > Wi-Fi > Other and entering the Wi-Fi network name, security, and password.


Restart your Wi-Fi router by turning it off and then on again. Note: If your ISP also provides cable or phone service, check with them before attempting this step to avoid interruption of service.
When joining an 802.11n Wi-Fi network, ensure your router is properly configured.
Reset network settings by tapping Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings. Note: This will reset all network settings, including passwords, VPN, and APN settings.


Move closer to the Wi-Fi router or base station to see if the Wi-Fi signal improves. You may need to adjust the antenna direction to improve transmission and signal strength.
Check for sources of potential interference. Microwave ovens, satellite dishes, power stations, monitors, wireless speakers, or any devices that operate in the 2.4GHz or 5GHz bands, all can reduce signal strength. Moving either the offending device or moving your Wi-Fi transmitter may help.
Remove your iOS device from any case, stand, or other attachment to see if the Wi-Fi signal improves. While unlikely, the stand may contribute to the interference of the Wi-Fi signal.
 If you are unable to access the Internet while connected to a Wi-Fi network, try these steps:


Verify that you are selecting the correct network if you are in a location with multiple Wi-Fi networks.
Verify that the Wi-Fi network settings are correct. You can view and configure Wi-Fi settings using the following steps:

Tap Settings > Wi-Fi.
Locate the Wi-Fi network you are currently using and tap the > button.


If you've verified that your settings are correct and the issue persists, try the following:

Tap "Forget this Network" to reset settings for this Wi-Fi network, including the password. Then try connecting to the network again.
Note: This can be useful if you identify a network issue and want to prevent the device from automatically using this network in the future.


Reset network settings by tapping Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings.
Note: This will reset all network settings, including passwords, VPN, and APN settings.
If the Wi-Fi network uses MAC address filtering, you will need to add the MAC address to the access list for the Wi-Fi router. The MAC address for your device is listed as the Wi-Fi address in Settings > General > About.

