 This method is suitable for all hair types, including curly and natural/kinky. If your hair is curly, you can use this method to help further define the curls. If your hair is natural or kinky, consider blow drying it straight first., Secure it with a scrunchie or a claw clip. Leave the bottom fourth of your hair loose. You will be curling this layer first., Take a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) section of hair from the bottom layer, close to your face. Spritz it with water just enough to dampen it, but not so much as to soak it., You can use a straw, a strip of fabric, or a store-bought flexible curler made out of foam. Hold the curler over the strand, right next to your scalp. Wrap your hair tightly around the curler.If you are using a store-bought foam curler, choose the thinnest one you can find. Something around the thickness of a pencil would be ideal.
 If you are using a straw or scrap of fabric, simply tie the ends over your wrapped hair, just like starting to tie a shoe.If you are using a flexible foam curler, you should be able to fold the left and right ends over your wrapped hair.

Flexible foam curlers typically have a wire inside them, which will allow them to hold their shape.
 Finish curling the bottom layer first, then let down another layer of hair. Keep working in 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) sections until you curl all of your hair., This is very important. If you don't let your hair dry, the curls won't hold and will lose their shape when you take them out. If you are in a hurry, you can blow dry your hair for about 10 to 15 minutes using a cool setting.You can leave the curlers in overnight. Wrap a silk scarf or bandana over your head to keep the curlers in place.
 Simply untie the straws or scraps of fabric holding them in place. If you are using a flexible foam curler, then you will need to unfold it. Unwind the curl, then slip the curler out., Do not brush or comb the curls. This will cause them to lose their shape and turn fluffy. Instead, gently separate them with your fingers to give them more volume.Apply some shine serum, if desired. If your hair is naturally straight, it might be a good idea to mist your curls with hairspray to set the style.