 It is important that your business has a digital footprint, and developing a website is the first step in ensuring that. Your website should be a digital compliment to your brick and mortar business. It should contain information about the services you offer, prices for your services or products, hours of operation, and other relevant information about your business. An attractive and informative website is an easy way to attract new business. Depending on your budget and tech savviness, you can work with a web designer or use a web design platform like Squarespace to create your website.
 Engaging with customers in social media is a relatively easy way to increase your brand’s profile. Applications like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram make it easy for you to market your business to customers in a space where they are already active. Simply create a profile for your business and use it to promote your business.Create accounts in as many social media applications as you can manage. It is important to have as much coverage as you can but not over-extend yourself.
Be sure to link your social media presence to your website, and vice versa.
 One way to spread the word about your business is to create a piece of content that people will want to share with their friends, family, and coworkers. In viral marketing, you invest your resources at the front end, by creating a funny video or other clever content, and then allow customers to share the content. If customers find your content appealing, this can be an incredibly cost-effective way to reach a large number of people. It is important to remember that most viral marketing campaigns fall flat and fail to garner much attention from customers. Consider a viral campaign in tandem with other marketing strategies.
In order to increase the likelihood that your viral campaign will succeed, avoid using offensive materials or tired clichés. The former will drive customers away, while the later will make you look out of touch.
Consider posting your videos to YouTube in order to increase the likelihood of its going viral.
 Considering that most people engage with digital media through their mobile devices, it might be useful to consider creating a mobile application for your business. In many ways, a mobile app functions like a website, offering customers a space to learn more about your business while viewing your goods or services. A mobile app can also operate as a unique advertising tie-in by creating an experience that draws customers to your products. A mobile game or interactive experience can be great advertising that attracts customers to your business.
Consider creating an app that streamlines the customer’s ability to purchase goods or services from your business.
 This form of marketing allows you to interact with your customers by overlaying virtual elements over the physical environment. Through the use of a mobile device or virtual display, customers will be able to virtually test out your product or engage with your services. Although this style of marketing is relatively new, augmented reality may help set your business apart from the competition, particularly among tech savvy customers. Although extremely cost-prohibitive at the moment, augmented reality marketing will likely become more common and less expensive in the future.
For example, IKEA recently created an AR campaign in which customers used their smartphones to see how furniture would look in their homes. Using their phone's camera, customers were able to test the look of IKEA furniture by virtually placing it in their home before they bought it.