 Expect great things out of your students. Be clear in what you expect out of your students’ performance, and set the bar high for challenging, high quality work.Tell yourself that your students are intelligent, capable, accomplished, and resilient. Studies have shown that teachers who are given positive messages about their students get their students to be more successful. Give yourself these positive pep talks about your students.Develop a mantra to say to yourself to help you stay positive about your students. It could be something like, “My students are smart! My students are powerful! My students will change the world!” or whatever inspires you.
Actively engage students in instruction, utilizing different styles of learning. Keep your classroom organized and efficient to maximize learning time., Develop a good rapport with your students and take an interest in their lives. As relationships develop, you may find your students more willing to open up to you about what is going on in their lives. Listen to what they say, and see if you can transform what they tell you into a more productive learning environment for them.For example, if you have a student who is consistently absent because they have to take care of a sick parent, you could contact your school’s social worker or administration to connect the student with social services or arrange alternative learning opportunities.

Empathize with your students. Listen to their stories and struggles, and try to imagine what it would be like to be in their shoes. Reflect back what you hear to build empathy, for example: “I can understand why you say you’re so tired, Marisol. It must be hard having to wake up so early with your baby sister every morning.”
Maintain professional boundaries and ensure that any connections you form with your students maintain a teacher-student relationship., Developing a good relationship with parents can help you all be on the same page with a student’s performance. You may also be better able to understand some of the issues a student is facing through conversations or interactions with their parents.Through conversations with the parents, you may learn about family stressors like divorce, unemployment, addiction, or legal troubles. You could ask a student’s parents, “I’ve noticed that your son is struggling to pay attention in my class these days. Is everything okay at home right now? What can I do to help?”
Your students may also have additional responsibilities in their household that keep them away from the classroom. They may be late for school every day because they have to take their younger sibling to school, for example. Building a good rapport with the parents may help you be able to work together to find a solution to some out-of-school problems that affect academic performance.
 Have your students teach you about their cultural heritage or background. Ask them to tell stories or write essays about their lives. Have them share with you and their classmates things they care about. Storytelling and sharing about each other’s lives helps build empathy and understanding.For example, if you have a variety of ethnicities represented in your class, you could develop an assignment that emphasizes students’ cultural heritage: a show-and-tell with an important family tradition or relic, or a report on an important custom or holiday within a student’s community.
You could say, “I want everyone to understand your own heritage and be proud of where you came from. I want you to help me, and the rest of our class, learn about your background. That’s why, with this next assignment….”

, If you notice behavioral, learning, or medical concerns within your classroom, take steps to get the student assessed. Reach out to the students’ parents and school administration with your concerns.Encourage your school to form partnerships with community agencies to connect with students and families in need.
 Look for role models in the students’ community, perhaps people of the same cultural background or those who came from similar circumstances, and work to foster relationships between citizens and students. Community mentors who successfully emerged from challenging circumstances may inspire students to work toward their own goals.You could look for people who are willing to be mentors through the local chamber of commerce or through community clubs, like the Lions Club or Rotary International. Ask them to come to your class and give a presentation.
You could tell your students, “I want you to keep an eye open for adults in our community who are successful at what they do and are people you admire. Find out who they are and let me know how I can get in touch with them. I’d like to have people you admire come to speak to our class.”

