 Reuniting with long lost relatives can be an emotional experience—one in which you can’t predict the outcome. Before you make contact, it’s important to clarify your rationale for wanting to connect.Do you simply want them to know that you exist? Are you suffering from a terminal illness and seeking closure? Do you lack other family or a solid support system? Has a parent or grandparent recently passed away, prompting this sudden interest? Think long and hard about why you want to do this beforehand.
Always keep in the forefront of your mind that this has all been hidden for quite a while, and the door might not be open!;
, It’s also a good idea to anticipate how you expect them to react. Of course, you don’t know them, but perhaps recounting the details of why you were separated in the first place can help you determine how a possible reunion would play out.For example, if you were the secret love-child of married man, your introduction to half-siblings might lead to everyone finding out about an instance of infidelity.
If your half-siblings are from a wealthy background, they might distrust your motives, assuming you want something from them.
In addition, if your half-siblings are young and your biological parent is still married, it may be very upsetting for them to learn that their parent’s marriage consisted of this betrayal.
 If either of your parents is alive or in your life, talking to them may assist with your decision-making. They may not approve of your desire to connect with your half-siblings, or they may have some insights about your relatives that haven’t been previously shared.


Choose a time when everyone is feeling relaxed, present, and free of distractions and approach the subject. Bring up the topic by saying, “Mom/Dad, I have been thinking about my half-siblings a lot lately. As I grow older, I really have a desire to get to know them. What do you think about that?"Be prepared for the possibility that your own parent also might not want to open it up.

