 Most schools will have a menu for school lunches, and depending on where you go it may be predictable or a bit random. If you’re looking to eat vegetarian lunches, it’s a good idea to make it a habit to check the menu. There may be one pinned up on a school bulletin board or on your school campus somewhere.


In some schools, the menu may be posted online. Be sure to check out the school website, as there may be a link.
Some schools record the lunches under the school calendars that are also found online.;
, Once you have found the menu, spend a few minutes looking over the vegetarian choices that are available to you. Are there options there that you like? How much variety is there day-to-day?You can expect to find things such as vegetarian pizza, vegetable soups, pasta, baked potatoes, and veggie burgers.
Other popular options include tacos and burritos, and foods that include meat substitute products.
There may be a sandwich station where you can make a veggie sandwich or pre-made vegetarian sandwiches, such as a nut butter and jelly bread.
Once you have a clear idea of what the vegetarian options your school typically offers are, it will be easier to recognise them when they pop up on the menu.
Look out for markers that indicate a vegetarian meal on the menu. Typically you will see a “V” next to a vegetarian item.
If you are uncertain, ask the person serving the meals.
 Schools are encouraged to provide vegetarian options, but unless you have special dietary needs, they are not obliged to provide vegetarian meals for students. Legally schools do not have to make food substitutions based on the food choices of a family or a child about what constitutes a healthy meal. If you have an allergy of other serious medical reason, then the school has to provide a safe non-allergic meal.Schools are not required to accommodate religious dietary restrictions in schools meals, although some do.
Schools cannot infringe upon a student’s right to practice their religion, but as students can bring in their own meals, school lunches do not have to meet the criteria for different religions., If you think your school is not providing adequate healthy vegetarian options for lunch, talk to your teachers and friends about it. If you and your friends would like to see more vegetarian options on the menu, your teachers may be able to do something about it.


Introducing more vegetarian options is recommended by medical professionals as a way to help kids be healthy.It has also been cited as a good way to work towards meeting the US Department of Agriculture’s National School Lunch Program Regulations.