 If you want to earn straight A’s, you need to be present in class to learn. Every time you skip class, you risk missing an essential lesson, learning the answer to a test question, or getting the explanation for a big assignment. Furthermore, in some classes you may lose points for absences. The first step in earning straight A’s in 8th grade, is to be present for class every day.If you must miss class, be sure to make up what you missed.
Ask a friend to take notes for you, and speak to your teacher to ensure that got all the proper information.
 In 8th grade, you are going to be expected to take notes. But taking good notes does not mean furiously writing down everything your teacher says. Instead, you can follow a few strategies for taking good notes:Start a new sheet of paper every day. Write the date at the top of the sheet, as well as a heading that states the subject of the class.
Write down key facts. Listen up for important facts, dates, or examples and write these down. If you recognize something your teacher is saying from the reading, this is likely something important.
Don’t worry about using complete sentences. Develop your own shorthand, abbreviations, and shortcuts.
Ask your teacher to repeat something you missed.
Review your notes after school each day. You may even want to rewrite your notes for more clarity.
Consider comparing notes with a trusted classmate. You each may have emphasized different things and could benefit from sharing.
 If you want to excel in 8th grade, you are going to need to create a study routine (and stick to it). Set aside time each night to study and to complete any upcoming assignments. Do this each day even if you do not have anything due.Spend 10-15 minutes reviewing material that you learned that day.
Spend 30-40 minutes completing the most urgent assignments.
Spend 10-15 minutes beginning work on other assignments, or studying for tests, that will not be due for a little while.
 Choose a place for you to do your homework at home. Ideally, you will have a desk with a chair and a computer. Keep any important materials here, and be sure to keep this place tidy. Having a dedicated homework space helps solidify your homework routine, and get you in the right mindset to work.


You may have an office in your home that you can claim for an hour or two each day.
You may be able to set up a section of your bedroom for this purpose.
If all else fails, you can probably set up shop at your kitchen or dining room table.
All that matter is that you are comfortable, you won't be distracted, and that you have access to all the materials you need.
 If you want to do well in 8th grade, you need to come to school ready and able to concentrate. This means two things: (1) getting a good night’s sleep, and (2) eating a healthy breakfast. If you do these two things, you will be able to pay attention during class, learn the material, and excel in 8th grade.Try to get 8 hours of sleep per night and keep a regular bedtime.
Studies have shown that adolescents who eat whole grains with milk had better academic performance than both those who had no breakfast and those who had sugary cereals.
It is also helpful to eat healthy snacks throughout the day. Things like "ants on a log" (celery with peanut butter and raisins), hummus and veggies, and all-natural fruit leathers are great options.

