 Both the Shih Tzu's and the poodle's good nature means the Shihpoo is likely to make a good dog for first time owners.The breed is very adaptable, affectionate, and social.;
, Shihpoos are extremely affectionate dogs. They love to cuddle and make good lap dogs. They are usually very accepting of strangers, though some dogs might be shier than others. Most Shihpoos want to sleep with their owners at night., The Shihpoo loves the comfort of the home. His small size means he adapts well to apartment living. He is very friendly with others, so he will do well if you are around other people where you live.He adapts well to any living situation, and can be content running around a yard or living room.


Shihpoos do not make good guard dogs because they are not extremely territorial and because of their friendly nature.
Shihpoos do not do well living outdoors. They need to be indoor dogs.
 The Shihpoo is energetic and fun-loving, and loves playing the clown. He is good at cheering people up and helping anyone not feel lonely. He is good with families, but he is also great for singles because he is perfectly happy with one attentive owner.Shihpoos are also great for seniors.
Shihpoos are great with children, as long as children are supervised and taught to handle the dog gently. Shihpoos don’t like having their hair pulled, so make sure your children know not to do this., Shihpoos don't need long walks to tire them out because they don't need long walks.They are extremely energetic though. Playing with them in the house or apartment, or giving them toys, should be enough. They will run around your house, play with stuffed animals, and chase balls.


Short, brisk walks twice a day is great exercise for a Shihpoo. They also like running around yards or parks.
If your aim is to have a dog to get out and about to meet people, or to exercise with, a Shihpoo may not be the dog for you.
 The Shihpoo is sometimes promoted as a hypoallergenic dog, meaning people say he is a breed that people with dog allergies can tolerate. However, this is not true. The Shihpoo is just as likely to trigger allergies as other breeds.If your main consideration for getting a Shihpoo is this, be aware you are likely to have allergy problems.
 The Shihpoo can inherit characteristics from either parent. While the poodle is considered highly intelligent and easy to train, the Shih Tzu has a laissez faire attitude. The Shih Tzu has a reputation for being slow to house break, so this might mean your Shihpoo can have difficulties training.This doesn't mean if your Shihpoo inherits the Shih Tzu's character he is impossible to train, but the owner has to be prepared to be patient and give out clear consistent messages when you are house training him.
You must be prepared for accidents indoors and know that punishing the dog is inappropriate.

