 As a general rule of thumb, you have three standard choices: the gift bag, the tote, or the box. With technology nowadays, they're all good contenders -- anything can be personalized, jazzed up, and made impressive. It's just a matter of taste!


The only real thing to take into consideration is that your goodie bag should match your theme. Get creative! Are you at the beach? Use a pail! Does your wedding have a vintage-y feel? Use an antique-y box. Stay consistent -- this goodie bag is one of the first things you have at your disposal to set the tone.
 Because everyone loves food -- especially if they just got in from a long trip full of peanuts and sips of watered-down coffee. Little munchies are best, and they're even better if they're from the area the wedding is taking place or your hometown. Get local! What springs to mind when you think of where you are?


Whatever isn't available in the minibar is good -- fresh fruit is a great, cheap addition. But sweets are also always, always, always welcome. Think granola bars, chocolate, or even homemade baked goods!

, You want something you can give your guests that they can remember forever. What's more perfect than a souvenir? Not necessarily of your wedding, but of the entire trip your guests are making. If you're having it in your hometown, have it be along the lines of your wedding's theme. If you're having a destination wedding, have it be indicative of the destination. In Paris? A little Eiffel Tower. In Texas? A star, of course.


If you have a few children in attendance, you may want to opt for a toy trinket in lieu of a souvenir -- or in addition to! A mini plane, yo-yo, just a simple gadget that says you're thinking of the entire family.
 This is a long weekend for your guests, too. They're exhausted from the traveling and mingling and probably staying up all night. Have some sort of "recovery" aid in your goodie bag for your guests that are going to greet the sunrise. Here are some ideas:


Advil/Tylenol
A sleep mask
Lotion/bath salts/soap, etc.
Water/coffee/juice or other morning goodies

, Your guests who have traveled all the way here are probably looking to do more than just attend your wedding. Get them going on their excuse-for-a-vacation by offering them some things in their goodie bag that will make their trip that much easier. Here's a list to get you thinking:


A map (with dots or stickers indicating places to check out)
An itinerary for the wedding weekend
Disposable camera
Coupons
Postcard
Brochures
List of local gems (with reviews)

, At the end of the day, this is your wedding -- not some corporate event you're sponsoring. So get to personalizing your welcome bags! Get the outside of your tote designed, have water bottle labels made, and start scouring the Internet for labels for your goodies.


If it's something they can keep forever, try to avoid having something like "CHAN AND JAN 4EVER" plastered on the side. Stick to a symbol and the date, maybe your initials, when you're dealing with the tote or the box -- something that's utilitarian in the future. You don't want them to throw it out in two weeks, you know?

, Because without your guests, your wedding would not go how you want it to go. They've spent money and time making sure your day is special, so thank them! Include a nice little note in the bag saying how much you appreciate that they're there.

