 Become a member of a party and work on the executive committee, as well as volunteering during campaigns. You will not be appointed as a scrutineer if you walk in and ask for the job. You must have gained the respect of the candidate and campaign manager. You will be asked—there are never enough scrutineers.;
, After you have been asked to scrutineer, the candidate or his official agent will sign your papers. Go to the returning office where the DRO or RO will swear you in. It's best to do this on the day before the election. There will be someone at the polls.
 You were given all of those books and brochures for a reason — make use of them! If you have any questions, call the Returning Officer.
 Lay out a nice, neutral colored outfit on the night before the election. In Canada, you cannot wear blue, red, orange or green. Although not necessary, a suit is always a nice way to celebrate the country's vibrant democracy. Remember that you must not wear pins, labels, buttons or anything other kind of sign or symbol promoting a party, or you will appear to be biased.
 Bring some snack food with you, as you won't be allowed to leave for quite some time.
 The polls open at 8:00AM, so be there at 7:30 AM. Make sure you are on time.
, Do not talk to the voters, or talk on your cell phone, Blackberry, etc. Step outside once an hour to call headquarters to keep them updated.
 Keep things neat and organized.(Please note that this step is only for scrutineers who do not have a checker. A checker highlights the name of each person who comes to vote. They have permission to ask your name, but you do not have to tell them this information.)

, Not a second early or a second late!

, If not, file a complaint.Make sure the box is sealed. If not, file a complaint., Contrary to what they might say, you are entitled to it.
 If there is a discrepancy between you and the other scrutineers, the DRO has the final authority. Do not be afraid to contradict anyone else who may be counting the ballots with you! After all, that is why you are there.(This is not allowed in Ontario, refer to elections Ontario manual, talking is not allowed during counting also if you continue to bother the DRO or Poll clerk you will be kicked out. Be polite just because you are there to find problems does not mean you need to be a problem.)

, Do this often.
 Thank the poll clerk and DRO. Either accept the warm wishes of the other scrutineer, and tell them they were close, or congratulate them.
 If you were told that you would be paid, collect.
 Good work!

