 Pour your flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the salt and nigella seeds. Stir to combine., Add the oil first and stir to mix until the texture turns crumbly. Next, mix in the water. Stir and/or knead it to form a firm but malleable dough.Cover the bowl with a lid or plastic wrap, then set it aside.
 Peel your potatoes. Then chop them into small cubes. Also chop your cauliflower and onion into small pieces. Finally, chop up your cilantro and grate your ginger., Coat the bottom of a small skillet with cooking oil. Heat the oil over medium heat. Then add the peanuts and fry until they brown., Transfer them to a paper towel. Let the towel absorb the excess oil. Then transfer them to a small bowl and grind with a mortar., First, coat the bottom of a large skillet with cooking oil and set the burner to medium heat. Once the oil heats up, add the Panch phoron . Once it begins to crackle, stir in the ginger and then the onions. Cook until the onions turn translucent (approximately three to four minutes.), Once the onions have turned translucent, stir in the potatoes. Cover the skillet with its lid. Then let the potatoes cook until they begin to turn tender (roughly five minutes)., Uncover the skillet. Stir in each new ingredient into the mixture until evenly combined., Pour the water in. Cover the skillet again. Let the mixture cook for roughly ten minutes, or until the vegetables have softened., While you wait for the vegetables to soften, coat the bottom of a small skillet with cooking oil. Set the burner to medium heat and add the cumin, fennel, and chilies once the oil heats up., Transfer them to a small bowl once they become fragrant. Use your mortar to grind them up. Then stir the powder into your vegetables., Wait for the water to reduce. Then press a spoon into the mixture. You want the mixture to be moist enough to yield easily to pressure, but otherwise fairly dry., Stir your peanuts and cilantro in once the mixture has reached the desired consistency. Remove the skillet from the burner. Let the mixture cool off., Divide the dough into evenly sized balls (each one should be about the size of a lime). Flatten each one into a disc roughly 0.25 centimeter (0.098 in) thick. Slice the disc in half, then fold each half into a cone shape. Pinch the cone’s tip together to seal it completely and prevent leaks.This is probably the most difficult step for a beginner, so don’t beat yourself up if your cones aren’t uniform. Just concentrate on making sure that each one is sealed tight.
 Add roughly 1.5 teaspoons of filling to each cone.Err on the side of too little filling than too much. Avoid overstuffing, since this may cause your pastry to rupture when cooking. Once filled, pinch the opening shut to make a tight seal.Since you’re using your fingers here, be sure to wait until the mixture has cooled off enough so you don’t burn yourself.
 Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Place your shingaras on that, then place the baking sheet in the refrigerator. Let them chill for a half hour., Pour 2 cups (473) of cooking oil into your wok. Set the heat to medium-low and wait for the oil to heat up. Test the temperature by tossing it a scrap piece of dough or a bread crumb. The oil is ready when the dough or crumb immediately starts sizzling upon contact., Use tongs to dip three or four shingaras in the oil. Be careful not to drop them in, since this will cause hot oil to splatter. Fry each batch until the pastry turns golden brown. Transfer them to paper towels so the excess oil to drain while the next batch cooks. Once the last batch is finished, serve them while they’re still hot.