 Set the ball in front of you, get up on the balls of your feet, and practice alternating loops around the front of the ball. Simply keep doing the scissor part of the move without pushing the ball away. Focus on speed and precision, getting your feet quickly around the ball and landing on your toes each time.









As you get better, add the final touch as well. Scissor, then touch to the left with the outside of the foot like a normal move. Then use the inside of your left foot to gently touch the ball towards your right side. From here, perform a left-sided scissors, alternating back and forth., A good player sells the move with their entire body, not just their feet. A good way to do this is with your upper body. If you're faking right, turn your head and your eyes to the right as well, drawing the defender more to this side of the body. As you perform the scissors to the right, dip your shoulders to follow your feet to the right, making the jump to the left even more devastating.


Your hips will dictate which way you go. Keep them facing the defender to stay light and agile.
As a defender, watch a player's hips when they perform a move. This helps avoid falling for head fakes.
 The shorter your arc around the ball the faster you can perform it. By keeping your toe pointed down and practicing a short, quick scissor around the front of the ball you shorten the time it takes to perform the move and get around the defender. The faster your fake, the more effective you will be.
 As you master the move, start doing it from faster motion. Keep the ball in front of you as you dribble, picking up speed as you practice the move at game tempo. Note how fast you need the ball to be rolling as you do. The ball needs to have enough momentum to keep rolling forward as you scissor over it.


It's okay to slow down slightly before the move -- even desired -- as it allows your burst of speed right after the scissors to blow by the defender.
 The scissors can be performed whenever, but it is best when a defender is coming at you diagonally. This means their momentum is already carrying them to one side, making your fake twice as effective. Say the defender is coming at you diagonally from the left side of your body:


If the angle is shallow (they are more in front of you than to the side), fake to the right and go left, away from their momentum.
If the angle is wide (they are more to the side of you), fake to the left, towards their body, then push the ball forward and right to send them harmlessly behind you., As you get better you don't have to stick to just one fake. Watch Cristiano Ronaldo for a masterclass in the multiple-scissors, which leaves most defenders as a puddle of weak knees. To perform it, simply spring back off your right foot into a left-footed scissors, wrapping around the front of the ball instead of pushing it away with the outside of your foot. You can then land on your left foot and touch off with your right, or do another scissors.


This move takes a bit more time, and the ball generally needs a bit of extra forward speed to stay under your body.
 In a traditional scissors the ball doesn't move until you do, which smart defenders can read and intercept. The advanced scissors adds one extra touch at the beginning of the move to throw off the defender's timing. To pull it off:


Use your right foot to take a touch across your body, towards the left foot.
Keep your right foot in the air after the touch.
Immediately after the touch, wrap your right foot around the ball like normal. The ball should still be moving across your body.
Land on your right foot as the ball reaches your left foot.
Take a big touch with the outside of your left foot to blow by the defender.