 If you sweat a lot, it's very important to wear fabrics that breathe. This will help prevent heat from getting trapped by your clothing and causing you to sweat more.Loose-fitting clothing is also a better choice than tight clothing, as it allows for better air circulation.
You can also try using sweat shields under your clothing to prevent sweat stains.;
, There are lots of different deodorants on the market, so try a few different brands to see if one works better for you. If regular deodorant is not strong enough for you, you may need to ask your doctor about a prescription strength option. There are also several over-the-counter options that bill themselves as "prescription strength" or "clinical strength."

, You can prevent yourself from sweating by keeping yourself nice and cool, especially at times when you are likely to become anxious. If possible, seek out air conditioned areas or bring a fan with you.For example, if you're going on a first date and you're worried about sweating, scope out restaurants ahead of time and choose one that has strong air conditioning.
 Many people unwittingly assume postures that increase their body heat when they begin to feel nervous. If you have a problem with anxiety sweating, you should pay careful attention to your hands and your face when you feel anxious, making sure that you are giving your skin as much room to breathe as possible to avoid creating more heat.Common reactions to anxiety that can create more body heat include making a tight fist, putting your hands in your pockets, and covering your face with your hands.
 People who are overweight have a higher than average core temperature, which means they are more likely to begin sweating when they become nervous. Maintaining a healthy body weight can help lower your body temperature so that you will sweat less easily., Stimulants like caffeine can wreak havoc on your nervous system, so it's best to eliminate them if you suffer from anxiety. When you do, you may notice that your nervous system is less reactive to stress, which means you will sweat less.