 Start with a square of origami paper (colored side up). Turn it so that it looks like a diamond. Fold the top of the diamond all the way down to the bottom and crease. Unfold, then make another fold, taking the left tip over to the right one, and crease. Unfold once again., Flip the paper over. Turn it so that it is oriented like a square again. Fold the top left and right corners down to the bottom ones and crease. Unfold, then take the top and bottom corners on the left and fold them over to the corresponding corners on the right. Crease at the fold, and unfold your paper again., Turn your paper so that it is diamond shaped again and fold the top to the bottom. It will look like a triangle. Push the left and right tips into the interior of the triangle until they reach the bottom tip, and crease., The paper should now look like a smaller square with upper and lower flaps. Turn it so that looks like a diamond. Take the tips of the upper flaps on the left and right and fold them to the center of the square. Make creases, then unfold., Take the top flap of the diamond and fold it downwards. Crease it to make a line running between the folds made by the right and left flaps. The tip of the top should touch the center crease. Unfold the top flap., Lift the upper flap, starting from the bottom of the diamond. Keep lifting it upwards until it lies flat. The sides of the upper flap should fold inwards at the same time. Press the folds., Flip your paper over and work with the flap on the other side (originally the lower flap, now facing upwards) to make creases on its left, right, and top tips. The lift the flap from the bottom until it lies flat, as you did before. Press all of the folds., Your paper should now look like a narrow diamond shape. One of the points will be separated into two sections that you can move freely. Turn the paper so that these face downwards. Take the right section and fold it diagonally, just below the left point of the diamond, so that the tip points upward and slightly to the left. Do the opposite on the right side, then unfold.Make an outside reverse fold on the right section by pushing the outer edge of inward, and pulling it upwards until it reaches the diagonal fold you made.
Make an inside revers fold on the left section by pushing its inner fold inwards and pulling it upwards until it reaches the diagonal fold.
Press the folds again to neaten them.
 You paper should now look roughly like a bird, with a narrow neck and tail/legs, and two wings in the middle. Make another outside reverse fold on the very tip of the neck to make a head for your bird., Right now, you paper will resemble a bird with both wings pointing directly upwards. Make a slightly diagonal fold on each wing so that it is raised up a bit on the side closest to the head. Crease the folds,then lift the wings up so they stick out to the right and left of the bird., Your bird is now ready to “fly”! Gently pull and push on its tail to make its wings flap up and down.





