 The way to do so is similar on iPhones and iPads as well as on Android devices:


iPhone/iPad: Open Flipagram in the App Store, tap Get, and tap Install.
Android: Open Flipagram in the Play Store, tap Install.;
, It's an orange app that contains the image of a slide carousel.
 Tap "Sign in" or "Continue" with Facebook if you already have a Flipagram account.

Tap "Sign Up" or "Continue" with Facebook to create a new account.
 It's a red button at the bottom center of the screen.

If you're prompted to allow access to the photos on your device, tap OK.
 Do so by tapping the photo to which you want to add music.

Tap Camera at the top-left of the screen to take a new photo.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.

If a window pops up with instructions on how to arrange photos in a slide show, tap X in the upper-right corner of the dialog box.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.

Alternatively, tap ➕ to add more photos and create a slide show.
 It's in the lower left corner of the screen., You can choose from songs that are currently popular on Flipagram, your own music library, your Spotify account, or from several Flipagram categories.

If prompted, tap OK to give Flipagram access to your music library.
 Drag the sound track at the bottom of the screen to the right or left to find the place where you'd like the music to start., It's in the upper-right corner of the screen., Use the buttons at the bottom of the screen to enhance your post.

Tap Speed to adjust the length of time a photo appears on the screen.
Tap the Draw tool to draw on the image with your finger.
Tap Effects to add filters to your image.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen., Do so to add a caption to your image., Use the keyboard to describe your image and add hashtags to make it searchable. Tap Done when you're finished typing., If you want to tag friends, tap the red button below the text box., It's in the upper-right corner.

You may be prompted to connect your device's contacts to Flipagram. Tap OK to proceed or Not Now to do so later.
 It's the red bar at the bottom of the screen.

The upload may take some time to post.
 It's in the lower-right corner of your post.

On Android, the button looks like "⋮".
 It's at the This saves your image to your device's photo library., It's at the bottom of your device, usually below the screen., It's a pinkish-purple app with a white camera icon., Your image with the music should appear the large square at the top of the screen.

If the image to which you added music doesn't appear in the top half of the screen, tap it's thumbnail in the grid at the bottom of the screen.
 It's at the top-right of the screen., Use the buttons at the bottom of the screen to edit or enhance your photo.

Scroll left across the thumbnails at the bottom of the screen to select a filter.
To shorten the time your video appears on the screen, tap Trim.
The Cover selection allows you to choose the image that will appear on your Instagram feed before your video starts playing. If you only have one photo, there is no need to set a cover.
 It's at the top-right of the screen., Use the keyboard to type a caption and add hashtags to make your image searchable., It's in the upper-right corner of the screen

Tap Add Location if you'd like followers to know where you took the photo.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen. Your picture with music will be posted to your Instagram feed.