 Requirements vary to become a substance abuse counselor. Usually, however, you must meet minimal education requirements, receive clinical training, and pass a certification exam.For information on your state's requirements, you can call the National Board of Certified Counselors during operating hours. You can also check the website for more information.;
, Refer to your state requirements here to see the minimum level of education required in your state. In some states, an associate's degree is enough to become a substance abuse counselor. In other states, you may need a master's degree. Consider getting a degree higher than required, however, as you may want to move at some point in your career. A more advanced degree can make you employable in more states.A two year associate's degree may be enough in some states. This will qualify you for a lot of entry level positions, such as an adolescent counselor. While this degree path can save you time and money, it will limit where you can work. In most states, a higher degree is required.
A bachelor's degree is a good middle ground between an associate's and a master's. This will prepare you more thoroughly for the career, and expand the states where you can work. These degrees typically take four years.
A master's degree is the best way to assure you'll be employable across states, and will provide you with a more advanced understanding of counseling and addiction. You will also be qualified to work in private practice facilities. The length of master's degrees vary, but they can last from one to two years.
 Before launching into your career, you'll need to improve your skills in a variety of areas. Throughout the education and training process, keep these skills in mind. Take on hobbies, volunteer work, and jobs that help you prepare for a career in substance abuse counseling.Compassion is key to your training. You will be working with people who need a great deal of understanding. Volunteering to help those in need can help build a sense of compassion. Be on the lookout for volunteer work in your area.
You will also need great interpersonal and speaking skills. Look for part time work and volunteer positions that involve working with others.
Speaking skills are important. In addition to talking to addicts, you may participate in community outreach programs. You can also try to take on work that requires public speaking. For example, join a debate team in high school or college.
 Before you embark on your journey, spend some time familiarizing yourself with the career. Being a drug abuse counselor can be incredibly rewarding. You will have an opportunity to have a direct, positive impact on other people's lives. However, the career can also be frustrating at times and incredibly demanding. Make sure you're ready for the commitment associated with drug abuse counseling.You will be working with people addicted to a variety of substances. You will be going over and enacting treatment plans with your clients, and may work with the families and guardians of clients you help. It is your job to help someone stay sober after developing an addiction to drugs or alcohol.
Many counselors work beyond the hospital setting. You may find yourself participating in community outreach programs to warn others of the dangers of substance abuse.
You will hear a lot of devastating stories as a substance abuse counselor. Also, not all your clients will improve quickly, if at all. Patience, empathy, and a strong will are vital for a career in substance abuse counseling.
 If you choose to go to college, look for affordable schools in your area with counseling programs. Many schools will have degree paths very specific to your field. A school with a path in something like addiction studies, for example, would be a good choice for a substance abuse counselor.Remember your desired level of education. If you need a bachelor's degree, make sure the school you choose offers a four year degree path. If you plan on going on to a master's program, aim high in your undergraduate choice. A renown undergraduate program can stand out on a grad application.
Talk to addictions counselors at local hospitals. Ask them about their education level and for recommendations for programs. If you're still in high school, you can talk to your high school counselor.
In some states and at some clinics, a high school diploma and a certification from a training program will be enough education. If you don't want to pursue college, you can explore this route., Once you've found your school, you will major in something like counseling or psychology. You may also major in something more specific, like addiction studies. A college counselor will be able to steer you down the educational pathway that best meets your goals.You will take general psychology classes, as well as courses on different types of counseling. You will also take theoretical classes that explore different schools of thought regarding how and why addiction occurs.
There may also be clinical work in your program. You may take classes or internships in which you work in a real hospital setting.
Stock up on elective courses that help you develop the skill set of a drug abuse counselor. For example, you can take a class on debate and communications to build speaking skills.
 This is especially important if you plan to continue your education beyond your first degree. Good grades will also demonstrate a clear understanding of the material, which can look good on a resume after graduation.Make a plan for studying and stick to it. Decide on a specific time and place to go each day to work.
Study a little every day. This way, you'll retain more information, which can help you when exams roll around.
Go to every class, take notes, and pay attention. The information you gain in lectures and class discussions is invaluable, so make sure you take advantage of every minute of class.
 If you decide to further your education, do so once you graduate. Apply for a variety of master's programs that offer relevant degree tracks. Talking to a career counselor in your college can help direct you to the proper career paths.A master's program entails more intense training. You will look into a variety of methods specifically used to treat addiction, and also explore contemporary approaches to treating addiction.
Master's programs can take one to two years to complete.
 An internship is often a foot in the door to employment after graduation. It can also stand out on your resume when seeking work. At some point in college, take on an internship to bolster your resume.


You can talk to your college career counselor and professors about internship leads. You can also ask other students who've had internships before for advice on applying. You can intern at a hospital, mental health clinic, counseling center, or rehabilitation center.
Make sure to give your internships your all. A good recommendation from an advisor at your internship can help land you a job upon graduation.
 If you have a bachelor's or master's degree, training is likely unnecessary upon graduation. However, if you only have a high school diploma or an associate's degree, you may have to complete a training program in addictions counseling to become a counselor.If you went to college or university, you usually do not need further training beyond obtaining you certification by passing a licensing exam. If you don't have at least a bachelor's degree, you may need to take a training course in addictions counseling. Many jobs, however, will provide on-the-job training once you are hired.
Check your state's requirements by calling the National Board of Certified Counselors or checking their website.
 In most states, you need a set amount of clinical experience to obtain certification. Clinical experience can come in the form of a training or apprenticeship program. You will work under the supervision of a licensed counselor while getting in your clinical experience hours.The number of clinical hours very, but in most states it's 2,000 to 3,000 hours.
Clinical training may begin as part of a master's or bachelor's program. You may be required to begin clinical training at some point during your academic career.
If it's not part of your program, you can gain clinical experience through your first job. Many hospitals, mental health clinics, and other organizations offer clinical training to qualified candidates.
Make the most of your training time. Not only does training prepare you for your career, your supervisors here can provide references and job leads down the road.
 Once you've completed your training, you will have to take a state exam to receive your license. This exam will be an overview of theories, practices, and histories behind addiction and counseling. You can usually find exam study guides online, catered to the specific exam administered in your state. You should also refer back to the texts you study during school, as different theories and practices will come up on your exam.Make sure you have a place to study that's quiet and free of outside distractions. It should also have good lighting and a comfortable place to sit.
Make a study schedule and stick to it each day. You need to study a little each day instead of cramming studying into a single session.
Take breaks as you study. You'll become burnt out if you study a single subject for hours. About every hour, take a 5 minute break to recharge.
 You will have to check with the National Board of Certified Counselors to find the exam specific for your state. Most exams contain a variety of multiple choice lessons you must complete in a set amount of time. You should be able to schedule an exam test date online at a testing center near you. Depending on your state, there may be fees associated with the exam. While exams vary by state and certification, you can expect to be tested on much of what you've learned about addiction and counseling up until this point in your career.Rules vary depending on the specific exam, but you usually have a set amount of time to complete the exam. Things like cell phones and electronics should be powered off in the exam room, and you will not be able to chat with other participants during the exam. Usually, you will take the exam on a computer.
In the event you don't pass, you can take the exam again in 3 months. You will have to pay the accompanying fees again.
 State requirements for licenses vary, but you will usually have to present a certification assuring you passed your exam.You will likely also have to send in information regarding your education, such as transcripts, as well as certification associated with completing clinical training. There may be fees associated with receiving your license.
 Once you've obtained your license, your job search will begin. Start by writing a quality resume that lists all your relevant experience. This is a valuable tool to send to prospective employers.Choose a format and stick to it. You can download resume templates online or format the document yourself. Make sure choices, like your font, are consistent throughout.
A resume should list only relevant experience. List the experience related to the job you want. Your part time pizza delivery work in college will not be of interest to an employer. However, your volunteer work at a rehab center will.
Add any accomplishments you have. This will of course include things like your certification, but it can also include any rewards, grants, and scholarships you received on the road to becoming a counselor.
 A drug abuse counselor typically works in places like nursing homes, hospitals, halfway houses, rehabilitation centers, and mental health hospitals. Check these kinds of institutions to see if they're hiring.If you have connections, return to them during your job search. See if they're hiring at a place where you interned, or the institution where you received clinical training.
 When you are called into an interview, make sure you practice good interview skills. Use positive body language and answer questions with confidence to help land the job.Make sure to maintain eye contact, smile and nod to show you're listening, and sit up straight.
If you don't understand a question, ask the interviewer to clarify.
Read up on the hospital or rehab center before coming into the interview. Make sure you know its general philosophy and goals. This will show you're invested in the job.
 During your time as a counselor, you will need sources of support. Your job will be taxing, as you'll be working with people that come from troubled backgrounds. Many of your clients will struggle with sobriety. To avoid burnout, seek outside support.Reach out to loved ones. Having strong connections with friends and family members can help you avoid burnout.
You can also look into things like religious and social communities for support.
You should consider seeing a therapist as well. This can help you cope with the stress of your job.

