 Portobello mushrooms need to be cleaned and trimmed before you cook them.


Wipe the mushrooms down with a clean, moist paper towel or kitchen washcloth.
Use a sharp kitchen knife to cut off the stems. The stems are fairly woody and fibrous, so you may discard them. Otherwise, save them for use in a flavor stock later on.
Scrape out the dark black gills. These are edible, but the appearance leaves much to be desired, so they are usually removed. Pry the gills out with the tip of a metal spoon. Do not use the side of the spoon. You should be able to dig the gills out in neat, small chunks and avoid staining the cap., Use a small paring knife to cut a light “x” onto the top side of each cap.


Scoring the caps will let the steam escape more easily. As a result, the mushrooms will cook more evenly, faster, and with minimal distortion or shrinkage.
 In a small bowl, whisk together the oil, onion, garlic, and vinegar until thoroughly combined.
 Place the caps on a plate with high sides and pour the marinade over them. Let sit in the refrigerator for 30 to 60 minutes.


Portobello mushrooms are one of the few mushrooms that take well to being marinated, but you should still avoid marinating them for more than 1 hour.
Place the caps top-side-down when arranging them on your plate.
 Oil your grill grate to prevent the mushrooms from sticking and preheat your grill to a medium-high or high temperature.


If using a gas grill, preheat most of the burners to medium-high or high. Give the grill a few minutes to heat up.
If using a charcoal grill, pile a thick pile of charcoal in the center of the grill, add your lighter fluid, and light them up. Allow the fire to die down and do not add your mushrooms until white ash begins to form on the top of the coals.
 Arrange the portobello caps on your preheated grill top-side-down. Cook for 10 minutes without turning them, or until the caps are well browned, tender, and somewhat shrunken.
 Remove the portobello mushrooms from the grill and serve as a light vegetarian meal.

