 The amplifier will need to be turned up fairly loud in order for this to work, so you should protect your ears from potentially harmful sound levels. A good pair of earplugs might be sufficient, but for very loud volumes, specialty sound dampening ear protectors might be best. , Plug in and switch on your amp. You should hear a faint tone caused by the electricity running through it. This means your amp is ready for input. Take the cord end of your mic and plug its audio jack into your amp.


You’ll also need to plug a microphone into your amplifier. You should place your mic as far away from the amplifier as the cable will allow to prevent distortion and mic feedback.
Use a microphone stand if you have one available. Singing hands free will allow you to focus more intensely on the task at hand.
Remember to wear your ear protection. Also, to minimize your exposure to loud volumes, you should stand behind the amp, or behind it and off to the side.
If your mic doesn’t work, check it for an on/off switch. If your mic is already switched on but still is not working, check the audio jack to make sure your it is fully connected to the speaker.
 If you are using an unfamiliar amp, test its volume at a medium level before attempting to put it on the maximum setting. Most glasses will require you to reach a minimum of 100 to 110 decibels, which is about the volume of a passing motorbike, a nearby car horn, or the music in a nightclub.You may want to layer the wall your amp is pointed at with sound dampening material, like heavy blankets or cushions. This will prevent the loudness of your amp from aggravating others.
Other sound dampening measures you might make use of include acoustic panels, soundproof curtains, and other techniques.
 You’ll want to save your voice from unnecessary strain by singing at a soft to moderate volume. Slide your voice in very small increments around the resonant pitch until you feel confident that you have it perfectly. Then increase your volume until you are singing into the microphone directly at a moderate volume.


If your glass refuses to break, check your pitch with a pitch finder. The pitch you are singing might only be off a slight bit, but this can prevent your glass from breaking.
Vowels are less obstructed and will help you to achieve louder volumes. In particular, the "ee" vowel sound has the highest volume rating. The vowel “ay” is also rated very highly for volume.
Sustain your note as long as possible while making slight adjustments. Even if you hit the resonant frequency dead-on, you’ll have to hold the pitch perfectly for a few seconds before the glass vibrates enough to shatter.Since you are using amplification, you shouldn’t need to shout into the microphone. Speaking loudly puts strain on your voice and can do permanent damage if you’re not careful. Sing into the microphone at a moderate volume and take a break whenever your voice feels tired., A pair of rubber gloves will help prevent you from getting any nicks or cuts from the glass while cleaning. You may want to use a flashlight to help you find difficult to see fragments. Pick up and throw away large pieces of glass with your hands, sweep up smaller fragments, and use care when vacuuming. Glass fragments may cause damage to your vacuum cleaner.A common trick for picking up small shard and slivers of glass uses a slice of soft sandwich bread. Press your bread into the floor wherever you see glass. The glass should get caught into the bread, which you can throw away when the glass is clean or the piece of bread is full of glass. You may need to use several pieces of bread to clean the entire area.

