 There are only 2 really viable options for where your base can be, these being very high in the air and very deep in the ground. Each base has its notable pros and cons.

High in the sky base. Hard to spot, very easy to get to. You can safely maneuver your base without shifting in here, as it is unlikely that people will be looking in the sky for people. However, if they spot you, all they have to do is build a large tower up, however if you spot them early you can knock them off with a well placed arrow or knockback sword.
Deep underground base. Easy to see you in your base, as if people can see you in your base they can see where your base is. Hard to get to, the person must dig straight down to your base, and if you have lava around your base they run the risk of digging down into the lava.
 On most servers, the command for claiming land is /f claim, however you can do /help if that does not work.

It may be more beneficial not to claim your base, as even though people cannot break the land if it is claimed, it does tell them where your base is, making tnt cannoning a good idea

, If you are going for the underground base, you should be clearing out a space at about the 20 Y coordinate. This is because people mostly mine at Y level 11, meaning they won't accidentally stumble upon your base, however it is still pretty far down. If you are going for a high base, go about 6 blocks below the build limit, giving you a natural impenetrable ceiling. This base will only be visible on the highest draw distance, which requires a pretty decent computer to run with a decent fps., You are going to burn through food fast, so you are going to want to start getting some as soon as you can. Have a canal of water, then 8 blocks wide of crops, then another canal of water. Water can give it's fertilizing effect up to 4 blocks horizontally, meaning one on either side gives a 8 block effect. You are going to need a fairly lit place, so lots of torches, or better, glowstone, is needed., You are going to want chests several blocks high for easy access to all of them. Have a stack of obsidian next to the chests labeling what each chest is, and to protect them from explosions. If you can, covering the chests with obsidian is the best idea, as this protects them from being exploded or stolen from when you are offline.