 Wash 2 pounds (0.9 kg) of small, new potatoes and gently scrub the skins. Carefully slice each potato into 1/4-inch (6 mm) rounds. Put the sliced potatoes into a large pot or Dutch oven and add 1 tablespoon of salt.Thin-skinned potatoes like red or yellow potatoes work best for this recipe.;
, Pour enough water into the pot to cover the potatoes by 1-inch (2.5 cm). Turn the heat on to high, so the water begins to boil. Turn the heat down to medium-low and let the water bubble gently. Simmer the potatoes for 5 to 6 minutes.The potatoes should become tender once they've finished cooking.
 Carefully scoop out 1/4 cup (60 ml) of the starchy potato water in the pot. Set it aside. Place a strainer or colander into the sink and drain the cooked potatoes into it. Put the potato slices into a large mixing bowl and set it aside.The potato water will help the herb vinaigrette stick to the potatoes.
 Pour 1/4 cup (60 ml) of olive oil, 1/3 cup (10 g) of lightly packed fresh flat-leaf parsley (roughly chopped), 1/3 cup (10 g) of roughly chopped green onions, 2 tablespoons of fresh lemon juice, 2 teaspoons of Dijon mustard, 2 cloves of roughly chopped garlic, and freshly ground black pepper (to taste) into a small food processor.If you don't have a food processor, you can use a blender.
 Put the lid on the food processor and blend the vinaigrette until the herbs look like they're finely chopped. Open the lid or spout on top of the food processor and slowly pour in the reserved potato water. Put the lid back on or close the spout and continue to blend the vinaigrette until it's smooth.The potato water will help bind the vinaigrette together.
 Pour the herb vinaigrette over the potatoes in your mixing bowl. Use a large spoon to stir the potatoes, so they're completely coated in the vinaigrette. Let the potatoes sit for 10 minutes. This will give them a chance to absorb the vinaigrette., Wash and chop 3 stalks of celery. Add the chopped celery to the herbed potato salad and stir the salad again. You can also sprinkle the salad with extra chopped parsley and green onions. Serve the herbed potato salad or chill it before you serve it.You can store the potato salad in an airtight container for up to two days, although the flavor is best on the day you make it.

