;
,, The object of this cut is to cut through the outer jacket, layers of foil and / or braids and finally the dielectric foam (usually white in color) that surrounds the center conductor. There will be some opposition to the blade as it sinks deeper into the cable. When the blade approaches the halfway point through the cable, ease up on the pressure of the blade. This will occur when the blade has reached the center conductor of the cable, which is at the halfway point through the cable. It is very important to not damage this center conductor by nicking it with the blade.
 Do not allow the blade to nick the center conductor as you continue to cut around the center conductor.
, Grasp the the cable between the end and the fresh cut. Firmly pull the end off of the cable while twisting the end back and forth.,,, If it is nicked, it will be required to repeat the above steps until you are able to perform the steps without damaging the center conductor. It may take 6, 10 or more attempts before it can be done successfully if never attempted before.
 Be sure the center conductor is clean all the way around over it's entire length.
 There are different types of "F" connectors and ways to attach them to the cable. Most common "F" connectors can be attached to cables prepared with the dimensions used here and should be used unless the connectors you are using specifies a different dimension., The purpose of this cut is to penetrate the jacket only, and leave the braid intact. The cut will be perpendicular to the cable like the first cut. Many "F" connectors specify that the braid not be removed, while others prefer it removed. Plan to leave it in place for now, as it can be removed later, if needed. The braids are woven around the length of the dielectric foam, and lie just beneath the outer jacket. The individual wires that make up the braid are thinner than a hair, and are easily cut. Gently press the blade into the jacket and run it around the cable, in the same manner as was done in the first cut to the center conductor. Once the blade has cut around the circumference of the jacket, press the tip of the blade against the jacket at this cut and gently cut towards the end of the cable. Again, try not to cut the braid., Peel the 5⁄16 inch (0.8 cm) jacket off of the cable, leaving only the braid covering the dielectric., This should expose the dielectric, which surrounds the center conductor. There is no concern if some of the braid wires were cut. Check the requirements (if any) of the "F" connector you will place on the end of the cable., It is very important that there are no wires, filings or other conductive bits between the center conductor and the braid. The white dielectric should show anything that bridges these two parts easily. Remove anything found., Make one final inspection by looking into the connector. Make sure that no conductive debris is between the center conductor and the "F" connector before securing to the cable., It should not extend beyond or be recessed more than 1⁄16 inch (0.2 cm) from the bottom of the connector. Under no circumstances should the center conductor be in contact with the "F" connector.,

Coax compression connector tool
Coax connector crimping tool

,,