 Once you are translating a technical document into English, you must write like a technical writer as though the document-in-translation were written as an original English document. It is very difficult to translate from multiple foreign languages into English without this grasp. Every technical and scientific industry has its own communication standards and audience expectations---learn them!;
, To translate a technical document into English, you have to know how a technical document is constructed in English. To be able to understand your source text, you have read as much as you can in the source language on the subject in question to familiarize yourself with the correct terminology as well as linguistic and cultural nuances.
 For translating technical words from the source language to English, you should have very good dictionaries and reference books on the subject. Build up a good library if you don't already have one. If your source language has limited technical terminology resources, develop your own glossaries.
 One of the most important requirements is an understanding of the technical background of the subject area. Your understanding of the background is a must, before undertaking the translation to a fair degree of perfection. In fact, a perfect combination of all three is required: Command over the source language, English as well as the subject area.


Don't be afraid to ask a Subject Matter Expert (SME). If you don't understand a specific technical concept or are unsure as to how to correctly translate that concept, ask an industry-specific expert if you can, i.e. an engineer, programmer, physicist, archaeologist, etc. Risking mis-translation can be both costly and hazardous.
 There will be instances where it is not possible to exactly translate a technical document from source language to English due to the paucity/ lack of availability of technical words in English or vice versa. In this case, once you have understood the technical matter, you will have to use your common sense while translating. The meaning of the context should not be changed or altered.
 Experience will be gained by practicing constantly. Once experienced; you can undertake these translations with ease.

