 Every interaction that you have with your horse in an opportunity to teach her something. Make the most of these moments and stay safe by following some basic rules for safety around your horse.Never stand or walk directly behind or in front of your horse.
When working with your horse’s head, stand on your horse’s left side at an angle from her head.
Talk to your horse and touch her body as you move out of her field of vision.
When you need to do something with your horse’s hoof, bend over rather than crouching down.
 Your horse will not be able to learn a new trick or command in just one day. To teach your horse new things, you will have to take it one step at a time. Break the training goal that you have for your horse into smaller goals and work towards those goals one at a time.For example, if you want to teach your horse to bow, start by teaching her how to follow a target with her nose first.
 Trying to teach your horse or dealing with misbehavior can be aggravating, but you need to keep calm. Your horse may become frightened or frustrated if you seem angry or upset, so it is very important for you to remain calm and positive even if your horse is not responding well to what you are trying to teach her., Never yell or use a high-pitched voice around your horse or you may frighten her. Instead, speak to your horse in a soft, low tone voice to help keep her calm and responding to your instructions., Make sure that you acknowledge your horse’s accomplishments by using positive reinforcement when she does what you have asked. Treats are the most common form of positive reinforcement. Positive reinforcement will help your horse understand that she is on the right track., Applying gentle pressure with the reins or using a gentle whip tap can be used as negative reinforcement. Continue to apply the negative reinforcement until your horse does what you have asked.Make sure that you do not use any type of negative reinforcement that frightens or hurts your horse. The negative reinforcement should not be frightening or painful, just annoying.
 If your horse is not comfortable, then she may be distracted when you try to give commands. Make sure that your horse’s saddle is fitted to her body and that the quality is high enough to prevent her from getting sores.Using padding under a cheap saddle will not solve the problem, your horse will still be uncomfortable.
Expect to spend upwards of $500 for a good quality saddle.
If you have more than one horse, you may need a different saddle for each one.

