 Placing the student near the teacher will help eliminate any distractions and allow the child to focus on their work. Sitting next to extremely talkative children or a noisy hallway may make it more difficult for them to concentrate.This will also make it easier for the teacher to provide extra instruction of necessary.
 Tape recorders can help students overcome reading difficulties. The student can replay instructions and concepts for clarification or reinforcement. If recordings are made available before class, the student can read along as he or she listens to the tape., Again, since dyslexic children struggle with short-term memory, providing them with some sort of outline as you are lecturing is helpful, especially following long lectures.This well help the child follow along with the lesson, take better notes, and know what to expect. .


Use visual cues, such as asterisks and bullets, to highlight important directives or information.
Write homework instructions directly on the assignment so the child knows what is expected. It is also beneficial to allow use of reference guides such as alphabet and numbers

, Because children with dyslexia learn differently, the usual test taking formats may not allow them to demonstrate what they have learned. Children may benefit from oral testing or untimed tests.During an oral test, the test questions are read to the student and the student answers the questions orally. The test questions can be pre-recorded or read at the time of the test. The student’s answers could also be recorded for easier grading.
Students with dyslexia often have trouble working under pressure and take longer to read questions. Allowing the student ample time to take a test will ensure that student has time to understand the questions, think, and write down an answer.
Seeing all of the test questions at once can be overwhelming. Only allowing the student view one test question at a time will help them focus.
 Students with dyslexia need more time to copy information from the board, take notes from lectures, and write instructions for assignments.Teachers can provide lecture notes and written instructions for assignments so the student can focus on the actual information.Teachers may also assign another student to take notes or allow a good note taker to share their notes with the student.
 Some children with dyslexia may struggle with handwriting because of the fine motor skills it requires.You can change the response format of the question to multiple choice, underlining, or some other form of marking to make it easier for them to answer. Students could also be given extra space to write answers. Emphasis should be placed on the content that the student provides versus how the information looks or is presented., Help individuals with dyslexia to develop organizational skills that will benefit them for the rest of their lives. Organization could involve using different folders and dividers to keep track of homework, assignments, and tests. Model these in your classroom, but also encourage them to apply them at home.


Students should also be encouraged to use personal assignment planners and calendars to keep track of due dates for assignments, test dates, and other activities they may be involved in. Have them write daily assignments in their assignment book. Check the assignment book before the students leave school to make sure they understand the direction., A one hour assignment for a typical child may take 3 hours for a dyslexic child to complete. This can make the child anxious, stressed, and place an unnecessary burden on them. Instead having the student complete questions 1-20, have the student only answer the odd or even numbered questions. Teachers can also set a time limit for homework each night or only have the student focus on key concepts.


Instead of presenting homework assignments through writing, students may be allowed to present information orally, visually, or other ways that they communicate best.