 Add 40 grams of semolina… 2 teaspoons of caster sugar… 1 and a half teaspoons of salt… and 2 and a half tablespoons of olive oil. Then add 10 grams of dried yeast. This is the ingredient which will make the dough rise. Mix well.;
, Mix with a wooden spoon until it forms a soft dough. It shouldn't be too sticky, so stop adding the water when it is firm.
 Use your hands to knead it by pushing away with the palms of your hands, and pulling it back with your fingers, turning it frequently. Keep kneading for about 10 minutes. The dough will become soft and silky to touch. Form a compact ball.
 Put the dough in and cover either with cling film or a clean cloth. Put the bowl in a warm place and leave it to rise for about 45 minutes, or until it has puffed up and feels soft and springy to touch.
 Put 2 tablespoons of olive oil, 1 400g tin of tomatoes, 1 teaspoon of herbs, a good twist of black pepper, and 2 pinches of salt into a saucepan. Place on the hob, and turn on to a medium to low heat. Give it a quick stir. Leave it to thicken for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally to ensure it doesn't burn. Then take it off the heat, and leave to cool until it's needed.
 Lightly flour a surface and roll the dough into a long sausage shape. Then slice off small fist sized pieces. Shape each piece into a disc, then roll out into a small circle.
 Lightly flour a baking tray and place the pizzas on. Move the bases to a warm place. Leave them to rise for again, this time for about 15 to 20 minutes

,, Spoon a little of sauce onto each pizza base, and spread it out. Now it's time to get creative with your toppings, try the following; Slice the mozzarella and arrange on the pizzas. Split the anchovies in 2 and lay in a cross. If your olives have stones, remove them, cut in two and place them on the pizza. Sprinkle over a few pinches of herbs. Arrange a few caper berries or capers. Whatever you like!

,,, Of course, this always the best and most important step of them all. Enjoy!!!

