 Gently brush the feathers around the face to examine the skin. Various types of mites can bury into your finch’s skin to lay their eggs. You may notice your finch has lesions around the face, beak, or eyes. Their skin may be coated with a white powder-like film. Feathers may be thinning in this area.Scaly skin can spread to their legs. You will notice a growth of crusty clumps around the foot. These can grow and accumulate until your bird can no longer walk. These growths are called tassles., If you notice your bird has labored breathing, hold your bird up close to your ear. Listen carefully for any strange noises, including clicking, wheezing, squeaking, or grunting. Such signs may be more apparent after activity such as flight. These may be a sign of air sac mites.Even if only one bird is demonstrating these symptoms, all of your birds could be infected. Air sac mites are highly contagious, and you should treat every bird in the cage.
 Press a small light light to one side of the their throat, and examine the other side. The light will illuminate their windpipe. If you notice tiny, dark granules inside your bird’s throat, it may mean that your bird is infected with air sac mites and needs immediate medical attention.Use a small, directed flashlight beam, such as a pinpoint light. Do not shine it down their beaks, or you may blind them.
If you suspect that your bird has air sac mites, take him to the vet for a tracheal swab. This is the only guaranteed way to prove that mites are in the airway., Red mites can usually be found around the crest of the bird. With your fingers, gently push back the feathers around the head of your canary. If you see tiny red specks milling around in the feathers, it is a good sign that your bird’s cage has been infested., Fold up a white or light colored cloth, and leave it in a corner of the cage overnight. During the night, when mites emerge, they may cling to the cloth. In the morning, you may notice little specks on the cloth. These are most likely mites, and their presence is a sign that the cage has been infested.If your cage is infested, so are your birds. Even if you do not find mites directly on your birds, they are likely feeding on them if they are present in the cage.
 During the day, mites will often hide in the cracks of your aviary. Shine a light in the dark nooks of your bird house, taking care to sweep it through any tiny cracks or holes in the cage. Nesting boxes are a vulnerable location in the cage as well. Remove the shavings or padding on the bottom of the cage, and examine for further signs of mites.


Mites are around 1 mm in size.
They will form clusters of red or black bugs.
You may see tiny dark spots moving in cracks.