 At minimum, you should wear safety goggles and heat-resistant, fire-resistant gloves.


Also note that you will need to handle the stainless steel object with another device, like tongs or a vice. Everything you use should be both fire-resistant and heat-resistant to prevent accidental burns.;
, You'll need to prepare enough coffee grounds to cover all sides of the stainless steel object you wish to antique.


If you've recently made a pot of coffee, you can use the spent grounds from that. Otherwise, pour enough warm to hot water over a fresh batch of grounds and give the grounds a few minutes to absorb the moisture
For small, narrow objects like screws, you can fill a small cup with your prepared grounds. For larger objects, coat the bottom of a shallow tray with the grounds, instead.
 Hold the metal object with tongs or a vice, then pass the flame of a lighter over the entire length of the object, heating it thoroughly.


Continue rotating and passing the flame over the stainless steel object until the metal begins to darken in color.
For larger objects or a more controlled flame, consider using a propane tank with a lighter attachment instead of a handheld lighter.
The stainless steel will reach temperatures just beneath 500 degrees Fahrenheit (260 degrees Celsius), so you need to work very carefully to prevent accidental burns.
 As soon as the steel object darkens, quickly dip the heated portion into the prepared coffee grounds. Hold it in the grounds for 15 to 30 seconds.


The water in the coffee grounds should quickly cool off the metal. Theoretically, the steel should be safe to touch once you remove it from the grounds, but you should still proceed with caution.
In addition to cooling off the metal, the coffee should dye the stainless steel, giving it the appearance of antiqued metal.
 If you want to dye the steel even darker, reheat it and submerge it into the coffee grounds again.


You should be able repeat the process several times without damaging the metal.
If you only want to dye one side or area darker, focus the heat on that area and only apply the coffee grounds to that spot.
 When you're satisfied with the results, you can quickly polish the steel object by vigorously rubbing it with a soft cloth.


Wait until the object is cool enough to touch before polishing it.
Polishing the piece should buff away coffee granules and some of the dark dye. It should also make the steel a little shinier.
After you dye and polish the piece to your liking, the project is complete. The results should last indefinitely.

