 First, think about what you intend to keep on your tray during baths and how much space each object will need. Make sure that you use a piece of lumber that is wide enough to hold everything. Allow extra space so nothing is sitting on the edge of the tray. For example:


A 1” x 10” (2.5 x 25 cm) board should be wide enough to hold a book, candle, and glass with room to spare.However, be aware that lumber sizes (such as 1” x 10”) refer to when the wood is freshly cut, before it dries out and shrinks.So, if you have something wider than 10 inches that you want to place on your tray, you will need a wider board than a 1” x 10”.;
, Decide between making a simple tray with no raised surfaces or one with holders for certain objects. For the simplest tray, plan on using a single piece of lumber.Or, to minimize the risk of spilling stuff into the tub, purchase a second piece of equal size to create holders before attaching it to the base board.Alternately, you could rim the entire tray by screwing smaller pieces of lumber, like a 1” x 2” (2.5 x 5 cm), around all four edges of the base board instead of creating individual holders.
 Use a measuring tape to determine the width of your tub. Be sure to include the rim on either side, since this is where your tray will rest. Also double-check that the rim on either side is level with each other.Surround units (where the tub and the shower stall are all one unbroken piece) may incorporate designs without a level rim on the inside of the stall.
 Bring your tub’s measurements to the store. Select the size board you need (for example, a 1” x 10”). Ask the staff to cut it down to size to match the width of your tub. When you bring it home, double-check that the board rests on both sides of your tub’s rim.If you are creating holders, remember to ask for a second board of equal size.
To avoid confusion, remember that lumber sizes are H x W (for example, 1” high and 10” wide). Therefore you are cutting the board’s length to match your tub’s width.
 If you’ve decided on creating holders in a second piece of wood, consider what you intend to bring into the tub with you. Out of those, decide which would be most disastrous if they were to fall into the water (or even out of the tub entirely). These could be:


Paper materials, like books or magazines.
Glass objects, like a mug or wine glass.
Open flames, like candles.
 Depending on what you’re creating holders for, think about where on your tray is best to place each object. Consider what else you will be holding on your tray and how often you will be reaching for each item. Also consider which of your hands is dominant and most likely to do all the reaching. For example:


Placing a holder for a candle toward the back of the tray is always a good idea. This way you won’t be reaching over an open flame for anything else.
If you’re right-handed, placing a cup holder on the right side and a candle holder on the left is advisable since you will be reaching for your cup more frequently than the candle, and vice versa if you’re left-handed.
Also keep in mind that your hands and arms will probably become wet at some point. So if you’re creating a holder to place a book after reading, set this toward the rear or to the side of your cup holder so you don’t drip water over it when you take your next drink.
 First, designate one piece of wood to be the base of the tray and set it aside for now. Use the other piece as your topper. Now, for each object that will receive a holder, measure its bottom. Use these measurements to trace an outline on your topper to then cut out with a saw.Add an extra half-inch (1.25 cm) or so to each measurement to make sure the object has adequate room to fit.
For square or rectangular holders, use a table saw to cut them. For circular holes, attach an appropriately sized hole saw to a screw gun.
 First, sand the edges of each cut with sandpaper so they’re smooth, as well as the top of the base board. Then place the top board on top of the base board so they line up evenly. Use drywall screws to screw them together around all four sides.Make sure your screws aren’t so long that they poke through the bottom of your base board. Also remember that lumber is usually thinner than described. So, for example, use 1.25” (3.2 cm) screws for two boards that are each marked as one inch (2.5 cm) thick.
For a tighter seal, draw a line of wood glue along all four sides of the base board before setting the top board on it.
 First, smooth the board’s surfaces and edges with sandpaper and then clean away any sawdust. Then apply stain to match the color of your bathroom’s other wooden features, if desired. Once it dries, add a coat of wood finish (or, to make things simpler, use an all-in-one stain and finish mix to eliminate a step).Skip the stain if you want to, but definitely seal the wood with finish to protect it from moisture. Steam from your bath may warp unprotected wood over time.
Use a rag or brush to apply either one. When you do, brush or rub with the board’s grain, not against it.Allow the stain to dry overnight before adding finish. Do the same after adding the finish before proceeding to the next step.
Wear protective gloves when using stains and finishes. Also use a dropcloth or similar material to protect surfaces in your work area.
 Attach handles to the top of the tray, if desired, for easy transport. Use cupboard pulls or any other type of handle that suits your taste. Follow their directions for installation, since each type of hardware may have its own specific instructions. However, bear in mind:Cupboards pulls as well as other forms of handles may require you to screw through the bottom of the tray, rather than the top.
If so, expect the screwheads to project out of the bottom once they are screwed in. Even if you use flatheads, this may result in the screwheads scratching the rim of your tub.
To avoid this, create a pilot hole by attaching a countersink bit to your screw gun. This will cut both a pilot hole for the screw as well as a slight divot in the wood’s surface that will fit the screwhead.
 Minimize the chance of your tray slipping off the tub’s rim due to moisture and anything else that may make it slippery, like bath oils. Purchase a pack of self-stick rubber grippers. Peel the backing off each one and stick the gripper to the bottom of the tray where it will rest on the tub’s rim.Technically, you could also consider this step optional, but consider it strongly advised. Not only will grippers reduce the chance of your tray slipping, but their soft material will also minimize the risk of damaging both your tray and tub.
At minimum, use one gripper for each end of your tray. However, for best results, use as many as will fit between the tray and the rim of the tub, both lengthwise and widthwise.

