 Recreational skates are very different than those for figure skating or professional skaters. They are made to allow you to move forwards and backwards, do crossovers, and complete simple turns, but they won't work for competitive figure skating or professional-level hockey.
 In most cases, it's best to buy from someone trained to recommend the best skates for your needs. Do not purchase skates from a general department store because these skates will not give enough ankle support and can increase your odds of winding up with an injury.
 For most recreational skaters, skates that have the blade and boot (the shoe part) already connected work best. These skate packages are often cheaper, lower maintenance, and simpler to purchase.


Most recreational skates come with the blades already attached to the boots. Check with a professional at the skate shop to see what your options are.
 The best recreational figure skates should be made of leather, with steel blades attached only to the sole of the skate. Recreational hockey skates should be made at least partly from cloth and have a fiberglass frame.


Cheaper recreational skates will often be made out of plastic or synthetic leather. If you don't skate often and don't feel you need the highest quality skates, this may be an acceptable compromise for you.
Skates made out of vinyl will be very cold. They do not provide much stability, either, so it's best to avoid them.
The best hockey skates will have a gel layer inside that conforms to your feet when they warm up.
 Recreational skates start around $50 and can go up in price from there; some are as much as $1000. Most recreational skaters should budget somewhere between $50-$200, depending on the desired quality. Skates at the low end of the range will be of lower quality and comfort than those at the upper range.


If you buy boots and blades separately for figure skating, you'll spend more -- perhaps up to $600 for the boots and $600 for the blades.
 Fleece-lined skates have limited usefulness unless you are skating outdoors in very cold weather. Otherwise they do not provide much control over your feet and can be difficult to use.
 Start by trying on skates that are one size smaller than your normal shoe size -- skates are meant to be tighter on your feet than normal shoes.


It may be difficult to find special sizes in recreational skates but they can come in many sizes and different widths. Check with your skating store to see whether they carry skates in very small or very large sizes, and see which brands come in narrow or wide versions.
 Many recreational skates are quite soft for extra comfort but not good for intermediate figure skaters that will be doing turns and spins. Skates with a moderate stiffness will be best for providing good support while also being flexible enough for quick breaking in and good comfort.


If you are a beginner or just want to enjoy being on the ice with family and friends then you should choose a soft skate for comfort.
If you are an intermediate skater and beginning to learn freestyle skills but are not ready to be high-end figure skating skates then you should go with a more moderately stiff skate.
 Check the tongue of the boot for stiffness and padding. The tongue has a big effect on comfort and extra padding will protect your legs and feet from injury.
 Wear thin socks that are the same as those you will be skating in, and lace your skates properly. Skates should be laced loosely around the toe area, tightly over the bridge of your foot and beginning of your ankle and a bit looser around the top of the skate.


Thin socks give better control over the skate and should not make your feet cold if you choose good-quality skates.
Do not wrap long laces around your ankle; rather loop them around the hooks at the top of the skate.
 Walk around for at least five minutes to test the skate and see how it feels. Your heel should not be moving around at all. If it does move try to tighten the skate and if it still moves, then you should go down to the next size.


Walking wobbly or standing knock-kneed or pigeon-toed is a sign that you may need a smaller size skate.
If your skates are painful to walk in or if your feet fall asleep within five minutes of walking then you should try a half size bigger.
You should feel as solid walking in skates as you do in your normal shoes. When you bend your knees your skates should give slightly without your ankles rolling.
 Skates can come in different widths and they can be stretched to some degree. If your skate seems a little tight across the ball of your foot then you might be able to fix the problem with a spray or stretcher.
 Ice skate blades should have two edges with a slight hollow in between and should be smooth and without dents. They should also easily scratch the surface of your fingernail when you run it across. If you see any of these problems then you should have your skates sharpened.


Some stores will be able to sharpen the skates for you. Alternatively, most indoor rinks or skating supply stores will have a specialist who can sharpen your blades for you.
 Even if you choose skates that are sized perfectly, they may cause some discomfort or blistering the first few times you wear them.

