 It is important to plan ahead of time how much you can comfortably afford to pay for the car each month. This will help you get the best deal while negotiating. Understand that if you have bad credit, you may have to pay more per month, so you may want to make sure that you can afford a new car.

First you will need to calculate your total monthly income. Subtract your current fixed expenses, such as rent, utilities, average, and insurance. Try to estimate discretionary expenses too, such as how much you spend on entertainment.
After calculating this, take whatever income is left, and see how much of that you can pay each month for car payments. Remember to include the cost of car insurance, fuel, and other vehicle maintenance into this cost.;
, How you will use the car will help you determine what car you need. This will make it easier find the right car for the right price. Consider your lifestyle and needs.

If you have a family with children, you may need a sedan with four doors. A hatchback or station wagon may also be useful. If you are single, you may be able to get away with a cheaper two-door coupe.
If you need to commute long distances, you should look for a car with more fuel-efficiency.
If you haul large loads, such as construction materials, you may need to look into getting a truck.
 Start researching cars in your budget. Identify the make (the company that makes the car), model, and year of each car that fits your budget and lifestyle. Try to find different options so that you can look for the best deal.

Look for reliable makes and models. Read reviews online, and compare cars so that you do not end up paying for expensive repairs or maintenance later on.
 If you want a used car, start looking at car prices in the Blue Book. The Blue Book will tell you how much particular makes, models, and years of cars are worth. This will help you make an informed decision when you buy a car and prevent you from paying too much., Once you have identified what type of car you need and can afford, you can start saving up for it. Assume a maximum of 36 months of payments plus 20% down payment and closing costs. Even before you find the right car, start putting aside money every month so that you can afford to buy the car when the time comes.