 This will immediately make your room look much neater and cleaner. Make sure there aren't any pillows or blankets on the floor. Put out of place items on your bed to determine where to put them later.


Occasionally flip your mattress to increase its lifespan. It makes your bed seem comfier as well.;
, Grab a garbage bag or bin and look for the trash in your room. Look on the floor, the desk, the dresser, under your bed, in drawers, and in the closet. Put all the garbage in the bag or bin. Recycle what you can. Do this in about 1-2 minutes. Remember to empty your bin when its nearly full.


Don't be afraid to throw away broken or useless items, such as broken toys or outgrown clothing. Getting rid of these items will reduce clutter and help keep your room permanently clean.
,, If your main mess is clothing, and some clothes fall down from slippery hangers, separate clean and dirty clothes, and which ones you will hang up and others fold.
 Don't just throw them in the closet; put them in boxes stacked neatly in your closet.
 Put all dirty clothes in the laundry, and once they've been washed, make sure they are hung or folded and put away in their proper places as well.
 Pick something up and put it in its proper place until everything is put away. Separate everything into piles according to what they are.


Don't shove everything under your bed or in your closet! Actually pick it up and put it in the right place.
Try to avoid leaving papers loose on your desk. If you can't, stack the papers neatly or use small shelves to organize them. Make sure to leave your desk clear enough that you can still work there productively.
,, Start by taking everything off it. This includes your lamp, your phone and anything else you have on it. Put all of this stuff on to your bed. If you have a drawer in it, then empty it and again, put the items on to the floor. If you have a cupboard inside it, then empty it.


Clean it. Take a cleaner of your choice and wipe it clean, remember to clean inside of it as well, and the sided of the table.
Put the items back. Don't clutter it though. Put important stuff on top, like a lamp, a phone, maybe a glasses case. And then put everything else inside the drawer or cupboard space.
 Remove any items on top of your drawers and put them close by, on the floor. Empty the drawers and again, put the items close by. Polish on top of the drawers, and inside of them. Remember to wipe the handles. Dust any items, then place them back. Depending on what you keep in your drawers:


If you keep clothes, then fold them all neatly.
If you keep items, then dust them and put them inside.
 Take a glass cleaner and wipe it clean to get rid of any dust or smudges that may be on it.
 Remove any items on your windowsill. Take a glass cleaner of your choice and spray it on the window, then scrub it clean. You don't have to do the outside though, unless you wish to do so. Clean your windowsill with a cleaner of your choice, scrub any dirt or dust off. Remember to clean the window panes, and the sides of the window. Dust any items you removed and put them back in place.
 Make sure to get into the corners and every other little place in your room. Wipe down any surfaces with a damp cloth.
 You can also display them according to how you like.


Instead of picking up all the garbage like the little pieces of garbage if you have a vacuum use the suck up side to get the corners and vacuum the rest.



Every time you go into your room, tidy up a bit. This way it will stay relatively tidy, and you won't have to do an extensive cleaning job quite so often.

