 To make and keep friends, you must show yourself as friendship material. This can be done by displaying an opening and welcoming demeanor, being respectful of others and showing an interest in their interests and what they have to say.


Smile. The smile is a form of instant connection with the other person. It says that you're caring, open and friendly. It lets the other person realize that you're completely approachable and likable. In a nutshell, it says: "friendly person".;
, By being kind to the people you meet and to your friends, you'll gain a reputation for caring about people and this is attractive. If your friends know that they can rely on you to care about them when going through a tough time, they'll know that you're a true friend.


Be generous with compliments and supportive statements. Tell your friends what is wonderful about them and why you love being friends with them.
Help people to feel comfortable in your presence. Don't have expectations of people to act differently or be different when around you; if they can be themselves when with you, they'll be happy, comfortable and trusting of you.
 Try to find out what the other person likes and is interested in. This always makes for an interesting discussion and it helps the other person feel heard. Being genuinely interested in people is a skill that is highly valued.


Ask people about their likes and interests. Ask questions that elicit more than "I love soccer" or "I collect Furby toys." Keep probing to find out exactly what it is the other person loves about those things.
Be a good listener. Listen without interrupting, affirm that you are hearing what is being said and summarize the key points when the person has finished. Don't be too quick to insert your own information; ensure that the person has spoken their piece properly first.
 It is very easy to point out the negative aspects of another person yet what that achieves is instant prickling, as the other person realizes you're judging them and finding them wanting. It's a feeling nobody likes having, and it can immediately set you aside as non-friend material. The solution is simple––don't say negative things. Instead, focus on the good, the lovely and the likability that you can perceive in the other person. Friends come from the people in whom you see the good; more friends come from seeing greater good wherever you go. By always searching for the good things in others, it helps you to think about them in a different way; in turn, you'll get a positive response from them.


Realize that nobody is perfect, yourself included. To expect perfection is to set such a high standard that relatively few people will meet it, and even then, will be likely to disappoint you.
Have positive and respectful thoughts and feelings towards the other. When you find your mind wandering into criticizing their manner of speech, their clothing, their ideas, and so forth, remind yourself to find the good things and focus on those instead. Make it an instant habit by practicing this often. Also remember that the more you focus on praising and recognizing the things you want, the more you get of that and the less of what you don't!
By being positive and upbeat, you will attract the happy people to you.
 Make an eye contact while communicating with other people, nod or show that you're listening to them and ask for clarification if you don't understand something. Moreover, if you find that the other person is shy, reticent to speak, or at a loss for words, find ways to facilitate their involvement in the conversation. This can include asking questions, making it clear that you won't judge them and smiling often to encourage them. It can also help to occasionally show that you empathize with something they're feeling, showing that you've had the same or a similar experience.


When asking questions, use questions that can only be responded to properly with detail; yes or no answers just cut conversation dead.
 These bad moments can cause you to want to push the person away and not befriend them. However, realize that every person, including yourself, has bad days, bad moments and faux pas instances. Be forgiving and understanding; most mess-ups can be corrected in terms of communicating and making friends provided you're willing to move past initial feelings of dislike, outrage or disappointment. Focus on the present. Think about how you can forward from a bad moment, rather than staying in it by replaying it often. It happened, resolve it, then find positive ways to move forward. In this way, you can maintain friendships that are strong and also prove a safe and accepting learning environment.


If someone says something harmful about you or to you, try to work out what may have motivated this. There are many cogs whirring inside people that cannot be viewed externally and often the bad words and feelings are sourced from internal insecurities, weaknesses and fears. Maybe you are in a position to reassure this person that they're okay and don't need to be making gossip, rumor or mean comments just to feel they can cope. Give them the trust that perhaps many others have failed to, and make it clear that they're already forgiven for their thoughtless comments.
 Be loving and happy person, so that others can attract and like to hang out with you. People who have the same interest like you, become your friends soon. If you want to attract a person who is fun loving and energetic, you need to develop the same qualities.

