 Stack the deck with the best cards on top. Hold the deck in the palm of your hand with your thumb on top. Using your thumb, slide the top card at an angle slightly off to the side so that you can grab the corner of the second card with the thumb and forefinger of your dealing hand.


Continue this process as you deal cards to everyone else, then deal the top card to yourself.
Practice this move slowly and continue to increase the speed of your deal and decrease the distance you slide the top card as you improve.
Keep this trick out of the view of the rest of the players by bending your wrist so that the top of the deck of cards tilts slightly toward you. This will utilize the back of your hand to shield the deck of card from the view of the other players.
 Stack the best cards on the bottom of the deck. Hold the deck in the palm of your hand with your thumb on top. Keep the tip of your middle finger poised on the corner of the card on the bottom of the deck. Deal to the other players off the top of the deck. When it is time to deal your own hand, apply slight pressure to the corner of the bottom card, using the middle finger you had poised and ready. Gently push that corner toward the corner diagonally across from it. That corner should press against the palm of your hand, creating a slight bend in the card and separating it from the other cards at the bottom of the deck. Slide the bottom card slightly out from the deck and grab it with your dealing hand.It is important to separate the card from the others at the bottom of the deck to be sure that only one card slides and doesn’t take some of the others with it, leaving you with a deck which isn’t square and potentially giving away your trick.
Keep the deck slightly tilted with the top of the cards facing the rest of the players and hiding the bottom of the deck and your bending cards.
 Use an overhand shuffle to float the cards you want to the top of the deck, then table shuffle the number of cards between the ones you want in your hand to stack the deck in your favor. If you have stacked the deck with the best cards ordered to fall into your hand, you can deal as you normally would off the top to yourself and everyone else.


Count the number of players, not including yourself. This is the number of cards you will need to place between the cards you have stacked for yourself on the top of the deck. For instance, if you have four other players in the game, and five cards stacked for your Poker hand on top of the deck, place four cards between each of the five cards you wish to keep for your hand.
Avoid giving yourself a perfect hand and focus on giving yourself an edge with the best starting hand, so you don’t give yourself away.

