 There are dozens of online dating websites now, so do your research about them and choose one that fits your needs.


Look for one that focuses on your particular age group, religious beliefs, type of relationship you are seeking, or type of membership (free or paid). Common online dating websites include eHarmony, Plenty of Fish, OurTime, Match.com, ChristianMingle, and OkCupid.
Sign up for a membership and establish your profile. Answer the questions about yourself honestly, as this will best help the algorithms of the website match you to girls who fit your type.
Upload at least one good photo of yourself so that matches can see what you look like.;
, Social media has become incredibly prevalent in our society, and it has become a common way for people to flirt and find relationships.


Sign up for a social media account like Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter.
Set up your profile with basic information about yourself and a profile photo.
Decide whether you want your profile to be public or private. Setting it to private could block girls from interacting with you.
Search hashtags or groups for things in which you are interested to find girls who have those interests in common with you.
 These provide an alternative method of getting to know someone without the distraction of profiles and status updates.


Find an online chat room that caters to singles looking to flirt or find a relationship.
Sign up, if required, or simply enter a chat room to begin chatting.
 When communicating with a girl online for the first time, put yourself out there so she knows that you are interested in her.


Start out by saying, "Hello!" or "Hi there!"
Introduce yourself briefly; your name is likely all you need to share at this point.
Ask her a question about something you saw on her profile that caught your eye.
 Online flirting and dating can feel uncomfortable and dangerous to many women, especially when they do not actually know the man with whom they are talking.Respond to her in a timely fashion once she gets back to you. Responding too quickly might indicate that you are too eager, while taking too long might indicate that you have lost interest. It is best to respond within a few hours, whenever possible.Focus on learning about who she is and what her personality is like. Asking her about her physical appearance or to send you photographs of herself will give the wrong impression of why you are chatting with her.
Avoid immediately asking her out on a date or to meet in person. This also might give her the wrong impression and cause her to stop chatting with you. It is best to get to know each other for at least a few days before doing this.
 The point right now is to get to know her enough to determine whether you would like to take her on a date.


Keep the conversation balanced in terms of how much you talk about yourself. Answer her questions about you, and turn the conversation back around to her when you can.
Be polite and funny, if appropriate. Do not be afraid to make jokes that you find funny, because chances are, she might also find them funny.
"What do you do for a living?"
"If you could go on vacation anywhere in the world, where would it be and why?"
"What is your favorite season and why?"
"Do you have brothers and/or sisters? How many?"
"What is your favorite pastime with you family?"
"What do you most enjoy doing with friends?"
"Which is your favorite holiday and why?"
"Do you like animals? What kinds?"
"How would your best friend describe you?"
"What is your favorite memory from high school/college?"
"What is your favorite app on your phone?"

,"You have such a great sense of humor!"
"It's so interesting to hear you talk about traveling. You really love it!"
"That's such a great book! You have great taste."
"You have great taste in music."
"I can tell that your family is really important to you. I appreciate that."
"It's so great that you're passionate about volunteering. This world needs more people like you!"
"I haven't met many people who love their career like you do. Keep it up!"
"You have such a big heart for animals, and I like that about you."
"You're such a caring person. I really admire that about you."

, Ask her some questions to feel out what you have in common.


"What is your favorite genre of music?"
"Have you ever been to any concerts? Which one was your favorite?"
"What is your favorite genre of reading?"
"Do you have a favorite professional or college sports team?"
"Have you traveled many places?"
"What is your favorite type of food?"
"Do you like to cook or bake?"
"What kind of extracurricular activities were you involved in while you were high school/college?"

, Keep the conversation focused on getting to know each other. Say what you truly feel or believe in a polite way, and avoid controversial topics. These will likely lead to a disagreement and a negative experience.


Do not complain about family or friends
Do not complain about your job
Do not complain about other women you have dated or flirted with in the past
Do not discuss topics such as politics and legal matters
Do not talk about religion if you are unsure of her religious affiliation
Do not discuss topics such as environmentalism and animal rights
Do not discuss topics such as civil rights and women's rights

, Again, these could send the message that you are interested in the wrong things. This includes sexually explicit conversation. Here are examples of questions that you should not ask while initially flirting with and getting to know a girl online.


"What is your yearly income?"
"When were you last in a relationship?"
"Why did your last relationship end?"
"How many boyfriends have you had?"
"Have you ever been married?"
"Where do you live?"

, It is a turn-off for many women to see that a man spells poorly, uses incorrect grammar, or uses too many emoticons.


Use correct spelling and grammar to the best of your ability. It does not need to be perfect, but making an effort to do so shows maturity and responsibility.
Use punctuation appropriately. It is possible that she will say something that you really like or find funny, but you should avoid using more than one exclamation point at the end of your response sentence., These can send the message that you are immature or do not know how to communicate.


Overuse of emoticons sends the message that you have nothing important to say, or it undermines what you have already said.
Use of emoticons might send the wrong message, such as indicating something inappropriate.
Contrary to what you might think, emoticons are not necessary to help someone understand your tone or how you intend a message to be received.
 Tone is hard to convey online, so do not assume that she will pick up on your intended tone.Keep your messages simple until you get to know her better.
Be straightforward, including when you are trying to make a joke.Remember the tips above about punctuation and emoticons. Things like all caps or excessive exclamation points can be interpreted as yelling, for example.
Avoid sarcasm while chatting online. It is highly likely to be taken the wrong way when used in online communication with someone you do not know well.
Avoid assuming that she has an understanding of every topic you bring up. The safest thing to do is to ask if she is familiar, and if she is not, then you can explain it.
 A girl likes to have confirmation that you are interested in her, and following up after messaging or chatting in a chat room gives her that reassurance.


When you get busy with your personal life and cannot respond for a period of time, send her a quick message to let her know you are still thinking about her and will respond more in-depth when you have more time.
If you are trying to chat with the same girl in an online chat room on more than one occasion, be on the lookout for her username. When you feel comfortable, ask her for her email address for more private and consistent communication.
Continue to flirt with her online until you feel comfortable enough to take the online relationship to the next step.
 If you are able to meet with this girl in person (online chat rooms, for example, connect you with people from all over the world), then choose a public place to do so in order to make her feel comfortable.


Dinner dates feel intimidating to some women for first dates, so an afternoon date might be more her style.
Choose an activity that is laid back and will not add to the pressure of a first date. For example, seeing a local band play or painting clay pottery gives you something else to focus on to take pressure off of making conversation the entire time.
Be willing to accommodate whatever time she suggests, as well as ideas that she has for what you can do on your date. Show her that you welcome and appreciate her input and sense of security.
 If you ask her out on a date and she turns you down because she still feels uncomfortable, give it more time if you are genuinely interested in her.


Taking more time to get to know her and make her feel comfortable will result in a date when she is ready.
Suggest moving your conversation to personal email or phone numbers via text messaging or calling. This gives you a new way to communicate with her and help her feel more comfortable.
Show her that you are willing to wait for her by continuing to chat with her, taking an interest in her life and her story, and showing your patience.

