 Sweating happens when your body temperature gets too high and your body secretes water in order to cool it down again. Drinking plenty of cool water throughout the day helps to regulate your body temperature and prevent it from getting too high in the first place, thus preventing the need to sweat.


In addition, drinking lots of water allows toxins to be flushed from the body through urine, which would otherwise be sweated out through the skin.
When toxins are eliminated through the skin, they mingle with sweat to create bad odors. Therefore, drinking lots of water can improve the odor of your sweat.
Try to drink 6 to 8 glasses of water a day to help your sweating and provide a range of other health benefits, including clearer skin and improved digestion.
 This may sound a bit odd, but using a facial scrub on your underarms (or anywhere you experience excessive sweating) can help to exfoliate the skin and unclog pores.


Once the pores are unclogged, this will release any trapped toxins that have been blocking the pores and causing unpleasant-smelling sweat.
You may sweat even more than usual at first, but after a couple of days you should notice a reduction in the volume and frequency of your sweating. Continue to use the scrub once or twice a week., Baking soda and cornstarch are great products to use on sweaty areas that are prone to irritation - like the feet or beneath the breasts. Baby powder is also very good.


When dabbed on the skin, these powders will quickly soak up any excess moisture and keep the area dry for several hours.
Baking soda is antibacterial and anti-inflammatory, so it is particularly good for use on sensitive skin. However, to control sweating in the groin area it is probably best to use a product specifically designed for that purpose., Some people claim that turnip juice can be effective at reducing excessive sweating, as it reduces activity in the sweat glands.


If you're willing to give it a try, you can extract the juice from a turnip by grating it with a vegetable grater, then squeezing the grated flesh.You can then apply the turnip juice directly onto the armpits or other areas affected by sweating. Alternatively, you can drink the turnip juice or use it in a healthy smoothie.
 Sage tea is a little-known herbal remedy for excessive sweating which is believed to prevent the sweat glands from producing too much sweat.


You may be able to find sage tea in a health food store, but the tea is very easy to make yourself at home.
Simply boil a handful of dried or fresh sage leaves in a pot of water. Once boiled, strain the leaves out of the liquid and leave the tea to cool slightly before drinking.
One or two cups of this a day should be sufficient.
 The quality of your sweat is influenced by what you put into your body. Eating processed, artificially sweetened foods will increase the number of toxins in your system. These toxins can then clog up the pores and mingle with sweat to produce unpleasant body odor.


You should avoid any kind of fast food, processed ready meals, soda, artificially colored or sweetened candy, or anything containing high fructose corn syrup as all of these foods will aggravate sweating.






Instead, try to eat plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables - especially those with a high water content such as tomatoes, watermelons, cucumbers etc., whole grains, lean meat and fish, nuts, beans and eggs.
 Lemon juice can help to eliminate the negative odors associated with excessive sweating, thanks to the citric acid it contains.


Simply squeeze the juice from a fresh lemon, or take a bottle of pre-squeezed lemon juice and apply the liquid directly to the areas where you sweat the most. You'll smell lemony fresh all day long!As lemon juice is acidic, it can cause irritation to sensitive skin. Avoid applying the juice to any sensitive areas or to any broken or scratched skin, as this can sting.
 Zinc is also supposed to eliminate some if the bad odors caused by sweating. Find zinc supplements at your local health food store and take according to the instructions on the label.


It is always wise to consult your doctor before you begin to take any supplements.
You can also get zinc naturally in your diet from foods like oysters, crab, beef, breakfast cereal, baked beans, almonds and yogurt., Some people claim that performing a colon cleanse has helped them to reduce the amount they sweat.


There may be some truth in this, as colon cleansing eliminates toxins from the body which could otherwise contribute to malodorous sweat.
Therefore, if you have tried other options without success, performing a colon cleanse may be worth a try.