 Vans make all kinds of shoes of different materials, including leather, which would be ruined by getting them wet. Look at the shoe's tag to determine whether or not the shoes are canvas or another synthetic material.


If you own leather or suede Vans, you should use the same cleaning directions as you would use with other leather shoes. You should not dip them in water or use laundry detergent to clean them.
 If you've stepped in some serious mud, or gotten oil or grease on your shoes, use an enzymatic stain remover, or another commercial product of your choice to lift the stain before the wash. Apply to the stains in question and let the shoes sit for a while, while you prepare the washer.
 You want to use the gentlest and coolest setting on your washer, both for the safety of the shoes and the washer itself. It's not generally great to have shoes banging around in a washing machine, but it should be fine, done properly.
 Many people fear the glue and seams of Vans coming loose when placed in the washing machine. If you place the vans in a pillowcase beforehand, however, and include the shoes in a wash with other soiled items, like bath towels, or small rugs, it'll be a good way to keep everything padded, and from bouncing around too much. Your Vans should be fine.


It's not generally recommended that you wash shoes in the washing machine more than once every six months or so, or you'll risk damaging the shoes.
If you're concerned about the liners or inserts in your Vans, it's usually best to remove them entirely from the shoe and replace after washing, or replace with new inserts.
 Make sure to use mild detergent for machine washing as well as hand washing and add the shoes in the pillowcase with the rest of the wash.


To cut down on the amount of time you soak the shoes, wait until the load is half-full, if you're using a top-loading washing machine. The shoes will still get plenty clean, but won't sit for quite so long.
 Don't put shoes in the dryer. This can dry out the canvas as well as the soles, resulting in cracks along the seams. It's also a good way to damage your dryer.


If you need to get your Vans dried quickly and don't care about cracking, put them in the dryer with a few towels to soften the jostling.

