 Start by soaking a paper towel with water, then squeeze out the excess water. Place the damp paper towel on a flat surface and smooth out any wrinkles.The paper towel should fit inside your plastic zippered or resealable bag. If the paper towel is too big, then fold it in half or into quarters.
 Seeds from non-organic lemons usually do not sprout.Look for seeds that are large and plump. Skip the ones that look shriveled or like tiny, white specks. These will either not sprout, or they won't grow into a healthy seedling.Even if you only plan on growing one lemon tree, it is a good idea to start with several seeds. Not all seeds will sprout, and not all seedlings will survive.
Consider getting some seeds from a Meyer lemon. Meyer lemon trees do well indoors. They are not only ornamental and lovely to look at, but also produce smaller, sweeter-tasting lemons.If you are working with a small, sandwich-sized bag, then choose about 5 to 7 seeds. If you use too many, your seeds won't have room to grow. If you are working with a larger, freezer-type bag, then you can use up to 10 seeds.
 This will keep the seeds from drying out while you work. The seeds must stay moist. If they dry out, they will not sprout.
 You can do this by rinsing the seeds in cool water, or by licking them. This gel is filled with sugars, which can encourage mold and bacteria growth.
 Start peeling from the pointy end. You can use your finger nail or a craft knife to nick the tip, and then peel the outer shell down. This will make it easier for the seeds to sprout.
 You may notice that your seed is covered with a thin, brown film. Use your fingernail to scratch this coating off.
 Try to spread the seeds out as evenly as you can, so that the roots don't become tangled when they sprout.
 Once the seeds are on the paper towel, they should stay damp. If you notice them starting to get dry out, consider covering the paper towel with another damp paper towel. Be sure to remove the second paper towel before proceeding to the next step.
 Don't use a plastic grocery bag. You want the bag to be zippered or resealable; this will help trap the moisture and retain heat. Your seeds will need both in order to sprout.
 It will take one to two weeks. Some seedlings will need up to three weeks to sprout.
 Gently pat the soil around the seedling.
 Remember to water the plant and to keep the soil damp; do not allow the soil to become soggy or dry. Click here to learn how to take care of your seedling.

