 If your grades have slipped or you are not meeting your academic goals, then you will need to discover the reasons why. Although each person will have their own unique reasons as to why their grades are lower than they would like, reviewing the following common examples can help you discover your own:You may have difficulty in one specific area of study.
Scheduling problems can lead to you handing assignments in late, resulting in lost points and lower averages.
Your notes might not be as detailed as they could be.
Paying attention during a class may be difficult for you and cause you to miss important information.
 Studying alone can be an effective way to understand and retain the information presented in your classes. However, working with others can help you achieve an even deeper understanding of the information by engaging in a dialogue, allowing you to encounter new ways of viewing the topic being studied.Ask your friends or classmates if they want to create a study group.
Set up times when you can meet and discuss the material you are studying.
Study groups expose you to new approaches and viewpoints regarding the topic.
 Working to create and follow a schedule for your class work and study sessions can help you to avoid submitting work late as well as allow you plenty of time to fully absorb information. By creating a schedule you will be able to ensure enough time is available for you to get the most out of your studies and improve your grade.Try setting aside time each day for study, projects, and assignments.
Make sure your goals are definite and clear.
Stick to your schedule after you have created it.
 If you are unsure of what you can or need to do to improve your grades, you can try speaking with your teachers. Your teacher will have a good idea of what you can do to work towards improving your grade. Working together with your teacher can be an effective method to get the A's that you want.Your teacher will likely be able identify issues you may be having with the material and give you advice on how to overcome them.
Your teacher may be able to explain information in a more detailed way for you.
Special assignments or extra work may be allowed in order to increase your grade.
Avoid just asking your teacher "How do I get an A?" This can seem as though you are only interested in the grade, not the topic. Instead, ask "How can I improve my performance in this course?"

, Paying attention and truly focusing during class and when working on assignments can improve the amount of information that you retain and the quality of your work. You may also find and increased understanding of the information when your full attention is given to instruction or assignment.Try to eliminate distractions during class or when working on an assignment.
Focus on what your instructor is saying during a lecture.
Avoid talking with friends or playing on your phone during a class lecture.
Focusing during study sessions will help you to remember the information and do well during testing.

