 A good breeder will allow you to see all puppies and dogs at any time. They should be happy to have you look round, and indeed be proud of their facilities. They should also have a return policy — a breeder who won't let you to return a puppy for any reason isn't taking responsibility for the animals they breed. A responsible breeder also won't breed an excessive amount of litters in a year's time.


Make sure the mother is up to date with her vaccinations, and that the puppies started their routine parasite treatments at 4 weeks of age.Search the American Kennel Club's "classifieds" for Shiba Inus available from AKC-approved breeders near you., In general, you should stay away from breeders who adopt out puppies before 8 weeks of age. Puppies under this age are too young to be safely weaned from their mothers, and no responsible breeder would attempt it.Kennel conditions that are dirty or too crowded can also be signs of poor breeding practices and standards.


Rule out a breeder who can't provide you with health check information on his puppies.
Likewise, if you are not able to see the mother, walk away. No matter how legitimate an explanation they furnish about why she's not available, don't get taken in. This is a classic ploy of shifty breeders and puppy mills. Buying a puppy from them only encourages their immoral trade.
 Even if you're dealing with a reputable breeder, you need to be on the lookout for sickly or otherwise unhealthy puppies. The main physical characteristics you need to assess are:Energy: the puppy should not appear sluggish, but alert and high-energy
Clear eyes and nostrils: there should be no discharge or crust around them
Breathing: the puppy should not cough or sneeze excessively, and breathing should be quiet
Cleanliness: the puppy should have a clean genital area, with no fecal matter or pus visible or smell
Weight: the puppy should be rounded with baby fat over the ribcage
Coat: the coat should be clean and glossy, with no dullness or dandruff. Greasiness or bald patches are a warning sign.
Hearing: clap your hands behind the puppies head to make sure it reacts and turns toward the sound
Vision: roll a ball slowly near the puppy (within its field of vision) to make sure it notices the movement
Legs: observe the puppy's walking and running for signs of limping, stiffness, or soreness

, Especially if you're choosing a puppy you plan to show, it's important your puppy adhere to breed standards. It can be hard to tell how a puppy will develop as it grows, but its parents will give you an idea of what the puppy will look like as an adult. A partial summary of AKC standards for Shiba Inus includes:Size: Males stand 14.5-16.5" at the withers and weigh about 23 lbs. Females stand 13.5-15.5" and weigh about 17 lbs.
Head: Shibas should have a confident gaze with dark brown irises rimmed with black. The forehead is broad, flat, and slightly furrowed, and the muzzle's bridge is straight. There should be no over- or underbite in the teeth.
Body: The back is level from the base of the neck to the tail. The body is well-muscled, with a chest depth (from withers to lowest point of the sternum) of half or slightly less than the dog's height from withers to the ground. The tail should have a single, not a double, curl.
Coat: the only acceptable colors are red, sesame, or black.The outer coat is stiff and straight, while the undercoat is soft and thick.
Dogs with over or underbites, males over 16.5" or under 14.5", and females over 15.5" or under 13.5" are disqualified from showing.

