 If you know that the hot weather season is coming up, plan to get acclimated to the upcoming hotter days. This will help your body get used to the heat and stay cooler.


Initially, your body may not deal well with high temperatures; however, over time, your body gets used to the heat, sweats more and learns to cool itself more efficiently.A few weeks before the heat hits, practice exercising outdoors. Try working out just a few days a week for shorter periods of time outside.
It generally takes a few weeks to get your body acclimated to the hotter weather. Once you're used to it, you sweat more which ultimately keeps your body cooler. Just remember that when you sweat more, you need to replenish those lost fluids, so increase your water intake, too.;
, In addition to planning in advance for hot weather, also plan when you're going to exercise. There are better times during the day to help you stay cool.


In general, the early morning hours and the late evening hours are the coolest times of day to exercise.If you can, schedule in your outdoor exercise for these hours. You may need to get up a littler earlier or plan to exercise after dinner.
Try to avoid exercising right in the middle of the day. Lunchtime and early afternoon are the hottest and when the sun is the strongest.
 When you do decide to exercise outside, see if you can plan a route or find an area that's a bit shadier. Whenever you're in the shade, you will feel cooler than in the sun.


If you're going for a run, walk or bike ride, look for a path with a lot of trees or along city blocks that are shaded by the building shadows.
If you're doing exercises outside, look for large trees that provide a lot of shade and try to stay underneath them while you exercise.
 Whether you run or bike, taking it a little bit slower can help your body keep itself cool while you exercise. Pushing yourself too hard or too fast can cause you to heat up too fast.


During the hotter months, plan to do easier workouts, ones that don't require maximal effort and go for a shorter time period.For example, if you normally run a 9 minute mile, consider taking it a little slower and run at a 10 or an 11 minute mile.
Since you're in shape, taking it slower won't raise your heart rate as much and your body won't heat up as much.
If you do need to push it harder or go faster, try to go indoors or in the early hours of the day. This way, you can keep a little cooler.
 In addition to taking it slower, you may find that you need to take more breaks during the summer. If you're getting too hot, slow down or stop for a bit.If you're outside in the heat and are feeling a little too hot, take a quick break from your exercise.
Try to rest underneath a tree or in a shady area to help your body cool down faster.
Or, you can try dumping some cold water on your head and face to help cool you off a little faster as well. Make sure you always have plenty of water to stay hydrated.
 Some days may just be too hot to exercise. So instead of forcing a sweaty outdoor workout, hit the gym for an indoor aerobics class.Check out your local gym fitness class schedule. Find a class or two that will work with your timeline so that you can still get in a great workout without overheating in the hot sun.
You may also want to correlate gym classes with the weather. The days that are going to be overly hot, you can check out the gym schedule so you can plan ahead.
If you don't like any of the aerobic classes, use the cardio equipment instead. Spend some time on the treadmill, elliptical or stair climber. It's a great alternative.
 Nothing is more cooling than a nice swim. Whether you go to an indoor or outdoor pool, this is a great way to stay cool and get in a good workout.


If you enjoy swimming, consider going more often during the hotter months of the summer.Think about joining a local pool club or a gym or fitness center that has a swimming pool.
You can go to swim laps or sign up to do a water aerobics class or even a water Zumba class.
 If you're not a fan of the water or don't belong to the gym, you can still get in a good workout. Stay indoors at your own house so you can exercise and stay cool.There are a ton of online videos (many of which are free) that you can bring up on your tablet or computer. Follow along to a cardio or strength training video right in your living room.
You can also purchase exercise DVDs. You can find ones that are cardio or strength training depending on your exercise goals.
Exercise DVDs and videos are great for those days you didn't plan ahead and realize it's way too hot to go outside.
 If it's too hot to go outside, consider staying in and hitting the stairs in your home or apartment building for a fantastic workout. Stairwells are usually cool and may be air conditioned, making them ideal for exercising on a hot day.


Keep in mind that a fall down the stairs can cause serious injury, so make sure you feel confident enough in your fitness level to tackle a stair workout.
You can walk or jog up and down the stairs, do sprints, or jump from step to step.
You can even incorporate strength training into a stair workout, from lunges to calf raises to tricep dips.
 If you want to do something a little different, skip the traditional workouts all together. Instead, spend the day indoors being active and having fun.


If the day is overly hot and you want to stay cooler, consider taking a rest day. You can do something low key or be more active inside.
For example, if you want to still be a little active, consider walking a mall or going to a museum and walking around. You're still being active, but are also inside and cool., Drinking an adequate amount of fluid is essential during the summer heat. Take extra care to drink the minimum amount or more so that you stay cooler and safe in the summer heat.


Experts recommend making sure you are fully hydrated before you even start to exercise. Hydrate your body at least two hours before you plan to work out.
Drinking adequate fluids doesn't make your body feel cooler; however, it does help your body produce sweat which is an essential cooling function.Most health professionals recommend that you drink a minimum of eight to 10 glasses of hydrating fluids each day.When you're exercising in the summer, aim for 10 –12 glasses instead.
You need higher amounts as you are sweating more often during the day and more profusely as you exercise.
Being even a little dehydrated can negatively affect your performance when exercising.
 One very important part about keeping cool is your clothing. Wearing the right type and color of clothing will help keep you cool during your summer workouts.Many manufacturers now make athletic clothing that is specifically designed for hot weather workouts.
This type of clothing wicks sweat away from your body, is lightweight and breathable.
In general, look for clothing that's white or neon in color and lightweight (like cotton). This combination is great for those hot days.
 You may be surprised to know that wearing sunscreen is a good method to keep cool. Protecting your skin is essential to staying cool during the summer.If you get burned during the summer, your skin isn't able to cool itself as it normally would.
To prevent this from happening, wear sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30. Look for products that are designed for sports or athletics and are waterproof so you won't sweat them off. They usually resist sweat and stay on a little bit better.
Also invest in a baseball hat or visor to wear. This helps keep your face in the shade and out of the sun.
 If you enjoy exercising outdoors during the summer, try to keep track of the weather. You'll have a heads up on what days will be the coolest.


Check online, on a phone app or watch the morning news to keep an eye out on the weather.
Look at the whole upcoming week. Which days are going to be the coolest? Is there a heat wave coming? Are there days where it's going to rain?
Knowing this information in advance can help you plan what days are the best to exercise. For example, a day where it's only going to be 85°F (28°C) instead of 95°F (35°C) is a better day to exercise outside.
 Even though you're doing everything to stay cool during the summer, you should still educate yourself on heat sickness.This way, if you experience any of these symptoms, you can seek the appropriate medical attention:


Headaches
Dizziness
Nausea and vomiting
Mental confusion
Feeling flushed
Rapid heartbeat
Muscle and abdominal cramps

