 Choose your test site and test date. There are many test sites across Texas. Choose the one closest to you to make the testing process more convenient. A full list of test sites is available at http://www.thea.nesinc.com/TA_IBTtestsites.asp. Contact the test site directly in order to set up your THEA test date., There is a $29 fee to take the test. You can pay with credit card, check, debit card, or money order. Bring a printout of your confirmation email with you to the test site if you pay by credit card.Inquire with your test site about specific payment processes.
 There are two official preparation tools available through the THEA website at http://www.thea.nesinc.com/TA_prepare_landing.asp. One is an interactive practice test and the other is an online study guide. Both will help you ready yourself for the test.The THEA practice test includes test questions and directions just like the ones you’ll see on the test. You can take the test only once, but you’ll receive your score immediately after completion. The practice test also provides in-depth explanations as to why a given answer is correct or incorrect.
You can obtain the online study guide as a single, large guide for all three subjects (reading, math, and writing), or you can get a smaller, subject-specific guide for any of the three subjects.
There are, additionally, many books and study guides available through through test prep publishers. Check your local bookstore or library for availability.
There are also many colleges and universities with tutoring centers where you can prepare for the THEA.
 At least one form must include a picture. Valid ID could be a driver’s license, passport, student ID, military ID, current alien registration card, department of public safety card, matricula consular, yearbook, credit card, social security card, insurance card, or a pay stub.Photocopied ID will not be accepted.
 You can work on the sections of the test in any order you desire. The THEA tests basic skills and competencies in math, reading, and writing. It may be required for you to enter an EPP, but will definitely be required before you obtain state certification as an elementary school teacher. There are three parts to the THEA.


The reading, writing, and math multiple-choice portions of the test are are scored on a scale of 100-300. The essay portion of the writing test is scored on a scale of 2-8, and averaged with the multiple-choice portion of the writing test for a final score in the writing session.
You must score at least 220 in writing, 230 in math, and 230 in reading to pass the test.