


Look for concerts or festivals to go to online, and make sure that it is in your wanted price range. Have your family or friends look with you to see what you'll all enjoy and then get the tickets and go to the desired destination.;
, This is a great way to cool off and have fun. Ask a parent to bring a friend with you or go with your siblings.
It's the time to go outside. Play some basketball,soccer,football or another kind of sport. Make sure that you have the right equipment for this and just have fun. You can play by yourself, with a friend, a parent, a teacher, or a sibling. You can play with anybody, just no strangers.

Go bike-riding. Make sure to wear your helmet and when crossing the street, look out for cars, motorcycles, trucks, and other vehicle.



On a rainy day stay inside and read a book,if you have a sunroom go out there and listen to the rain or read,or play outside in the rain splashing in the puddles. Make sure you are appropriately dressed for the rain, like rain boots and raincoats. Don't wear anything you don't want to ruin. But still, make sure you have fun!
Get to your artistic side. You could write poems, song lyrics, draw something, or paint, or play with clay!
Sign up for a new class. There's so many things you could sign up for!
Go to your public library. This is a great way to catch up with books and fun reading.
Visit a museum or a zoo. Look at all of the animals if you go to a zoo. Look at all of the objects in the museum if you go there. Have fun.
Even though its summer you could watch a little T.V. but not too much.
Play some fun video games! Just make sure to get outside frequently!
Browse the Internet! Search up random things and play some games online!
Get a Facebook or Myspace or other friend site so you can stay connected with your friends and family.

Read a new, interesting book.
Finish that homework of yours! Even though this is not fun to most people, it's a great way to get everything stressful done and over with so you could have fun in the summertime!
Create a scrapbook or a photo journal! Or you could write and start a new diary!

Make smoothies and other non-alcoholic drinks! Use fresh fruit.
Turn on your favorite music and start dancing!
The summer is a great time to learn how to do some new things! Learn how to hula-hoop or whistle, or anything else.
Go outside and use sidewalk chalk to create a mural or draw something on the pavement. Use different color chalks!
Search for some new music to listen to.

Play a board game. This is a great way to bond with family or friends.



If you think your house can be boring, ask your parents if you could go to a friend's house. If you can't go over a friend's house, time to explore your own house and see what you have (like art, paints, music, books) to have fun.
Go to a cafe, mall, bookstore, or some other shopping area! You could hang out with friends, hang out by yourself, buy some stuff, or just roam and look around at stuff.

Call or text somebody. This is a good way to talk to somebody.
It's good to have a party or a sleepover so invite some of your friends over and have some fun. You could make snacks, watch movies, or play some cool games. Just don't get into any dangerous or scarring trouble that you'll regret for the rest of your life.



It's the perfect time to travel. Usually mostly every day in summer is hot,so hit somewhere cold. Or you could go on a summer vacation! It doesn't have to be a big summer vacation, it could be a small one too, like going to a local pool or a fun water park.

Camping would be great so you could get a lot of fresh air. Camping is a great way to spend fun time with family. You can camp in your own backyard, local park, or in a fun camp! You can make a campfire, roast marshmellows, tell scary stories, and sing catchy campfire songs!
Instead of going to the pool hit the lake. Go swimming or fishing. Just make sure the lake doesn't have leeches, stingrays, jellyfish, and other harmful bugs/fish, and also make sure that it isn't too deep.

Go hiking at a local National Park. Make this a time to explore your inner thoughts and enjoy the nature world. Bring a camera and take beautiful pictures of nature itself. And make sure you have the right equipment and items so that you are safe and packed.
Go to the park, even if your a teenager. Grab a book or iPod to take with you. Sit on a bench and really look at the world and nature's beauty.
Go to a creek and splash in the water. Make sure the water is clean and free of leeches, jellyfish, stingrays, and more harmful bugs/fish. And make sure that it isn't too deep.
Got to a water park or amusement park. These are really fun and another great way to cool off and have a good time!
Go to a waterfall, it's great! Just don't get hurt.
 This is a great time to clean up all that unwanted junk and clutter, and once your house is clean you can relax and de-stress. Donate all old or unfitting clothes, or clothes that you don't want or need anymore.
 Paint it a fresh new color, rearrange it, get new furniture and items, or just scrap it and redecorate the whole thing all over again! Look online for some fun and cool ideas.
 Build a sandcastle, go in the ocean, or just rest on a blanket and tan. Just make sure not to get sunburnt. Wear some sunscreen too.
 This can slightly cool you off and you could get some rest.
 Play with water balloons, go in your pool, and eat some healthy snacks!

, This is a great way to give back to the world.
 See how far you could spit your watermelon seed!

, Mini-golf is a great game to play and it's also very fun.
 Good way to cool off and have fun!

,,, This is so you could see what your dream college is like.
 This is an amazing way to see the outer space world.
 A lot of people enjoy scavenger hunts and they're really fun too.
, Go see a new movie!

, If you bring your friends, see who could skip stones the farthest!

,, Try to catch a bigger fish! Just make sure that you don't fall in the water!

, Be sure to let them go after you catch them!

, Make sure it's nothing dangerous or harmful.
 Don't let go of the leash.
,, Or you could invent your own pizza! Just don't burn down the house.
 That's a great way to get to your creative side! Write out a script and film it!

, If you're with friends, watch a movie from each topic (such as horror, comedy, romance, etc.) or every one of your friends (including you) can pick out one movie each and then you could watch all of the movies you each picked!

, Just don't get in anyone's way. Bring food like sandwiches, chips, crackers, and more! Also bring a blanket, a basket, and drinks such as water, lemonade, pink lemonade, soda, milk, and more!

