 Risk of suicide is higher in teens who are struggling with depression. This is a serious condition that should be addressed as soon as possible. Symptoms of depression may include feeling sad or hopeless, crying a lot, having changes in sleeping or eating habits, having trouble concentrating, complaining of aches and pains, and losing interest in previously enjoyable activities.This generally has to last for two weeks or more to be considered depression.

If you suspect your teen is depressed, gently share your concerns with them and let them know you are there for support. You might say, “I’ve noticed that you have been sleeping a lot and not eating. Jacob heard you crying late into the night. I’m worried and I think we should get you to a doctor.”;
, Researchers have identified a link between bullying and suicidal behavior. However, this is not to say that bullying causes suicidal behavior. Teens who are bullied cope with a lot of pressure both at home and at school. Unfortunately, they may see suicide as the only way out.On the other hand, suicidal behavior isn’t only common in victims of bullying. Studies show that students who report being involved in bullying have higher rates of suicide. This means that the victim, the bully, or any witnesses are at risk.
Parents should start and open dialogue with their children about bullying so that they feel more comfortable discussing this behavior. Get involved with your teen’s friends and the school in order to stay in the loop about possible bullying behavior.
 Exposure to abusive behavior or being the victim of this behavior increases a teen’s odds of feeling suicidal. If you have knowledge that your teen has been physically or sexually abused, pay close attention to their behavior to prevent suicide.Keep in mind that by this age, you can usually have an open conversation with your teen about these things. If you know that your teen has been abused, or notice they are acting differently, then try asking them about it. Also, let them know that they can always come to you to talk if they ever start to struggle.
 If your teen has attempted to commit suicide in the past, then they are more likely to try again in the future. Consider your teen’s history and any attempts they have made to help you determine their risk., Teens who have a parent with a history of depression or a relative who has attempted or completed suicide are also at risk. Similarly, if your teen witnessed the suicide of a family member, or has a friend or peer who recently attempted or died by suicide, this also increases their chances of having suicidal thoughts.Talk to your child about their exposure to suicidal behavior. You might say, “Everyone in the community is really shaken by the Jefferson boy’s suicide. How are you dealing with all of this?” You can also ask, “If you ever started having thoughts like that, what would you do? Would you feel comfortable coming and talking to me?”

, Another risk factor for teen suicide is drug or alcohol abuse. Use of drugs and alcohol is also a form of self-medication for teens who are coping with anxiety or depression as it helps numb uncomfortable feelings. However, these substances often intensify the negative feeling and make teens feel worse. If you suspect your teen may be abusing drugs or alcohol, get them to an experienced addiction counselor.

Signs of substance abuse may include making new friends and neglecting existing social ties, declining academic performance, being very secretive, neglecting personal hygiene, and withdrawing from family., Coming “out of the closet”, moving to a new place, going through a breakup, dealing with parents’ divorce, becoming pregnant or losing a close friend or family member are all significant life changes that may provoke suicidal behavior in teens. Any of these changes may bring on unpleasant feelings that a teen doesn’t know how to handle.

If your teen has recently experienced a significant life change, watch them closely. Let them know that you are there for support or recommend that they talk to a school counselor, teacher, coach or other trusted adult. Social support serves as a protective factor against teen suicide.