 Cooking on traditional stove tops heats the food to a level where most of its nutrients escape. Hence it is best to cook your meals in a microwave oven which shortens cooking time by about a third as compared to traditional cooking. Microwave oven follows a cooking technique that enables nutrients to be preserved. All you need is a safe microwaveable cookware (preferably glass) and the freshest ingredients you can find.  ;
, The next step to cook healthy is to choose the right kind of cooking medium. One must understand that not all fats are bad. Most of the food we eat needs to be made in some kind of oil. Opt for unsaturated over saturated fat like butter and mustard oil for your cooking purposes. Olive oil is still the gold standard for cooking oil.
 Grains form the staple for meals in most of the countries and cultures across the globe. We have been oriented to choose refined gains over whole grains. For once, let us change our regular practice and choose whole grains instead. Whole grains such as brown rice and bulgur have their bran intact and thus they are rich in nutrients like fiber, vitamins, magnesium and zinc.
 Make fruits and vegetables a major part of your meal. Green vegetables are rich in iron, calcium, magnesium and other trace minerals that are beneficial for blood and bone health. Choose grass-fed lean meat and poultry and fish to lessen exposure to antibiotics and chemicals. Incorporating fiber-rich food could turn a simple menu into a healthier meal., Often we make meals with dairy products. One must always remember that dairy products are rich source of calcium as well as fat. So instead of avoiding their use completely we can replace the whole milk dairy with low fat or non fat dairy. This is an easy and effective way to cut saturated fat in your diet.
 Often the meal we cook require some amount of sweetener to get the specific taste. Sugars of any kind whether corn syrup, white sugar, brown sugar, honey or maple syrup, add significant calories without any nutritive value. Barging from the use of sweeteners much often can effectively cut good amount of calorie from your meal and make it healthier. Again there are some recipes where you cannot avoid the use of sweeteners; in that case you can use honey and other fat free replacements of sugar easily available in the market.   

,, So the last step of cooking healthy food includes the choice of seasoning such as fresh herbs, spices and citrus to enhance flavor while preserving the original taste of the food.

