 Dust paneling once a month or whenever it looks dusty. Most paneling cleaning can be accomplished by dusting alone. This easy preventative cleaning will save you from having to use a more labor-heavy type of cleaning later on.In order to dust paneling that is higher than you can reach with a rag, you can use the dusting extension on your vacuum cleaner or an extendable hand-held duster.;
, Then, pour in a few drops of vegetable oil. Finally, fill the bucket with warm water from your kitchen faucet. This mixture will effectively clean and polish paneling, while maintaining its visually appealing shine.


Use this cleaning soap/oil mixture only if there are marks or stains on your paneling that cannot be removed by dusting.
 Wipe down the paneling with this non-abrasive cloth. Ring out the excess water, so that your rag is damp, not wet.

Overly wet rags can penetrate the finish and cause staining. When cleaning any type of paneling, it’s imperative that you not let water soak into the paneling. This can both distort the wood or other material beneath the finish, and also warp the finishing itself., Start from the bottom and wipe straight upward to avoid streaking.Wipe the wood in small sections. Work quickly and thoroughly. Remember that you don’t need to scrub the paneling very hard; a light touch will be enough to clean the surface.
 Continue to rub along the vertical grain of the wood when you’re rubbing it dry. Drying the paneling finish with the lint-free cloth will also buff the paneling, rub in the oil from the soap/oil mixture, and give the paneling an attractive sheen.Work in small sections by first washing and then drying the area before moving on. Otherwise, you’ll leave a large portion of the paneling wet at once and risk damaging the finish.
If you leave the water on the finished paneling for too long, it will discolor the finish and give it an unattractive gray tint.
 As you continue to rinse and re-dampen the cleaning rag in the bucket, the water will become dirty. At this point, dump out and refresh the water and soap solution. You can then return to wiping down the sections of paneling.


Wash out the rag or sponge well to remove dirt and debris.

