 The person interviewing you wants to connect with you. If you're too cold, it's a turn-off. Be polite and diplomatic, but don't be afraid to open up a little bit. If your interviewer connects with you, she'll be more willing to hire you and to consider what you want for a salary.As an example, if your employer comments on how hot it is, instead of saying, "Yes, it is." offer a more personable response, such as "I know! It's sweltering. Maybe we should try to fry an egg on the sidewalk.";
, Show why the company needs you by giving examples of how your skills match up with the company's needs. The more the company needs you, the more the employers will be willing to negotiate a better salary.For instance, if the company is looking for someone with good writing skills, say something like, "I have ample experience in written communication. I minored in English in college, which is why my last employer often turned to me when she needed something official written, such as a letter to our customers."

, Be clear that you want to work for the company, and they can get you for the right price.To clarify it for the interviewer, you could say, "I am excited about what your company is doing, and I feel like I could be an asset here, as soon as we work together to find the right financial balance both of us can agree on."

, Find out about the company, but also find out about the person interviewing you, if possible. The more you know, the better you will be able to connect with him or her.If you know the person interviewing you loves camping, you could bring up your love of camping at the start of the meeting to help connect with him or her.
 You can find average salaries on the internet, taking into account your education and experience level. Knowing the average salary will give you an idea of what you can ask for in a salary., The only time you should discuss salary is when you are sure they want to hire. You'll know they're ready because they say they want to make an offer to you.If you don't wait, you may estimate too high or too low. If you estimate too high, you'll be pushed out of the interview process, but you may estimate too low if you don't know exactly what the job entails.Let them make the first offer. It gives you a starting point, and you can negotiate from there., If the price tag is lower than you want, turn on the charm instead of getting angry. You may still be able to negotiate it higher, and anger will only cut off the negotiations.For example, if the company offers a salary that is too low, you could say, "I appreciate that offer, and I am definitely excited to work here. However, I do think we need to discuss the salary some more. What do you think of (insert counter offer)?"

, You may not get the salary you want, but you might be able to get other benefits, such as more vacation time or a flexible schedule. Your interviewer may have more authority to approve these types of benefits than to give you a salary above the price range she must work in.You can also negotiate for a one time sign-on bonus.To negotiate other options, you can say something like the following: "I understand you don't have much wiggle room on the salary, but do you think we could come up with some other kind of compensation? For instance, could I have extra vacation time instead?"

