 Just because your teacher has not announced extra credit opportunities, does not necessarily mean that there are none. If you feel you would benefit from extra credit, always ask your teacher what you can do to improve your grade.If something is going on in your life that has affected your grades, make sure your teacher knows about it. She may be more willing to work with you if you have a legitimate excuse for falling behind in the first place.Be sure to communicate that you are genuinely willing to work to improve your grade. Teachers are not likely to change your grade unless you put in a lot of effort.
Understand ahead of time how much of an effect extra credit can have on your grade. This will vary from class to class, so never expect that you can turn your C into an A by writing one additional essay just because that worked in another class.
 Some teachers offer lots of extra credit opportunities, but some don't offer any at all, so don't expect it. If your teacher does give you the chance to complete extra credit assignments, be thankful for it.Do not complain about the amount of work that is required or the number of points you can earn for it. Your teacher didn't have to give you any extra credit opportunities at all.
Do as much extra credit as you can, as long as it isn't interfering with your other assignments. You should always complete the required assignments for your class before you move on to extra credit.
 If you've been given an extra credit assignment, it's up to you to make the most out of it. In order to show your teacher that you really care and get the best grade possible, you need to put your all into your work.


As with all other assignments, make sure you understand the expectations. Don't be afraid to ask your teacher to explain the requirements if you don't understand them.
If your teacher gives you the option to choose your extra credit assignment, make it something that you are passionate about. For example, if you have to write a research paper about a controversial issue of your choosing, pick a topic that you find interesting. You will have a much easier time completing the assignment (and you will probably do better work) if you enjoy learning about the topic.
Always hand your extra credit in on time. Do not disappoint your teachers again by turning in your work late.

