 The following are good practices to adopt early on in your accounting practice.


Have a personal meeting to discuss a new clients accounting needs. Ask open-ended questions about "How," "What" and "Why" your client wants to grow their business or save for the future. Ask them what services they are looking for, and suggest ways to save them money.
Keep in touch by phone throughout the accounting process. Relationships can become impersonal if you communicate through secretaries or by email. Call the client to inform them of changes or issues and try to have a friendly conversation before diving into business.
Offer to train your clients to improve their bookkeeping. You can offer this as a free service or discounted consultancy fee. If they are genuinely interested, and you think this will save them money or avoid audits, then suggest ways that you can help.
Ask for referrals. Offer a small discount for any new client that comes by way of referral. Do this only after you feel comfortable that you have secured a regular client. It will cost less to keep your old clients than to go looking after new ones.
 Pay attention to an increase in business, and hire proficient accountants or assistants before the work load gets to be too much to handle. This means hiring people before the end of the calendar year, so that you have trained professionals for the busiest part of the tax season.
 Moving your growing practice from a home-base to a physical location is an excellent idea once you start to hire employees and meet with new clients. Scout a location that is in a business hub, has some space from competitors and has ample parking.
 It will be easier to find clients if you become part of the local business network. Go to mixers, professional development courses and even fun events in your town. Mingle with people you don't know and give out your business card to whomever you think would be a good contact.
 If you are new to the accounting community, put more money into print advertising, radio advertising and online advertising just before the rush of tax filing. Create a clear, professional message that touts any new or special services you offer.


You will need to have a larger marketing budget the first few years of your practice. Consider buying a client list of local businesses or home addresses and sending out a direct mail piece. Do not underprice yourself, but advertise any specials or niche services that you can offer.

