 Keep your room clean,make sure you have a good life style pick up any trash out side;
,, The ferret and all of its accessories will cost around $500-1000, plus recurring costs for food, treats, and litter

, You're trying to prove how responsible you are, not annoy them.
 You will also need to keep bringing in enough money to take it to the vet, buy the food and any other unexpected expense.
 Get on your computer and put these things in an attractive format for your parents:


Costs. Write out the things you will need to buy and how much you expect these things to cost. The cage, bed, litter box, litter, water bottle, food dish, harness and leash, food, ferret first aid kit, carrier, ferret shampoo, treats, toys, and the ferret itself.
Write out the positives about ferrets. What makes them good pets to have. Write about how they're not destructive to furniture, they're quiet, they're small, they're in a cage sleeping while you're away and not pooing on the carpet.
What you also need to tell them they can be destructive like they can dig under furniture in the soft fabric and how they can poop in the house when their not litter trained. But how these things can be prevented by watching them and how you can litter train them or buy them already litter trained and they might be happy at you for telling them the downsides to but how those down sides can be prevented or fixed.
Write about how you plan to work hard and save money to take it to the vet when needed. Will it be neutered and De-scented when you buy it? If so, write that too.
If your parents have any specific concerns about the pet, address these concerns, too.
 Wait for a time that is convenient to your parents, not right before they go to work or when they're driving. Make sure you all have time to sit and discuss things. Do not whine or beg. Be sure to discuss the matter in a mature manner.
 Be sure they know that you don't need an answer right away. If they have a few days to think it over it may be more likely they will give you a favorable answer and it shows that you are mature enough to delay gratification.
,, Ferrets live 6 - 10 years. Will you take them to college with you if you go? Will you be able to find apartments that allow ferrets? Your parents will want to know you have thought of the options and are ready for the commitment.

