 Asking good questions shows your professor you're interested in the course, not just sitting their idly. The best questions include material from past classes or from outside reading, as that demonstrates you're actually retaining material from week to week.For instance, you might ask something like, "That's an interesting point you just brought up. How does that relate to what our textbook says about the subject?"

, Another way you can show you are committed to the course is to email your professor when you have a question. Emailing is also a way to get a leg up if you're having trouble. The key to emailing your professor is to have a purpose to the email, and then follow general academic email etiquette.Start it out like a letter. That is, begin with "Dear Professor Roberts," You can substitute "Dr." for professor if that's how the professor refers to themselves on the syllabus. However, make sure to use the professor's last name and to spell it correctly.
The first sentence should be a nicety. Start with, "I hope you had a nice weekend," or "I hope you're enjoying the nice weather."
In the next paragraph, let them know who you are. Say your name and what class you're in. If you can distinguish yourself in some other way (such as I'm the girl with the pink hair in the back row), do so.
Bring up your question, as well as the action you'd like the professor to take, such as "I have a question about the reading. I'm not quite understanding . Is there any additional reading you could recommend to help me understand it?"
Make sure your question isn't answered by the syllabus.
End the email with "Thank you," and your name.
 One way to show you're willing to go the extra mile is to show up during office hours. You can ask a question that's been bugging you, for instance. You could also ask for extra reading materials to help you understand the class better. Your professor will appreciate that you're willing to go above and beyond.You could say, "Hi, Professor Roberts. I've been having trouble with this concept. I was wondering if we could talk about it or if you could point me in the direction of some extra reading materials."

, Larger universities often have graduate teaching assistants to help in big classes. These assistants help the professor with coursework and grading, but they are also there to provide you with assistance. If you're having trouble with a professor, consider asking a teaching assistant for help in how to do better in the class.Start with, "Hello! I've been having trouble with Professor Roberts' class. I was wondering if you had any tips on how to do better."

, When you don't understand something or you're having a hard time, it can be tempting to blame the professor to their face. That, however, will get you nowhere. Instead, focus on getting your problem solved to the best of your ability. Blaming your professor will only make life more difficult for you.For instance, don't say, "You didn't teach this material very well in class." Rather, say, "I don't understand this concept very well. Is there some extra reading I can do to understand it better?"

, If you notice a mistake in grading, for instance, don't be afraid to stand up for yourself. Most professors are willing to admit when they've made a mistake, and they'll work to get it corrected. However, it's probably best to approach your professor during office hours, rather than at the end of class when they need to dash off somewhere.Try to be relaxed when asking about a grade. You could say, "Hi, professor. I had a question about my recent grade. Do you mind if we talk about it?"

