 The best way to help your child prepare for an MRI is to talk to them about it beforehand, describe what will happen, and answer questions. Generally speaking, for kids 2 and under, this will be most effective on the way to the appointment. For kids 11 and over, this preparation can come weeks in advance.Use this chart to decide when you should begin preparing your child for their MRI:


2 years old – speak to them on the way to the appointment
3-5 years old – speak to them the day before the appointment
6-10 years old – speak to them a few days before the appointment
11 years old and up – speak to them a week or two before the appointment;
, Using simple, straightforward terms, tell your child everything that is going to happen. Speak to your child's doctor to get a specific overview of your child’s procedure. Details can differ from patient to patient, such as the length of the procedure, the use of sedatives, and the use of an IV.Your child will lie on a “special,” movable bed that will slide into a narrow opening. They might go in head or feet first, depending on what’s being examined.
A large magnet will create a kind of “force-field” around your child. This is totally painless; they will not feel the radio waves directed at them.
You child will hear some clicking, buzzing, and thumping noises. They may wear earplugs or headphones to help block the noise. For some procedures they may also need to wear a special helmet.
During this process, it is very important for your child to stay still, “like a statue.” Many MRIs last from 30 to 45 minutes, but your child’s could be shorter or longer than this.
When it is finished, your child will slide out of the tube. If they have been given an IV, this will be taken out. If you child has been given medicine (a sedative), they will still be pretty sleepy for several hours. When the procedure is over, you can go home together.
Your child will probably be scheduled for a follow-up appointment to review their results.
 Some MRIs will require the use of a contrast dye to make the images clearer. This dye is administered using an IV. The doctor can let you know if this will be a part of your child’s MRI, and if so, be sure to talk to your child about this aspect too.A tourniquet, or “stretchy rubber band,” will be placed on your child’s arm to help the nurse find a vein.
The nurse will clean the skin, and may spray the area with a cold “freeze spray.” This will help numb the area.
The nurse will then prick your child with a small needle, and place a tiny tube inside the opening. The cold spray will help make this less painful. Also, the needle will come out right away and only the little tube will remain. Any pain will only last for a few seconds.
Finally, the nurse will place tape on the tube to help keep it in place.
You may want to distract your child during this process, but they are welcome to watch if they prefer.
 Once you have explained the procedure to your child, give them a chance to ask questions. Provide clear, honest answers. If there is an answer you don’t know, consider calling the doctor together to find out. Remember that kids may need some time to formulate their concerns, so be prepared to answer questions minutes, days, or weeks after your initial talk.Some kids might ask:

“Is this going to hurt?”
”How does the test work?”
”How long will I be in the tube?”
"How will I feel when the test is done?”


You can explain:

”The test won’t hurt your body at all. There will be some loud noises, so you can wear earplugs or headphones to keep your ears safe.”
”A machine uses a big magnet—like what we have on the fridge, but way stronger—and radio waves—like the sounds coming out of our radio—to take picture inside your body.”
”Let’s call the doctor and see if they can tell us how long your MRI will go.”
Depending on whether or not your child will take a sedative, you can either say, “You should feel totally normal,” or “You might feel sleepy for a while, but you can come home and watch movies.”



, You know your child best, and all children are individuals. When you talk to your child, and how you talk to your child, is up to you. The most important thing is simply to help them mentally prepare, assuage any fears they may have, and be available to answer their questions.