 Backing into a parking space is always the safest method of parking. When you back into a parking space, you have the opportunity to assess the open spot as you drive past it. This allows you to see if there are any obstructions within the spot or if vehicles are parked too close to the spot’s boundary lines. Lastly, when it is time to leave, you can pull out of the spot rather than backing out of the spot.


As you search for an open spot, your SUV should remain approximately 7 to 8 feet away from parked vehicles.
When you see an open spot, turn on your turn signal to notify other drivers of your intention to park.
As you drive past the spot, examine the parking space. If the space is safe and large enough for your SUV to fit within, drive two to three spaces beyond the intended bay. SUVs come in a variety of sizes. Adjust the distance away from the space and the parked cars as needed.;
, Before you back into the spot, you must make sure your surroundings are clear. Use your mirrors and windows to look around your SUV. Wait for any pedestrians, cyclists, or oncoming vehicles to pass you. If there is a vehicle behind your car, make sure you can safely maneuver into the space. If the other driver is not paying attention, find a different parking spot., Once your surroundings are clear, prepare to back into the space. Put your SUV in reverse. Turn in your seat to look out the back window and check your mirrors.


If your surroundings are still clear, begin to drive your SUV backwards slowly while turning the wheel fully towards the direction of the space. Turn the wheel fully to the right if the space is on your right; turn the wheel fully to the left if the space is on your left.
As move backwards, the lines of the open parking space will appear in your side mirrors. Use the lines to guide you into the space. The line nearest you is “Line A” and the line furthest from you is “Line B.” Repeatedly glance at the side mirror closest to the space until Line A appears in it. As the SUV rounds into the space, Line B will appear in the other side mirror.
Continue to check your side mirrors to monitor your distance from each line. You should be equidistant from each line.
The slower you execute this, the easier and safer the process will be., When Line A and Line B appear parallel in your side mirrors, pause for a moment. Straighten your wheel by turning it 1 ½ times. Once your tires are straight, continue to back into the space until your rear bumper nears the concrete barrier or the car behind you. Put the vehicle in park, exit the SUV, and lock it., If your SUV is too close to another car or crooked, correct the parking job before exiting your vehicle. Leaving your vehicle too close to another car may result in damages.


Shift your car from reverse to drive.
Look to your right and left to check for pedestrians and other cars. Once it is clear, pull forward away from the object your SUV is too close to.
Continue to move forward until your SUV is centered and straight. Turn the wheel so that your tires are straight.
Shift your SUV into reverse.
Use your rearview mirror as you drive backwards into the space.
Put your vehicle in park and exit the SUV.