 Barramundi or Asian Sea Bass are tropical fish, found in Indo-Pacific areas between Southern China and Australia. Barramundi fishing is thought to be Australia’s most iconic fishing, throughout the full northern coast of Australia. You can’t call yourself an Australian angler if you haven’t scored at least one "barra", for short, in your fishing career.


In Australia, several water reservoirs are stocked with barramundi for recreational fishing. Although among the anglers of Australia, the catch-and-release fishing for these “Impoundment barramundi” is extremely common, it’s way more exciting to fish them in their natural environment.;
, Barramundi respond well to a large array of lures and jigs. Therefore, jigging, popping, spooning are the most common strategies for catching them. The secret is to match your lure to the tiny fish barramundi are feed on - the prey of the barramundi - in that individual place. As a general plan, lures from silver to yellow, brown ought to produce some nice results.


Fly fishing for barramundi is common as well, in smaller rivers, and clear water where the fish can see the surface. Fly fishers typically use larger flies and nets.
 Find a good In general, to catch a barra, look for a deep spot, with a steep muddy or rocky riverside, with lots of vegetation, few trees, stumps, mangroves or bushes within the water, places wherever a barra may hide. Typically you'll see them at the surface, and in this case, clearly you must forged your lure or fly in their direction.
 The ultimate way to catch barramundi is on lures like some use live bait to catch fish but some do not consider this.


Lures are trolled or forged to possible places, which incorporates snags, rock bars, undercut watercourse banks, and coastal flats wherever bait is being sought by fish. Lure color and size are greatly debated. However there's little doubt that some days barramundi will show preference for certain lures and hues. From time to time the fish can kill a selected food item and a lure will have to imitate that item to get any strikes.
Assure the lures are sturdy. Luckily there's a large variety of strong lures obtainable specifically for barramundi fishing.The soft plastic lures or "jellies" are terribly effective.
 Using light line and tackle/equipment, not up to the task, only see’s big fish lost with lures/hooks still attached.Also with using light line and light rod/reel setups, the time taken to land a big barra is too long, many big fish are totally exhausted and near to death before even coming to the boat. A barra that is brought to the boat quickly is in much better health and less stressed.
 Once the barra is beside the boat decide whether you really have to remove it from the water to release it. Only remove barra from the water if you require a photo and ask yourself, "Do I need to photograph every fish I catch or only the trophy size fish?"


Once you have decided to boat the fish, make sure that where you are going to place it isn't hot. This is best done by wetting the carpet, Truth Mat, or wherever you intend to lay the fish. Remember that on hot days even wet carpets can become hot again very quickly. Place your barra down and remove the lure as quickly as possible using a strong pair of bent nose pliers.
The best way to remove big barra from the water is with an extra large, knotless net.

