 For a puppy to be registered, its parents must both be of the same breed. The breed must also be one that the Kennel Club officially names as a breed. Because the registration is in the UK, the puppy must be born in the UK., You must be the owner of the dog to register the puppy. Also, you must be the person who bred the dog.Only the breeder can register a new puppy with the Kennel Club UK, so if you're not a breeder, make sure to ask the breeder if the dog is registered before purchasing it. Make sure the breeder gives you the registration certificate when you pick up the puppy., To register the dog, you'll need to fill out an application form. You can find the forms on the Kennel Club's website. Depending on the litter, you may be able to fill out the form online. Otherwise, you'll need to print it off and mail it in.You'll need to fill in such information as your name and address. You'll also need to fill in the color, name, alternative name, and microchip number for each puppy.
You'll pay a fee for each puppy you are registering.
 To begin transferring ownership from a breeder to you, you need the ownership code and the dog's registration numbers. These two numbers are unique to the owner and dog, respectively, so you must have them to transfer ownership., Next, you'll need to add in your information. You'll need some basic information, such as your name and address. You'll also need to pay a small fee to transfer the dog from its previous owner to you., The Kennel Club will send you a Owners Registration Certificate in the mail. Keep this certificate in a safe place, as it is representation of you being the registered owner, and it will include information like your ownership code., To receive a pedigree certificate, you need to provide some basic information about your dog, such as its name, registration number, and breed. You'll also need to provide some biographical information, including your name and address.You must be registered as the dog's owner to purchase a three generation pedigree or a duplicate pedigree.
 You can purchase a three generation pedigree, a five generation pedigree, or an enhanced five generation pedigree. It's up to you which one you choose, based on the price and what information you'd like to see.The three generation pedigree is a single page certificate (size A4). It goes back three generations for your dog's parentage. It will include the sex, date of birth, microchip number, breeder, breed, and the registration number for each dog, as well as the color.
The five generation pedigree is also on a A4 page, but it goes back five generations. It includes basically the same information as the three generation pedigree, though it doesn't have the microchip number for each dog.
The enhanced five generation certificate is larger, on an A3 size sheet. Any champions in your dog's ancestry will be shown in red text. It also includes an embossed seal. Otherwise, it provides basically the same information as the five generation pedigree.
You can also purchase a enhanced five generation certificate with a photo., The three generation and five generation pedigrees are ten pounds each (as of 2016), while the five generation enhanced pedigree is twenty-three pounds and twenty-eight pounds with a photo. Once you fill out the application and pay the fee, your pedigree certificate will be sent to you within approximately two weeks.