 For starters, make sure those around you recognize that there is much more to you than meets the eye. Oftentimes, introverts are stigmatized because they initially come off as anti-social. However, what most people don’t realize is there is a depth of ideas, thoughts, and feelings that introverts may only share with a select few.

As their relationship with you deepens, they will gradually learn more and more about who you truly are.;
, Most introverts behave differently in intimate gatherings versus crowds. An onlooker can easily get the wrong impression of you if they don't observe you across different settings. In crowded social settings, you may stand in the corner and refuse to mix and mingle. Meanwhile, in small groups, you may come off as warm and inviting., Although you may be able to fake it for a time, small-talk is probably the bane of your introverted existence. If you’re an introvert you may prefer to spend your conversational capital discussing philosophical subjects, like ideas, feelings, politics, or spirituality. Otherwise, you’ll probably just sit back and observe.

If an extrovert wants to really communicate with you, they need to go beneath the surface. For instance, you might prefer to talk about your dreams and ideas rather than casually discuss the weather., Extroverts are outgoing, conversational, and deeply invested in filling up as much time as possible socializing. As an introvert, you may not necessarily be against socializing, but you don’t have to fill every waking moment with conversation. In fact, you’d probably much rather remain in silence than engage in idle chit-chat.Let your extroverted friends know that silence doesn’t have to be uncomfortable. It’s a great way to process your thoughts and feelings and truly take in your surroundings.
 Just because introverts don’t require as much social interaction as extroverts, doesn’t mean you don’t want to connect with others. You simply prefer quality over quantity.Tell your extrovert friends to reach out if they’d like to interact with you. Then, spend time engaging in thought-provoking conversation, enjoying nature, or engaging in creative pursuits, which are preferable to introverts.

