 Reliability is first and foremost. You are responsible for their child's health and safety.;
, The best babysitters enjoy being around younger children.
 If you know what to do in case of a fire, as well as basic first aid and lifesaving techniques, you and our clients will feel more confident about how you'd cope in an emergency situation.
 If you're sure of yourself, your charges will be sure too.
 Can you keep a cool head in an emergency?

, Expert babysitters know the basics for feeding, dressing, diapering, bathing, and being playful with children of different ages. Template:Larger image

, This means you don't snoop around, spend hours on the phone, or eat out of the house or home.
 Babysitting is a job. As with any business arrangement, you should set the financial details up front. Find out what the going rate for babysitters in your neighborhood. Your rate should be in the same range--more for looking after more kids or if you have lots of experience, less if you are new at the job. Discuss the rate with the client--before you accept the job.
 Your babysitting checklist should have:

,,,,
*9-1-1 may take care of all three (see related articles).

Address and phone number of where the parents are going.
When the parents expect to get to their destination and when they expect to leave.
What time they think they'll return home.
Whether they are expecting any phone calls or visitors.
How/if they would like you to answer the door and phone if anyone calls.
 Any food allergies or restrictions?
Medication: Never give any medication unless the parents have given you instructions. If a child has an epi-pen (for severe allergic reactions) the parent should train you in how to use it.
Bedtime: When? Is there a special bedtime routine?
Bath time: Never, ever leave a child alone in a bathtub!

,
Emergency supplies: flashlights, first aid, and cleaning products.
Appliances: Make sure you know how to work the can opener, stove, oven microwave, high chair, heat or air conditioning.
Pets: Will pets need to be fed or given water--when, what, and how much?
Many communities offer courses in babysitting and first aid. Try to do one of these before your first job.
,