;
, Synthetic cord is the most suitable for this task, especially if you're new to the art of Friction Fire. 550 Parachute cord is commonly used due to it's overall durability and resistance to wear. Other suitable options include: shoe lace, the roots and bark of certain trees, reverse wrapped plant fibers, and long strips of clothing that have either been braided or reversed wrapped.
 Hardwood is excellent, such as cedar, hemlock or oak. If you use a soft wood it will last a shorter time, although it will be easier to make a fire. It should be something you can hold down with your foot while kneeling. This will be what you drill into to make the ember that will start the fire. Make a small notch in the piece of wood where your drill piece can go. This drill piece is called the firebird.
 stick that is almost perfectly straight for the drill piece. Taking the bark off is better, but leaving it on is okay, if you lack a knife.
 The best thing to use is a fist sized rock with a small hole drilled into it from a harder rock, this is called a top rock. The hole is used to hold your spindle in place.
 Make sure the bow is not tight, but don't allow very much slack either. The string should not rebound if plucked.
 A tinder bundle is a fine bundle of tinder, which can be found from poplar trees on the inner layer of bark. Other materials will work, such as dry grass. The tinder bundle should resemble a birds nest. Your kindling should be smaller than a standard pencil.
 This should make the string much tighter. Finally, to make the ember, vigorously spin the drill on the piece of wood by moving the bow back and forth. Use your top rock to hold down the drill and keep it in place.
 If it starts to smoke, do not stop. It will smoke before an ember is created.
 BE CAREFUL! Blowing even slightly hard will disperse the punk, or the hot sawdust, ruining the ember. Then scoop the ember into the tinder bundle and blow into flame. Add kindling and work your way up to larger sticks.
