 Talk to all of your healthcare professionals before you begin taking any vitamins, minerals, or supplements. This is especially important if your doctor is prescribing a new medication. Your doctor is one of the most qualified people to advise you about possible interactions. Your doctor can also tell you if any problems you may be having are related to interactions.For example, if you are taking an antidepressant like citalopram and are also taking St John’s wort, there is an increased risk of side effects, including a dangerous condition known as serotonin syndrome. If you haven't told any of your physicians about taking St John’s wort, that lack of information could potentially delay a diagnosis.;
, You could also tell your pharmacist all the medications and supplements you're taking and ask the pharmacist to check for interactions. Pharmacists are trained medication specialists who have lots of resources available. They can use these to determine your risk for significant interactions.Your pharmacist can also give you detailed instructions about how to take your medication, what side effects you can expect, and dosing information.
 While most people don't need a multi-vitamin or multi-mineral, you might benefit from adding vitamins or minerals so long as you follow your naturopathic doctor or general practicioner's recommendations. Always follow the dosing instructions and don't be tempted to take more just because it's natural.Taking too many vitamins (like vitamin A, K, E, and D), mineral, or iron can cause toxic levels to be stored in your body.
If you work with a naturopathic physician, the doctor has been trained in prescription, herbal, and botanical medicines and supplements.
 In addition to talking to your medical team, check online resources for interactions between prescriptions and supplements. Ask your doctor to recommend a reputable database or look for a government or scientifically-backed database like:


MedWatch, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Safety Information and Adverse Event Reporting Program, http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch/default.htm

Medline Plus, an Interaction Checker from the US National Library of Medicine, https://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/druginfo/drug_Wa.html

Mayo Clinic Interaction Checker http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/consumer-health/in-depth/herbal-supplements/art-20046488


, Keep track of your prescriptions and all supplements you take. Keep this list on you at all times in case of an emergency. You should also pay attention to any new symptoms, especially when starting a new prescription or supplement.Remember to write down the dosage for each medication or supplement you take.
 Look for any health changes like changes in blood pressure, nausea, rashes, headaches, changes in blood sugar, and any symptoms that concern you. Refer back to written list of what prescriptions and supplements you were taking when symptoms first appeared.If you do experience any unusual symptoms or interactions, contact your physician right away.
 Garlic is often taken as a supplement to lower cholesterol and reduce the risk for heart disease. You may increase your risk for bleeding if you supplement with garlic while taking blood-thinning medications like warfarin and aspirin. You should also talk with your doctor if you're using:Antiplatelet medications like indomethacin, dipyridamole, and clopridogrel.
Protease inhibitors (treatment for HIV) like indinavir, ritinavir, and saquinavir.
 Ginko is often used to improve memory, reduce general anxiety and improve the metabolism. There are many drugs that interact with ginko and could cause bleeding, changes in blood pressure and blood sugar, and seratonin syndrome. Talk with your doctor if you're taking:Anticonvulsant medications
Antidepressant medications
Antihypertensive medications
Blood-thinning medications (including aspirin)
Blood-thinning medications

, If you're getting cancer treatments, you may be using ginseng to fight fatigue. But, studies have shown that it can decrease the effectiveness of warfarin, a blood thinner that treats or prevents blood clots. You should also avoid taking ginseng with aspirin which is also a blood thinner.You should also avoid using ginseng while taking heart or psychiatric medications. Consider avoiding caffeine since ginseng and caffeine can overstimulate your nervous system.
 Hawthorn is currently being studied as a way to complement cardiovascular disease treatments although it's been used for hundreds of years to treat heart and respiratory diseases. Using hawthorn while taking the following medications can make their effects stronger:

Beta blockers: aenolol, nadolol, propranolol
Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem, nifedipine, verapamil
Digoxin: lanoxicaps, lanoxin
Phenylephrine
Medications for male sexual dysfunction

, St. John's wort is a popular supplement for treating depression, minor wounds, and menopausal and premenstrual symptoms. St. John's wort can reduce the effectiveness of calcium channel blockers, digoxin, warfarin, and statins. But, it can make the effects of other medications stronger (like anticonvulsants, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, insomnia medications, alcohol, and tricyclic antidepressants). It can also increase the risk of side effects for:Citalopram
Escitalopram
Fluvoxamine
Paroxetine
Fluoxetine
Sertraline
Tricyclics
MAOIs
Nefazodone

