 To adopt a child, you don't technically have to use either a public or private agency. Tell everyone you know that you want to adopt an infant, and you may find a pregnant woman who is thinking about giving her baby up for adoption.If you know any obstetricians or pediatricians, they may know of pregnant women who are considering giving their baby up for adoption.
Adoption attorneys also can be good sources for private adoption. One benefit of an attorneys that they will be familiar with the laws in your state and can insure that the adoption is legal.
Keep in mind that there's often more to adopting a baby than simply finding a pregnant woman who wants to give her baby up for adoption.
If you happen to make a private connection directly with a birth mother, contact a licensed attorney who specializes in adoption law to find out what you need to do.
 If you are a member of a particular religion, you may be able to find adoption assistance through your church, mosque, synagogue, or temple. There also are nonprofit organizations with religious affiliations that are licensed to arrange adoptions.You may feel more comfortable adopting a child through your own church, but keep in mind that many religious organizations do not require you to be a follower of their faith to register as a prospective adoptive parent.
Religious organizations that place infants and children for adoption typically are licensed by the state and will have similar eligibility and application requirements to public and private adoption agencies.
 Some parents who want to adopt a baby find luck in posting advertisements in newspapers, magazines, or even online. By going this route, you have the utmost control over the baby you adopt for minimal costs (compared to private agency adoption). However, you may lack important legal protections.Many states do not permit adoption advertisements, and those that do may restrict the practice. Check your state's law or talk to an adoption attorney before you place an advertisement.
Arranging an adoption independently allows you to hand-select the birth mother and control all aspects of the adoption. However, it also can be just as expensive as going through a private agency.
If you are planning on adopting an infant with your partner, talk to them before you place the ad to set guidelines as a couple. You also need to look at your finances.
For example, many independent adoptions will require you to cover the mother's hospital expenses, and even some of her living expenses, while she is pregnant.
 Adoption facilitators help match prospective parents with birth mothers. Because facilitators are unlicensed and unregulated, their services are illegal in some states. However, if facilitators are permitted in your state, they can help you locate a baby.In states that allow adoption facilitators, adoption attorneys often take on this role. Hiring an attorney in this situation can work well for you because they also will complete all the necessary contracts and court papers to finalize the adoption.
If you decide to work with a facilitator, check their background thoroughly before you give them any money.
Since facilitators are not regulated by the state, you have to do a lot more work to make sure you're not just handing money to someone who is dishonest or unscrupulous.
 With surrogacy, you contract with a woman to carry a baby to term that you immediately adopt. This baby may be genetically related to you or your partner, in which case only one of you has to adopt the child.Traditionally, a surrogate carries the genetic offspring of one or both partners. However, surrogate mothers also may carry a child conceived through artificial insemination from an unrelated sperm donor.
If you're contemplating surrogacy, consult an attorney. The laws governing surrogacy are complex, and vary widely among states.

