 If you are, pack an Ipod, Ipod speakers, and maybe a cellphone. Make sure your Ipod has a full battery charge and lots of hit songs (check the Top 40's list to get ideas for songs). Make sure that you have a playlist of all these songs because you don't want to have to stop dancing to switch songs.;
, You're going to need an iPod+speakers to have your party. Say that you had your iPod+speakers in your backpack to bring to your last sleepover and never took them out, I don't care, you need to smuggle your electronics in!

, Take a shower before you leave and make sure to double clean yourself. Put on different clothes and get lots of sleep. Be healthy, clean, and above all, prepared!

, Don't have your party tonight. Let everyone get settled in to camp and settle yourself in the position of super-popular.
 Have fun, and while you can still see, set up everything. Get your iPod and speakers out but keep your cellphone (if you have it) hidden. Clean up your cabin/tent and hide anything that you don't want stolen.
 Wear some comfortable shoes (Maybe some durable ballet flats). Have a shower and use deodorant. No one will forget that at the party of the century, the host smelt like a garbage can. Be as beautiful as you can possibly be.
 Invite your friends and let people see that you're having a party. Turn on your music and play your playlist. Dance and have fun. Soon, you should have most of the camp at your party.
 Make sure to still be in control, pick your own fav songs once in a while. Just keep dancing.
 If you don't want to play Truth or Dare you can play Would You Rather? instead. Keep the game interesting and pick lots of dares. This makes you seem brave and if you get a gross truth that's really happened, lie. No one will like you if you reveal that you've masturbated or something.
 You can do love scenes, hate scenes, a wild word like "Joe!" repeated over and over, pretend to be Chinese and say your name is Wang, or anything else that you feel like doing that would be funny. You can switch to Truth or Dare/Would You Rather? after about a dozen prank calls.
 As the hostess, you have to stay up as long as your guests do. If you're getting really tired and can't stay up any longer, then yawn very loudly and others will start yawning, then leave. If you want, you could pull an all nighter.
 One night, you have a party and the next, sleep in. It lets you catch up on sleep and not be grumpy during the party. Be nice, make friends, and have lots of fun!

