 Take a soft measuring tape and loop it around your neck once. Be sure to hold the tape close to your neck – chokers should fit tightly, but they should be loose enough for you to breathe easily.A good rule of thumb is to add 2 inches (50.8 mm) onto whatever your neck measurement is. This will be a comfortable choker length for you.


The standard choker measurement is usually 14 to 16 inches (356 mm to 406 mm) in length.
Chokers can vary greatly in width from 3 inches (76.2 mm) down to just a small wire about 1/16 of an inch (4 mm).;
, If you have a very short neck, a choker won’t look very flattering unless it's very thin and simple. If you have a wide neck, a choker is still an okay option as long as you choose a slim one; otherwise, you run the risk of making your neck appear even wider. The longer and more slender your neck, the wider the choker you can wear while still looking appealing.


A longer, more slender neck can wear chokers with more detail and gems.
If you have a wider neck, it is best to go for something a bit simpler.
If you have a short neck, it's best to avoid wearing most chokers at all, unless it's a very thin one., If you have a round face, steer clear of chokers, since they will emphasize the roundness. If you have an oval shaped face, you can wear necklaces of all shapes, lengths and styles. If your face is on the long and thin side, a choker will make your face appear wider and softer.


Chokers look very flattering on people with heart shaped faces because they make the face look fuller while balancing out the narrow chin.
Those with round faces should avoid chokers completely because they will emphasize the fullness of your face.
 Before you begin shopping for a choker, make sure you’ve recorded your neck measurements. When you try one on, keep in mind that the best positioning for a choker is on, or just above, the collarbone. Always look for a style that comes in your size. If you are unable to try it on before purchasing, there are many choker options that come with adjustable chains.


These chains usually offer about 2 inches (50.8 mm) of adjustability.
Most sellers will list the length/size of their chokers – if not, ask a shop assistant for help.
If the choker makes your neck look shorter or disappear completely when you try it on, avoid this type of necklace.

