 For a booklet, especially a professional type booklet, you want to make sure that you're only giving a quick overview about the subject. You want to inform your reader, educate, and persuade them quickly.Something like a booklet about a town should give some general historical information, a map of the town with the important landmarks marked, and telephone numbers for things like taxis or the visitor information center.
A booklet could also be something like a leave-behind after a meeting to remind the people at the meeting what they heard, or it could provide information that responds to some sort of query (if you have a specific product, this gives a potential customer the basics of it).
There's also the type of booklet that is made for people to pick up and peruse when they're standing in line. A booklet of this sort is going to need to look catchy to get people's attention.
 People like images, there is no getting around that. When you're picking what images you want to put in your booklet, keep a couple things in mind. You want the images to jump off the page, because you want to capture people's attention. You also want the images to pertain to the purpose of your booklet.


For example: you might want to create an informational booklet about your Alaskan rafting company. On the front you would want to have a color photograph that showcases the best your company has to offer (some tourists in a raft sighting a bear, for instance).
If you can't print in color (which is preferred) make sure that your images look good in black and white.
 You want to get down the very basics for your reader, whether it's tourists in your town, potential customers, or business associates. Pages that are packed with massive blocks of text are not going to entice your reader.


Break information up with headlines and sub-headlines. Information is more easily digestible when broken up into smaller chunks that are properly labeled.
 This may seem like a small thing, but it makes a difference to the quality of your booklet. Numbering starts on the first right-hand page, not the left., The goal when having a professional style booklet is to get readers. You want whatever it is you're trying to get across to have a reading audience.


It's important to have a strong selling message on the cover, so that potential customers and readers want to check out the rest of the information.

