 Ranitidine may be used to manage a duodenal ulcer, a type of peptic ulcer in the small intestine, as well as gastric ulcers. An adult may take 150 mg twice a day or 300 mg once a day to help manage symptoms. Additionally, you can take 150 mg once a day to help prevent symptoms.For children under 16, it is recommended that you do not exceed 300 mg per day for treatment, and no more than 150 mg per day for symptom management.Treatment is typically administered for eight weeks but may be necessary for up to a year. Consult with your doctor to determine proper treatment time frame.;
, Ranitidine can help counteract and prevent symptoms of indigestion. To prevent symptoms, adults should take 75 to 150 mg with a glass of water half an hour before eating. To treat symptoms, take the same dose no more than twice a day.Children over the age of 12 may safely receive up to two doses of 75 mg with a glass of water per day. Other remedies should be sought for younger children., Ranitidine may be used to treat erosive esophagitis symptoms. Adults are recommended to take 150 mg four times a day to treat symptoms, and 150 mg twice a day for maintenance. Talk to your doctor to discuss how long you may need to continue treatment.For children under 16, it is recommended that you provide no more than 5 to 10 mg/kg per day, divided over two doses. Look for a children’s formula if available at your local pharmacy or drugstore., A number of disorders, including hypergastrinemia and hyperhistaminemia, comprise the umbrella term “gastric acid hypersecretory.” 150 mg taken twice daily can help control symptoms for most of these conditions in most adults. The same dose is also useful for acid reflux and GERDS.For children under 16, the recommended dose is 5 to 10 mg/kg per day, divided over two doses. Look for a children’s formula if available to help you administer the proper dose., Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome is a rare pancreatic condition. 150 mg of ranitidine taken twice a day may help treat some symptoms in adults. However, due to the rare nature of this condition, it is highly recommended that anyone talk with their doctor first before starting any form of treatment, including using over the counter medications., Over the counter ranitidine is commonly available in 75 mg and 150 mg tablets. If you have spoken with your doctor or otherwise know based on past experience that 150 mg is the right dose for you, opt for that. Otherwise, talk to your doctor or start with the 75 mg tablets. You can always a second tablet if 75 mg is not enough., The brand-name version of ranitidine, Zantac, is available in a syrup form. Zantac syrup has been found to be especially helpful for heartburn and acid reflux. A syrup may also be easier to properly measure and administer to children, especially kids who haven’t learned to swallow tablets yet., For severe or chronic conditions, your doctor may be able to prescribe you a higher ranitidine dosage than you can buy over the counter. Talk to your doctor about your symptoms and what you’ve done to try and manage your symptoms so that they can help determine if you need a prescription-strength medication., You won’t need to provide ranitidine injections for yourself, but the medication can be administered either through intramuscular injection (IM) or intravenous drip (IV). If you have a severe or chronic condition, talk to your doctor about if and when you might need ranitidine injections., Package directions for ranitidine tablets generally recommend that the medication be taken with water. Some prescription strength tablets may even be dissolved or mixed into water. Check your prescription packaging for details., Doctors and nurses typically suggest that ranitidine should be taken around meal time. If you are taking it to prevent a condition that is brought on by food, such as heartburn, it’s best to take the medication half an hour to an hour before eating. Otherwise, taking the medication with or right after the meal is just fine., What qualifies as too much depends on your health and your condition, so talk to your doctor about your maximum daily dosage. Unless otherwise expressly instructed by your doctor, don’t exceed the maximum daily recommended amount indicated on the package.While many users experience no side-effects, ranitidine has been known to cause headaches, dizziness, sleep problems, nausea, stomach pain, diarrhea, and constipation. Talk to your doctor if taking ranitidine brings on any of these symptoms.