 When stealing, many things should go through your mind. "How good is the catcher's arm? Does the pitcher have a good move to first? Who covers second? What does the pitcher do before he throws? Does the situation require a steal?" This and more is equally important in stealing.;
, This is important. Normally, the lead-off is your body length and a step. This makes it easier to dive back in. But, if you're slower, be conservative; only about a body length is necessary. If you're fast, take more, but be reasonable.
 That's about two or three steps. A good secondary is what gets you in to second. When the pitch is thrown, you take the secondary lead.
 Look only at the base and listen to the base coach, either to slide, stand up, keep on running.
 Because the ball is still live and they can tag you out if you step off, this can assist you. To call time effectively, yell time and throw your hands up, or make a "T" with your hands.
, This time its about two body lengths and a step. Again, take as much as you think you need to to be able to dive back in and steal third. The secondary lead is much more important here, because the base is closer to the catcher than second was.
 When sliding into third, always go to the right of the bag. The extra couple of inches can lead to a difference of out and safe.
 This is extremely important. Many players have stolen successfully, yet been tagged out after.
 The things you need to consider should be: "Is the catcher a good blocker?" "Is he fast to get the ball?" Is the pitcher fast?" "Can he get to home in time for the tag?"

, If not, take a little more.
 When running home, slide to the opposite part of the bag where the catcher is. Namely, if he/she is on the right part of the backstop, slide to the right, and vice versa. You also can run through home, but when in doubt, slide.
, If it's wet, you'll have to slide closer. If dry, slide farther away. Sliding to closer can result in broken bones or twisted ankles. Sliding to far can result in being cleated and/or outs.
 If they are in front of you and you can't move away, then try to hit them as lightly as possible. That doesn't mean slow down, but do not lower your shoulder. Common sense right there.
 If you're the batter, run as fast as you can out of the box. If you're the runner, unless uncatchable or with two outs, wait until the ball is either caught or hits the ground. Note: This is on a fly ball.
 When rounding a base, fish-hook out about three feet. To do a fish-tail, start running out a little bit off the baseline, until you're about three feet off the line. This is legal. When near the bag, start turning in so you can touch the very inside bottom corner of the bag. Pushing off the bag helps with extra speed.

