 There’s a prototypical scene in many people’s heads of meeting the perfect someone, and spilling your deepest secrets on the first date. However, disclosing too much too fast can leave you feeling unsafe in the long run.Take your time sharing the intimate details of your life over a span of dates. Better yet, try to match their pace. If they don’t seem overly forthcoming when sharing private information, neither should you.
Regardless of how much your date claims to share, make sure you are being careful when meeting up with blind dates or people you meet online. Withhold qualifying details like your last name, place of work, and info about your family until you get to know the person better.
 A date should never try to speed up to second base without your consent. Listen to your gut and only do what you feel comfortable doing.


Also keep in mind that sex is not a form of currency. If your date has paid for dinner or a movie, that doesn’t mean you have to “reimburse” them with sex.
Never put yourself in a situation where you might be unsafe. That’s why it’s important to be clear with your stance on sex early on. Also, avoid going to their place during the first couple of dates—in case it’s difficult for you to get away or if they become pushy., These substances compromise your judgment and can threaten your safety while dating. It’s best to set a clear boundary that you do not drink or you only have one drink per date. This doesn’t have to be explained to your date. Just remind yourself of this commitment and stick to it., While you should try your best to avoid risky situations like drinking with someone you're unfamiliar with, you also want to tune into your instincts. Everything could seem to be going well on a date. But, if the person gives you a bad vibe, don't feel bad about cutting the date short. Or, phone a friend to come and pick you up if the person is supposed to give you a ride.
 Safe dating is all about being prepared. If you and a group of friends are all dating, take turns joining each other on the first few dates. A friend could inconspicuously sit in a restaurant where you're meeting a date. That way, they can get a good look at your date, and be available if you need to make a quick exit.


It may also be helpful to carry cash for a cab or plan your own transportation. Another handy tip is to place a whistle in your bag if you need to call out for help.
Opt for neutral, public settings like restaurants for the first meetings. And, always make sure a friend or family member knows where you are.If you are meeting someone from online, keep a record of all your communications with the person just in case.

