 Aloe vera juice can help to neutralize the acid in your stomach, so you may find it helpful to drink a cup or two of aloe vera juice each day.You can find aloe vera juice in a health food store or a well-stocked grocery store.


Keep in mind that aloe vera juice has a mild laxative effect, so you may want to start with just half of a cup to see how your body responds to it.;
, Fennel can help to reduce stomach acid and settle your stomach, so it might help you to cure your stomach pain.Try drinking two to three cups of fennel tea per day about 20 minutes before you eat.


To make fennel tea, crush about a teaspoon of fennel seeds and add a cup of boiled water. Steep the seeds in the water for about five minutes and then strain the water.
 Mustard has anti-inflammatory and antacid effects, so it is a great dietary addition if you suffer from these types of stomach pain.Try adding a tablespoon of good mustard to a sandwich each day to get more mustard into your diet.
 Chamomile and ginger tea may help to calm your stomach and they also have anti-inflammatory effects.You can buy chamomile and ginger tea in most grocery stores. Try drinking a cup of chamomile or ginger tea after meals to help soothe your stomach and relieve stomach pain.
 DGL tablets may help to control stomach acid. DGL tablets may also provide some relief for stomach pain by increasing mucous production in your stomach. The mucous acts as a soothing coating for your stomach.You can find DGL tablets in a health food store or well-stocked grocery store.


Make sure that you check with your doctor before taking DGL tablets and follow the manufacturer’s instructions as well.
A common dosage for DGL tablets is two to three tablets every four to six hours.
 Slippery elm can soothe and coat your stomach as well, which may also help to relieve stomach pain.You can take slippery elm as a liquid supplement or as a tablet.


Check with your doctor before taking slippery elm and follow the manufacturer’s instructions as well.

