 Shake one cup of baking soda into a large container and add enough water to thicken it. Pour in the water gradually, stirring as you go. The resulting mixture should be roughly the same consistency as cake icing.The exact measurements aren’t important—the baking soda paste just needs to be thick enough to stick to the walls of the oven.
Should you happen to be running low on baking soda, you can also use a combination of cream of tartar and hydrogen peroxide., Use a spatula, soft sponge or similar implement to spread the paste in a thin layer over every accessible surface. You can apply the baking soda mixture more freely in areas with heavy grease stains or crusty, stuck-on buildup.Don’t forget to cover the top of the oven as well.
Keep the baking soda mixture away from the internal fans and heating elements.
 As it sets up, the baking soda will begin to break down stubborn residue so that it can be wiped away with little difficulty. The paste should remain in place for a minimum of one hour. Leave the oven door closed.For best results, allow the paste to sit overnight, or between 8-12 hours.If you’re dealing with particularly troublesome messes, spray the baking soda paste with a small amount of vinegar. This will produce a natural chemical reaction that will help dissolve hardened grime., Using a damp cloth or abrasive kitchen sponge, go over the inside of the oven from top to bottom. Following the baking soda treatment, any remaining food particles should come right off.Dig in and be persistent to chip away at lingering messes.
Apply additional baking soda and water (or vinegar) and continue spot-cleaning as needed until the oven is pristine.
 Now that the worst of the mess has been lifted, you'll want to make sure that no traces of either baking soda or loose residue is left behind. Wet a second cloth and use the fresh water to rinse out the oven. Repeat once more using a clean towel to wick up standing water, or leave the oven door open to allow it to air dry.Wring out the wet cloth occasionally to clear it of dirty water.
Turning the oven on to a low temperature for a few minutes will help it dry faster.

