 As you are communicating with your teen there may be some points where you objectively notice some inconsistencies. Try and discuss these very gently with your teen. Try asking them if its okay to tell them what you see.Then, using some of the open communication techniques, gently point out contradictions.


Begin by restating what they want. “So you really want to make the band?”
If they have shared the emotional aspect of it, confirm that as well. “You are worried that you are not going to get in?”
Gently point out the problem. “You've been spending a lot of time at football practice. If this is more important to you, maybe you should spend time practicing guitar instead.”

, You want to gently influence your teenager. Hopefully, your goal is to influence them so they can navigate their life a little bit easier and be more successful and happy as they grow. As you are gently guiding them along, try not to forget the goal of functioning well on their own one day. Support your teens efforts to be independent and try things on their own.The more supported they feel by you, the more likely they are to come to you for guidance or advice when things get difficult.


Your teen's brain is still growing and developing. They are learning new ways to prioritize, critically analyze, and identify consequences in their actions and the larger world. Support their autonomy but help them to make safe choices when necessary.
 It can be difficult at times for teens to see the importance of schoolwork or a strong work ethic. Help your teen connect how they perform now with where their goals are in order to influence them to put a little more effort into their work.Encourage your teen to talk with you about their struggles and develop a plan to overcome those challenges together.


Know your teens dreams, wishes, and aspirations. Not every teen dreams of being a doctor. If your teen loves building or woodworking, encourage them to focus their efforts on mathematics and engineering.
If your teen dreams of going to a particular college, help them research where their grades need to be or what other clubs and activities could eventually help their application.
Influence your teen by showing them the pride and sense of accomplishment you can achieve from something you worked hard at.
 Teenagers are put under an incredible amount of stress during a time where they are trying to determine who they are. Help your teen develop a healthy sense of self and a respect for themselves and their bodies. Encourage them towards safe and healthy sexual behavior based on their beliefs and their comfort, rather than what others think they should or should not be doing. Remember that your teen will be influenced by your beliefs and your actions as well. Tyr to gently influence health sexual behavior with the following. Make sure your teen is aware of the risks of unhealthy or unsafe sexual behaviors, such as unintended pregnancy, STDs, emotional consequences of sexual activity before they are ready.
If you have had a difficult experience in your teenage years, talk to your teen about it. Mention that “I was very hard for me, and I wouldn't want you to have to go through something like that.”
Encourage your teen to ask questions, and give honest answers.
Set family or house expectations (such as age they can date, or what time they need to be home) that may impact your teens sexual behavior and stick to them., Teenagers can be influenced by anything in their environment. With the use of technology today, a large influence on teens comes from media.Media influence can be deliberate, such as advertising aimed at their age group, or indirect such as sexualisation of images, shows, and music.Talk to your teen about their ideas and gently challenge where those ideas come from. Encourage them to make their own decisions about what is beautiful, exciting, or cool instead of following what media or popular culture tells them. Caution your teen against potential media influence of the following.


Body image, weight, or the idea of what is beautiful.
Violence.
Risky behaviors such as smoking, drinking, or criminal activity.

