 Mountain bikes are made to take a beating and survive. Even city or small town dwellers like them, as they can turn off on dirt paths, crush over curbs, and get a little muddy without worrying about the bike breaking down. That said, a mountain bike's true purpose is to safely bomb up and down trails covered in roots, rocks, and sticks, and they will handle it accordingly.


Trail Bikes are great, all-purpose mountain bikes that can handle light and difficult trails as well as pavement and dirt roads quickly.
All Mountain Bikes are made for hard, technical trails and serious riders.
If you plan on hitting the trials, spending a little extra money will almost always be worth it for safety and comfort.
 Stand with your feet 6 inches apart and measure from the inside of your foot up to where your leg meets your waist, between your crotch and inner thigh, in inches. Multiply this number by .67, then subtract 4" to 5" from the answer to get the estimated length of your top tube, which is the part of the frame running from the handlebars to below your seat.Use the top-tube for your measurement when possible, as seat tube (pedal to seat) measurements are tricky to determine and change from manufacturer to manufacturer.If you have a 33 inch inseam, you need a 17.5" top tube, since:33" x .67 = 21.75"
21.75" - 4" = 17.75


Specialty bike makers Lapierre & Neil Pryde have different geometry. Multiply your inseam by .62 instead of .67 if you really want one of these bikes.If your bike shop gives frame size by seat tube length, multiply your inseam by .185. The number should be the distance between the top of your seat tube and the middle of the crankshaft, the circular piece attaching the pedal to the bike., Because the angles your different tubes are joined at affects the distance between the seat, pedals, and handlebars, these measurements will change from bike to bike and rider to rider.Taking measurements is a good starting points, but you need to get the bike you feel most comfortable on. Try out different brands and a size above and below your measured size. You cannot tell if a bike is the right fit if it is the only one you try.


Your hands should rest comfortably on the handlebars so that your fingers feel free.
You want your elbows slightly bent, not locked or pressed up on the handlebars
Most mountain bikers prefer their handlebars 1-2" lower than their seat height, as it lowers your center of gravity.
You should be able to reach the shifter and brakes without losing your balance on a properly sized bike., All mountain bikes have shock absorbers on the front wheels, allowing you to get over obstacle easily and maneuver in tricky terrain. However, serious bikers need to consider double suspension:



Hardtail: Another name for single suspension, these bikes only have shocks on the front wheel. They are lighter and cheaper options, and transition better to pavement riding.

Full-Suspension: Made for technical, tricky trails, these bikes are heavier but far more maneuverable and useful for serious mountain bikers., Bigger wheels are becoming more and more fashionable, but you cannot swap out smaller wheels if your frame is made for bigger ones. In general, you have three options for wheel size.



29 inch: These behemoth wheels are great at rolling over rocks and roots, have provide more grip to the trail. They carry momentum well downhill, letting your go faster, but they are harder to accelerate.

27.5 inch: A hybrid wheel, they have some of the speed of a classic 26" with the increased movement over rocks and roots found in a 29".

26 inch: The traditional wheel size, these are light and speedy wheels that still function well on the trail. Until 5-10 years ago, they were the standard mountain bike wheel.