 Become intimately familiar with classical music and opera, but also other styles of music. Excellent musicianship as an instrumentalist as well as singing is important. During a performance you must understand the words, the story, the movement, the emotion, direction and a host of things. Learn to play as many instruments as you can, but master at least one or two. Focus on becoming a great musician in all ways.

Start doing this in your early years and then major in vocal performance in college. Join your school's drama club for some acting and performance experience. Look for community theater and symphony groups and join in.



 

;
, You must train to develop a perfect vocal technique, capable of responding to any artistic demands. Participate in master classes whenever the opportunity presents.
 Opera is not just about singing, acting is just as important. Remember, this is theater so you need to sing and act at the same time

, To give a good performance you need to know exactly what you are performing. Learn to speak, understand, read and correctly pronounce the main languages of opera: Italian, French, German, Russian, Dutch, and English. Part of performing opera is translating the opera so you may understand it, and then learning to sing and act it in the language in which it was written

, You must have a passionate love of your art, you will need complete dedication, a strong will, a charismatic personality, the drive to rehearse and perform no matter what, even if you're in terrible pain or really sick. Let nothing stop you or slow you down. There must be nothing in your life of greater importance than your art, and you must be happy to make any sacrifice, and there will be sacrifices; many many sacrifices.
 Being a successful opera performer is more than a desire, it's a life-style. You must commit to study hard, rehearse many, many hours each day, and plan other life commitments around your rehearsal time. Rehearsal should be your full time job, and you should love every minute of it. This is not optional.

