 Exploring your house for that unidentified sound in the night or to going to the aid of a loved one with empty hands is not a smart idea. Equipping yourself is therefore important. The three main categories of firearms are pistols (handguns), shotguns, and rifles. The very first step is to intimately familiarize yourself with firearm safety rules. For example, be sure of your target and what's beyond it. Don't shoot your teenage son sneaking back into the house. Also, remember that most likely the bullets you are firing will go through the walls in your house, and could therefore strike loved ones.


Consider tactically preparing yourself with a pistol for suggestions on arming yourself with a pistols. Pistols are a lightweight, efficient, and popular choice for personal defense.
An alternative, and highly recommended, firearm to have would be a pump-action shotgun. Shotguns have much better stopping power than a pistol. A pump-action is recommended as reliability is of the utmost importance, but you can also use break-action shotguns to good effect.Don't be fooled by those who say that shotguns are point and shoot. Shotguns take as much training and practice as pistols and rifles.

Rifles are the third common option. Rifles, again, produce (even in some smaller calibers) significantly more stopping power than most pistols, but they require just as much precision. A magazine-fed, semi-automatic rifle is the suggested choice as two hands may not always be available, and the option to quickly shoot multiple rounds is often a welcome one.;
, For pistols, the largest pistol possible is recommended for the best stopping power and controllability, while for a rifle or shotgun (from now on they will be called "long guns"), the shortest length possible is preferred. These preferences are obviously "within reason", as a 4-foot-long freak-pistol, or a 12-inch-long long gun are impractical and defy the intended use of the specific weapons.
 If you are the only one in the house, or everyone in the house is in the room you are in, then your choices are much easier. If you are sure there is a very-unwelcome guest in your house, call the local police. Lock the door to your bedroom (and any other entrances — if available), and be prepared. Do not move, wait for the police to come. Do not approach the police with a firearm in your hand, be sure to holster it or set it down once the police are in your immediate vicinity.


The reason why you wait in this situation is because searching a house is very dangerous, and nothing (other than loved ones) should be worth dying over. Plus, insurance should cover any stolen or damaged items.
 This should only be done if you know an intruder is in your house and you have loved ones elsewhere in the house. Be sure you call the police before you take any actions, and be sure to tell them you are armed and that you are going to try to retrieve or protect your loved one(s).


The other situation in which you might need to use these techniques is if you are unsure about an intruder and you wish to make sure there is no danger. In this case you should also arm yourself with a cell phone, as you may need to call the police while not near a land line.

