 If you're holding a big party, you might want to put more effort into decorating for you party than for your yard; it all depends on how many hands are on deck to help out! Make the decorations well in advance so that you're not rushed.


For a haunted house:

If you have a walkway already lined with lights, replace them with lit-up skulls. Place glowing sculptures in your windows and make sure to take advantage of technology: Lots of decorations now have motion-activated sensors that will surely creep out your guests as they walk in.
For the inside, utilize cobwebs from corner to ceiling and a fog machine in the doorway. Hang spiders or bats in not-so-obvious areas and if the lights are dim, invest in a few bottles of glow-in-the-dark spray.
 There are many different ideas for Halloween food that you can find in magazines, books, and online. wikiHow has its own section too - check out Halloween Food & Treats. Make the food in advance when possible, especially if it's tricky (such as making hands, skulls, etc.)


Witches' fingers are fairly simple to make with cookies and almond slices. Think cheese for a brain and mozzarella eyeballs with black and green olives for eyes.
As for drinks, a cauldron of punch is pretty mandatory. And if you can get your hands on some dry ice to make it smokey, all the better. A glow-in-the-dark LED light at the bottom of the bowl would make for a nice added touch, too.
Coat the edge of drinking glasses using corn syrup dyed with red food coloring, turn right side up and allow mixture to drip down the glasses to serve your creepy concoctions in., Do this well in advance and set up the music where it can be heard easily. Music doesn't just have to be straight up music -- think of sound effects, too!


Play this outside to get your guests excited even before they walk in. The outside loop can be much shorter than the music you have playing inside. See what snippets you can download offline for free.
 These will need to take into account guest numbers, ages, and interests. Look online for Halloween party game ideas.


Costume parties are a tried and true favorite. You could even get narrower -- all guests must dress as a character from a horror film or even a specific movie (maybe your house is themed along that movie?) or as dead people.
Pumpkin decorating contest -- a great idea as long as your guests don't get too rowdy and turn it into a pumpkin throwing and mashing contest.

