 Square footage is as simple as multiplying the length of the room by the width. Bring this number to your tile dealer to determine how many tiles you need.

Always buy 10% more tiles than you need in case some break or you need to make repairs., This ensures that you have nice, full-length tiles in the center of the room and cut tiles along the fringes. In order to make this possible, however, you have to make several careful measurements to determine where the middle of the room is, how many tiles you need on each side, and the length of your end tiles., Find the midpoint of each wall by measuring the length and dividing by two. Mark this midpoint on each wall., Where these lines cross should be the starting point of your tile. It is the center of the room. Put a tile on these lines so that two edges of the tile are lined up with the chalk.

Use a yardstick or level to make sure the line is straight.
 Do not use mortar. This is your test run to determine how many tiles you are going to need. Start with your center tile and place the tiles against each other towards perpendicular walls. You should have two "half rows" when you are done.

There will likely be space between your last tile and the wall. Don't worry, as you will be able to deal with this later.
Be sure to place spacers in between the tiles so that you have the correct distance.
 Unless you are very lucky, you will likely have a space between the wall and your last tile where you cannot fit another tile. Record this number as "end tile width."

Repeat this process for both rows of practice tiles.
Since you started in the center, the opposite side will have the opposite width. If, for example, you have 1/3 if a tile to go on one side, the other side will have 2/3 of a tile remaining., It is difficult to cut very small tiles without breaking them, and incredibly thin tiles often look bad.However, you can move your center point to prevent this from happening. For example, you might be using 12" tiles, and your end tile width is only 2". If you move your center tile 4" away from this wall then you suddenly have an end tile width of 6" on both sides, making it easier to cut., Once you’ve made your measurements, count the number of tiles in your rows – you will need the same number on the opposite wall. Take your marked tiles and cut them along the line you marked when making measurements. This is how you will need to cut every tile along the ends to make sure they all fit.

If the last tile is only going to be 1-2 inches thick, move your center line back 2 inches and re-measure it so that you have a nice wide tile at the end., Starting at your mid-point, lay out your tiles towards each wall of the room. Verify your measurement by laying out a row of tiles and adjust the guidelines as needed. Do not skip this test run, as it is crucial to laying down even tiles.

When installing ceramic tiles, insert the plastic spacers to allow room for grout.
 Following the directions on the bag, mix your mortar and water in a 5-gallon bucket. You will likely need an electric drill with a mixing paddle to properly mix everything, as the mortar is thick. Start with a small bucket of mortar – if you wait too long to apply it in can become hard and useless.

Wipe the paddle off as soon as you finish mixing to prevent it from drying onto the drill.Let the mortar stand undisturbed for 5-10 minutes.
 Tiles often have subtle color changes and variations depending on when they were manufactured. Don't start with one box and then move on to the next one. Instead, take several tiles out of each box and mix them up before beginning.

If your tiles have direction arrows on the bottom make sure that they all face the same way during installation., Scoop out a generous amount of mortar and spread it on the floor in front of you using the flat side. Then take the notched end of the trowel and scrape it across the mortar. Notice the grooves in the mortar lines – these will help distribute the mortar and hold the tile in place.

Only apply enough mortar for 2-3 tiles to begin tiling.
Make sure you start tiling in a corner of the room that allows you to exit the room without stepping on any tiles.
 Make sure that the tile is squared up with the wall and your chalk lines, then firmly push it down and into the mortar.

It is often easiest to start in the center of the room, near your chalk lines, but you can only do this is if you measured out the distance to the wall first and calculated the width of the end tiles ahead of time.
 A straightedge is a heavy, long ruler that helps ensure your tiles are level with each other. Place it along the edge of your first tile, and then lay down the rest. Use plastic spacers to ensure the tiles are the right distance apart., Place enough mortar for a few tiles, press them, and repeat., Bumps of mortar will make it harder to lay tiles later on, so take the time to clean up and excess liquid before it hardens., Once you’ve finished putting on the tiles, leave the floor and return the next day to finish the job. Check the mortar to see how long it needs to set, but you wait roughly 24 hours before continuing., Similar to the mortar, mix the grout following the manufacturer’s instructions., This tool, available for rent at most tool shops, allows you to evenly spread the grout into all the cracks. When done, use it to remove as much excess grout from the tiles as possible so that most of the grout is in between the cracks of the tiles, not on top of them., After 20 minutes or so, use a wet sponge to clean of your tiles, leaving the grout in between the joints., The grout needs time to harden and set, so avoid foot traffic or you could slide your tiles around. After several weeks, you may want to apply a grout sealer to prevent water damage.