 Japanese books may be subjected to terrible translations, usually through an auto-translator. The title or author's name may be translated word for word that do not even approximate the true Japanese meaning. Because of this, performing searches on Amazon for certain books may come up with no results since the titles are not accurate. However, if you search for the author, you should examine the images in the results to see the true titles available. This will help you find the right books that you are looking for.;
, If you wish to browse titles rather than searching by author, entering important keywords such as "bunko" or "tankobon" will help separate out Japanese language materials. These words alone will bring back all of the mass-market (bunko) or hardcover (tanko) books on Amazon. Then, add keywords (Japanese and English) to specify your area of interest.


Be creative with your keywords. Try both English and Japanese.  For example, a book with "senso" in the title may have been auto-translated to "war." Therefore, you'll need to search both to make sure that you're hitting right the topic.
 Search within their listings, using specific terms such as Japanese, bunko, or tankobon. Generally, a seller who offers one Japanese book will be providing more. Take note of different sellers who have good quality books, as they might produce more in the future.
 Understand that Japanese books might have higher prices, especially if you're purchasing them from a different country. Shipping may also be higher due to import/shipping costs. Nevertheless, the difference should not be too great, depending on the price of the book itself.


Be sure that you're getting the best deal. Use sites similar to www.kosho.or.jp in order to see how much the books would cost in Japan.
Keep in mind that most domestic Japanese dealers will not ship overseas. Those that do will often charge you fifteen to twenty-five dollars per title for the service. Therefore, if you find a book selling in the United States that's equivalent to the Japanese price, you've discovered an extremely good deal.
If the book is 25%-50% more than the Japanese price, it may still be a good deal, considering the shipping costs.
 This means that they do not have the listed books in stock. Instead, they are confident that they can find them for you at cheaper domestic prices in Japan while still making a profit after shipping. Therefore, when placing an order on Japanese books, be cautious. There is no guarantee that you'll be satisfied with your purchase.


If you use these dealers, be aware that you may have to wait for a long time before your order is filled. As the listings are generic, you cannot be certain of the book's exact condition once you receive it.
Realize that some Japanese dealers may use a variety of different names.

The reason these dealers use multiple names is that their feedback invariably drops over time, so they simply shift their inventory to a new name and start again. 
They also price books based on the lowest Amazon price. Therefore, their prices may be totally out of alignment with the actual price/value of the book. 
The vast majority of Japanese books offered on Amazon are from these dealers, and they offer many choices. Therefore, if there are no other options and you really need the book, you may have to go to them. 
When possible, use a domestic (US) dealer, as you can easily return these books if they're not right.



