 With a mortar and pestle (or other tool that can be used to crush, like a rolling pin), powder together the green cardamoms, cloves, black cardamom and the coriander seeds. This will be where the aroma comes from in the meal.


You could buy these spices powdered, yes – however, when they're whole and powdered yourself, generally they're fresher and more pungent.;
, Cut lightly into the chicken so the flavors get inside the meat and can be absorbed into its juices. This will give the chicken an enhanced flavor, letting the marinade get to work.


Mix it all together until you get a spicy, yoghurt-y concoction. It should be uniform and smooth.
 This is the basis of the flavor of your korma. With the chicken adequately marinaded, there will be a subtle yet pungent kick of flavor embedded into the meat.


To marinate, you can either place it all together in a resealable bag or just leave it covered in the refrigerator in the dish it's presently in. Just make sure the marinade reaches all sides of the chicken so every bit is as equally flavorful.
 Cook uncovered on high heat for 10-15 minutes, stirring once or until a dark brown.


These are not your normal sauteed onions – you want these browned and starting to become crispy – not golden and still at their juiciest.
 However, put aside 1 tablespoon or so for garnish when serving. The "paste" will likely be a bit crumbly – this is normal.


Alternatively, you can use a food processor or hand blender to get the job done.
For the record, in select markets, you can buy onions already in paste form.
 The onions don't need long to infuse into the flavor. Blast the heat on high and turn halfway through to cook both sides of the chicken.
 At around 10 minutes, pierce into a large piece of chicken to see if it's done. If it's white all the way through, it's ready.


If the chicken is at all pink, it still needs to finish cooking. Give it a few more minutes and come back, checking that piece and a new piece (one that hasn't been cut).
 This dish goes incredibly well over rice and is best served hot. It will easily serve four hungry individuals, and can serve 6 with moderate appetites.


Keep the lid on to contain the heat while serving. It'll stay warmer for longer and your guests can go back for seconds.

