 Central nervous stimulants are usually the first course of action to treat narcolepsy with drugs. About 60-85% of narcolepsy patients experience an improvement in their symptoms.


There are a variety of different kinds of stimulants doctors prescribe to treat narcolepsy. Lisdexamfetamine (Vyvanse), modafinil (Provigil) or armodafinil (Nuvigil) are usually used first as they're less addictive than other varieties. Side effects are fairly rare but can include headache, nausea, and dry mouth.If the first round of treatment is ineffective or too expensive, methylphenidate (Aptensio XR, Concerta, Ritalin) and other amphetamines may be prescribed. While these medications are very effective, side effects can be more severe. Such meds are very addictive and they can cause nervousness and heart palpitations., Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are usually used to treat mental illnesses like depression. However, they have been used with some success to address symptoms of narcolepsy.


Such meds, such as Prozac and Effexor, typically work by suppressing REM sleep, which can temporarily paralyze muscle movement. As a symptom of narcolepsy, cataplexy, has this effect on the body such medications can help. Such meds can cause some side effects, such as weight gain, sexual dysfunction, and digestive problems.Examples of TCA's include imipramine and clomipramine.If SSRI's and SNRI's do not work, older types of antidepressants may be prescribed instead. While these meds are generally effective at treating cataplexy, side effects like lightheadedness and dry mouth are common., Sodium oxybate is generally taken before bed. A second dose may be taken 2.5 to 4 hours after the first one. It treats cataplexy, as well as nighttime sleeplessness. It can also treat daytime sleepiness.


The biggest drawback to sodium oxybate is that side effects can be fairly severe. Bedwetting, sleepwalking, and nausea have been reported in patients. It can also be potentially fatal to take sodium oxybate with other sleeping medications, narcotic pain relievers, and alcohol., L-Citrulline is an amino acid that may be able to increase your energy. This can be found naturally in foods such as watermelon, liver, and salmon. You can also take it in supplement form.