 Since you won't be able to see underwater nearly as well as you would with goggles on, have a look around before you go under the surface. If in a pool, know how close you are to which walls and how close you are to anyone else swimming alongside you. If swimming in fresh water, know your orientation and which directions lead to shallow or deeper water.;
, Before you submerge, have your eyes closed and take a big breath. Be sure wherever you're thinking of swimming is somewhere you can get to on one breath if you'd like to remain underwater the entire time. Otherwise you'll need to come up for air.
 To avoid running into anything or anybody, know the direction you'd like to go before heading underwater. Keep in that direction as best as you can until you reach your destination. Be sure when you swim that both sides of your body are in sync to avoid drifting to the left or right.
 Provided you want to stay underwater, be sure to always push yourself slightly down with each stroke to counter-act your own buoyancy. Use this as well to know how close you might be to the surface. Stick an arm up at any point towards the surface, and if your arm reaches air, you may need to go down a bit.
 Unless it's a particularly short distance, you'll probably need to surface and catch your breath. Try and notice how far you've swum and if you've veered from your desired path at all. Take a moment to readjust before submerging again.
 If they know where they're going, ask if they wouldn't mind if you held on (lightly) to their ankle or reached out in front of you from time to time to check your bearings. This is helpful if you're especially concerned of becoming disoriented or running into something on your way to where you're going.
 Know that at any moment you could return to the surface and continue breathing normally. If you run into anybody, don't worry; apologize and make reference to your lack of goggles when you were swimming underwater.
 The biggest risk with having your eyes open underwater is the possibility of contamination. If the water seems especially murky or if it smells bad, consider keeping your head above water. Keep your eyes closed if you have to swim underwater in fresh water that is less than clean.


Never swim underwater in sea water without goggles. The salt water of the ocean burns the cornea.
 Dip your head underwater and open your eyes. More than likely it won't be especially comfortable and your vision will most likely be very blurry. Some can see better underwater than others, but you'll probably only be able to make out rough shapes and shadows. Blink your eyes several times before coming back up above the water., Your vision will remain blurry, but if you continue to swim underwater with your eyes open for longer and longer the uncomfortable feeling should pass. Avoid touching your eyes while underwater so as not to push any particulate in the water onto your eye or under your eyelid.
 While not necessary, it's a good idea to rinse your eyes with clean water or saline after swimming without goggles. A good rinse should knock anything potentially harmful that might've gotten in your eye while swimming.


If you wear contact lenses, it is advised that you never open your eyes underwater without goggles. The lens provides a place for debris to get stuck in your eye, risking harm. If you do swim with them, take them out and rinse both them and your eyes after the fact., If you have your own pool, make sure it has not been "shocked," or chlorine treated, recently. If the level of chlorine is too high in the pool, it will cause your eyes to burn more than they would normally, and the feeling may not pass. A sure sign of recent treatment is an excessive chlorine smell., Before submerging your head completely, keep your eyes open while splashing water onto your face. Going straight underwater with your eyes open will be too uncomfortable for some. This splashing is a more comfortable way of acclimating your eyes ahead of going underwater.
 The burning may continue, but should abate as you spend more time underwater with your eyes open. To avoid any additional discomfort, keep your eyes closed when swimming forward underwater. If you keep your eyes open the water moving past your face will move along the surface of your eyes, causing friction where otherwise there was none., Do this step to wash out any chlorine left on or around your eye/eyelid. Beyond this, it's generally recommended to wash your hair and body after any swim in chlorinated water; if left on the skin it tends to dry it out, and may become uncomfortable.

