 It's important to drink eight to 10 8-ounce glasses of water a day. This keeps the discharge thin and more fluid, making it easier to drain. Avoid drinking alcohol and caffeine, which could dehydrate you.Don't worry if discharge drains down the back of your throat. The acid in your stomach will kill off anything that may be causing the infection.;
, Fill a 1-quart pot with water and boil it for a couple of minutes. Remove the pot from the heat. Steam should be coming off of the pot. Cover your head with a large, clean cotton towel, place your head over the steaming pot and close your eyes. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth for 5 counts and then in and out through your mouth for two counts. Repeat this for 10 minutes or as long as there's steam. Blow your nose after the treatment.


You can do this every two hours or as often as your schedule permits.
Keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water. You want the heat to enter your nose and throat, but don't burn yourself.
 Use one drop of essential oils or 1/2 teaspoon of dried herb for each quart of water (like you have in your facial steam pot, if using). To test any herb or essential oil for sensitivity, steam your face for one minute, then remove yourself and wait 10 minutes. If you don't notice a reaction, reheat the water and repeat the steaming. The following essential oils have either antibacterial, antifungal or antiseptic properties (meaning they can kill bacteria and other microorganisms that can infect the sinuses):


Spearmint or peppermint: Peppermint or spearmint may be irritating to some. Both peppermint and spearmint contain menthol which has antiseptic and immune-boosting properties.Thyme or oregano: These herbs boost the immune system and have antibacterial properties. Both increase circulation of the blood by opening up blood vessels.Lavender: This dried plant and oil is soothing and can help with anxiety and depression. It also has antibacterial properties.Black walnut oil, tea tree oil, oregano oil, and sage oil: These can treat a fungal sinus infection and they have antiseptic properties., If you don't want to use essential oils, you can use cooking herbs. Place 1 quart of water in a pot, bring it to a boil, turn off the heat and add 2 teaspoons of oregano and 2 teaspoons of basil. For added heat, you can add a pinch of cayenne pepper. Cover your head with a towel and breathe in the steam through your nose (and your mouth, especially if you have a sore throat or a throat infection). Do this as long as the steam is rising.


Like any of the steam treatments, the water can be reused. Simply reheat it till it begins to steam.
 Run a bath using water that's as hot as you can comfortably manage. Add 12 to 15 drops of one essential oil or a combination of oils. Soak for as long as you like and breathe in the steam.


You should get lots of rest if you experience chronic sinusitis. Soaking in a bath is a great way to relax.
 Another way to make sure your sinuses don't dry out is to invest in a humidifier or vaporizer. This can be especially useful if you live in a very dry environment, or during the winter when heating systems can cause your sinuses to dry out.Clean portable humidifier units daily, wiping all surfaces dry and filling the water tank with fresh water. If you do not keep your humidifier clean, mold and bacteria can begin to grow and they will be dispersed into the air and breathed in when the humidifier is running.Don't let the humidity in your house reach above 50%.Run the humidifier or vaporizer only when necessary.
To get the same effect you can also run a hot shower with the bathroom door closed and breathe in the steam.

