 A manic episode is a mood state in which your child's mood is expanded. They may demonstrate an extraordinary amount of optimism and a sudden rush of energy. Symptoms include: Elevated self-esteem
Decreased need to sleep (For example, your child could sleep for three hours and feel well-rested)
Increased interest in activities, hobbies, and/or goals
Manic speech and speaking nonstop
Racing thoughts
Attention loss
Reckless behavior

, A depressive episode is the opposite of a manic one. This episode usually includes sadness and gloomy emotions and behavior. Symptoms include: Sleeping too much or feeling tired a lot
Losing interest in hobbies, activities, and/or goals
Feeling negative and low
Withdrawing from friends
Having lack of energy
Trouble focusing
Changes in appetite, like eating too much or too less

, When your child is in an episode, they may say many hurtful things towards you or others. They may think negatively about you and verbalize those thoughts. Don't take this to heart. Understand that your child is having a hard time due to the episode.Your child may be quite aggressive, violent, cruel, and reckless. They may lack judgment skills and be harsh.
Talk to your spouse or a friend or family member for support. You may also consider seeing a therapist yourself to help you cope. It is important to practice self-care so that you can care for your child.
 When experiencing an episode, your child may become violent or aggressive. They may harm themselves or others. Form a plan before your child has an episode so you'll know to react when your child behaves this way. Talk to your child's doctor or therapist about how to act when your child behaves in a destructive manner.Some examples:


For example, if your child starts to banging their head against the wall, you might place pillows beneath them. If they start to become violent towards someone else, you might bring them into a quiet room so they can calm down. If your child starts to scratch themselves purposely, you might bring them putty to help them relax and calm down.
 Be with your child during the episode and spend time with them as much as possible. Try keeping them in a quiet room that is away from others. A lot of activity and stimulation can stress them out even more.If your child has questions about a certain situation, answer honestly, but avoid arguing and causing a debate. Explain what is happening to them in words that are appropriate for their specific age level.
Prepare food that your child can eat easily. When you child's energy is high or low, it can be hard to sit down and eat a full meal. Offer easy meals, such as carrot sticks, crackers with cheese, celery with a dip, or peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. Provide plenty of liquid as well such was water or fruit juice.
Allow your child to rest and take naps during the day, especially if they have a manic episode.
 Create a crisis plan for your child ahead of time in case your child experiences a crisis. You may want to create one with their doctor or therapist and share it with other family members or teachers at school.


The crisis plan should outline the actions a caregiver should follow should your child experience a crisis situation in which they may harm themselves or someone else.
Provide a set of numbers to call when a crisis happens and list the address of a local hospital.
 If your child mentions they want to hurt, harm, or kill themselves, take this seriously. Do not think they are saying this to get your attention. Take all weapons and dangerous chemicals out of your child's sight and get help right away if your child threatens suicide. Do not leave your child alone.


If your child starts to become suicidal and extremely violent, call 911 or your country's emergency service number.
You can also call the National Suicide Hotline at 1-800-273-8255.
Understand you don't have to handle your child alone and that help is necessary. While you wait for the ambulance to arrive, stay with your child and do not leave them unattended.

