 The first requirement for determining harassment in the workplace is that the behavior is unwelcome by the victim. Make sure you’ve told your boss that his behavior or remarks offend you.If everyone’s laughing at the racist jokes, don’t join in. You need to avoid sending any mixed signals regarding the racial behavior.
This communication can occur either verbally or in writing.
 Depending on your company’s structure, you might report the behavior to your boss’s supervisor, to the human resources department, or someone else within the company whose position it is to prevent harassment from occurring. You should report the harassment in writing, and make sure to keep a dated copy of your written complaint in a safe place.Once your employer knows of the harassment, the company is legally obligated to investigate your complaint.
If there’s a specific process for complaints required by your workplace, you should follow the process directives as precisely as possible.
 If you’ve decided to file a formal complaint regarding your boss’s racist comments or behaviors, it’s imperative that you keep a detailed written record of each incident that may support your complaint. Keep a notebook in a safe place, where no one from your workplace might accidentally read it.For each incident, record exactly what was said or done, who was present, the time, date, and location of the incident.
If you can, ask coworkers to keep records of their own which can collaborate your own report.
 The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is the federal agency responsible for enforcing the laws prohibiting racial bias and discrimination. Each state has its own process for reporting acts of racial harassment or discrimination. Such acts are illegal in all states, under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, but the exact mechanism or reporting will vary.Your state may have a state administrative agency, such as the Missouri Commission on Human Rights (MCHR) or the Nevada Equal Rights Commission (NERC). The state agency exists to cooperate with the EEOC.
You must file your suit within a limited number days of the discrimination or harassment. The exact number varies by state, but in general it’s important to know that the sooner you report the discrimination, the more effective your case will be.
You may wish to consult with an attorney, but it’s not required. You are entitled to go forward with a claim against your boss without a lawyer.
The state commission may be able to successfully resolve your complaint.
 If the state commission doesn’t successfully resolve your complaint, then you’re entitled to pursue your claim through the legal system. You’re required to first attempt resolution through the EEOC before taking legal action.Your process with the EEOC will result in your receipt of either “Dismissal and Notice of Rights” or “Notice of Right to Sue” (Form 161).
You have 90 calendar days from that date of this receipt to take legal action. This deadline is called “the statute of limitation.” If you haven’t filed your lawsuit with the courts by this date, you may be able to pursue your case.
A lawyer may be helpful to you in navigating the legal system.

