 Over time, you may notice that your leopard gecko does not shed completely and that excess skin can collect in certain places. This can be problematic around your gecko’s tail and toes, where blood flow can become constricted. If the problem goes untreated, your gecko might lose its toes or its tail due to a lack of oxygen. Fortunately, its tail will grow back. However, the toes will be gone forever. If you notice a buildup, you may want to moisten your gecko’s skin to help the excess fall off.In nature, geckos regularly lose their toes because of constricted blood flow due to skin buildup. Although this is disconcerting, your gecko should be fine. If it does lose a toe, keep an eye on the wound to make sure that it does not become infected., In order to help your leopard gecko properly shed, provide it with a moist house or box. This is a special enclosure that you add to the gecko’s vivarium and keep moist. You can buy these boxes at your local pet store. You can also make one yourself using by cutting a hole in the side of an old plastic container and placing moist paper towels in the bottom. While your gecko is shedding you will need to moisten this box every day.If you keep your gecko properly moistened, you should avoid any difficulties when it comes to shedding.
 Moisten your fingertips or a Q-tip with a little lukewarm water and gently massage any areas where the skin has built up. Again, be gentle and do not rub so hard that the skin tears off. It should wad up and roll off in a clump., Add warm paper towels to your gecko’s moist box or another container. The temperature should not be more that 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius). Then place the gecko in the box and let it sit there for about thirty minutes. Once the time is up, take the gecko out and gently massage the areas of built up skin.If you use a container that is not your moist box, make sure that you add holes so that your gecko can breathe.
 If you are unable to get the excess skin to come off, do not force it. Scrubbing too hard or washing too often can hurt your gecko. If you give the gecko a moist place to hang out, the skin should come off. If it does not, try again after a few days or go see a veterinarian.