 If you want a happy-go-lucky, physically fit, educated man, you should work on being a happy-go-lucky, physically fit, educated woman. You need to become the type of person you want to attract, first and foremost. Birds of a feather flock together, so be the kind of person you want to flock with!Not only will this attract the right kind of men, but working on yourself will also increase your self-confidence.
A good rule of thumb is to sporadically “check yourself,” and decide if you would want a man who is doing what you’re doing. In other words, if you’re lying on the couch eating Twinkies and feeling sorry for yourself, decide if you want a man lying on his couch doing the same thing. You’d probably rather have a man who is out, doing something he loves, and feeling great.;
, If you act like you deserve a great man, you will attract great men. This does not mean that you should turn up your nose at every man who you deem unworthy, but rather be picky about who you accept on a romantic level. Be kind, and carry yourself with self-assurance and poise. If you don’t act like you deserve a better man, you probably won’t get one.If you carry yourself like the prize that you are, you will be seen as a prize. The best kind of men will be willing to work for you., Take care of yourself, practice self-love daily, and pamper yourself when you have no one else doing it for you. By taking care of yourself, you’re ensuring that you feel great. When you feel great, you’ll ooze a self-confidence and love that is irresistible to good men. If you are investing in yourself, you’ll attract men that want to invest in you as well., Imagine falling in love with a man, only to find out a couple months later that he is not the man he pretended to be. It’s not fun, is it? When you want to attract an authentic man, you need to be authentic yourself. Don’t pretend to be a person that you aren’t, because you won’t be able to keep it up forever.By showing your true colors you’ll also immediately weed out the men who wouldn’t be interested in the real, genuine you. If you love to tell cheesy jokes and order two desserts, you might as well do it on the first date!

