 Goal-setting is an important component of reducing the likelihood of future depression.In order to create positive goals for yourself, you may first need to identify your values or priorities. The deep desires of your heart tell you what will make your life happy.


Make a list of your values or things that are important to you in life. These might include: family, friends, employment, love, money, and a home.
Think of things you've done in the past that you enjoyed and try to figure out how to incorporate those things into your life. Ever had a moment that you wished would never end? Those are the moments you can focus on in your life. This may be times with your partner, kids, close friends, time spent on things you are good at or enjoy (camping, writing, art, music, etc.).;
, What you choose to do with your life in terms of occupation can have an immense effect on your well-being. After all, you may spend 40 hours or more per week focused on your career.


If your old job didn't work for you, try something else. It’s all experience and can help you to grow.
Do you want to get a new job soon or later in the future? Think about what kind of occupation you can handle, will be rewarding and enjoyable for you.
Be patient. If you don't get a job straight away, think of things that would improve your chances. Do some volunteer work, take a short course or earn some extra qualifications; this can do wonders for your self-esteem and your resume.
 When you are recovering from depression it may be hard to break the habit of inactivity and get back into the swing of things. However, staying active and busy can help reduce the likelihood that your depressive symptoms will return.


Focus on tasks or responsibilities that need to be completed. For example, you could: wash the car, cook a good meal, mow the lawn, pay a bill, go shopping, clean the house, do some studying, take care of a pet, tend your garden, the list goes on and on. When you do little things like these it may help you feel more capable over time, and boost your confidence and self-esteem.
Think about what makes you feel good about yourself and be proud of yourself. Make a list and do one thing on it every day. For example, some positive activities that might result in an increase in self-esteem include: sending someone a card, playing with your kids, giving money to charity, volunteering, getting involved in good causes, getting your hair done, planting a tree, running an errand for your elderly neighbor, or calling a friend you know is having a hard time. When it is done, pat yourself on the back and congratulate yourself on a job well done.
 They can be as big or small as you like.


Make sure each goal is a SMART goal, meaning it is: Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and Time-limited.An example of a SMART goals would be to exercise three times per week by running for one hour, for the next month.
One option is to create a goal or activity hierarchy of 15 items. List the activities from simplest to most difficult. Start by completing the easier goal first, then working your way up to the most difficult goal.A small and easy goal might be to walk your dog, while a large goal would be to get a promotion or a new job.
Congratulate yourself on each tiny step you make forward. Reward yourself through positive reinforcement when you make progress on a particular goal. Treat yourself to a spa day, massage, special dinner, or something else you enjoy (that is safe and not drug or alcohol related).
 Goals are meant to be constantly evolving. For each goal you complete, you can begin to form new and more advanced goals. If you find that a goal isn’t working for you, or you change your mind about it, change it to what you think will be more helpful.


Keep track of your daily activities and goals in a calendar.This can help keep you on track and increase your ability to remember important goals and tasks.
Once you complete a goal, make a new one! For example, if your first goal was to lose ten lbs. and now you want to lose a few more, focus on that. Or, if you wanted to exercise more but got stuck in a boring routine of going to the gym, make a goal to go hiking or running outdoors.
Try to think positively, even when you experience a setback. Say things to yourself such as, “I had a setback but I will learn from it and do better next time. I know I can do this!” Write this mantra down and say it to yourself daily if that helps you.

