 If you really think you have OCD, ADHD, or autism, go to a psychologist. They will be able to tell you if you have any of these simply by asking you some questions. However, if you don't have a psychologist in your area, you can always go to your PCP (Primary Care Physician).


Even if you don't have any psychological problems, know that you can still have a psychosomatic illness. Psychosomatic Illnesses affect tons of people whether or not they have a psychological problem. If you've already seen a psychologist, they most likely would've referred you to a therapist. If not, you can always find one yourself.;
, Believe it or not, a psychosomatic illness can do some pretty nasty things to you. This can include...


Nausea/Vomiting
Fever
Constipation
Fatigue
Depression
High Blood Pressure

, Therapies such as CBT and DBT can offer techniques to address anxieties and calm yourself down. The therapist can also help you pinpoint major sources of stress in your life, and talk with you about how to manage those problems.
 Hypnotherapy is basically what it sounds like: a combination of hypnosis and therapy. It can help you manage your illness. Hypnotherapy tricks your mind into not letting yourself get worked up, which can help lower your blood pressure if it's high, preventing future health problems.
 Lowering stress can reduce or remove psychosomatic symptoms. See if you can limit work stress, and spend less time around people who make you feel bad. Consider changing the direction of your life altogether. Psychosomatic illness may be a sign that your current path is too stressful.
 Take a warm bath, snuggle with loved ones, read a good book, or hang out with a good friend. Relaxation is an important part of a balanced life. Make sure to get in at least 2 hours of fun time each day for your health.
 Sleep for at least 8 hours every night, fill 1/3 of your plate with fruits and vegetables, and get exercise. Try taking walks with loved ones, hiking, swimming, or playing backyard sports with a family member. Your physical health is important.
 Incense and essential oils have been known to help with some of the symptoms. Talk to an aromatherapist and tell them about the symptoms you've been experiencing so they can pick something out specifically for that problem.


Lavender oil may be helpful.
Chamomile tea can help calm your nerves.

