 There are hundreds of astrology-themed websites on the internet, and most of them contain the same basic information. You’ll have access to resources on the signs and their meanings, ideal compatibilities, classical texts and more technical information on the interactions of astral bodies.Be wary of websites that try to get you to buy or subscribe to anything. The owners of these sites will usually try to sell “special” products that contain the same information as resources that are free to the public.
 Most astrology websites contain a lengthy blurb describing the common characteristics of each sign of the zodiac. Find your sign and read up on it, as well as that of your love interest. Think about what is true in each summary and what doesn’t apply. Studying the zodiac can enlighten you to tendencies you don’t necessarily see in yourself, or help confirm what you already know.There is a wealth of available information about how astrological conditions affect personality. Read all you can on how you and your love interest’s signs react to various situations in order to gain an understanding of how a relationship between the two of you might fare., Find and fill out an online compatibility test. To make things easy, most online astrology resources feature simple compatibility tests that only require you to fill out a short form or press a few buttons to generate an ideal sign match instantly. Simply put your date and time of birth into one of these forms to find out your astrological sign and be given a list of other signs that you’re likely most compatible with.Online compatibility tests quickly sort through the relevant data you provide to give you an overview of what zodiac personality types are the best match for you.
 Astral bodies don’t directly influence a person’s character, of course, but one thing that the zodiac signs are useful for is indicating which personality types will and won’t mix well. Pay particular attention to articles and descriptions of how the signs relate to one another in relationships, and keep these considerations in mind when dating someone of a different sign.Zodiac signs only give you an idea of what to expect from a person—they should not decide whether or not you attempt to form a relationship with that person, or influence the relationship itself.