 Helmet itch can be caused by a variety of things. While some causes may be due to your helmet or helmet lining, your itchy scalp may be due to a medical condition, such as contact dermatitis or even lice or ringworm. You'll wan to check with your doctor if you have an on-going issue with helmet itch so that you can be properly diagnosed. Other things can also cause helmet itch, from static to hair length to hair products.


The causes of helmet itch may be due to potential issues with your scalp rather than the helmet. If this is the case, simply cleaning your helmet may not alleviate helmet itch.
When you are trying to figure out the cause of helmet itch, try different tactics until one works. Even though one issue may be solved, another may be the one causing helmet itch.
 This is a condition in which your skin is exposed to an irritating foreign substance or an allergen, leading to itching, redness, and discomfort. You may be reacting to the material in your helmet or possibly a chemical used to treat the inside of your helmet. Make an appointment to see your doctor for a proper diagnosis., Your itchy scalp may be caused by more than just sweat or irritation — you may have dermatophytosis, or ringworm, which is a fungal infection of the skin (don't worry, there's no actual "worm" in ringworm). Ringworm commonly affects the scalp and can cause itching. Look also for raised, red, scaly patches; patches that resemble a ring; blisters that begin to ooze.See your doctor for a diagnosis of ringworm. If ringworm is confirmed, then your doctor can prescribe you medication and discuss treatment.
If you have a ringworm infection, you will need to thoroughly clean your helmet, as you could reinfect yourself. Discuss this with your doctor.
 Another common cause of an itchy scalp is a lice infestation. Lice are parasites whose bites can cause itching. If you have lice, you may notice a tickling sensation on your scalp; red, itchy bumps; difficulty sleeping; or tiny white objects in your hair, which are lice eggs, or nits.Get someone to check your hair for lice or visit your doctor for diagnosis and treatment. You'll need to thoroughly disinfect your helmet (as well as your bedding, clothes, and other items that might harbor lice) to ensure you don't become reinfested.
 In most cases, helmet itch caused by static occurs pretty quickly after putting on the helmet. If static is the issue, you can try to wet your hair and scalp before putting on your helmet.


For helmet itch caused by static, the best tactic is to have wet hair when putting on your helmet. Wet hair is heavier and is less inclined to produce static electricity.Static electricity can also be dangerous. If you are riding a motorcycle, static electricity could potentially spark a fire when you're filling up your bike., Hair length can be a factor and may also contribute to increased itchiness. If you have long hair, you’re more likely to experience moderate to severe itch more frequently, since your helmet will be more humid.


If your hair is especially long, it may be a good idea to braid it or put it in a bun. This can keep your hair out of your face, but also keep it isolated to avoid helmet itch.Very short hair can also cause itchiness. If you have very short hair, try wearing a protecting covering to keep your hair protected from the helmet., If possible, avoid using hair products that dry out your hair, which can cause scalp irritation when placed on the skin. These products can be especially itchy in humid conditions.


Switching to hair products that moisturize your hair can help prevent itchy scalp. In particular, try to avoid products that contain sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) since these can dry out your scalp.Additionally, eating healthy fats such as nuts and avocado can provide your hair with plenty of natural oils. These can make your hair less dry and make you less prone to itchy scalp.

