 This jar cannot glow on its own in the dark. It requires a black light in order to glow, but the glow you do get in the end is bright and worth the effort. Here's a list of what you will need:


Black light
Highlighter
Craft knife
Jar with lid
Water
Newspaper
Rubber or latex gloves

, This project can get a little messy, so you might want to cover your table with a few sheets of newspaper. If you don't have any newspaper, try using a few paper bags or a cheap, plastic tablecloth.
 You will be working with a highlighter ink cartridge, which can get very messy. The gloves will keep your hands from getting stained.
 Pull the cap off of a highlighter, and put the highlighter down on the newspaper. Hold the highlighter with one hand, and cut the plastic case open using your other hand. Try not to cut the ink cartridge inside. Instead, try rotating the highlighter as you cut.


If you are a child, please ask an adult to help you with this step.
 It will look like a felt stick. Some may have a clear piece of plastic wrapped around it. You don't need to remove this clear plastic wrapping, if there is one.


If you want, you can also pull the felt tip out using a pair of tweezers., You only need one ink cartridge per jar. If you pulled the felt tip out, add that to the jar as well.
 The water will help dissolve the ink inside the highlighter. You will be throwing out the ink cartridge out. The water will then glow under a black light., This will help loosen any ink inside the cartridge, and help it start to flow out into the water.
 Over time, you may notice the water start to take on the color of the ink.
 Be sure to wear your rubber or latex gloves for this step. If you added the felt tip into the jar as well, you will want to fish it out using a pair of tweezers. Most felt tips are too hard to be squeezed, so don't worry about that.
 If you used the felt tip as well, then throw it out too. Once you have thrown away the cartridge, pull the gloves off. Tug the glove down by the cuff. This will cause the glove to flip inside out; you won't have to touch the highlighter ink that's on it. Once you have the gloves off, toss them.
 If you want, you can put some super glue along the rim of the jar before putting the lid on; this will prevent anyone from opening the jar and making a mess. Like the jars made with glow-in-the-dark paint, this jar won't run out of glowing power and does not need to be refilled like a glow stick jar.
 Highlighter ink is fluorescent. It won't glow on its own, like glow-in-the-dark paint. It needs a little help from a black light. The jar will only glow under a black light; you cannot charge it to glow in the dark, like a glow-in-the-dark paint jar.

