 It’s extremely important to recognize that you alone are responsible for your real world behavior. In order to avoid snapping, recognize that it is you and you alone that allows yourself to behave this way. You must accept this responsibility in order to start changing your behavior.You won’t get better at a game unless you recognize how you can approach it differently. The same rule applies to how you handle a loss emotionally. Acknowledge the issue so you can begin addressing it.
 There are several questions you can ask yourself to help prevent it from happening again. Foremost, gauge how you feel after your composure returns. Literally ask yourself, “How am I feeling right now?” You might not like your answer, but that’s okay. Next, ask yourself, “Did that contribute anything positive to my day?” It’s a loaded question – but be honest with yourself.By forcing your mind to acknowledge your behavior, you may be able to keep your emotions in check next time you lose in a video game.
Adjust the wording of questions like this however you wish. The point is to acknowledge that it doesn’t feel good when you snap. Other options include, “Did that solve anything?” or “How did that improve the situation?”

, Don’t mock or judge yourself. You should, however, look for the humor in these situations. Though this may not happen easily, it can help the process of self-reflection by easing the rapid emotional descent you’ve just endured. While laughing might not seem proactive, the ability to do so indicates that you’ve regained control of your emotions. This is vital to making a decision about how to prevent another meltdown., You’re probably thinking: “Yeah, right! They’re just a nooby &@*%-cheat!” Well, that nooby &@*%-cheat is roaring with laughter in some darkened, victory-filled dungeon. Instead of losing your cool, start thinking about how to make sure it never happens again. While someone else might be at fault – or deserve some credit – the fact of the matter is that you were in a situation that led to your loss.Immediately think about why you lost. Try to identify the specific decision that put you in position to lose. Ask yourself, “What you could have done differently to prevent this loss?”
Plan how you’ll approach the same scenario differently next time. This will not only help your game improve, it will also keep you from losing your cool.
 This may be especially effective if you’re the one that dishes it out. If you keep snapping, sit yourself down and think about what’s actually happening: You are sitting on a couch, staring at a box, and holding a piece of plastic. Further, remind yourself video games are supposed to be fun.State these or other brutally honest points to yourself out loud. It may not be fun to force yourself back into the real world, but it may help you control yourself next time around.
On the other hand, congratulate yourself too. Take note of healthy responses to losses, and recognize that this is evidence of improvement controlling your emotions. This will have real-world, positive effects on your life outside of gaming.

