 What you value in life is a critical component of your spiritual philosophy. Take some time to make a list of values and keep these values in mind as you explore different spiritual philosophies. Some example of values include honesty, respect, courage, and open-mindedness., As you different spiritual philosophies, it’s important to ask yourself how your thoughts and beliefs compare to what you are learning. Take time to ask yourself questions about your take on the human experience, the soul, afterlife, and the relationship of humans to the natural environment.


Try asking yourself, “What happens to the human soul after death?”
You can ask yourself, “What is the place of humans in the universe?”

, It is important to approach the development of a spiritual philosophy with an open mind. While you might have been raised in a particular spiritual or religious tradition, you can benefit from learning about how others approach and philosophize about spirituality. Don’t disregard anyone’s approach until you have taken time to learn about it., As you develop your spiritual philosophy, it is important to pay attention to your inner voice. For example, if a certain approach to spirituality makes you feel uncomfortable, you should not push yourself into it. If something feels right to you, on the other hand, make an effort to continue exploring it., As you are forming a spiritual philosophy, you will likely experience a vast array of emotions. Set aside time each day to write down your thoughts, feelings, and desires. Doing so will help you think through and experience all the emotions on your spiritual journey.Try making a list spiritual goals, ideas, and beliefs that are most important to you and use this list as a guide.
 After you have identified what is important to you and taken the time to explore existing religions, consider adopting or modifying one of them. You can either fully adopt an existing religion or spiritual path, or take the elements of it that speak to you and use them to create your own spiritual philosophy.

