 The seated spinal twist is a gentle twist and a good way to get your spine warmed up for more difficult twisting poses. Adding this twist to your practice can improve digestion as well as spinal flexibility.Come to a comfortable seated position and extend your right leg straight out in front of you. Cross your left leg over your right so that your left foot is flat on the floor on the outside of your right thigh.
As you exhale, twist towards your bent knee, keeping your back straight so that your heart is aligned over your pelvis. Rest your left hand on the floor behind you, arm extended, as you hug your knee with your right arm or bring your right hand to rest on the floor next to your hip.
Inhale back to center, then switch legs and repeat on the other side.
 This simple twist improves your spinal flexibility by creating space in your shoulders and back and loosening up your neck. You'll start this position from all fours, knees under hips and wrists under shoulders.On an exhale, slip your right arm under your body toward your left side. Bend your left elbow and release your right shoulder and head to the floor. Bring awareness to your hips, making sure they remain balanced to support your lower back.
Inhale back to center and repeat with the other side.
 The high lunge twist improves spinal flexibility as well as strengthening your lower body and opening up your lower back. The twist also can help improve digestion and strengthen your core.From all fours, lift your right foot behind you. On an exhale, bring your right foot forward between your hands. Your knee should be directly over your ankle.
Extend your left leg behind you and rise up onto your right toes on an inhale, keeping your fingertips on the floor for balance. You are now in high lunge.Take care not to collapse your torso onto your right thigh.
On an exhale, reach your left arm toward the ceiling and twist, aiming for a straight line of energy from your right fingertips to your left fingertips. Twist from the waist, keeping your hips square.
Inhale back to center, return to all fours, then repeat on the other side.
 Revolved side angle creates a lot of space in your spine as well as challenging your balance. Avoid this pose unless you can breathe through it and hold it without shaking or tipping over.You can begin this pose from all fours or from downward facing dog. Walk or jump your right foot forward to enter high lunge position with your right knee over your right ankle, shin perpendicular to the floor.
On an exhale, bring your palms together in front of your heart in prayer position. Lean forward and twist, bringing your left elbow to rest on the outside of your right knee.
Inhale back to center, return to all fours, and repeat the twist on the other side.
 The reclined twist is a relaxing and supported way to end a yoga practice designed to improve spinal flexibility. To begin this pose, lie on the floor flat on your back with your arms extended straight out from the shoulders to either side.Make sure your shoulders are flat with your shoulder blades tucked along the sides of your spine.
Bend your knees at a right angle, legs together. On an exhale drop them to the left, twisting from your hips. Gaze over your right shoulder. Take care that your shoulders don't leave the floor.
Inhale back to center, then on an exhale drop your knees to the other side. Do this for at least five breath cycles, then drop your legs and lower your arms along your sides. Lay flat in this position, known as corpse pose, for at least five minutes, breathing deeply and allowing all of your tension to release into the floor.

