 Always support any vehicle safely when removing or installing wheels.


If possible, get a helper. Tractor tires are heavy to work with. If you're able, get assistance.
Be conscious at all times that pry bars can slip and cause serious injury. Use with great care.;
, On a backhoe, the stabilizer can be used for this job on rear tires, or the loader bucket for front wheels.
 Using a pneumatic impact wrench can speed up this process.
, With a backhoe, you may be able to complete this step with the digging bucket. If necessary, use a tire hammer to break the tire's bead loose.
, Use a wood block so the tire will rise up from the rim as it's pried off.
 Start near the valve stem and work around the tire, heading away from the stem to keep from pinching it.
 Then block the tire up higher so the tube (if the tire has a tube) can be removed.
,, This will allow you to look for problems with the tire itself when you locate the leak in the tube.
 Using a spray bottle with soapy water will help you find small punctures, but obvious damage may not require this technique.
 A truck tailgate or a worktable is good for this.
 Make sure you know exactly where the damaged spot on the tire is, then buff an area with a buffing tool to roughen up the rubber. Work around the puncture or damaged location so the patch will fit within the roughened area.
 Allow it to dry until it's no longer glossy. Do not wait too long to apply the patch, or the glue may dry completely and lose its adhesion.
 Take care not to touch the surface of the patch underneath it.



Push the patch or roll it with a patch roller to make sure it's well bonded to the tube.
 You may find an old nail, wood splinter or other object still embedded in the tire, or you could see a damaged area that will need attention before replacing the tube.
 This will prevent the tube from being damaged when the tire is reinflated.
 Make sure the valve stem is aligned with the hole in the rim where it will fit. Push the valve stem through the hole made of it, and replace the retaining nut that will hold it in place as the tire is remounted on the rim.
 Start near, but not directly in line with, the valve stem, then work around the rim moving away from the valve stem to prevent pinching the tube.


Continue around the tire until it is reinstalled completely on the rim.
 You will hear air escaping from the cavity between the tube and tire as the tube inflates, but don't worry about it, as this is normal.
 This will help prevent a blow-off, where the air pressure might accidentally blow a part of the tire off the wheel assembly.
 Adjust the height of the tire so the wheel will fit the hub, then align the lug bolt holds and install the lug bolts.
 To make sure the wheel fits the hub properly, criss-cross the hub tightening bolts across from each other rather than working a circular pattern.
 Let the tire back on the ground, and clean up your tools.

