 Start your cozy bed with a great mattress, which can make the most difference in the comfort of your bed, especially for sleep. Choose memory foam, pillow-top, and other mattress varieties according to your preference.


Choose an innerspring or air mattress if you prefer a softer mattress. Try memory foam or latex if you prefer a firmer mattress or suffer from lower pack pain.You can also supplement any mattress with a lush mattress topper, which fits over the corners of your mattress like a fitted sheet would, and comes in all the same materials that mattresses and comforters do to create the texture and coziness you want.;
, Use a fitted and flat sheet on your bed that are the right size for your mattress. Ideally, they should also be made of a high-quality fabric for the most comfort.


Cotton flannel provides extra coziness and warmth and silk is very smooth and warm for cold months.Choose a blend of cotton with a small amount of polyester for a fabric that is soft but wrinkles less easily.
Look for 100% Egyptian, organic, or pima cotton for the most luxurious fabrics, which are typically softer and more durable at a higher thread count (the number of threads in a square inch of fabric).Choose a percale weave if you prefer your sheets a little crisper and lighter, or sateen for a finish that feels heavier and more supple., Get a great down comforter, quilt, or other comfortable blanket of your choice as a main source of warmth and softness for your bed. Then use additional throw blankets for extra coziness and warmth.


Invest in a real down comforter for light and fluffy warmth, or a down alternative if you are allergic. Get a duvet cover for the comforter that can be removed and cleaned more easily than the comforter itself.
Look for knit fabrics, faux fur, cashmere, or other materials that are soft to the touch when you shop for throw blankets. Layering these on the bed can create extra volume, warmth, and comfort.
 Buy your preferred texture of pillow for sleeping, be it soft, firm, or shaped. Then add on additional pillows for comfort and decoration to lend support and coziness when you’re sitting or lying down.


Choose a firm pillow if you prefer or are prone to sleeping on your side, a medium-firm one if you sleep on your back, and a soft one if you sleep on your stomach.Try a memory foam material for your main sleeping pillow if you want something that will conform to and offer full support for your head and neck. You can also buy shaped pillows like a wedge to lend support when sitting or lying propped up.
Try a long body pillow for extra comfort while you’re sleeping, as well as a nice cushioning against a wall or daybed frame if your mattress is up against one.

