 Guinea pigs love hay! They need it for digestive and dental health. Guinea pigs should have unlimited access to hay, which often means refilling a good-sized dish 3 to 5 times daily.


Timothy hay is the best hay for all guinea pigs in general. They will happily eat it and play with it, and it's healthy for pigs of all ages.
Alfalfa hay contains a lot of calcium, so is inappropriate for older pigs except as an occasional treat. Even if your guinea pig loves alfalfa hay, use it sparingly. It should not be a part of their everyday diet. Think of it as a dessert, or a treat.

Alfalfa hay should be used for pregnant or nursing sows, and young guinea pigs under 4months of age.


Other types of hay include meadow hay, bluegrass hay, brome grass hay, oat hay, and orchard grass. These can be used occasionally to vary your guinea pigs diet.
Look for hay that is green and soft, as yellow and hard hay means it's actually straw.
Hay can be purchased from pet stores, but often it has sat too long, which isn't very healthy for guinea pigs. You can often order hay directly from a local farm, or through your exotics veterinarian, which is often cheaper and better hay.;
, Veggies that are good for guinea pigs include celery, carrots, off-the-vine tomatoes, cucumber, corn, kale, a bit of raw broccoli, small amounts of spinach and pod-peas.


Other vegetables such as beetroot, parsley or small quantities of pepper and forages such as clover or dandelion leaves (wash them first), should be given on occasion.Do not give your guinea pigs spoiled or wilted vegetables. Remember, don't feed them any vegetables in poor enough shape that you wouldn't eat them.
 Be aware pellets are high energy, and eating too many can lead to obesity and dental problems. Feed only an 1/8 to 1/4 cup per day to supplement the other parts of its diet.


Look for pellets that are supplemented with vitamin C. This is an important nutrient that guinea pigs need in their diet.
Avoid providing muesli feed as this can lead to selective feeding.
Only use pellets designed for guinea pigs. Pellets for rabbits or other rodents aren't suitable for guinea pigs as they contain different quantities of essential vitamins and nutrients.

