 Obviously, if you don't already have a heater, you may want to consider buying one. Plug-in heating devices, which can usually be found at most department stores, are available in a wide range of sizes and power levels, making them a reasonable solution for any size room (and any budget).


Keep in mind that space heaters tend to use a lot of electricity. While you may be able to make up the difference by turning off your central heating, frequent space heater use can affect your utility bill.
Always adhere to the basics of heater safety: don't leave space heaters on unattended (including while you sleep) and don't use space heaters that burn fuel indoors, as these pose a carbon monoxide hazard., Though they were once considered unfashionable, electrical blankets are making a comeback thanks to the comfort (and savings) they provide. The devices can make for an exceptionally comfortable slumber when it's cold in your room. Best of all, they tend to use significantly less energy than other plug-in heaters — one consumer study found that they usually saved about one-half to three-fourths of the energy.For the most comfort, start the electric blanket a few minutes before you get into bed. To save energy, turn it off before you fall asleep.
 For some, there's nothing quite as comfortable as the feeling of being under a heavy pile of blankets when it's cold. The more layers of blankets you use, the more of your body heat will be trapped in the bed. Additional layers create pockets of "dead heat" — air that has a hard time leaking out into the surrounding cool.


In general, thicker, fluffier materials (like wool, fleece, and down) are warmest. Air gets caught in the tiny spaces in these materials, trapping more heat next to the body.
Don't forget that you can even wear blankets around the house — perfect when you don't want to give up the warm comfort of bed just yet.
 Windows are one of the most frequent sources of heat loss for rooms.To counteract this, try hanging thick, heavy curtains around your window and closing them as soon as it starts to get cold in the evening. The heavy material of the curtains will help slow the heat loss through the glass, keeping the room warmer, longer.


If curtains aren't in your budget, you can get a similar effect by hanging old blankets in front of windows.
 Smooth, hard surfaces like wood, tile, and marble tend to retain much less heat than carpet. In fact, un-insulated floors can account for 10% of a room's total heat loss.If you're tired of freezing your toes off when you get up in the morning, consider laying down a rug or even having carpeting installed. This will also help keep your room warm once you've heated it — a carpeted room will stay warm longer after you turn off the heater than a room with a bare tile floor.


You can even sometimes get away with covering some of your walls with carpet-like materials to increase this effect. Things like tapestries and decorative rugs can look great when they're hung from the wall and can keep your room slightly warmer at the same time.
 Though it's a major investment, getting new insulation in your home can be a project that pays for itself in the long run, as this can dramatically reduce heating bills (especially for older, draftier houses).Another benefit, of course, is that you'll be warmer and more comfortable. Below are a just few types of insulation you may want to consider:


Wall insulation (fiberglass, etc.)
Window insulation (double and triple-paned windows, protective films, etc.)
Door insulation (draft guards, floor seals, etc.)
Every house is different, so the amount of work required can vary wildly from house to house. Before you make any concrete decisions, talk to an experienced contractor (or several) and get an estimate for your project so you can determine what the best decision for you is

