 If you're trying to get an "unlovable" person to come out of his or her shell, hanging out one-on-one may be awkward and stressful for both of you. Instead, try inviting this person to an event where lots of people will be in attendance. At the event, do your best to make this person feel welcome, but try not to make her feel singled-out, as this can be terribly awkward and may discourage her from attending in the future.


For example, let's say you throw a party and invite the socially awkward outcast character from the examples above as a sign of goodwill. When he actually shows up, you're pleasantly surprised. However, you shouldn't make a huge production of welcoming him to the party or he'll get the idea that he's the center of attention, which, in his experience, has been a bad thing. Instead, welcome him exactly as you'd welcome any other acquaintance to the party. During the party, you might try starting a pleasant conversation with him, introducing him to your friends, and bringing him into group conversations if you sense he's being left out. He'll probably appreciate your help.
 Over time, as this "unlovable" person becomes more comfortable at group events, you may or may not find that he naturally opens up and becomes more pleasant to be around. If he does, you may cautiously try inviting him to events with fewer people where he'll be able to have more meaningful interactions with others. You shouldn't ever feel like you have to do this — in fact, acting like someone's a close friend when you actually don't care for him is disingenuous and unkind. However, if you are starting to get along with this formerly "unlovable" person, you shouldn't be discouraged from trying this out, either.


For instance, in our continuing example, if this person has reacted well to being invited to a few parties, you may want to invite him to hang out with a smaller, closer circle of friends when you go bowling or head to the bar. If he seems to continue to act well, you can probably safely proceed to as you would with any other friend.
 The steps above assume that you get good reactions after you invite a formerly "unlovable" person to hang out with you. It's also a possibility that you won't get a good reaction. The "unlovable" person may revert to her former behavior or start lashing out at people at the social event, making things awkward for others. In cases like these, you can cut your losses and refrain from inviting this person to any further social events, or, if their behavior becomes too distracting, you may want to kindly insist that they leave.


It's not necessarily cruel to stop inviting a difficult person to social events after she has already sabotaged a few — it's simply learning from experience. In cases like these, it's probably more stressful for everyone involved (including the "unlovable" person) for her to continue to attend.

