 A granny square is made up of clusters of double crochet stitches and chain stitches. It is crocheted in rounds rather than rows. Blankets and many other items can be made up of small granny squares stitched together. However, it's very easy to make a blanket that is essentially one big granny square.
 A granny square starts with a ring of chain stitches joined with a slip stitch.


Using worsted weight yarn and an H hook, ch 6.
To make a slip stitch, insert your hook into the first chain, yarn over and draw the yarn through. You now have two loops on your hook.
Draw the first loop (the loop you just made) through the second loop. You now have a ring of stitches.
 To crochet the foundation round of a granny square, you are going to put your stitches into the center of the ring instead into the chain.


Ch 3. (This ch 3 is like a turning chain, and counts as the first stitch in the row.) Then, yo and insert your hook into the center of the ring. Make 2 dc. Ch 2. Make 3 dc in the ring and ch 2. Repeat two more times.
Insert your hook into the 3rd chain of your turning chain, and join together with a slip stitch to make a ring.
Look at your ring and you will see the that the groups of 3 dcs make the sides of your granny square, and the ch 2s are the corners.
 The second round builds and expands on your foundation round.


Slip stitch across the top of the first three stitches until you reach your first corner.
Working your stitches into the corner, ch 3. Then 2 dc, ch 2, 3 dc.
You're now at one of the sides of the granny square. Ch 2 to "bridge" over those stitches. In the next corner, work (3 dc, ch 2, 3 dc).
Ch 2 again, and continue around until you reach your starting point.
Join with a slip stitch in the top of your turning chain.
 The third round expands the granny square even further.


Slip stitch across the top of the first three stitches until you reach the first corner.
Working your stitches into the corner, ch 3. Then 2 dc, ch 2, 3 dc.
Skip over the next 3 dc. Now you're at the ch 2 you made in the previous round. Work 3 dc into that space.
In the next corner, make 3 dc, ch 2, 3 dc. At the next ch 2 space, make 3 dc.
Continue around until you reach your starting point.
Join with a slip stitch in the top of your turning chain.
 Repeat the third round over and over again until your blanket reaches the size you like.
 To finish, you can add a simple border, end off and weave in the ends.


To make a simple border, ch 1 and insert your hook into the corner of your fabric. Make 3 sc into the corner. Sc all along the edge of your fabric until you reach the next corner, make 3 sc in the corner and continue around in this fashion until you reach your starting point. You can add another row of border in the same manner if you wish.
To end off, ch 1 and make a big loop with the yarn. Slip the hook out of the loop and cut your yarn, leaving a long tail. Pull the end of the yarn through the loop and tighten to make a knot.
To weave in the ends of the yarn, hold your fabric with the back side facing you. Thread the end of the yarn through a tapestry needle. Insert the needle through the bottom of several stitches (about two inches). Skip the last half of the last stitch, then weave the needle back through the same stitches for about an inch. Pull the yarn through, and clip the end of the yarn close to the fabric.

