 When it comes to picking your clothes for working out, comfort is king. Picking fabrics that allow you to move, bend, sweat, and lift comfortably is always a smart idea — if you feel better at the gym, you'll look better. Rather than relying on stuffy materials like denim, vinyl, polyester, and so on, pick breathable materials like cotton, bamboo, and artificial fibers designed for athletic wear to keep cool and comfortable while you work up a sweat."Moisture-wicking" fabrics are an especially great choice for workout wear. These fabrics (which are usually artificial) transfer sweat to the outside of the fabric where it can evaporate, rather than trapping it against your body.
When in doubt, layer. Wear several pieces of breathable clothing on top of each other and remove the outer items as you heat up and begin to sweat.;
, When you're at the gym, you have a little more freedom than normal for how tight or revealing your clothes can be. Make the most of this! For example, if you're a woman who's naturally curvy, a well-fitting sports bra and curve-hugging yoga pants can accentuate your natural assets. On the other hand, if you're naturally thin, you may want to go for a bare midriff to show off your toned midsection. Your ideal outfit will vary based on your body type — everyone's a little different!


One sure-fire way not to flatter your figure is to wear a one-color outfit — this can give almost anyone a "saggy" look (as if they're wearing pajamas). A much safer bet is to wear one neutrally-colored garment (black, grey, etc.) and one colored one — this creates healthy contrast, highlighting your figure.
 Some people who have a tendency to sweat a lot may find it beneficial to wear items of clothing that absorb sweat. Headbands, wristbands, ankle bands, bandanas, doo-rags, and other accessories can help keep sweat levels manageable, ensuring you look your best while you work out.


For added effect, you may also want to consider wearing an antiperspirant deodorant to minimize the amount that you sweat and keep body odor low.
 Looking attractive at the gym isn't all about the clothes you wear — it's also about the way you act and carry yourself. For instance, because any hygiene issues you have are likely to be especially noticeable once you start moving and sweating, it's important to take care of these issues both for your own benefit and that of the people around you. Below are just a few basic hygiene tips to keep you looking and feeling great at the gym:Clean your skin skin and hair daily or every other day.
Bathe after every time you use the gym.
Cover any cuts, scrapes, or sores with a suitable bandage.
Wipe up excessive sweat with disinfectant after you finish exercising.
 For many, stretching before and/or after exercise is a chore. If you're trying to look hot, however, this is your greatest opportunity! Stretching gives you the perfect opportunity to bend, twist, and contort in ways that flatter your figure. Don't be ashamed — there's no reason not to look as good as you can while you limber up.


If your gym offers yoga classes, consider enrolling. A major component of yoga is flexibility, so you'll be doing lots of stretches, some of which are naturally flattering. On top of this, tight-fitting clothing is fairly common for yoga classes.
 Let's be honest — most people don't look sexy when they're struggling to complete difficult exercises. Whether you're trying to max out on one more bench press rep or finish the last quarter-mile of your half marathon, there's a good chance you'll be a sweaty, grunting, panting mess. To look as good as possible, pick exercise goals you know you won't have to seriously struggle to complete. Finishing your exercise with a healthy level of effort usually makes you look great; barely crawling across the finish line or giving up on your last rep does not.


This doesn't necessarily mean you should shy away from high-intensity exercise, however. If you want to look good, you'll need to strike a careful balance between picking exercises that are too easy — which can make you look like you're barely even trying — and those that are too hard.
 Do you have one area of your body that you're particularly proud of — an area that's extra-hot? If so, show it off! Below are just a few potential "target" areas and some exercises that can highlight them:


Arms: Bicep curls, tricep extensions, forearm curls
Glutes: Squats, dead lifts
Legs: Squats, lunges, running, cycling
Chest: Bench press, flies, incline/decline press
Stomach: Crunches, situps
Back: Pull ups, rows

, No matter how attractive you naturally are, you'll look like a gym newbie if you use improper form for the exercises you attempt. More importantly, using improper form can be unsafe, potentially leading to long-lasting injuries. To avoid this, ensure you tackle each exercise with perfect form and posture. If you're unsure of how to perform a certain exercise safely, talk to a staff member at the gym. Since there are nearly countless exercises that are possible at the gym, this topic is impossible to cover in-depth in this article, but here are just a few basic form and posture tips to start with — this list is by no means complete:When weightlifting, use only as much weight as you are able to lift and lower smoothly and comfortable.
Keep an erect, upright posture when standing, sitting, and moving, but don't lock your knees.
Don't rush or push yourself beyond your limit.
Don't use a hunched or stooped posture of the neck and back, especially when exercising these muscles.
 This is a common gym annoyance that's super-easy to forget about, but it can be a minor turn-off for other members if you're caught doing it. Resting at a cardio or strength-training machine is often seen as bad form (especially by "gym rats") because it keeps other people from using the machine unless they specifically ask you to move. This can make you look like a gym newbie or someone who's selfish, so avoid it if you can remember to do so.


Instead, take a break between your sets by standing up, walking around, and, if desired, stretching. If you plan to resume your exercise at your machine, leave your bag or another personal possession next to it — this is a way of "claiming" it without preventing others from squeezing in a quick set.

