 EBGames and other game stores are currently selling used Gamecubes for around $30-60, which is less than most next-gen GAMES cost nowadays.;
, Thankfully, most used/new Gamecube games can be acquired very cheaply at most game stores. Below is a list of some Gamecube titles that shouldn't be overlooked:, It's an open-ended game, where you take the role of a human (I'm not sure what the character really is.....) in a village filled with anthropomorphic animals. Your goals are to buy a house, fill it with all sorts of furniture, pay off your debts, and generally just have fun, and there's lots to do, from fishing to contests to rare furniture, and much, much more. Think of it as a slightly different Sims game, except with talking animals. A must-buy for any Gamecube owner.
 It's an unusual RPG with a great storyline and better-than-average graphics. It uses a turn-based battle system that revolves around "cards" called Magnus, which can be used for attack and defense. There are two games in this series- Baten Kaitos: Eternal Wings and the Lost Ocean and Baten Kaitos Origins. The original Baten Kaitos has a slower pace, in terms of battles, and the storyline is slightly better than Origins. Also, there are more party members to choose from in the original. In Origins, the battle pace is faster, providing an eclectic blend of turn-based and "real-time" strategy. The voice acting (yes, VOICE ACTING) is MUCH improved in this version, and the storyline and music is still top-notch.
 It's a real-time RPG with a mildly interesting storyline and above-average graphics; although it may not be a must-buy, it's still worth a try.
 It's sort of a "farming game" as far as genres go; you grow crops, sell them, explore the town, acquire various farming animals, fish, and much more. It may sound boring, but it is a very addictive and fun game once you've played it for a while.
 For those of you unfamiliar with this franchise, it revolves around a young boy name Link who discovers that he is the true bearer of the mystical artifact known as the "Master Sword" and that he is destined to save the world from an evil being known as Ganon or Ganondorf. From the in-depth puzzles and dungeons to the innovative weapon selection and fast-paced action, the Legend of Zelda franchise is a pristine example of what a video game franchise SHOULD be. Another must-buy, although the large amounts of sailing in this game might be a turn-off to some.
 Twilight Princess is a deep, multi-layered game, from the intriguing storyline to the solid gameplay. This game has a darker tone than most Zelda games, garnering the first T rating for a Zelda game in history. The enemy AI (artificial intelligence) is more advanced than Wind Waker's, and the human-to-wolf back-and-forth transformation within the game is an interesting novelty. This game has been called "the best Zelda game of all time," earning a 10 out of 10 in many reviews, and is an absolute must-buy for the Gamecube.
 Lego Star Wars takes place in a Lego-like version of the Star Wars universe, and it relates the events of Star Wars Episodes I through III. Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy takes place during Star Wars Episodes IV through VI, so it's really a matter of taste and what Star Wars movies you prefer more. There are a few notable changes between the two titles; Lego Star Wars II has customizable characters, "bounty hunter mode", where you can play as several bounty hunters from the Star Wars franchise, and improved vehicles and bonus levels. Many reviews have called these two titles "fun, impressive..." and "The Best Gamecube Action Game of 2006." They have also won awards for "Best Gameplay", "Best Game Based On a Movie or TV Show," and "Best Children's Game."

, Hilarity ensues. This game puts an interesting spin on the series; a racing game instead of a platforming game. You can choose from a large cast of Nintendo characters and their distinctive cars, then it's off to the racetrack. This game features superb multiplayer modes, a large amount of courses, and the fact that a kart (car) can carry two drivers, one in the front and one in the back. This title has garnered many positive reviews, earning an average 9.5 out of 10. Definitely worth a look for racing fans and Mario fans alike.
 These two games are no different. Metroid Prime's story revolves around a bounty hunter named Samus, who investigates a ship that sent out a distress signal.She finds out that it is owned by space pirates, only to discover that not everything is as it seems.........Echoes features a more "light-and-dark" storyline, and is quite different from the original Prime's storyline. These two games are sort of a combination between first-person shooters and action/adventure games. These two titles, especially Prime, have been critically acclaimed, garnering 10 out of 10s in many reviews and were chosen for the "Top 100 Games" list for GameFaqs, the "Top 100" list for IGN, and the original Prime is considered one of the best-selling games for the Gamecube, and stands as the third-highest-rated game of all time as of November 2007. A must-buy.
 The storyline borrows quite a bit from the Cthulhu Mythos, and revolves around the female protagonist named Alexandria, who is investigating the mysterious murder of her grandfather. Eternal Darkness is notorious for its "sanity effects"; a green bar at the top of the screen measures how much "sanity" you have left. When it becomes low, very strange things happen in-game, including surreal events; a "blue screen of death"; when trying to save, instead of the usual "Do you wish to overwrite saved data" screen, there is a "Do you wish to delete all save files" with the options "Yes" and "Continue without saving." No matter what you do, all files appear to be deleted; insects swarming over the lens of the camera, game messages that claim that an "error" has occurred, and the inventory screen appearing to be empty. This game may not have achieved incredible commercial success, but it has been called the "#5 Scariest Game of All Time" by Game Informer and X-Play, and has earned a 92% average in most game reviews.
 A turn-based battle system, based on the original Paper Mario, infuses this game, as well as the "audience" system; since most battles actually "take place" on a stage, the audience can boo or cheer you on, depending on how well you do, and you will be rewarded for how well you do by the audience. IGN has called this game "an absolute blast to play," and it was named "the 16th Best Gamecube Game of All Time" by IGN. It currently holds an average score of 88% on Game Rankings.
 Unfortunately, it has gone down in popularity for game cube ever since the New Play Control! version came out. The basis of game play in Pikmin is to retrieve ship parts using strange plant-like creatures called "Pikmin"; there are different colors and types of Pikmin, each with their own unique powers. The story revolves around an odd creature named Captain Olimar, who, in order to save his company, must acquire a set amount of money to keep himself in business. He crash-lands on a bizarre planet along the way, and must use the native Pikmin to repair his ship and escape, all the while gathering valuable items, in 30 days, before his oxygen supply runs out. Most "game days" are 15 minutes in length, and Olimar must return to his ship along with his Pikmin squadron before the time limit is up, otherwise the native beasts will devour most of his Pikmin. The game also features a more difficult Challenge Mode, better-than-average graphics, and a unique style of gameplay. Pikmin has earned a 9.1 out of 10, an award for "Best Puzzle Game," an "outstanding" rating according to IGN, and is considered fun for gamers of all skill levels. Pikmin 2, Pikmin's sequel, was even more acclaimed than the original, mostly because the 30-day time limit was removed. There are also two more types of Pikmin in Pikmin 2, improved controls, easier multitasking, the addition of "sprays", a multiplayer feature, and the fact that a player can continue searching for treasure as long as he or she wishes, instead of only 30 days. Pikmin 2 has earned a 39/40 according to Famitsu, and IGN and Gamespot both gave the game a 9.3 out of 10. Another must-buy, especially Pikmin 2, seeing as it is the better of the two games.
 But when he arrives at the village where Ashley is being held captive, he discovers that it has been taken over by horrific creatures known as Los Ganados, and a religious cult bent on world domination named Los Illuminados. Smarter and quicker than regular zombies, Los Ganados feature sophisticated AI. The game is well known for its solid gameplay, quick controls, item management, cinematic cutscenes and storyline, and fast-placed gun play. This game has earned several Game of the Year Awards, achieved Player's Choice Status, and has earned a 10 out of 10 in many reviews.
 It has earned over 91% for all versions on Game Rankings.com, and has earned a 9.2 from IGN.
 This game features many fun minigames, but the plot is very weak. It is an excellent multiplayer/party game, and has earned an E3 2002 Game Critic Award for Best Puzzle/Trivia/Parlor Game, and is a Player's Choice Game.
 The game revolves around many popular Nintendo characters fighting it out on many different stages. The game features many diverse Nintendo characters, from Mario to Kirby to Fox, and much more, a ton of different items to use in battle, a rich and superb multiplayer mode, and dozens of trophies and various unlockables to acquire. Super Smash Bros. Melee is sixth on the Gamefaqs list of "Best...Game....Ever....", IGN's reader choice chose it as "Game of the Year," Electronic Gaming Monthly chose it as "Best Multiplayer Game" and "Best Gamecube Game," the 200th edition of Electronic Gaming Monthly selected Melee as #92 of the Most Influential Games of All Time on their "Top 200 Games of All Time" list, IGN named it the third "Best Gamecube Game of All Time" in 2007, and Gamespy chose it as fourth in a similar list. Melee has earned many, many 10 out of 10 reviews and is considered to be THE best Gamecube game ever. If you buy no other game for the Gamecube, buy Melee.

