 Keep your goals realistic and attainable. These long term goals can be broken down into short term goals (less than one year- typically 6 months or fewer) and from then you can start establishing daily goals.


Ex: If your goal is to write about 2,000 words per week, your short term/daily goal would be to write about 300 words per day.;
, Two or three well thought-out long term goals should be enough. If you find yourself writing a long list of vaguely detailed goals, you need to imagine the big picture and ask yourself what you want out of your freelance career.


Ex: Say your long term goal is to live comfortably working from home. You need to determine how much you want to make and how you plan on getting there.
If can't come up with a decent plan, then that long term goal should be set aside until you're in a position to make it happen.
 You can start planning from the time you wake up or when you prefer to start working. Start with jotting down your daily goals then add a task that will help you complete said goal.


Ex: You want to write three articles? Well, where do you find work, and how much time are you willing to commit the task?

, Add to it when you feel more comfortable completing more tasks throughout the day. Don't overwhelm yourself. Remember: Realistic and attainable.
 Establish deadlines for yourself, and hold yourself accountable when you miss them.
 Whether you've been freelancing for one website for years or you're completely new to freelance work, keep in mind that there are dozens of websites dedicated to freelancing. However, before you sign up for a new website, make sure that it is a reputable source. You don't want to enter your personal information into an iffy website.
 If you're just starting out, it's wise not to focus on the money so much as the experience you're gaining. The better work you produce- paid or otherwise- will help you build a positive reputation as well as expand your professional portfolio. This will help you move onto bigger projects later on.
 Content Mills are a great start for inexperienced freelancers, but keep in mind that most only pay you $0.01-$0.05 for your work (BKA Content, Demand Studios). Other sites have more of a bidding system (Textbroker, Freelancer). Clients set their terms and provide the basic details of what they need and when they need it. Creators then bid to get picked. Whoever the client picks is the one that gets to write the article.


Ex: "I need 10 articles written in 6 days and I'm willing to pay between X and X amount of money."
Ex: "I can write 10 articles in three days for $250." Congrats, you win money.
 Blogging is a very useful tool in today's world. Not only can creating a blog keep you busy in between projects, it can be used as a creative outlet to document you personal experiences or it can be used to get your name out there. Find a niche or use your blog as a sort of online journal.

