 Most states that have a sales tax also require residents to pay use taxes on items they purchase online or out-of-state and plan to use within the state.A use tax applies if you bought items online or out of state with the intention to use them within your state, and those items would have been subject to sales tax if you bought them in your state.
If you were charged another state's sales tax, you typically don't have to pay use tax provided the tax rate is greater than or equal to your state's sales tax rate.
If you were charged sales tax at a rate lower than your state's sales tax, typically you must pay a use tax equal to the difference between the two rates.
You can find out if your state charges use tax by visiting the website of your state's tax authority – usually your state's department of revenue.
 If you purchase items online frequently, you may find it more convenient to file your use tax returns monthly or quarterly rather than at the time of purchase.If you only make occasional online purchases where sales tax isn't collected, you can go ahead and file the form and pay the tax when the purchase is made rather than waiting.
Your state's department of revenue will have a schedule with deadlines when use tax is due. For example, Florida's use tax is due quarterly on the first day of the month after the end of the quarter. So if you live in Florida, you would pay use taxes on April 1 for purchases made from January 1 through March 31.
Saving receipts also allows you to keep detailed records, so you know the purchases for which you've paid or need to pay use taxes.
 Each state has a form, typically available on the state department of revenue's website, for calculating and reporting use tax.If you plan to use an online system and your state has one available, there typically isn't anything to download – just follow the prompts on your state's online system.
If you want to mail a paper form with a check for the use tax you owe, you must either download the form from the state department of revenue's website or pick one up at your nearest tax assessor's office.
The form generally requires you to enter your name, address, and Social Security number, along with the total amount of purchases you made and the tax owed.
You may also be able to list each item you purchased, where you purchased it, the date, and the amount you paid. Including this list with your return ensures the state won't come after you for unpaid use taxes on those items later.
 Check your state's website for the address to which you must send your return.Many states also give you the option of filing your use tax returns online, which typically is more convenient and may allow you to pay using a credit or debit card.

