 Use a seam ripper to go along the bottom of each pant leg and remove the hem. Pull out all of the thread from the hem and unfold it, exposing the excess fabric. Then, use a measuring tape to measure the width of the pant leg.
 The process involved in lengthening pants is essentially adding lining to the un-hemmed edge, and then creating a very thin hem to allow for more length. Therefore, choose a neutral fabric (it won’t be seen on the outside) which matches your pants and measure it to be the width of the pant leg. Cut 4 strips that are the width of the pant leg +1-inch for the seam allowance, making them 1.5–2 inches (3.8–5.1 cm) high.
 Lay two pieces of the cut fabric face-to-face, and sew the ends together ½-inch from the edge of the fabric. Do this for all 4 pieces of fabric, so that you are left with 2 loops which should fit snugly into the bottom of the pant leg. Turn each loop right-side out so that the finished side of the fabric is facing outwards.
 Turn your pants inside out, and place one of the lining loops into the bottom edge of the pant leg (still with the fabric right-side out). Line up the edges of the two pieces of fabric, and then use a straight stitch to sew along the bottom of the leg, about ¼-inch from the bottom edge. It’s OK if the fabric of the pant leg is uneven or crooked along the edge, as this will be remedied in later steps.
 Remove your pants from the sewing machine, and unfold the lining that you’ve just sewn to the pants, so that the excess fabric sticks out from the end of each pant leg. Use an iron to press and smooth the fabric. Then fold the exposed fabric, bringing the ends to the center of the lining and press the fold with the iron. This should leave a stretch of fabric about 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide with a fold/crease extending from the bottom of the pant leg.
 Fold the exposed bit of lining up and over the edge of the bottom of the pant leg. Fold the pant leg just high enough so that all of the lining is exposed, as well as a very small portion of the bottom of the pant leg (about 1/16 of an inch). Then, turn the pants right-side out again. You should not be able to see the lining that you’ve added because of the fold, but if necessary fold the edge of the pants up a bit more to hide it.
 Sew your new hem along the folded pant leg. The hem should be about ½ an inch from the bottom of the pant leg, but can be adjusted depending on the appearance you’re going for. Sew all the way around, being sure that the lining is flat and smooth on the inside of the hem. Once you’ve done this for both legs, you’re done!

, Make a solution of 3 parts vinegar and 1 part water and use it to press the fabric. The solution will remove the wrinkles/fold from the original hem, and make the new hem appear to be the only one the pants have ever had. If you’re out of vinegar, just use your iron with plenty of steam to flatten out the hem.