 It is important to ensure that you're healthy and fit before trying an eating contest. Consult your physician before the contest and get their advice. Make sure that you aren't on medication that shouldn't be taken with food. Check with contest officials that EMTs and an ambulance will be present in the event of choking or allergic reactions, or third-degree burns on the roof of your mouth from searing hot taco beef.;
, Find out how to apply and what things you need to know to be involved by phoning or calling in person to see the event organizer. Besides the local news, you can look online at the sites of the professional eating bodies, such as Major League Eating and the Association of Independent Competitive Eaters, to see what contests they are running or supporting. As an amateur, things that you might like to look for in the competition include:


Short length (no more than 7-8 minutes)






Food that you like eating (there's not much point eating food you detest)






Picnic-style eating (this means eating without making a mess, at a good pace and not disrespectfully)A fun occasion, with people not taking it too seriously but wanting to enjoy it.
 Try the same foods that are used in the contest, and importantly, these should be foods that you enjoy eating and are already familiar with. Don't overdo this "practice run"–just treat it as a familiarization exercise. When trialing, it can be helpful to look for ways to make the food go down faster and more easily. For example (and subject to the contest rules):


Can you fold the food to make it easier to swallow?






Can you tear it into pieces to make it go down faster? Practice coordinating your hands and mouth so that your hands can be tearing food into more edible portions, while your mouth keeps chewing. You won't have time to think about it.






Can you make some of the food propel other parts of the food down faster, such as using cheese to help pizza base slide down?






Check your chewing and swallowing techniques and see if you can do anything to improve these for the contest.
 It can't hurt to do some mental limbering up to help you prepare for the contest. Visualize succeeding and enjoying the occasion in the lead-up. Professionals also train to try to overcome our brain's natural "stop-eating" signals, but this not a healthy approach for amateurs to take and could lead to unhealthy eating habits in your everyday life.
 Starving yourself is unhealthy for the body, so eat light meals up until the contest day. Fasting can also cause your stomach to tighten up, which you definitely don't want!

, Exercise will keep you flexible, focused, and in good shape.
 You won't have time to mouth breathe while you are eating.
 as possible. Too many liquids will only fill the stomach, creating less room for food. However, some professionals do advise that it is fine to drink up to a liter of water to help expand the stomach, and to have herbal tea for calming and cleansing. In addition, do not drink milk during the contest because you risk vomiting through your nose.

