 You will need a total of sixteen bamboo sticks: four full-length bamboo sticks and twelve full-length bamboo sticks cut in half at the middle.









You can make this with any length bamboo sticks, as long as the electric bulb and socket you plan to use will fit comfortably inside without touching the sides of the lantern.
Trim off any jagged or pointy edges at the break.;
, Decorating your tissue paper is a great way to make your Diwali lantern unique and reflective of your taste and interests.









For more manageable sizes, cut tissue paper into 5 inch, 7 inch and 9 inch squares and rectangles.
For stronger tissue paper, layer two sheets of the same color and glue their edges together.
Color blocking, stripes, or diamond shapes will bring out the natural design of the lantern. Use a very thin layer of glue to glue edges together.
Kids might enjoy drawing stories or scenes of their home and family on their tissue paper.
Crafty types might be interested in developing their designs even more, by using a penknife to cut out designs and layering two or more colors together.
 You'll be using ribbon to decorate the top and bottom of your Diwali lantern, and there will also be a long ribbon fringe at the bottom.
 Affix a nail or hook and feed electric cord with bulb through it, and note the distance between the bulb and nail/hook.
 Gather full- and half-length bamboo sticks, tape measure/ruler, heavy duty thread, exacto-knife or sharp blade, and glue.


Lay everything out on old newspapers so you don't damage the table you are working on.
 To do this, place two half-length bamboo sticks at 90 degree angle (a right angle) to one another, so that their ends overlap by ¼ of an inch.


Repeat twelve times.
 This little dot of glue will keep the bamboo sticks positioned correctly in a 90 degree angle for assembly.









Repeat twelve times.
Be patient and let the glue dry completely before beginning the next step.
 Cut about twelve inches of thread, and with thread taut, secure each corner by wrapping thread around the arms of the angle close to the join in a figure eight motion.









Tie off in a couple of slip knots.
Dot thread with glue.
Let glue dry completely.
 By the end of this step you should have two squares of equal size.


Let glue dry completely.
 To do this, repeat ONLY step 4 (omit the gluing step) to secure joins. By the end of this step, you have four squares of equal size with one pair of threaded, glued corners diagonal from each other, and one pair of thread-only corners with no glue.









The flexible, thread-only corners allow the square to bend, slightly, along this axis, which is an important feature for the final Diwali lantern design.
 These sticks will form the central frame for the Diwali lantern.









Marking ensures consistency, and will help you line up the corners of the squares and angles that you have already made.
If you line up all four sticks together, you can mark them at one time.










Support the new angle you have made while it's drying, using a drinking glass or two, or other handy support.



Be sure to line them up at the marks, and support them in perpendicular shape while they are drying.
Let glue dry completely.
By the end of this step it should look like you have an upside down bamboo stick table with bamboo stick "legs."

, By the end of this step, you should have a rectangular box frame with four, one to two inch legs sticking out at each end.









Let glue dry completely.
 This creates a series of flexible diamonds that add dimension and prismatic depth to your Diwali lantern.









Positioning the thread-only corners against the full-length bamboo sticks at the mark and upper bamboo edge already in place, use a length of heavy duty thread to attach the thread-only corner to the frame.
It's perfectly fine for this to require a little squeezing and stretching of the angles.
You actually do not want them to lay completely flat, or to stick out straight.
Tie off thread and dot with glue.
Let glue dry completely.
Affix one flexible square at a time. Repeat with three remaining flexible squares.
 By the end of this step, your frame will be complete.


Let glue dry completely.
 Starting with the central areas is easiest, and you can use your larger sheets of decorated paper here.









Beginning with frames of the central squares (the ones made by the flexible squares) apply a very thin layer of glue to bamboo sticks.
Lay decorated paper over it. Gently tap down.
Repeat for remaining central squares.
Let glue dry completely.
Trim edges of paper with sharp scissors or sharp blade.
 Tap down.









Let glue dry completely.
Trim edges of paper with sharp blade.
 Tap down.


Let glue dry completely.
Trim edges of paper with sharp blade.
 Wrapping the ribbon will give the lantern a finished look.









Secure with a knot and trim ends.
 Wrapping the ribbon here also finishes the look and provides a horizontal support to attach a fringe of ribbons.
 Using a cow-hitch knot,attach ribbons to lower strands of ribbon wrap.
 This is the same nail or hook you are using to hang the electric cord and light socket.


Adjust length so that the light hangs in the center of the lantern.
 Now you can enjoy the fruits of your labor, and think about the triumph of light over darkness symbolized by your lantern!

