 It’s the multicolored flower icon in your Applications folder., It’s at the top of the screen.,, If prompted to do so, sign in to your iCloud account now by entering your Apple ID and password.,,, You can do this by clicking the red circle at the top-left corner of the window., It’s near the top of the screen, right next to a button that says “Memories.”, This selects all of your iCloud photos., It’s at the top-left corner of the screen.,,

To export the photos as they are (including any edits you made with the Photos app on your iPhone, iPad, or Mac), select Export x items. The “x” will be the actual number of photos to export. This option works for most people, especially if you want to use Google Photos for free.
To export the original versions of all of your photos (without edits), choose Export Unmodified Original for x items. This option is good for professional photographers or anyone who works with very high-resolution photos and videos.


If you’re exporting unmodified originals, your options are limited. Just choose a file naming scheme from “File Name” and skip to the next step.
If you’re exporting your files as they are, you can also choose a photo file type (JPEG is a good choice for high-quality photos at a smaller file size) and movie quality. If you plan to use the free version of Google Photos (unlimited photo and video storage at high but not HD quality), be sure to decrease the movie quality to 720p.
 This opens a Finder window displaying the folders on your computer., Choose an existing folder or create a new one., It’s at the bottom-right corner of the screen. Your photos will now export to the folder on your Mac., To this, point your web browser to https://photos.google.com/apps, then click the white Download button., It should be called something like gpautobackup_setup., The installer will now run. When the installation is complete, a new app called Google Photos Backup will be added to your Applications folder. You’ll also see a pop-up window that lets you know the app is installed.,, You should find it in your Applications folder.

If prompted to sign in, enter your Google account name and password (the account you use on your Android device) to do so.
 Check the box next to any of the listed folders to add them to Google Photos. Be sure to include the folder you specified in Finder., Google Photos comes with unlimited storage for users who use the “High quality” option. This option is great for most people, but if you’re a photographer or someone who works with very high-resolution files, you’ll likely want to choose “Original.”, Google Photos will now back up the photos on your computer, including the ones you downloaded from iCloud. The photos will be available immediately on your Android in the Google Photos app., It's the multicolored flower icon labeled “Photos” on your home screen (or in the app drawer).

Google Photos comes pre-installed on most Android devices, If you don’t have it, you can download it for free from the Play Store.
If it’s your first time using Google Photos, follow the on-screen instructions to connect to your account.
 It’s at the bottom of the screen. You should now see your photos.

It may take a while all of your photos to upload to Google Photos. Check back later if you don’t see them all.

