 Performing a dance move in super tight clothing is a disaster waiting to happen. Put on something you can move in such as a T-shirt, tank top, crop top, sports bra, yoga pants, a pair of shorts or you could even wear your dance wear if you have any.;
, Having hair hitting your face isn't fun and you could also possibly injure yourself if your hair is blocking your eyes. Do your hair in a quick hairstyles such as a ponytail, bun, braid, or even pigtails. Wear a headband for extra support and make your hairstyle as tight as possible so it doesn't undo itself but not too tight to the point that it's uncomfortable.
 Performing a dance trick especially a leap without stretching may result in pulling a muscle. Prepare your body by doing the splits or over splits if you're advanced enough, doing lunges, doing the pancake stretch, jogging on the spot or anything else that will stretch out your legs. Do each stretch or warm up for a minute or two for best results.
 Wearing a pair of socks will make it easier to do the leap however, if the floor you will be doing the leap on is already easy to turn on you won't need to wear anything on your feet.
 You don't want to crash into a wall when practicing you calypso. Try to use a room that has enough space and has little to no furniture. Can't find a big enough room? No problem! Go outside in your backyard or use your front yard.
 Create a v like shape with your feet making sure your feet are shoulder width apart. One arm should be in a circle and the other arm should be straight. Have the arm in the circle be your bad leg (left arm in circle if left leg is bad leg.)

, Point your bad leg in front keeping your good leg behind to tendu.
 With the leg in tendu move it to the side and put your weight on it make sure to straighten both arms when beginning the chaine. Then bring your other leg into second position and turn around.
 After doing a high chaine do another chaine but this time do it lower by bending your legs this will give you power when doing the jump.
 With the leg in front do a ronde de jambe to the corner then open your leg to the side. Push off your back leg as soon as the front leg is high enough making sure it's in attitude by bending your back leg as soon as you push off. Push of your back leg as hard as you can to get more height your arms can be lifted over your head or any position you want.
 You can either do a roll or land it standing. If you're a beginner then it's best to land standing before you attempt doing a roll.
 Go into your splits and have your front leg straight out with your back leg bent in attitude. Position your hands straight up in the air or any position you feel comfortable with. Do this exercise on a soft surface rather than a hard surface to prevent injuries.
 Having your splits on at least one leg will help improve not just a calypso leap but other dance leaps as well. Everyday do stretches such as lunges and other leg stretches and you'll have your splits in no time.
 Seeing the way you look when doing a calypso will give you knowledge on what you can improve on. Use a large mirror in your house or use an empty dance studio room.
 Have someone record you several times and compare the videos to see if you did better or worse.
 Search up a video or two of professional dancer doing calypso leaps to see their technique and improve on yours.
 Create a fun short dance routine and incorporate a calypso leap along with other dance moves.
 Show your leap to a dancer that can do a calypso or to your dance teacher. They can help you and give you tips.

