 For most permanent markers (like Sharpies, etc.) with dried out tips, you can get the marker writing again with a trick that's similar to the water-soaking method for water-based markers above. For this method, start by filling a small container with rubbing alcohol — for instance, you may want to use the cap of the bottle of rubbing alcohol.You don't need very much rubbing alcohol — just enough to submerge the tip of your marker (or markers). Filling an entire bowl with rubbing alcohol (as you'd do with water for water-based markers) may be wasteful.
 After soaking your markers for a few minutes in rubbing alcohol, you should notice a small amount of ink swirling around in the liquid. Remove the markers from the alcohol and replace their caps. Place them tip-side up in a glass or mug and let them rest for about 24-48 hours. After this resting period, if ink remains in the markers, they should write well once again.


Rubbing alcohol evaporates very quickly compared to water, so you won't want to let the markers rest with their caps off as you would after soaking water-based markers.If you do, they'll quickly dry out again.
 If the alcohol you soaked your marker tips in absorbed some of the ink from your permanent markers, you may want to try using it as a form of ink or dye in you own art projects. Alcohol-based inks are quite effective at dying materials like metal that other inks can be ineffective on. For instance, to make custom-colored staples, simply soak the staples in leftover alcohol that you used to moisten colored permanent markers' tips.
 Like with water-based markers, you can sometimes get new life out of a dried-out permanent marker by injecting moisture directly into it. However, in this case, you won't want to use water, but instead your marker's ink solvent. Usually, this is isopropyl alcohol (rubbing alcohol) or acetone (the active ingredient in nail polish remover), so simply inject a milliliter or so of one of these chemicals into the body of the marker as you would with water above.


Try checking your markers' packaging for a list of ingredients if you're not sure what sort of liquid solvent your ink uses.

