 Take off the cap and wash it. Cut the bottom, and along the sides. This will create a flat sheet. It is okay if the sides are somewhat jagged, as you will trim it later. Once you have the flat sheet, roll it backwards along the table to undo the curve the can naturally has.;
, Cut that rectangle out and trim any jagged edges still there. Be very careful not to cut yourself. Recycle the other pieces.
 If it helps, fold it along a ruler. Unfold after you've done this.
 Cut along these lines and trim the pieces that hand off. You should have one half being 6cm x 9cm and the other being 4cm x 8cm.
 Line two edges of the smaller edge with this Blu-Tac, then flatten it out slightly.
 Press the Blu-Tac under the metal. Next, line the top of the piece you just folded over with more Blu-Tac, directly over the other bead of Blu-Tac.
 Be gentle, making sure to not tear the metal. If possible, use small pliers.
 It is not very important for the edge to be perfectly straight, but it helps a lot if it is. It should now be approximately 9cm long and 4cm wide.
 If necessary, fold it in half then flatten it.
 Wrap the first one so it is completely covered twice, then add the second straw, continuing to wrap the Blu-Tac around both straws until the Blu-Tac is used up. Make sure to add enough Blu-Tac so that the straws are well-secured by a good plug of Blu-Tac.
 Add some more Blu-Tac until it forms a good seal. Remember the Goldilocks principle: not too much, not too little.
 Fold the two outer pieces up, and squeeze them with the pliers. Add any needed Blu-Tac.



Test that it is airtight by putting it underwater and blowing. If you see any bubbles, give that area a gentle squeeze with the pliers and try again.
 Leave the top closed when you do this. If it opens using the carton itself, use the end that is not open. If it uses a bottle top, use the side without the bottle top.
 Cut out any Windows, and decorate it as you see fit. Put aside the cabin to attach later with glue, tape or Blu-Tac, attach the 'cabin' to the boat.
 It may be easier to cut this part with a knife. If desired, twist the knife around in the hole to scrape the edges so they are smooth.
, Snip off any extra that extends past the end of the boat.
 Once you have successfully taped the straws to the bottom, cover the hole on both sides with Blu-Tac. Quickly test the boat to see if it's watertight. If not, add more Blu-Tac.
 Attach it with glue, tape or Blu-Tac. Your boat and cabin are now complete.
 You can also do it by sucking water into your mouth. Once prepped, tape the straw back to the boat.
 After a few moments, the boat will being to move forward in the water and make its signature popping sound.
