 Whether you're trying to get into a club, a house party, or an underground rave, looking out of place can make you a less desirable addition to the event. You should choose an outfit that matches the vibe of the venue you are trying to get into. If you look the part, you'll look like you belong in the party.You may want to consider wearing a light, stylish jacket, especially when going out on a chilly night. This way, you can avoid the hassle and extra charge of coat check.
Men should avoid business and business casual clothing. Prioritize festive articles that fit well and are unique. Bedazzled items and those with overly flashy designs, like a large embroidered dragon, should be avoided.
Women should consider outfits and accessories that show off their assets. For you, this might mean a low cut top, short skirt, and a plunging, 22 to 24 inch necklace. Heels are also highly recommended.;
, Many promoters and hosts try to create an atmosphere at the venue through the kind of people let in and the ratio of men to women. In many cases, this means that for every man in the club, a promoter will want at least two women.You can greatly improve your chances of getting into the club by stacking your group with women.


Women who are dressed for the venue and considered stereotypically attractive will often be given higher priority. A couple attractive female friends or relatives in your group could make the bouncer more likely to grant you entrance.
 This is less of an issue if you're only trying to get yourself into the venue, however, when trying to get a group of two or more in, this is very important. Mobbing a doorman with a group of people can make him feel uneasy or like you're trying to pressure him into letting you in. This tactic rarely works well.


The spokesperson for your group should be well dressed and confident, at the very least. A charismatic, likable people person can also help earn you admittance., Larger venues will likely have a in-house security team. This means there may be several doormen or bouncers that you could potentially pay off. Observe the doormen carefully before you approach and try to determine which one is the supervisor. This person will have the least difficulty waving you in to the venue.


Each situation will be different, but if you notice a doorman directing other staff, or if staff members approach a particular doorman, this may be a good indication of the supervisor. Avoid making the mistake of assuming the biggest doorman is the supervisor. This is not always the case., You'll want to pay off the doorman in crisp, same denomination bills. A crumpled wad of five and ten dollar bills might make you look desperate, even if the total of this money is considerable. A single hundred dollar bill or a few twenties are the best choice.The larger the group you are trying to get into the club, the more money the doorman will expect to let you into the venue. Smaller groups of two and three people may be able to get by with a twenty or forty dollar bribe, but larger groups should be willing to shell out eighty dollars or more.
The kind of venue you are attending will also influence how much you are expected to pay the door staff. The more popular and classy the establishment, the more money you'll be expected to offer to get in., Though it is generally acceptable to pay off a doorman to get into a venue, in many cases there are poorly enforced rules in place prohibiting this practice. An obvious hand off could get the doorman, and yourself, in trouble with the venue. To prevent this, you should choose a moment when there are few staff around and the doorman is relatively by himself.


The line outside busy clubs can make it difficult to privately interact with a doorman. You may want to approach the doorman in a way that puts your back to waiting guests and blocks him somewhat from their view., This is the most popular way of handing off money to a doorman. Have your money neatly folded in your right hand. You may be able to hide the money in your palm by holding it in place loosely with your pinkie and ring finger. Extend the hand holding your money to the doorman in greeting, and transfer the money to him as you disengage.In some cases, there may be a policy against touching clientele. In this case, you may have to block your transaction from view and place the money directly in the doorman's hand.
The bills in your hand should be folded so the denomination is clearly visible. This way, the doorman can tell at a glance you're actually handing him a twenty and not trying to slip him a five., The doorman will need to know how many people you are trying to get in and the male to female ratio of the group. You might also want to inform the doorman how much money he's being given to help you out so that he doesn't have to inspect the money.For example, while shaking hands or shortly after you've handed off the money, you might say: "Hey man, can you help us out? I've got $100 and I'm with those three gorgeous ladies and that guy."
You may only get a nod as confirmation your pay off has worked. The doorman will want to accept the money without anyone noticing and act like nothing happened. At the right moment, the doorman will come get you.
In some cases, this technique can backfire. There is no guarantee that your bribe will get you into the venue. There's always the risk that your money will be taken and you still have to wait in line., You may be allowed into the club right away, but frequently the doorman will have to wait until the timing is right. He may be waiting for his general manager or house manager to take a break or get involved with some other task. Stand somewhere clearly visible, and be on the lookout for his signal for you and your group to enter the club.


The signal you receive will often be a simple gesture, like eye contact and a nod or a beckoning motion with his hands. If you miss your chance to get in, you may not get a second one., While it's highly unlikely you'll get into trouble with the law when trying to pay off a doorman, some establishments have strict policies about staff accepting bribes.If you get caught bribing door staff, you could be refused entrance to the venue or be banned from the establishment.These is also a chance that the doorman will take your money without giving you any special treatment. Once you hand off your money, there is rarely anything you can do to enforce your bribe., Huddling together obviously in front of the venue and pooling your money with your friends will come across as disrespectful to the establishment and other customers. If you're too obvious with your bribe, it may upset other patrons waiting in line. An angry line of people will make the doorman's job harder and decrease your prospects of getting in.You may want to take a short walk from the venue and gather money from your friends when you are out of sight. This way, there's little possibility of someone catching you gathering together your bribe., Rudeness or arrogance can anger doormen and cost you your bribe without gaining you quicker entry. But even if your bribe gets you nowhere, you should always treat your doorman politely. Rude behavior may lead to you and your friends getting banned from the venue for the night.Doormen are often instructed to only let people into the club that fit with its atmosphere. If you are nervous or seem out of your element, he might think that you simply do not belong.
Doormen frequently have to deal with unpleasant people and situations. Argumentative and drunken club-goers can make them sensitive to rudeness. Keep this in mind when interacting with any doorman.
 Glamorous events with a line several blocks long and an army of doormen will be very difficult for you to bribe your way into. Other patrons can also make paying off a doorman difficult. Fights and difficult patrons can sour a doorman's mood and make him less likely to accept your money. Botched bribe attempts by novice venue attendees can have the same effect.


Before you approach the doorman, take a moment to observe the situation. If he looks especially stern, or if many customers appear to be hassling him, it may not be a good night to try to bribe your way into the venue.