 When approaching someone new, keep acting the same way you do with your friends. By appearing at ease yourself, you'll be making the other person more relaxed. Confidence is contagious.Avoid being too familiar with the person, or you might seem overbearing. At the same time, there's no need to be overly formal.
Follow up by introducing yourself.
 If there's something simple the person can do for you, ask her for help. This has the advantage of appearing natural, and encourages follow-up conversation. For example, ask someone for notes on a shared class, or if she has an extra pen.Always remember to say thank you for the person's assistance.
Be creative. For example, "Would you mind saving my chair for me. I'll just be up for a second."

, If there's something you can offer to do for the person, ask. In the old movies, someone would offer to light the other person's cigarette. If you're a smoker, this might still work, but there are other ways to offer help as well. Offer to bring her something from the bar, or ask if you can bring them anything from the buffet line.

The other person will be inclined to like you because you've helped her.
Offering to share your umbrella is a romantic way to offer help.
 At a business convention, for example, you might ask someone what company they're with. In a college mixer, ask, "What's your major?"

If the person's working, ask her "How long have you worked here?"
To start a conversation with someone at a wedding ask, "Which member of the wedding party do you know?"
At a game night at a local gaming store, you might ask, "So, how long have you been into gaming (or, this particular game)?"

, Making a friendly comment about the situation you're in can be a great way to start a conversation. While you want to keep your comments positive, it's okay to complain about the weather. For instance, "It's so hot outside I thought I would melt to the pavement!"

Try to make your comment relevant to the other person. For example, if you've both just left a college lecture, you might say, "That lecture was pretty interesting."
Making comments on the food, the music, the drinks, or the entertainment are all ways to open conversations.
 This is a natural way to open conversation with someone new. The downside is that it doesn't necessarily let the person know you're interested in him. However, it does a good job of starting a conversation between you.For example, you might ask, "I wonder what they put in this curry sauce? It's terrific!"
If you're shy, this kind of opening might be the easiest to try because it minimizes the chances the person won't respond at all.
 Asking questions about anything that isn't overly personal is a great way to start a conversation with a new person. It will make the person feel that you are interested in her experience and opinions.It's easy to pair a statement with a question. For example, "I recently saw the movie about the twin Russian spies - did you see that? What did you think of it?"
If she's wearing anything that has a band, college, or sports logo on it, ask about her interest in that topic.
 If the person has done a presentation, performance or reading, praise her on what she's done. Be genuine, and stick to what you really liked about it. People are quick to pick up on empty flattery.Don't compliment the person's appearance too directly. That can feel invasive to someone you've never met before. It's best to stick to complimenting her personality, apparel or something else about her.
Make a flattering observation that might start a conversation. For example, "It looks like you're in a good mood today."

, You can start a conversation with someone you don't know by making general statements about yourself that invite conversation. For example, explain that you're new in town might result in the person asking you where you moved from.Bring up a friend with interesting travel experience. For example, "A friend just got back from China, where he saw the most amazing monkeys."
Say something about yourself that overlaps with an outside topic. For example, "I just got back from visiting my sister. She was..."

