 All use of heat on hair is damaging in some way, particularly so for curly hair that already tends to be dry and more prone to breaking. In fact, excessive heat changes the proteins in hair that creates the signature spiral shape of curly hair.So use a blow dryer that’s no more than 1300-1874 watts (1400 watts is all you really need) with a cool shot button and multiple heat and speed settings.If you plan to dry your curly hair frequently, get a ceramic, ceramic ionic or ceramic tourmaline blow dryer. All reduce damage by either emitting infrared heat or using negative ions to break down water molecules., Some blow dryers come with diffusers; others do not. Yet they are crucial for blow drying curly hair because they help evenly distribute heat, create volume in heavy curls, minimize frizz, and help keep curls intact. The normal nozzle on a blow dryer blows hair everywhere, which only distorts curl patterns and creates frizz. Diffusers also enhance curls for hair that’s less wavy.


Choose a diffuser that's concave in the center, or not flat, so curls can rest inside it and take shape naturally.Or buy one that has a cup-like shape in which curls can nestle.
Also look for a diffuser that’s about 2½-3” wide for better heat distribution and that has at least 1-2” long “fingers” to help separate curls. They need to be long enough to reach roots for lift and volume.While many diffusers claim to fit all hair dryers, online reviewers say this isn’t always the case. You may have to go by trial-and-error.
You also might buy a blow dryer that comes with a diffuser, buy a diffuser that comes with a ring or strap to help secure it to your blow dryer, or go to your blow dryer company’s product website and see if it recommends particular diffusers for your dryer model.
 After you’ve washed your hair, use a wide-toothed comb to distribute either a moisturizing or protein conditioner through your hair. Unless you are-co-washing, alternating between the two on a daily or weekly basis will help to maintain the proper balance of moisture and protein hair needs for strength and elasticity. Let it absorb into your hair for a few minutes before rinsing. Then rinse your hair again with cool water to seal the cuticles.


Afterward, use your hands to gently squeeze excess water from your hair. Next squeeze your hair with a t-shirt, soft towel or super-absorbent, micro-fiber cloth to soak up more water before patting downward to help cuticles lay flat.
 Divide your hair into sections, and use a wide-toothed comb to detangle your hair. After you have detangled a section, twist it and pin it up with a clip. Once done, remove all clips.


You can apply the product to each section of hair as you detangle. Or you can apply it afterward.
 Though you’ll be drying your hair on low-to-medium heat, any heat is damaging to hair. Thermal protectants form a protective barrier around each hair stand to reduce damage to hair cuticles. They also cut down on drying out the hair shaft more than necessary. Some are silicone-based and offer the most protection, but these also create the most build-up and often weigh down hair. Others are water-based and oil-based. Avoid the latter should if your hair gets greasy quickly.After you comb it through your hair, create your part, hold the ends of your hair with your hands, shake them side-to-side, and then let go so your curls bounce back up., There are a few ways to do this, and much of it depends upon the length and thickness of your hair and how much volume you want to create. For starters, though, always work in sections (you can use clips if that helps). Also blow dry on low-to-medium heat so you don’t burn your scalp and use a low-to-medium air speed setting to reduce frizz. Additionally, only dry your hair 80-95% if it’s curly, not wavy, before letting it air dry the rest of the way. Do the ends last or not at all. Both of these measures will reduce damage and frizz.One way to dry with a diffuser is to hold the blow dryer at a 90˚ angle from your head and place the diffuser at the roots of one section of hair. Start at the nape of your neck and gently hold the ends away from the blow dryer. Turn on the blow dryer and use the fingers of the diffuser to lift hair at the roots. Move in a circular direction at the same time.Another way, one that will add more volume, is to flip your head upside down and place the diffuser at the roots of your hair. Use the diffuser’s fingers to lift the roots in a circular direction. Then use the diffuser to scrunch up the mid-shaft to hold and dry. With this method, you want the roots and mid-shaft to dry completely to lock in volume.Another option is to tilt your head to one side and use your hand to cup up one section of hair from the mid-shaft to the root. Place the diffuser at the roots and hold the dryer at a 90˚ angle.Then turn on the blow dryer and dry for a couple of minutes before turning it off to move to another section. Tilt your head the opposite direction to do the other side, then start at your crown and move down. At the end, go back through using the dryer’s cool shot button to set it.Finally, if your hair is wavy and you’re trying to add more curl, place your ends in the cup of the diffuser one section at a time. Push it to your scalp and hold until dry.Some also find it beneficial to let their hair air dry for 20-30 minutes, or until it’s about 50% dry, to allow its natural curl pattern to better form. If you’re trying to enhance curl, however, you should begin drying immediately.
 Once your hair is dry, you want to set it. Spritz or spray a medium-hold flexible or humidity-resistant hairspray in a continuous motion over your hair. You can also use a pomade, especially if your hair feels a bit crunchy, by smoothing it over, not through, your curls. Or you can finish with a drop of serum or a naturally based oil. Smooth it over frizzy spots or apply it to the ends with a twist.