 If you are not sure if what you are experiencing is emotional abuse, then take a moment to consider how you are being treated or talk it over with someone you trust. Emotional abuse may involve yelling, humiliation, threats and isolation, exclusion, and even denying that abuse is taking place at all., You probably have a general idea of how you would like to be treated by others. As you try to recover from depression and emotional/verbal abuse, it's important that you enforce these boundaries so that you can adequately heal. You will have a hard time recovering if those around you continue to treat you inappropriately. Use your intuition to help you identify the way you want other people to treat you.

Observe your interactions with those closest to you for a matter of days or weeks. Pinpoint interactions that make you feel good and valued. Make a list. This will help you determine who you may want to keep around and who you may want distance from.
For example, your list might include "having someone to truly listen to me" and "having others show concern for my well-being."

, Hearing negative things about yourself and being treated poorly can take a negative toll on anyone, particularly someone who already suffers from depression. Think about what behaviors and actions you will not tolerate. Be firm in your decision, as backing down just once can have huge implications and encourage the abuser to continue with the behavior.


For example, you may tolerate the person talking about their emotions, but you may decide it’s enough if they call you names or blame you for their bad behavior., The sad truth is, some people believe they deserve to be abused. This is especially so with those who are already depressed. However, no one should experience this type of treatment. Telling the person to stop and vocalizing your displeasure over the situation shows them that you aren’t willing to tolerate the behavior any longer.


For instance, you could say, “I won’t allow you to abuse me in this way any longer. I will end the relationship if you continue to call me names, blame me for things, or control me.” Again, don’t falter in your decision. Allowing the abuser to slip just once can make the situation continue., It’s human nature to believe bad things about yourself, especially if you are depressed. You don’t deserve the way you are treated, no matter how they may try to convince you otherwise. Start using positive language to describe yourself to counteract their abusive statements.Make a list of your positive attributes to keep handy. When you hear yourself playing into what the abuser says, repeat the list aloud.
Positive self-talk may sound like "I am a caring friend. I try to tell the truth. I work hard to do my best. I am really creative. I deserve positive relationships."

, Your mental health may become worse if you stay in an emotionally or verbally abusive relationship. Your best course of action may be to escape the situation altogether. You leaving may help the abuser to finally realize that what they are doing is wrong. In fact, they might not even be aware that they are doing something wrong. It may take them a very long time have a change in perspective and then begin to behave differently, and this may never happen at all.


This may mean cutting ties with family members, friends, jobs, and romantic partners. However, for the sake of your well-being, it may be what needs to be done.If the abuser is a partner or friend, you might say "I will no longer tolerate being treated this way. I cannot stay in this relationship/friendship any longer."
To a family member, you might say, "Spending time with you makes me feel terrible about myself. Therefore, I am going to stop coming around. I would appreciate it if you respected my need for space."

