 You might be able to save yourself from getting the chickenpox if you get the vaccine immediately when you realize your sibling, roommate, etc is sick.Go to your doctor and tell him/her your situation.  (S)he will also give you valuable advice on avoiding the virus and staying healthy, and if you do get it, (s)he will be able to recommend home and prescribed remedies for you.  Even if you do develop the chickenpox after getting the shot, it will probably be a more mild illness than if you did not get the shot., This is a step not guaranteed to work, as chickenpox is extremely contagious.  By the time your sibling shows his/her first spots, there's a strong likelihood that you have already caught it and are already in the early stage of the incubation period.  However, chickenpox has a total contagious period of one week: two days before the spots begin, and five days into the spots.Therefore, two days of exposure will yield a lesser likelihood of catching chickenpox than one week of exposure.  The best way to isolate yourself would be to vacate the house right away when the sibling comes down with chickenpox, and stay away throughout the stage the infected sibling has spots.  You could find yourself a friend, aunt, uncle or grandparent who has already had the chickenpox.  It is best that the person you move in with has already had the chickenpox or has been immunized just in case it happens that you do come down with it.
 You can help cleanse your body of the chickenpox virus, and reduce the likelihood of it infecting you by drinking a lot of fluid, even if you are currently not showing any symptoms.  If there is any virus in your body (which by the time your sibling came down with it, there would be) drinking water, or better yet orange juice or other drinks rich in vitamins, will help to wash the virus out.  You can also start taking echinacea or vitamin C daily, as this builds up the immune system's strength.  Exercise helps to keep viruses at bay too.
 Be sure to ask whoever is looking after the sick person to disinfect the house.  This includes doorknobs, counters, cups, glasses, cutlery, countertops, bedding, clothing and any material the infected person will have come in contact with.  


Even if you have vacated the house, this is still an important step, because even if you do manage to avoid getting chickenpox by vacating the house, you might get infected when you move back in after your sibling is better if there are live viruses remaining in your house.
 This does not just mean watch for spots, but rather watch for any symptoms at all.  Most cases of chickenpox do not yield the starting of spots as the first symptom.  

,

If you develop a fever, headache, fatigue, runny nose, sore throat, or (most obviously) the beginning of spots, stay home immediately.
If you do come down with the chickenpox, it is also a good idea to inform anyone you came into contact with within two to three days before you starting getting sick, as you might have passed the virus on to them.







