 Get to know your own emotions, feelings, wants and needs. Assert yourself with others so that you can get what you need to be happy and fulfilled.If you constantly rely on others to determine how you feel or how you should act, you tend to adopt their emotions and reactions. Instead, prioritize your needs and wants by learning to act on your own.


Don’t wait to ask permission of other people to act. You can make your own decisions without asking someone else for approval. Start with small decisions. Don’t ask someone if a piece of clothing looks good on you before you buy it. Just buy it if you like it. Gradually make larger decisions without other people’s input. This will build your self-confidence and will create space for your own feelings and needs to shine through.Ensure that you don't have to rely on other people to get you out of difficult situations. Bring your own car or know how to get home easily when needed.Have enough money to be able to make alternate arrangements if you start feeling overwhelmed.
 Ask others to respect your downtime during which you can rejuvenate. Set up a space for yourself for when you need to remove yourself from situations or when you feel more vulnerable, such as when you’re tired. This is especially important to prevent you from taking on your partner's feelings too much., Find a place that you associate with peace and tranquility.


Keep a picture of a waterfall or a lush forest with you and look at it when overwhelmed.
 Having physical space when you’re in a crowd, for example, can help you find a bit of emotional space. When there is a lot of people around, find places of refuge, such as sitting on the edges or standing apart.If you are an HSP and you are extra sensitive to your surroundings, make a conscious effort to choose locations that give you emotional space. For example, when you’re at a restaurant, sit at a table where you can sit with your back up against the wall. Don’t sit at a table in the middle, near the bathrooms, or near the garbage.
 Learn to center yourself in distressing situations by concentrating on your breath or imagining a place that makes you happy. This can be a great tool to use when you sense yourself becoming absorbed by other people’s emotions. For a few minutes, keep exhaling negativity, inhaling calm. This helps to ground yourself and purify fear or other difficult emotions.Visualize negativity as gray fog lifting from your body, and hope as golden light entering. This can yield quick results.
Try yoga and breathing techniques. These practices draw upon emotional centering and provide safe harbor in times of storm. Your breathing habits have developed unique to your own life rhythms. They can sometimes keep you from getting the optimal amount of oxygen throughout your body in the right moments.Your breathing can be altered, however, by practicing yoga or other breathing techniques, which can give you more control over negative emotions when they begin to arise. 