 Making yourself appear to be open to listening to your spouse is almost as important as the actual listening. Are you fidgeting, standing with your arms crossed, or sighing? If so, you’re clearly communicating to your spouse that you are not listening and not interested in what they have to say. Sit upright or stand facing them and maintain eye contact. Think about how you would position yourself if your boss was speaking to you about something important and extend your spouse those same courtesies., To ensure you’re following what your spouse is saying, you need to reflect what they’re saying back to them. This doesn’t mean repeating verbatim exactly what they just said to you. It simply means listening for content and then zeroing in on key facts that show your partner that you were listening.


For example, if your spouse tells you that they are stressed out over a major project at work, you might say something like “That project sounds intense, and it definitely makes sense that you’re stressed. Is there anything I can do to help?” By saying this, you are reflecting back and validating their feelings, acknowledging that you heard them about their concerns, and then gently offering your help., Try to understand where your spouse is coming from, especially if they are voicing a complaint. Make an effort to understand their frustration. If they are complaining that the kitchen is filthy, for example, then think about their complaint. Is the kitchen dirty? Think about ways to address their complaints that show that you’re truly hearing them. Even if you feel like they’re overreacting, try to find the truth in what they’re saying., If your spouse voices a concern, try to find common ground on the issue. Even if you think their concern is an overreach or isn’t really valid, there is usually at least a nugget of truth in their problem, if you objectively examine the situation. Finding ways to validate your spouse’s concern shows both that you are listening and that you care about what they’re saying. At minimum, you're always able to acknowledge that your spouse feels a certain way, and that matters to you in and of itself, even if you don't agree with the logic behind the feeling.


For example, if they comment that you never help get the kids ready for bed, then you might reply that you understand where they’re coming from and volunteer to take over bedtime duties that night. You might follow up by asking if the two of you can sit down and determine a schedule or delegate duties that might help make bedtime duties not fall to just one person all the time., If your spouse opens up to you about a problem, avoid the urge to invalidate their worries by trumping their concerns with something bigger going on in your life. This sends the clear message to your spouse both that you aren’t really listening to them and that you also don’t consider their feelings and problems important. Remember that problems and stressors are not competitions. A good listener will hear out their spouse’s concerns and wait their turn to separately mention their own issues.