 Many companies require permission to access the VPN. Call your IT (Information Technology) department or visit the IT website of your company to apply for access.


Depending on the nature of your job and your company's Internet security policies, the IT department might be able to assist you immediately.
If the IT department requires supervisor permission, contact your supervisor and have him make the request on your behalf.
You will probably need to provide your username and password to request access.;
, Virtual private network software needs to be installed on to your work machine so that you can work from home. Go to your IT website for the link to download the software and the instructions. Installation is usually self-guided.


VPN software instructions may be different for Mac and Windows users. Make sure you are reading the correct instructions for your operating system.
If the IT department does not configure your work machine for you, the technicians may give you instructions for configuring your computer yourself.
Call or email your company's help desk if you have trouble with the install or configuration.
 Once the VPN software is installed, you may need to activate the VPN. On a PC, Go to Start → Programs, and then find the name of the VPN software you installed. Double click the VPN client to open. You may be prompted to enter your username and password. This will vary based on your company policies. If you are using a Mac, go to your "Applications" folder and click on the VPN software you installed.
Your VPN may automatically connect after it is installed. Read the installation instructions or contact your IT department.
 Remote Desktop allows other computers to connect to your work computer. For Windows users, click on Start → Control Panel → System → Remote Desktop. Check the box that says "Allow users to connect remotely to this computer."Write down the full name of your work computer. You will need this later when you connect from home. The name of your computer should be listed under the box you checked.If you are a Mac user, you can go to the Mac App Store and download "Microsoft Remote Desktop", Your work computer needs to be connected to the network in order to be accessible to a remote computer. Launch the remote access software on your work computer, if required. It depends on how your IT department has configured your network.
 Before you install the VPN software on your computer, make sure that your home computer meets the system requirements. The requirements will vary based on your company. Typical requirements include an up-to-date operating system and a certain amount of RAM (hard disk space). Requirements will differ for Mac and Windows users.System requirements are usually available on the IT website.
If you have questions about the system requirements, call or email your IT department.
 Load the VPN client software to your home computer just as you did to your work computer. The installation process is usually self-guided. Make sure you follow the directions.If you run into problems,your IT department may have you bring your computer into the office to install and configure the software.
If your IT department does not install the software for you, the technicians might give you the software to take home along with installation and configuration instructions.
Call or email your company's help desk if you have trouble with the install or configuration.
 On a PC, Go to Start → Programs, and then find the name of the VPN software you installed. Double click the VPN client to open. You may be prompted to enter your username and password.If you are using a Mac, go to your "Applications" folder and click on the VPN software you installed., You must now access the Remote Desktop on your home to computer to connect to your computer at work. If you are a Windows use, go to Start → Accessories → Communications → Remote Desktop. Once you have reached the Remote Desktop, type in the name of your work computer then press "Connect." You should now be connected to your work computer and able to work from home.You must be logged into the VPN before connecting through Remote Desktop.
If you are using a Mac, download "Microsoft Remote Desktop."
If you have trouble locating your work computer on the network, contact your company's help desk.
 The speed of your VPN connection depends on the speed of your internet connection speed at home. The faster your network speed, the faster your VPN connection will be. Keep in mind that information that you send and receive is encrypted. The encryption process slows things down as well., Your company can see all of your web activity when you use a VPN. It is not a good practice to conduct personal web browsing over VPN. You do not want to get in trouble at work. Simply minimize the Remote Desktop window if you need to do something personal.