 To be able to understand something, you need to research it. This is the most important part of trying to learn about something, and it's what a lot of people who are trying to be "emo" or "goth" miss out. Different websites will tell you different things, so it's better to look at multiple sources. The basics are:

Goth

Goth is a subculture which includes aspects of music, fashion and aesthetic.
It takes inspiration from Gothic architecture and Gothic novels such as The Castle of Otranto by Horace Walpole and Mary Shelley's Frankenstein.Goth rock was born out of the British post-punk scene in the late 70s/early 80s in the infamous Batcave nightclub which opened in 1982 in London.Bands like The Velvet Underground and The Doors were described as gothic, as was David Bowie's song Diamond Dogs, however they are not "goth".Bela Lugosi's Dead is retrospectively, the song which coined and defined the goth music genre. Bauhaus indicated that the song was supposed to be tongue-in-cheek, but they sung it with naive seriousness making the audience understand it differently.Goth rock characteristics include a simple 4/4 post punk beat or drum machine, dry baritone vocals (in men), flanging guitar used for atmosphere and a lead bass. If the band plays more darkwave music, then above but with synthesizers as an addition.
The goth subculture and fashion includes elements of punk, glam rock, new romantic, high chic, antique, retro-kitsch, fetish, secondhand trash, ancient Celtic, Christian, pagan, Egyptian and Asian religions and iconographies.Emo

Emo stands for "emotive hardcore punk", which was shortened to "emo-core" and then eventually "emo".Emo is an outgrowth of the hardcore punk sub-genre, and a reaction to the heightened violence in the hardcore punk scene.
The term was first used in a Flipsize magazine by Ian Mackaye.The term "emo" was an insult used towards people who listened to this music, and the people who stayed true to hardcore saw this as a lesser genre. They used to go to shows and scream insults at the band members.Rites of Spring and Embrace, even though they reject the label, were named and considered the first emo bands.
Emo is describe as a loosely based punk genre, because it was redefined as a type of indie rock in the 90s (bands like Sunny Day Real Estate and Texas is the Reason are a perfect example of this sound) but some people like to say it only refers to the first wave as that only had the true hardcore punk sound.

;
, Since these are both musically motivated subcultures, the music should be the most important part of each. Understand that you cannot be both emo and goth at the same time, but you can listen to goth rock and emo together. It just wouldn't make you an "Emo goth", like some people think. Some proper goth and emo bands are:

Goth:

Bauhaus
Siouxsie and the Banshees
The Cure (some albums)
The Sisters of Mercy
Southern Death Cult
The March Violets
Fields of the Nephilim
Ausgang
SpecimenAlien Sex Fiend
Christian Death
45 Grave
U.K Decay


Emo

Rites of Spring
Embrace
One Last Wish
Drive Like Jehu
Braid
Dag Nasty
Moss Icon
Indian Summer


Emo pop punk

Jimmy Eat World
The Get Up Kids
The Promise Ring
My Chemical Romance (after their first album, which is hardcore punk/emo inspired)
Paramore
Fall Out Boy
Panic! At the Disco



, Goth and emo aren't only what members of these subcultures listen to. They listen to similar genres or fusions which are associated with the primary genre. In goth culture, they are called "goth friendly" genres. This means that the genre itself isn't goth, but has underlying dark themes which makes it relevant. The latter list gets confused for goth time and time again when what's really goth came out of the 80s post punk scene. There is nothing wrong with a goth listening to or enjoying these genres, they're just not part of the subculture and shouldn't be labelled as such.

Associated emocore genres include:

Hardcore punk
Indie rock
Skramz (another name for screamo)
Emoviolence (screamo and powerviolence)


Associated emo pop punk genres include:

Emo
Pop punk
Alternative rock
Indie rock


Associated goth genres include:

Positive-Punk
Post-punk
Darkwave
Gothic Punk
Batcave
Cold wave
Shoegaze
Dark indie
Post Punk revival
Deathrock
Punk rock
New wave


Goth friendly, or genres mistaken for goth include:

Gothic metal
Neo classical
Witch house
Industrial
EBM
Electro
Aggrotech
Shock rock
Nu Metal
Ethereal
Dark ambient



, The main thing to remember when looking at the differences of emo and goth is that emo isn't meant to be dark, but goth is. Emo pop punk was dark, but that was because of heavy influence from Blink-182 and later, My Chemical Romance, during The Black Parade album.

Traditional goth fashion, makeup and hair includes:

Black clothing, with an antique or Victorian air to itFishnets tights and mesh topsSilver jewellery, including piercings, earrings, nose rings, bracelets and necklacesoften depicting religious and occult themesor decorated with skulls, human skeletons and batsSiouxsie Sioux Cleopatra inspired makeupA death hawk, inspired by Jonny Slut or simply just jet black and backcombed/teasedEyebrows which were either; thick, pointed and triangular; high arched and thin or upward strokes, called "death brows" and most commonly worn by Daniel Ash from BauhausGarments in leather, velvet, silk, PVC or laceOld school emo fashion includes:

Sweaters and jumpers
Thick horned rimmed glasses
Flat shoes
Messenger bags and jeans
Plaid shirts


Emo pop punk fashion includes:

Band shirts, usually of rock bands
Converse
Sweat bands
Studded beltsOften dyed black hair with fringe/bangs
Hoodies
Eyeliner, While aesthetic is an aspect of each, it is not the only thing that will make you goth or emo. Most people in the goth subculture have had a darkly inclined mindset from the beginning, and that's what prompted them to seek out dark music, fashion, art, literature and film. The goth and emo aesthetic is said to be as follows:

Goth: seeing beauty in darkness, and in anything that would appear "ugly", "strange" or "weird" to mainstream society.
Emo: being in touch with your emotions, but not necessarily being depressed

, Stereotypes are general, usually, negative assumptions about an entire group. There are some people who don't give a second thought and think they're actually what the subculture is about. Some people event to make differentiations by saying "emo kids cut and goths wear all black". There are stereotypes which hurt both subcultures and in no order they are:

Self harming
Being depressed
Attempting or having thoughts of suicide
Wearing all black
Worshipping the devil
Being part of a cult
Being a drug addict or dealer
Smoker
Alcoholic
Rude, aggressive or elitist type personality
Being in trouble with the law

