 you will need to decide whether you want a Bachelors in Nursing Science (BSN) or an Associates of Applied Nursing Science degree (RN) first. A BSN is unnecessary for travel nursing in the US, but you may need it if you want to travel abroad.;
, Many schools have waiting lists so it is advisable that you fill out applications to several programs. Some programs will have different prerequisites and different admission criteria so look for the programs that best suit your academic achievements. While you wait to be accepted into nursing school, you can take some required classes like chem 1, algebra, and medical terminology. Every program is different, so make sure to read the prerequisite list carefully.
 Once you are accepted, prepare to take lots of tests. Time management is key to studying for these tests, as there may be as many as 2-3 per week. you must plan out your time and schedule strict blocks of time specifically for study. Avoid a cram session the night before your tests. Studying an hour everyday is preferable to cramming for 5 hours right before the test. These study habits will help lock the information into your long term memory, which is important because you will need it for the NCLEX exam after you graduate. Plan out the week before the test to use your time most effectively.
 Once you graduate and become licensed, you will need to pick an area of nursing that interests you and a hospital you like. Work in this area for at least 2 years. Most travel agencies will not take nurses with less than 2 years experience in their area of expertise.
 There are many different travel agencies around, and they all serve different areas of the country as well as have different pay and benefits., Now that you have a few agencies working for you, you can go anywhere in the US that you want, from Alaska to the virgin islands.
 Some states require you to re-license when you are working out of the state you were originally licensed in. Your travel agent will give you all the details for this and usually pay for any fees associated with it.

