 If you can connect a phone, tablet, or computer to the network and access the webpage that you're having trouble with on your primary device, the issue is definitively with the device and not the router.


Not being able to connect with the second device doesn't necessarily mean that the router is the problem.
If you're having trouble with a specific website, try accessing it using mobile data. If you still can't access the site, the issue is on the site's end.;
, This is one of the quickest ways to test your DNS connections. Download a different free browser such as Firefox or Chrome and attempt to connect to the internet; if the problems persist, you can rule out browser problems as the reason for your DNS server not responding.


If the issues are resolved, uninstalling and then reinstalling your old browser will likely fix the problem.
 This will clear your router's cache and thus may resolve DNS errors. To do so:

Unplug your modem's power cable as well as your router's power cable.
Allow both your modem and your router to sit for at least 30 seconds.
Reconnect your modem and wait for it to come back online.
Reconnect your router to your modem and wait for it to come back online.
 If you're already using Ethernet, skip this step.


If you can connect to a web page while using Ethernet, the problem may stem from your router. You'll most likely need to reset it.
If you can't connect to a web page while connected via Ethernet, your DNS settings may be the problem.
 Click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen, or press ⊞ Win., Doing so searches your computer for the Command Prompt app., It's at the top of the Start window. This will open Command Prompt., This command removes any saved DNS addresses. The next time you try to open a website, a new DNS address will be created., Doing so refreshes your browser's cache. If you can now connect to the webpage you were having trouble with earlier, the problem is resolved.

If you're still experiencing connection issues, proceed to the next method.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen.<ul,, Spotlight will begin searching for Terminal on your Mac., It should be the first option at the top of the Spotlight results., This will run the DNS flush command and erase your Mac's DNS cache.

You may have to enter your administrator password first.
 This refreshes your browser's cache as well. If you can now connect to the webpage with which you were having issues, the problem is resolved.,


On Windows: Open Start





, click Settings





, click





Network & Internet, and click Change adapter options.

On Mac: Open the Apple menu





, click System Preferences, and click Network.
 You can remove any connection to which you aren't currently connected; this includes Bluetooth and wireless connections.

The most common cause for DNS issues is the existence of "Microsoft Virtual WiFi Miniport Adapter"., Simply click a connection to select it.

On Windows, each icon on the page represents a connection.
On Mac, the connections are on the left side of the window.
 To do so:


Windows - Click Disable this network device at the top of the window.

Mac - Click the minus sign (-) at the bottom of the network window.
 If you can access your webpage, then the issue is resolved. If not, proceed to the next method., It will be on the Connections page. This will select it., This button is in the top row of options in the window. Clicking it will open the connection's settings., It's in the window that's in the middle of the Wi-Fi Properties pop-up. Doing so will select it.

If you don't see this window, click the Networking tab at the top of Wi-Fi Properties.
 This option is near the bottom of the window., It's near the bottom of the Properties window., This goes in the "Preferred DNS server" field near the bottom of the window. Reliable DNS servers include the following:


OpenDNS - Enter 208.67.222.222.

Google - Enter 8.8.8.8.
 This goes in the "Alternate DNS server" field below the first field. Depending on what you entered in the "Preferred" field, what you enter here will vary:


OpenDNS - Enter 208.67.220.220.

Google - Enter 8.8.4.4.
 Doing so saves your DNS settings., It's at the bottom of the window., Once your computer finishes booting up, you can test your network connection; if it works now, your computer's default DNS server was the problem.

If your computer can connect, consider calling your Internet Service Provider to notify them about the DNS issues.
If you still can't connect, proceed to the next method.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen., You'll find it near the top of the Apple drop-down menu., This globe-shaped icon is in the System Preferences window., It's in the pane on the left side of the window., You'll find this near the middle of the window., It's at the top of the window., This option is below the DNS Servers window., OpenDNS and Google both have reliable, quick DNS servers:


Google - 8.8.8.8 or 8.8.4.4.

OpenDNS - 208.67.222.222 or 208.67.220.220


, It's on the far-right side of the tabs at the top of the window., This box is near the top of the Hardware page., The "MTU" box is below the "Configure" box., It's below the "MTU" box., It's at the bottom of the page., This button is at the bottom of the page. Doing so saves your settings and applies them to your current Wi-Fi network., Once your computer finishes booting up, you can test your network connection; if it works now, your computer's default DNS server was the problem.

If your computer can connect, consider calling your Internet Service Provider to notify them about the DNS issues.
If you still can't connect, proceed to the next method.
 This button is usually on the back of the router.

You'll usually need a needle, a paperclip, or a similarly thin item to press the "Reset" button.
Resetting your router will also disconnect every device you have connected to the router.
 Hold it for at least 30 seconds to ensure that the router completely resets., Use the factory password that's printed on the bottom of your router to complete the connection., If you still can't connect to the Internet or access the site you're trying to use, it's time to contact your Internet Service Provider to make them aware of the DNS issues you're facing.

If resetting the router does indeed resolve the DNS issues, consider picking up a newer router if yours is more than a couple of years old.

