 A great way to show respect for other cultures is by becoming a cultural ally. This means that you identify yourself as someone who respects cultural autonomy and will speak up to protect the rights of people in other cultures. You can be an ally at school, work, and in your community.Often, people in the cultural minority suffer discrimination. You can show that you will not respect discrimination in any form.
For example, maybe one of your coworkers makes culturally insensitive jokes. You can try saying, "Bob, I know you mean well, but that kind of comment is offensive to myself and others."
Stand up for the rights of others in your community. For example, if your city tries to block the building of a mosque, attend a city council meeting and make your voice heard.
 You might have some prior assumptions about other cultures. For example, if you are traveling in India, you might start to think that people are not honest. It can be really difficult to get a thorough answer to a direct question. However, in India, it is common and polite to not always directly answer questions. Take time to observe other people interacting so that you can personally observe cultural differences.
Many British people think that Americans are fake. That is because Americans typically tend to be more outwardly optimistic than people from other cultures.
When you are speaking to a British person, take time to speak genuinely. You can teach each other about your cultural differences.
Your own cultural filter might make you nervous to approach a woman wearing a hijab. But don't be afraid to go up to her on the bus and say, "Excuse me, is this seat taken?"

, The best way to learn about new cultures is by asking questions. Don't be afraid to ask someone about their customs or beliefs. Just make sure to do so in a respectful manner.Maybe you have a coworker who has a habit of bringing interesting foods for lunch. Try saying, "What is that you're eating? It smells great."
Perhaps you have a co-worker who routinely arrives at the office later than others. Instead of assuming that she is lazy, ask a friendly question. You might learn that your boss has agreed to accommodate her prayer schedule.
If you have a friend who is from Japan, ask him about the custom of bowing. He will likely be delighted to talk to you about his culture.
 Try to not let any preconceived notions color your feelings towards people from other cultures. Show respect by making every effort to keep an open mind. For example, go into a new experience ready to learn something new.Maybe you are traveling in Asia. The food might not be what you are used to, but be willing to try new things.
Be aware that just because people behave differently does not make them better or worse than you. For example, Middle Easterners often engage in more elaborate greetings and small talk than most Americans.
Be willing to participate in new types of conversations. You'll likely learn something, and you might also enjoy it.
Outwardly demonstrate your respect. Do not roll your eyes or scowl when you encounter an unfamiliar sight.
 The best way to learn respect is to be taught about different cultures at a young age. If children grow up understanding different cultures, they will be less likely to discriminate as adults. Take time to teach your kids about other cultures.If your child comes home from school and asks you why his friend can't play on Saturdays, you can use that as a teaching moment. Explain that some faiths or cultures observe Saturday as a holy day.
Look for a school that teaches multiculturalism. Before enrolling your child, ask if there are multiple languages taught, or if the kids will be exposed to different kinds of art.
Set a good example. If you behave with kindness and respect, your children are more likely to model that behavior.

