 Purchase any combination of kitchen cabinets which do not have a countertop already attached (as this will allow you to combine them into a single unit in your preferred arrangement by adding a single countertop). You can buy cabinets which resemble or are the same as your existing cabinets, or you can get cabinets which are different but match.


Pay attention to the back and sides of the cabinets. If they are unfinished, you will need to finish them yourself. Cover them with plywood or MDF, which can then be painted.
 Arrange the cabinets in the place and order that you would like them to go. You will likely want to join multiple pieces together, if using more than one unit. Do this by screwing from the inside of one cabinet and into the other. Try to do this in areas where the wood is thickest, such as at the frame.


You can have both cabinets facing the same direction, have them face in opposite directions, or (if the dimensions allow it) with one cabinet facing to the side. It will depend on the look you are going for and the way you intend to use the space.
 Once the cabinets are placed, make or purchase a countertop to cover all pieces. You can use a variety of materials, from butcher’s block to granite. Even a poured slab of concrete (stained, textured, or left alone) can make an excellent countertop. It will need to be sized according to the dimensions of the cabinet combinations you’ve chosen; just be sure to leave an extra two inches in both length and width, in order to create the lip of the counter.
 Add any finishing touches and detail you desire to personalize your new kitchen island. You can alter it to more visually match with your style, you kitchen or your home. You can also add storage solutions in order to maximize your counter space, making room for more appliances or more workspace to prepare amazing meals for your family.


You can paint the lower sections of your new island to contrast with the rest of your cabinets, or you can leave them as they are. Try experimenting with bright colors to add interest and pop to your kitchen. Try to mimic the existing bright colors in your kitchen, such as the colors on fruit or a prominently displayed vase.
Add organization elements to the sides or backs of the cabinets. You can mount a paper towel rack or hooks for dishtowels. You can place a magazine rack to store printed recipes and cooking magazines. You can even mount a caddy to store important cooking tools. Most of these will need to be screwed into the wood. Just be sure that when you mount these elements, you attach them to areas thick enough to support the screw. Examples would be the support for shelves or any part of the frame. You can also use strong glues, such as commercial products designed for hanging objects.

