 Are you afraid to get a bad grade? Do you think you may embarrass yourself in front of the cute guy in the first row? Once you identify these thoughts, begin to find reasons why they won't be true. For example, when you think, "I am going to make a fool out of myself in front of Brendan.", think something more positive such as, "I am going to be so prepared, I will sound really smart and Brendan will be really impressed." Obviously, your thoughts and examples should be specific to you.;
, It is easy to feel nervous when you only began thinking about your subject or speech notes the night before the big day! Begin preparing yourself as soon as you find out you will be speaking before the class. It may seem like a pain at the time, but the effort you make will be well worth it once you get in front of the class (and when you see your grade). Now, this doesn't mean you must have your speech memorized three weeks before the due date. It simply means that you should follow a logical time line and know what you're talking about.
 Talk to a respectful friend or an adult you can trust. This person shouldn't be the type that will increase your speaking fears. Ask them how they handle big presentations and what they would do in your situation. Maybe they will offer to be your practice audience!

, Practicing is not the same as rehearsing. When you practice, you are making mistakes and finishing up your final product. Rehearsing is presenting your performance just as it will be for you real audience. Practice your speech in front of a mirror with your notes in hand. Add to them when necessary, and cross out unneeded information. Streamline your notes so you won't fumble through them if you forget your place during your presentation.
 Remember that friend or adult from the third step? Ask this person if they will listen to your speech and give you constructive criticisms. Build from their advice, and do at least one more presentation, this time for at least four people. That way, you are experiencing the feeling of having more eyes trained on you, and you can get a feeling for handling crowds.
 It may be helpful for you to look into a few breathing exercises or different ways to reduce stress. Keep calm beforehand so you don't scare yourself too much before you even get to class.
 Don't mumble too much or read mindlessly off of your notes. You've worked hard to make sure that this speech goes well, so show it! Your classmates will appreciate watching someone who has a bit of fun with the material instead of listening to Johnny Nobody drone on endlessly from his notes.
 Congratulate yourself for having the courage to get up in front of your peers, and don't be over critical of yourself. You will always be harder on yourself than anyone else will. Very few people will actually care if you made a mistake, and many probably didn't even notice. Do, however, ask yourself what you could do better for next time. Focus on the present and future, not the past.

