 This includes floppy discs, CDs, DVDs.


This may also include external hard drives or thumb drives if your computer is set to boot from them.
 You can also Restart the computer

, This step can be skipped if you are rebooting.,


This will take you to the “Advanced Boot Options” screen.
 You may see some combination of the following options:Safe Mode with Networking. Safe mode is a diagnostic mode that disallows all software except necessary drivers and core software (including basic network software in this case) to run the operating system.

Safe Mode with Command Prompt. This gives you a command prompt window in safe mode instead of a graphical user interface. This mode is typically for advanced users.

Enable Boot Logging. This option creates a file, ntbtlog.txt, that can be used to help troubleshoot issues while booting the computer. This is also designed for advanced users.

Enable low-resolution video (640×480). This starts Windows using your video driver and with low resolution and refresh rate settings. This can help you troubleshoot issues with your display settings or graphics hardware.

Last Known Good Configuration (advanced). If you are having trouble booting into your OS or keeping the environment stable, this will start Windows with the last registry and driver configuration that booted successfully.

Debugging Mode. This starts Windows in a troubleshooting mode with advanced diagnostics and logging intended for IT professionals.

Disable automatic restart on system failure. This prevents Windows from automatically restarting if an error causes Windows to fail (for example, a Blue Screen error). You can use this if Windows is stuck in a loop where the OS fails, restarts, then fails again repeatedly.

Disable Driver Signature Enforcement. This will Allow drivers containing improper signatures to be installed when using Windows. Only use this if you trust the source of the third party drivers you are using.

Start Windows Normally. This will start Windows without any special modifications.
 The computer will boot into Windows 7 with the selected modifications.

