 Everyone understands the importance of police in fighting crime. However, there are also other ways to reduce crime. For example, investing in education and in anti-poverty programs can help reduce crime.


Perform research on the Internet to learn about innovative programs that have reduced crime. For example, several cities have created programs to provide coaching to low-income parents. These programs have helped reduce the rate of child abuse and reduced the amount of crime committed by children when they grew up to be adults.You can also learn about different crime prevention programs by meeting with a professor at a nearby college or university. Check criminology or sociology departments to find someone who specializes in crime and email to ask if you could meet with them.
 You should directly advocate to your elected officials for anti-crime social programs. You can find their contact information by searching directories online.Think about reaching out in the following ways:


Schedule a meeting. Politicians are busy, so they rarely meet with their constituents in person. Nevertheless, if the politician is visiting home from Washington, DC, then you could check to see if they would be willing to meet with you. You can call their office to check.
Write a letter. You can send a letter to your representative or also send an email. The letter will likely be read by a staff member; however, some letters are forwarded to your representative to read in person.
Call the office. You probably won’t be able to talk directly to your representative. However, the staff member can forward your concerns to his or her boss.
 You should also raise awareness in your greater community of the need for increased funding of social programs to combat crime. Write a letter to the editor in which you highlight social programs coming up for a vote in the U.S. Congress. Also explain how the cost of the social program is more than made up for by a predicted reduction in crime.


Be sure to mention sources people can check to verify your argument.
Try to stay within the word guidelines by removing inessential words.Also try to keep a professional tone. By doing so, you can increase the likelihood that your letter will be published.
Follow up with a phone call to the editor after four or five days if the letter doesn’t appear.

