 Someone with sensitive vision will notice details and may be distracted by them, and often has difficulty with bright light.

Prefers dim lighting
Sensitive to bright lights: squints, covers eyes, rubs eyes, gets a headache
Can't handle bright screens in a dark room; may want to turn on a light or dim the screen
Eyes get sore after reading or watching TV
Avoids eye contact because it is distracting

, A person who is sensitive to sound, unlike superheroes such as Superman, is often more harmed than helped by their hearing.

Covers ears, cries, or runs away when confronted with loud noise
Fearful of loud noises (vacuums, hairdryers, sports cars, motorcycles, hand dryers in public bathrooms, etc.)
Distracted by background noise
Asks people to be quiet often
Hates/avoids loud events: movie theaters, concerts, school assemblies.
Dislikes noisy people and areas (cafeterias, busy streets, etc.)

, Someone who is sensitive in this way tends to be very picky about what goes inside their mouth. They may find it difficult to find foods that they can eat comfortably, because eating lasagna might be about as appetizing as eating bugs.

Very picky eater (often averse to strong textures, temperatures, or flavors)
Prefers bland foods; dislikes foods that are too spicy, sour, sweet, and/or salty
Hates licking envelopes, stamps, or stickers; will ask someone else to do it
Only likes certain brands of toothpaste or mouthwash; may use flavors "for kids" into adulthood
Afraid of the dentist

, Someone sensitive to smell will notice many odors, and cannot stand smells that other people barely notice.

Reacts very strongly to odors like cigarette smoke, cut grass, and other things that people don't notice as much
Comments on people's smells ("You smell like mouthwash/Were you eating salsa?")
Bothered by perfumes or colognes
Avoids certain buildings because they smell bad
Bothered by cooking smells

, Someone who is sensitive to touch may avoid it and startle easily, especially if the touch is light or unexpected. People sensitive to touch are usually characterized by some or most of the following:

Dislikes cuddling, hugging, or being held
"Wipes off" wet kisses
Sensitive to pain and injury
Distressed by sock seams, brushing hair (may be picky about brushes), dirt on the skin, raindrops, shower water, rough bed sheets, cutting hair/fingernails/toenails, or being barefoot
Extremely ticklish
Picky eater, hates when different foods touch each other, may avoid hot/cold food, anxious about trying new foods
Cuts tags off clothes, can't handle certain cloth textures

, Moving around can be overwhelming to a sensitive person, so they may move slowly and carefully, and be afraid of anything that involves fast or unpredictable movement.

Dislikes theme park rides, sports, walking on uneven terrain, and other activities involving lots of movement
Afraid of elevators, escalators, and heights
As a child, physically clings to a trusted person
Hates getting tipped backwards or upside down
Startles if someone else moves them (such as pushing in their chair)
Clumsy, poor balance

