 Autistic children are not automatically aggressive, and a child who is violent now may not be violent forever.Don't assume that this is par for the course—every autistic child is capable of being nonviolent in the right environment.


Autistic children tend to be less aggressive than other children on average, and are more reactive than proactive.;
, Children act out for different reasons: because they are under severe stress, because they don't understand that it's harmful, or because they have learned it from others or experimentation.



Severe distress. A child who is deeply upset may lash out. This may be caused by unmet needs, psychological disorders such as anxiety,or mistreatment.

Misunderstanding. Some sensory seekers hit because it feels good to them, and it doesn't occur to them that it feels bad to other people.

Learned behavior. The child is treated aggressively and thus learns that this is okay, or they try it once and discover that it gets them what they want.
 Some autistic children have co-occuring disorders that may make them more prone to violence.Oppositional defiant disorder.
Conduct disorder.
Disorders impacting impulse control.
 Take your child to the doctor for a comprehensive checkup, including blood panels. This is important even in children who can communicate well, because they may not understand or feel comfortable saying what is wrong. Aggression may have a physical source such as...


Pain from a medical condition
Food allergy/sensitivity
Diet/nutrition problems
Metabolic issues

, Write down Antecedents, Behaviors, and Consequences. Look for patterns, especially in what triggers the behavior and how others respond to it. What could be changed?Pay close attention to whether adults are escalating or de-escalating the situation.
 Autistic adults have brains that work similarly to your child's brain, so they may notice a problem in the child's life that you missed.


If possible, find an autistic mentor in the community who can meet your child and look at the environment.
The internet houses a strong Autistic community full of people who are happy to help families like yours. Try posting anonymously about your child's problem in the hashtag #AskAnAutistic, where autistic people can find you and offer advice.

