 Since there is a nerve around the jawline, it will increase your chances of being able to knock out your attacker in one blow. By gathering all your strength into one hit, you may be able to render him unconscious. Even if you fail to knock him out, you have a high chance of dislocating his jaw and causing him severe pain.;
, Attracting attention with cries for help may cause the kidnapper to attempt an escape. Although his goal may be to kidnap you, he might not want to be caught in the act, especially since there is a risk of a crowd gathering. Scream, "I am being kidnapped!" or "Call the police!" For a higher chance of receiving help, you could also scream, "Fire!"

, Nails can be extremely painful, especially if you use them in the right areas. Always aim for the eyes, as you may be able to temporarily or permanently blind him. Dig your nails into his flesh as hard as you can because your life may depend on it.
 Understand that your main objective is to escape. By hurting the kidnapper, you may be able to buy yourself some time to run. Attack vulnerable parts of the body, such as the groin, throat, and face. Use your elbow, as it is one of the strongest points in your body.
 Your teeth can be a powerful weapon against your kidnapper, as your jaw is a strong point in your body. Sink your teeth deep into available flesh while punching or kicking as hard as you can. However, avoid lingering into areas for long periods of time. Strike hard and quickly before retreating for another rapid attack. Your goal is to confuse the kidnapper and make unpredictable moves so that he is overwhelmed by your pain and speed.
 Aim for the area around the nose, as it is a quick way to render him unconscious. Prepare yourself by clenching your teeth, keeping your mouth closed, and tilting your head down in order to prevent damage to yourself. Then, grasp his shirt before pushing him away from you, causing him to become off balance. In the same move, yank him forward into the crown of your head. However, beware when using this move, as you could also knock yourself out or cause severe damage to your head.
 The digging of your fingernails into his flesh will cause severe pain and perhaps surprise him into releasing you or loosening his grip. As soon as you feel him succumbing to the pain, break free and run as fast as you can.
 Your main objective is to break free of the kidnapper. Although you may be tempted to knock him out in order to prevent him following you, avoid lingering once he has released you. He may have accomplices waiting to support him, so you must escape as soon as you see an opportunity. Run into a public area while screaming for help, and contact the police as soon as possible.

