 You can purchase a website domain name directly from Google. This service is similar to those offered by GoDaddy, 1and1, and other domain registration companies. You can find the Google Domains site at domains.google.com.


If you already have a domain and website, and want to get it registered with Google Search, see the next section.;
, If you create your domain with your personal Google account, all domain administration will need to be done with that account. If you intend to have multiple people manage your domains, you may want to create a dedicated Google account that can be shared. A dedicated Google account will also keep your domain emails from getting mixed into your personal emails. Click here for details on creating a Google account.
 Use the Google Domain search tools to look up the domain name that you want to buy. Google Domains supports a variety of different extensions, including .net, .org, .co, and .social. You'll be shown whether your exact result is available or not, as well as a variety of similar domains.


Click the "Add extension" link in the search results to pick from a large list of possible extensions., If the domain you want is available, click the Cart button to add it to your shopping cart. The prices for domains will vary depending on their extension and demand. You can purchase multiple domains at once by adding them all to your cart.
 Once you're ready to checkout, open your cart and select "Proceed to checkout". You'll be asked to fill out your information. This form will need to be filled out with accurate information, and normally is made publicly available on the WHOIS registry. Google Domains offers free private registration, which will mask your personal information. Most extensions support private registration, but not all of them will.Make sure to select "Make my info private" at the bottom of the form if you want private registration.
 After entering your information, you'll need to select your payment method. Google Domains will automatically link with your Google Wallet account if you have one setup. You'll need a credit or debit card in order to purchase the domain. The minimum purchase for your domain is one year.
 Now that you've purchased your domain, you can start building your web presence. Google Domains offers several partner programs for building a website, you can forward the domain to an existing site that you own, or you can use your webhost's tools to associate the domain with your site.



Click here for instructions on finding webhosting.

Click here for instructions on creating a basic website.

