 As a medical technologist, you must be able to problem-solve, multitask, be meticulous, and be organized. You will need attention to details and the ability to handle delicate or dangerous materials. You’ll be an important part of a medical team.Write a list of your skills and attributes – things you consider to be your strengths. Consider whether this career will be a good fit for you.;
, Make a list of what you want out of your career – salary, working hours, career advancement, etc. Take some time to think about whether you want to pursue a career as a medical technologist.


Medical technologists must be able to work independently, sometimes at night or on weekends. You may sometimes be under considerable pressure, especially when a patient's life depends on fast and accurate test results.
 Contact the hiring department or human resources department at your local hospital or medical laboratory. Ask about what they look for when hiring. You can also ask to speak with a professional in the field when they have time, and ask about their career path and education.


Say something like, “I’m interested in becoming a medical technologist. Could you please suggest any good programs in the area? What degree did you pursue?”

, If you know anyone in the field, talk to them about what program they went to, whether they liked it, and what was required for admissions. You can also work with your high school guidance counselor to find a program that’s right for you. Locate several possible program options and learn what they require for admission by visiting their website or speaking with their admissions department.
 Prepare in high school by taking science classes such as biology and chemistry. Take computer classes, because much of the work in a medical laboratory is done by automated equipment that is controlled by computer programs. Math skills, especially statistics, are also important, so take as much math as you can., Find a program in medical laboratory technology that is accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences. Visit their website at www.naacls.org and select the option for Students, then click Find a Program. Search by state, country, or type of program you want to attend. Select Medical Laboratory Technician in the drop-down menu for Program Type, and search by your location.Locate a program that interests you so you can familiarize yourself with their admissions requirements. Start preparing in high school, if you can.
 Often a 4-year degree is necessary to become a medical technologist, but a 2-year Associate’s degree can be a good jumping off point.Attend an accredited program and complete all the program requirements.


Many 4-year programs will accept transfer credits from your Associate’s degree. Speak with the admissions office at the 4-year college you wish to attend in order to find out.
 Getting a 4-year Bachelor’s degree can lead to more job opportunities and higher salaries in the future, and some workplaces may require it.Major in medical technology or clinical laboratory science. You will take classes in chemistry, blood science, bacteriology, and other sciences, and have labs to learn about collecting samples, analyzing lab results, and working with lab equipment.


Some programs will require that you complete an internship or practicum to gain real-world experience. Courses and requirements will vary by program.
 Think about earning a graduate degree if you want to become a laboratory manager or director.A Master’s degree in medical technology, clinical laboratory science, medical research, or a related field can lead to advanced job opportunities and a higher earning potential., Now that you’ve completed your schooling, re-write your list of career goals. Think again about salary, working hours, career advancement, location, and anything else that matters to you. Your ideas and goals may have changed since before you embarked on this career path.


Decide if your needs are flexible or strict, so you can narrow down your job search. For instance, “I will not work on weekends,” or, “I’d like a salary over $xx,xxx, but I’ll accept a position with a lower salary.”

, If you had an internship or a practicum at a hospital, lab, or doctor’s office, check in to see if they’re hiring. Many people get hired at locations that took part in their education – so be sure to be an excellent student!

, Search for a job by word of mouth by asking professionals you know in the field if they’re aware of any job openings. Visit a resume-building website like Monster.com. Go to the website of your local hospital or lab and search for Career Opportunities to look for jobs.


Create your resume beforehand so it’s ready. Write a new cover sheet for every position for which you apply.
 Certification assures potential employers that you are competent, and many employers prefer – or even require – technologists who are certified.The requirements for certification and licensure vary by organization and state, but generally you have to pay a fee and pass an exam.Visit www.ascp.org for the American Society for Clinical Pathology to learn about specific certification requirements through their organization.


Organizations offering certification of medical technologists include the American Society for Clinical Pathology, the American Medical Technologists, the National Credentialing Agency for Laboratory Personnel, and the American Association of Bioanalysts.
As of 2011, states requiring licensure include: California, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Louisiana, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, Rhode Island, Tennessee, West Virginia and New York. Puerto Rico also requires that medical technologists be licensed.
 As technology advances, you will have to learn to use new equipment and computer programs. Most certifications also require that you complete continuing education hours in order to maintain your certification.You can learn about continuing education opportunities through the major professional organizations.
 While many medical technologists don't specialize, you may be interested in a specific kind of work. In a small laboratory, a medical technologist will do a variety of tests, but in large laboratories, each will have a specific task based on a specialty.


For instance, phlebotomists specialize in collecting blood samples, and histologists concentrate on cutting and staining samples so they can be tested by others.

