 Check your shampoo for sodium laureth/lauryl sulfate or ammonium laureth/lauryl sulfate, especially if your hair is naturally curly. These ingredients dry out the hair terribly, making your hair puffier and bigger. If you can’t find any shampoos that don’t have these ingredients, look for shampoo bars, which are sulfate-free., Silicone-based ingredients build up on the hair, and only drying sulfates remove them. Any ingredient that ends the suffixes -cone or -xane is a silicone. Some common ones are dimethicone, cyclomethicone, and amodimethicone. However, amodimethicone is a lot easier to remove than some others.
 Don’t go by names alone. Many shampoos and conditioners that are marketed to combat frizz contain sulfates. Opt for moisturizing ingredients. Some good choices include:Aloe vera
Grape extract
Avocado oil
Olive extract
Shea butter
Basil
Hibiscus

, Always use conditioner after using shampoo. Follow the ingredients on the bottle. Some conditioners are formulated to be left in the hair, while others should be rinsed out after a few minutes. Good moisturizing ingredients include:Macadamia oil
Jojoba oil
Coconut oil
Argan oil

, Apply a deep-conditioning hair mask once a week. Look for oil-infused masks to fight frizz. This is especially important if you live in a hot and/or humid climate, since heat has significant drying effects on the hair.Look for hydrating ingredients such as:


Shea butter
Glycerine
Proteins
Fatty acids
Any kind of natural oil, such as coconut oil, lavender oil, or jojoba oil

, Have a skilled hairdresser do this. Thinning tools should only be used on the ends of your hair to prevent excess weight at the bottom.Your hair dresser should only use thinning shears on dry hair or a razor on wet hair. If they deviate from this rule, they’ll damage your hair and actually cause more frizz than you originally had., Poofy hair should be at least shoulder-length to weigh down the frizz. Layers prevent your hair from belling out at the bottom. Make sure your layers start between your chin and your lip. From there, they should angle to the back of your head., Do this about every eight weeks. Regular trimmings will remove any split ends, which make your hair look even frizzier. If your hair tends to dry in the winter months (or in the summer if you live in an arid climate), get your hair trimmed more often, about every six weeks., Do this while your hair is still wet. You could even do it while you’re in the shower. Combing or brushing dry hair will only worsen the frizz.









Combing a spray-on detangler through your hair helps to remove stubborn tangles. You can buy many different brands in department stores or from your hairdresser. Just remember to avoid sulfates.
 Choose the formula that’s right for your hair. If you have coarse or thick hair, look for a serum with Argan, Amla, Camellia, and







, If your hair is straight or wavy, set your hair dryer on a medium setting without any attachments (“rough drying”) until it’s about 80 percent dry. If your hair is very curly, rough-dry until your hair about 70 percent dry. Add a nozzle or diffuser to complete the drying cycle.








Consider buying a high-voltage ionic blow dryer. This will help to tame stubborn frizz as you dry your hair.
 Too much heat can damage your hair and make your frizz worse! Let your hair air dry whenever possible. Use a soft-textured towel to blot (not rub) the excess water out of your hair. This will reduce the amount of time it will take for your hair to dry completely.Avoid touching your hair while it’s drying. Touching it will make it frizzy. Plus, it will make your hair expand.
 Choose a ceramic flat iron. It’s less expensive than titanium and other coatings. Even better, it flattens your hair at a lower heat, which is better at taming frizz. Most ceramic flat irons use ionizing technology, which seals your hair cuticles and actually neutralizes poofy hair.
 Flip your head upside down. Collect your hair at the top of your head, and tie it in a ponytail. Twist your hair into a loop, and pin it in place at the top of your head. This will keep wild fly-away hair under control.







