 Develop or maintain a regular exercise routine for mood-boosting benefits. Not only will you feel better physically, but exercise will also signal your brain to release feel-good neurotransmitters like endorphins, that will improve your mood. Exercise can also improve your immune system health as well, which also helps fight depression.Exercise outside if possible. Try to get some natural light exposure if you can. If the weather keeps you indoors, try doing your workout in a sunny spot near a window.
Consider exercising at least thirty minutes a day for three to five days a week to help improve depression symptoms. But if you are not in shape or do not have enough time, even small amounts of exercise can reap benefits.Find an exercise routine you enjoy. You will be more likely to keep it up long-term. Running, strength training, yoga, tai chi, or walking are all good suggestions for a depression-fighting fitness program.The moist heat of a swimming pool, steam room or sauna can be comforting and help you combat SAD as well.
 You may find some over-the-counter vitamins or natural remedies to be effective in treating your seasonal affective disorder. However, be sure to do your own research and communicate with your doctor and pharmacist about all supplements you are taking. Many dietary supplements can interact with other medications.


Vitamin D can help ease symptoms of SAD. During the winter, people do not receive as much vitamin D from sun exposure, so stores of vitamin D go down. Some studies have shown benefits to taking vitamin D during the winter.Make sure you talk to your doctor about an appropriate dosage of vitamin D, as too much can build up in your system and cause vitamin D toxicity.St. John's wort has been shown to be helpful in the treatment of SAD.Studies show that omega-3 fatty acid supplements can relieve depression symptoms in some people. Omega-3s help maintain healthy levels of dopamine and serotonin in the brain--low amounts of these neurotransmitters can cause depression. You can get omega-3 fatty acids in supplement form, and you can also eat foods with high amounts of omega-3s in them. Sources of omega-3s include fatty, cold-water fish, such as salmon, mackerel and herring. It is also found in flaxseed, flax oil and walnuts., What we eat can have a huge impact on our moods. If SAD is already wreaking havoc on your moods, you want to consume foods that will help stabilize them. Make sure you aren’t overindulging or not eating enough -- both too much and too little food can also have an impact on how you feel.


Avoid sugar and refined carbs that can send your blood sugar on a roller coaster ride, affecting your mood. Instead, eat whole grain carbohydrates like oatmeal and whole-grain bread.
Eat a serving of protein three times a day. Protein helps stabilize your appetite.
Eat four cups of vegetables a day.
Keep your energy levels up by eating smaller meals more frequently. Eat fruit, beans, and vegetables, which help maintain energy levels.
Avoid caffeine, which suppresses serotonin production.Probiotic foods such as yogurt and sauerkraut can help regulate your digestive tract, which has a role in producing neurotransmitters.

