 Understand that the presence or absence of a higher power has no effect on your moral code, unless he or she were to provide a code that is superior to one that you can deduce on your own. In this case, a moral and logical atheist would accept such a code without question. However, despite its godly origin, such an atheist would still recognize the value in questioning this divine moral code in order to potentially obtain even greater moral right. If such as divine code is perfect, then questioning it only serves to support its greatness and make it stronger. As such, one should never fear questioning a moral code.
 If a modern human were to stone to death an adolescent for not honoring his/her father and mother, we would certainly think him/her immoral. Yet, these are the prescribed punishments for such acts, according to Abrahamic texts found in the Old Testament. Since modern humans do not follow their religious texts to the letter, they must have some method for determining which prescriptions to follow and which to discard, which is ultimately where our morals come from. Ask yourself -- is this action "good" because God tells us to do it, or is it simply a good thing to do. If the action is only good because God says so, then morality is nothing more than a checklist, and there are likely few Christians who believe that murder is moral just because someone talked back to their father.
 When something is a requirement, it's not actually moral anymore. Morality is about choice -- deciding to the right thing amongst many options. But if you're only doing the right thing because a religious leader or text told you to, or because you're scared of the consequences of hell, you're not actually being moral. You're being a sheep.


Never forget that the mass murders of the Spanish Inquisition and Crusades were considered "moral" because they were apparently backed up by the Bible. But anyone stepping back to think for themselves would have realized very quickly that senseless violence is never a good moral principle.
 Of course, many of the adherents of these religions would argue that they are the most moral of all -- but something is a bit off when multiple religions with conflicting ideas all claim moral superiority. Recognize that, if morality was purely derived from religion, a lot of the following events would likely not take place:


Christianity-sanctioned slavery and treatment of blacks as "sub-human" in America.
Radical Islamic terrorist attacks, civilian beheading, and suppression of women's rights.
Burmese Buddhists using human sacrifice to gain political power and control., The myth that "God is the glue that holds society together" is a complete myth. In fact, most countries and states with high religious belief and participation are actually the most dangerous areas to live in. Meanwhile, highly secular areas are strongly correlated with lower homicide, rape, and poverty levels.


Of course, this is a statistical trend, and there are exceptions. However, even US states match these trends, with secular states being safer than most highly religious ones., Time and time again, it has been shown that atheists tend to be more tolerant than their strongly religious brethren. The reasons are multifold -- lack of religion erases antiquated rules and morals, and there is no inter-religious hatred and rivalry that can spur so many atrocities (like the Crusades). Either way, people who create their own moral codes, instead of waiting for someone to give them one, tend to treat others much more kindly., For all of its faults, organized religion is a major part of human society, and theologians of all faiths have pushed ethical and moral philosophy incredibly far, even if there are some mistakes. The biggest mistake is usually buying into religious morality wholesale, without considering the faults. Thinking for yourself, considering each principle on its own and not part of an antiquated belief system, can help you stay spiritual and religious without feeling like your moral code is already prescribed.


Morality will often be a mixture of ideas from many different cultures and religions, and closing your mind entirely to theological thought is just as limiting as only considering one religion.