 Don’t rely solely on the police. Be proactive and create a flyer with information about your dog. Avoid mentioning that you think the dog was stolen—that might scare off the thief. Instead, include the following information:name
breed
color
markings
date and location last seen
a reward (but don’t state the amount)your contact information
a statement that the dog is sick and needs help (this can deter thieves from trying to sell your dog)

, You want to paper the community. The thief might actually live near you, or they might try to sell your dog. Deliver flyers to the following places and ask if you can post the flyer:animal shelters
local pet stores
grocery stores
veterinary offices
medical laboratories
post offices
dog parks
traffic intersections

, Contact your local newspaper and ask how much it costs to publish an ad. You’ll want to include most of the information on your flyer, including your contact information so people can reach you. Also consider a radio ad. Some radio stations publish missing pet ads.Include any details that you think will arouse sympathy in the reader.For example, you could say that your dog is a registered service animal or an emotional support animal.
 There are many websites where you can report a stolen dog. You should post on as many as you can, including the following:Missingpet.net
Petfinder
Center for Lost Pets
Lost Dogs of America
Lost Pet USA
Missing Pet Partnership
Your social media accounts, such as Twitter, Facebook, Google+, etc.
 Someone might call and claim to have found your dog. You shouldn’t immediately believe them. Instead, ask detailed questions, especially if you are offering a reward for the dog.For example, have the caller describe your dog’s distinguishing characteristics.


Try to meet the caller and the dog in a neutral, public place that is busy. Meeting will give you a chance to confirm the dog is yours.
Take a friend with you.You’ll feel safer with someone else around.
Hand over the reward only when you have your dog in hand. Never give the money beforehand.
 Read the description of the animals for sale. If any match your dog, then write down the contact information. Some thieves steal animals to sell them. This is particularly true if your dog is a pure breed.Also check ads online, at websites such as Hoobly.com or Craigslist.If you see a description that you think matches your dog, call the police.
 Sometimes people search for months before finding their missing or stolen pet. You have a better chance of finding your dog if you are persistent.Revisit any business or office where you posted flyers and check that the flyer is still up. If not, put up a new one.

