 Most items (including faux fur) will have tags on them with specific cleaning instructions. Whether you want to follow those guidelines explicitly or not is up to you, but they will include important tips for you to notice.


The tag should tell you if you should wash it by itself, if the colors will run, or if you should only wash it with similarly colored items.
The tag may include standardized symbols that indicate how the item should be cared for.Use the tag information to help you decide what to do next.;
, If it's part of a garment, turn it inside out. This will limit the wear on the fur. Place it gently in the machine without any other items.
 Set the washing machine to use cold water and the delicate wash cycle. Turn the machine on and add a mild laundry detergent. Even though you are laundering by machine, consider using a gentle detergent designed for hand washing.Use the machine setting with the least amount of agitation in the spin.
Put fabric softener in when the rinse cycle starts and rinse in cold water.
 Remove the item when the wash cycle stops. Shake it to fluff up the faux fur and help remove any additional excess water.You can try absorbing excess water by rolling the item in a thick towel.
Pull the item into its original shape and dimensions. Do this carefully so you don't damage it.
 Wash the faux fur item in cold or lukewarm water. This will help the faux fur maintain its shape and texture. Use a mild laundry soap designed for hand-washing., Rather than submerging the entire garment in the water, use the spot-cleaning technique to clean only the places that need it. This will help your item last much longer and maintain its original texture.Use the mild detergent on the areas that need cleaning and gently rub the soap in with your fingers. You can also use the item itself to gently rub two sections that need cleaning together – just take care not to be too rough in your scrubbing so you don’t damage the item.
Rinse the item in cold water until all the suds are gone.
 First, shake out the item to fluff the faux fur and to get rid of any excess water on the surface. Then proceed to remove the additional excess water from the item by rolling it in a thick towel.Reshape the item, taking care not to damage it.
 Never use an electric dryer, even on a no-heat setting, because the friction caused by the faux fur item tumbling around in the dryer creates heat that destroys the fibers. Only air-dry faux fur items.Choose a site that's well ventilated for air drying. You may want to put it outside or add a fan to speed the drying process.
Hang your item on a plastic hanger or lay it flat.
Be sure all the excess water is removed before you hang the item. If you don't, the weight of the water will pull the item out of shape.
 Brush and fluff up the faux fur using a pet care brush with widely spaced metal bristles – this kind of brush is called a slicker brush. Brush and fluff carefully so you don't damage the faux fur's backing fabric., Perhaps the safest option to wash and dry your faux fur items is to take them to the dry cleaner. Dry cleaners have more supplies and more knowledge about fabrics than you, so they will be able to clean your faux fur item more effectively.Make sure you choose a dry cleaner you trust so you know that they will handle your item with care.

