 You should continue to take your dog on walks to keep him healthy and maintain your bond. When you walk your dog, watch for obstacles that may cause your dog to trip and gently redirect your dog as needed.


Using a back or front clip harness rather than a leash may give you a little more control over your dog and make it easier for you to guide him around obstacles.Also, keep in mind that your dog will need reassurance if something noisy startles him. Pay attention to your surroundings and talk to your dog to let him know everything is okay.
When you are out walking with your dog, do not let your blind dog get near strange dogs or people, especially children. Blind dogs may nip in defense if they become startled.;
, To train a dog to respond to verbal cues, you need to be consistent and always offer a reward when your dog responds to the cue. For example, to teach your dog to sit with the “sit” command, you would need to practice telling your dog to sit a few times every day. After each time that your dog responds to the cue by sitting, you would give your dog a treat and some praise.Make sure that you offer the treat and praise right away. For example, you would need to give your dog his treat right after your dog’s bottom hits the floor so that he will make the connection that this is a good thing to do.
Keep training sessions short to help your dog stay focused. Dogs have short attention spans, so it is best to keep training sessions under 10 minutes.
End on a positive note. If your dog starts to get impatient, give him a command that he has already mastered, such as “sit,” then reward him with a treat and some praise and end the session.
 Your dog can still feel and he will likely use his sense of touch to figure out how to get around the house.You can use your dog's sense of touch to help train him as well.. To use touch in training sessions, you can do things like using the leash to steer your dog in the direction that you want him to go or applying gentle pressure to his body to get him to complete a command.


For example, if you are teaching your dog the "sit" command, you might place one hand on his behind and apply gentle pressure to help him understand what you are asking him to do.
 Most dogs will see an upcoming corner while riding in a car and brace themselves so they don’t fall over. A blind dog cannot use that visual clue, so saying “corner” before a turn will help the dog associate the word with turning a corner. After repeating this cue several times, your dog will learn to brace himself.
 A blind dog cannot see objects or obstacles that may cause him to fall or bump his head. To help your dog navigate the world around him, say “watch” whenever something is in his way and redirect him by applying gentle pressure to his leash.After a while he will associate the command with a need to turn or change course.
 Blind dogs cannot see when there is a step or curb that they need to go up or down, which may cause them to fall. Whenever you encounter a step or curb, say “step” just before your dog reaches it.Then, try stopping him and place one of his paws on the edge of the step to help guide him up or down the step. Repeat the command as you do this.


Doing this will help your dog to understand what he needs to do when he hears one of these commands.
 If you have just gotten a blind dog or if your dog has just been diagnosed with blindness, then you may find it helpful to meet with a dog trainer and get some specialized help. A dog trainer can help you to find what motivates your dog and teach him commands that will make life easier for your dog.

