 As you boil sugar, water evaporates from the mixture, leaving a higher concentration of sugar behind. Be sure to know the various stages of candy making before you begin making your maple sugar candy.


Soft-Ball Stage, 235–240 °F (113–116 °C): At the soft-ball stage, the sugar concentration is 85% and the candy will form a soft, malleable ball if dropped into ice water. If you allow the sugar to sit out for a few minutes on a flat surface, it will flatten. Fudge candy is heated until the soft-ball stage.

Firm-Ball Stage, 245–250 °F (121 °C): With a sugar concentration just slightly higher at 87%, candy at the firm-ball stage is malleable, but has more structure than the soft-ball phase and will not flatten unless pinched. Caramel candy is heated to this stage.

Hard-Ball Stage, 250–265 °F (129 °C): If dropped into ice water, a hard ball will form at this stage. With a sugar concentration at 92%, the sugar syrup will form thick threads if poured from a spoon. Marshmallows, nougat, and gummy candies are all heated to the hard-ball stage.

Soft-Crack Stage, 270–290 °F (143 °C): The sugar concentration at this stage reaches a high 95%. The candy begins to become more brittle at this stage, though it retains some flexibility and will bend before cracking. Butterscotch and taffy are examples of candy cooked to the soft-crack stage.

Hard-Crack Stage, 300–310 °F (154 °C): The highest temperature with a 99% sugar concentration, the hard-crack stage produces candy that is hard, brittle, and cracks easily. Toffee, brittle, and lollipops are heated to this temperature.;
, Your saucepan needs to have a heavy bottom so that it can withstand high heat without burning the delicate sugar.
 Be sure to fully submerge the mercury tip of the thermometer to get a correct temperature reading.
 Be sure to stir occasionally. It's OK if you see foam and bubbles while your candy boils.
 Most maple candy recipes call for a soft-ball stage candy, though you can manipulate the texture of the candy by heating it to the stage you desire. If you don't have a candy thermometer, you can test the candy stage by dropping a bit of the sugar into a container of cold water. The sugar should form a soft, malleable ball.
 Allow it to cool to 175ºF without stirring. This will take about 10 minutes.
 It should look similar to caramel but be thick and creamy.
 Allow the candy to sit until cool.
 You can store the candy in airtight containers for up to one month.







