 If you’re unhappy with the template layout provided by Word, you can modify the style and formatting of your document in order to create new formatting patterns. These patterns could be used again if you save them, or you can create a new template based on a document which uses these style and formatting rules. You could think of formatting as creating your own template.
 The text might be a character name, a piece of dialogue, or some stage directions. Select the line of text by clicking the left button on your mouse with your cursor at the left edge of the line of text.Alternately, you could highlight the text by clicking the left button of your mouse to the right or left of the line of text you want to adjust.
Finally, you could highlight text by bringing up a blinking cursor within the text you’ve written and holding down the shift key and an arrow key to highlight the text you want to format. To highlight text to the left of the place your cursor is, hold the shift key and the left directional button. To highlight text to the right of the place your cursor is, hold the shift key and the right directional arrow.
If you have multiple lines of text, you can select them at one time and apply the formatting changes you desire to all highlighted lines.
 With your text highlighted, click on the word “Format” on the menu bar. The drop down menu will display several options. Click on the words “Styles and Formatting.” This will open the Styles and Formatting pane.


Alternately, you can open the Styles and Formatting pane by clicking the Styles and Formatting button on the toolbar. Just click the Styles and Formatting button located next to the script character drop-down menu to open the pane. The button is found at the far left edge of the toolbar. It contains two letter “A”s, each of a different color, with one positioned above and to the left of the other.
 Right click on the still-highlighted text you selected initially. A drop-down menu will open with a number of options. The bottom-most option reads “Select Text with Similar Formatting.” Click on this option with the left button of your mouse. All text with formatting similar to that which you highlighted originally will become highlighted.


So, for instance, if you have all character names in a certain font and size centered exactly above a line of text, you can highlight a single instance of any character’s name, then use the “Select text with similar formatting” option to adjust all character names in your screenplay at once.
 After you’ve highlighted all the text you want to assign a given style, choose a style from the pane on the right. The Styles and Formatting pane should still be open on the right of the screen. Choose the style format you want to change the highlighted text to by left-clicking on it.
 If your highlighted text does not conform to an extant style, you can assign the formatting and style within the highlighted text a name by clicking the button near the top of the pane which reads “New Style.” You can then assign a name, align the text to left or right, choose your font, and make other adjustments as you see fit.

