 Your Labradoodle is a wonderful breed for training. To get the best results, start training him early, at least within the first six months that you have him. Start by teaching him basic commands with a reward-based system.


Start by using treats to gain his attention, show him how to do a command such as ‘sit’, then give him a treat. Continue to do this until he can do the trick on your command on his own.
This will work with most basic commands, with additional commands such as ‘come,’ ‘stay,’ or ‘roll over.’
You can start as early as eight weeks, but his attention span may be short. Be patient with him and he will eventually learn.;
, Your Labradoodle will need high energy exercise every day. He is a great pet to powerwalk and run with. He is sturdy and energetic, so he will make a great running partner. You can also play fetch and other high energy activities with him. This will keep him active, happy, and help burn off some of his energy.


If you don’t exercise him enough, he may be more likely to act out his energy in other ways, such as chewing, barking, or digging.Wait until he is older than nine months to run with him. If he is any younger, his legs will not be developed enough.
 In order for your Labradoodle to be well behaved and nice to other people and animals, you need to socialize him within the first eight to 18 weeks. This means you need to take him around people of all ages, genders, and sizes as well as introduce him to all kinds of animals. This way, he won’t be scared or aggressive towards any one type of person or animal.


Take him to a dog park or out walking with you. This is a great way for him to see all different kinds of people.
You can also try obedience classes or puppy socialization classes. Check your local pet store or ask your veterinarian.
Wait until after his first round of vaccinations to introduce him to other dogs., In order to keep track of your dog in case he is ever lost, stolen, or goes missing, consider getting a microchip for him. This is a relatively painless process for your dog, generally costs under $50, and can be done by your vet during a normal visit.