 For some job seekers any job will do, however for the vast majority there are a number of considerations that need to be weighed before deciding where they want to work. By taking the time to think about yourself and what you want to do for a career, you will be starting your job search on the right foot., When considering your skills, think about what are you good at in a professional setting. Moreover, think about which industry these skills are best applicable to. It is also worthwhile to think about what you are interested in doing. If you are interested in your career, you are more likely to be fulfilled through it.


If you are good with people for instance, something in the customer service industry may fit you.
If you enjoy fixing cars for instance, why not think about being a mechanic.
 Some individuals are looking for a job with a strong mission, such as helping others. Others are interested in a high starting salary. What type of mission appeals to you? In addition, you need think about what kind of company you would like to work for. Do you want to work for a large business or a small business? What about setting - urban or rural? Answering these questions can help you have a better idea of where you may want to apply.
 How much of a factor is your family in your decision? Do you want to live close to your family? If you have a spouse, how will your job search affect his or hers? You may want to coordinate with your family and loved ones while making these decisions.
 Your resume is often the first thing employers will look at in your application, so it is important that you put your best foot forward. A resume is essentially a quick written picture of you, including the background, skills, qualities and experience that you will offer an employer. It is vital that your resume captures the interest of potential employers., You will want to make a quick impression with your resume. The average viewing time for a resume is 10 seconds, so it is important that your resume does exactly what it needs to do.Typically, a resume should be one page in length and it should not be more than two pages. Here are some suggestions about what to include, and what not to include.
 Numbers are a clear and succinct way to show off your productivity. They should be included on your resume whenever possible.


For example, if your GPA is 3.8 state it. It is best to not mention your GPA if it is below 3.8, according to experts.
If you have increased sales in your department by 5%, state that.
 For applications where you feel as though you do not completely match the requirements, it helps to add any transferable skills that are pertinent to the position on your resume. To do this, think of what experiences you have had in the past that will help you succeed in the job. Transfer those thoughts onto your resume.Transferable skills include ability to work in a team, verbal communication skills, create reports, computer proficiency, plan and organize a work schedule, and decision making and problem solving.How have your past experiences proved that you have these skills?

, It is a good idea to adjust your resume to include keywords from the job advertisement. Companies may use software to scan resumes, so having keywords will help you get through the screening.For example, if a company is looking for a particular type of person highlight how your experience will bring that to the company.
 If you are applying for a position in graphic design, you will want a resume that is ornate and decorated to prove your skill. For most other jobs, you will want to have a resume that is conservative and does not take too many risks. Consider the following tips.


Resumes should have your name in a large font on the top of the page, with your contact details (address, email and telephone number) underneath in a smaller font size.
Your experience should come next. Provide a chronological list of where you have worked with bullet points of your accomplishments underneath.
List your education, including where you went to school, the degree achieved, the date, and any honors, achievements and transferable skills.
Finally, list skills relevant to the position.
Try using a traditional font, such as Times New Roman size 9-12.
 Do not include irrelevant work experience, personal information such as marital status or children, your hobbies, photographs, salary information and your date of birth.Avoid buzz words or phrases. Such phrases may include 'excellent communication skills' or 'very creative'. Instead, use concrete examples.
Objectives or summaries are optional, some experts suggest it is best to leave them out entirely however.Remember that in an interview an employer will ask you about specific points on your resume. Only include experience that you are comfortable talking about.
 A cover letter should explain why, specifically, you are the perfect person for the advertised job. It is a chance for you to expand beyond your resume, so it is okay to promote yourself and your accomplishments without reservation. It helps to have a model cover letter to work from, but each job you apply for should have a variation on this model.


The following organization may provide a guide. Paragraph one should explain why you are writing and who you are (I am writing to apply for the position of insurance agent after recently finishing my BA in business). The second paragraph should complement your resume, expanding on key points that are relevant to the position. The third paragraph should conclude, politely asking for an interview and noting your contact details and any other information you have provided., After you have a model cover letter to work with, find a job that you are interested in applying for and begin to customize the model letter to fit the job. To do this, read the job description very carefully and determine exactly what the employer is looking for. Match your cover letter to the employers needs, highlighting how you will fill them.


For example, if an employer is looking for an "experienced self-starter" you will want to note that "for the past 5 years I have been working from home and was able to help my company grow by 5%"
Some experts suggest dividing your cover letter into three bullet points. If you adopt this strategy, each bullet point should be drawn from a specific qualification that the job description mentions. This should then be followed by a paragraph explanation of how you meet the qualification.For example, if the job description calls for "familiarity with research techniques" you can note that "while studying for my undergraduate degree, I conducted several long term research projects that employed different research methods". Proceed to explain this in more detail over the course of the paragraph.
 You do not want your cover letter to stand out in a bad way, so it is best to follow traditional norms. In total, your cover letter should be about a page in length and be typed in a traditional font that matches the font of your resume. It is important that you always proofread your cover letter. It is also a good idea to have a friend read the letter as well.
 Finding jobs to apply for requires research. Job search tools online is a good place to start. You can also try to search your network of friends and acquaintances to see if they know of anything. Career fairs are also a valuable resource for people seeking to get hired.


Online search engines include LinkedIn, Monster, Indeed, CareerBuilder, SimplyHired, and more. You can even try Facebook, Twitter and other social media options. Simply type the field you are interested in and see what options show up.
Your network is extremely valuable in helping you get hired. Try looking at alumni associations from your college or university, military job networks, and making new contacts with professionals in your field of interest. Find out if they know of any job opportunities, or if they can put you in touch with managers looking for new people.Remember, You can always try to enhance your network on social media.
Career fairs are a valuable resource as well, as they are designed to connect employers with individuals looking to get hired. If you attend a career fair, be sure to dress and act professionally, prepare a brief statement that advertises you and your skills, and to be assertive. Always follow up with potential employers.You can also check local employment agencies, the public library, newspapers, classified ads and college career centers for employment opportunities., When trying to get hired, it is best to apply for a wide range of jobs. In other words you should not narrow your field down to a single industry, instead think about how your skills, experiences and interests would work in different industries.This will allow you to apply to a larger number of jobs and increase your chances of getting hired. Here is a sample of some areas in which to apply.Business and industry includes banks, insurance, manufacturing and more.
Government includes jobs with federal, state or local agencies.
Education includes teaching jobs at elementary schools, high schools and colleges.
Non-profit includes social services jobs and health care work.
 Today, most job applications are submitted online rather than by mail or in person. When filling out online job applications, there are a number of suggestions from experts to keep in mind.


Fill out all fields in the online application form.
Ensure that any information you put in matches any online profile that you may have.
Review all of the information before submitting.
Apply early, do not wait until the deadline to submit your application., When you are lucky enough to have a job interview, you will want to be as well informed about your potential employer as possible. This will show the company that you are serious about working for them. Think about researching the following, and begin to shape your possible responses to questions according to what you learn.


What is the company's mission statement? What are it's objectives?
What skills and values does the company look for?
Who are the key players in the company?
If you are told who will be interviewing with, try to find out a little bit about their background.
 By doing this you can hopefully identify a few questions before the interview takes place. This will give you and edge when the questions come up.Some common interview questions include the following:


Tell us about yourself? You will not want to be too wordy with this response, a one minute response will do.
Why did you apply for this job? Be honest, and tell them what is appealing about the job and the company.
What do you know about our company? Draw on the research you have done on the company.
What questions do you have for me? You might ask for more details on the day to day duties of the position, the growth of the company, or your potential for advancement in the company.
 While some of the following suggestions may seem basic, they play a key role in making a good impression at an interview. First, you should show up 5 minutes before the interview; do not show up too early, and never be late. Secondly, appear well dressed and carry yourself in a professional manner. Finally, arrive prepared with a pen, paper and several copies of your resume in case they are requested.Always dress professionally even if it is not a professional position. Avoid shorts, flip flops, jeans, and other casual attire.
 This starts when you greet the interviewer with a smile, handshake and direct eye contact. You will want to carry this good start into the interview room, where there are several points to keep in mind.Make sure you do not slouch.
Do not break eye contact during conversation. However, be mindful not to stare.
Do not cross your arms. Instead, keep them open in a friendly manner.
Avoid fidgeting or touching your face.
 All interviewers are different. Some may be relaxed and even casual, while others will be very serious and professional. If you find your interviewer to be formal you should match this. This will create a connection between you and the interviewer, and he or she will feel that you have something in common.
 This will help to show the interviewer that you are interested in the company and the job. You may want to ask questions about employee benefits, employee experience, room for advancement, or the next steps in the hiring process. Regardless, ask questions that demonstrate that you are familiar with the company and the job.


For example, if you read that the company recently won an award or a new client, mention it.
 Some interviewers will let you know their timeframe for a decision. If they tell you two weeks and two weeks has gone by, you should send a polite email confirming you are still interested in the position and asking if they have a decision timeline. If you were not told a timeline, you can send a similar email after about two weeks.Keep the follow up emails brief and polite. Hiring managers are generally very busy, so try and be patient.
Try a note that looks something like this: "Dear Manager, Thank you so much for meeting with me today. I enjoyed learning about the company and the position, and I am very excited about the prospects of joining the team. I look forward to hearing from you about the next steps in the process."

