 Find out the list of classes you must take to get to this first step. Then find where local or on-line schools are that give classes for your trainee license. It is possible to begin getting appraisal experience before getting a license in some states; California is one of them.;
, This is usually done by taking classes and passing a test, and/or having some experience in appraisal work. (Each state has their own criteria in obtaining this license - check with them).
 After getting your trainee license, you'll need a 'supervising' appraiser to teach you the tricks of the trade and to help you attain the experience hours that you will need. Be aware that you may need two or more 'supervising' appraisers to help you on your journey. Work with a supervising appraiser who lives near you, as you'll have to spend time with this person in actual 'hands on' experience. Finding a supervising appraiser to help you will be the toughest part of the job, but it will be worth it. You'll need a supervisor to sign all of your work as a trainee. You can also find a supervising appraiser before getting your trainee license, like a friend or relative who is already a working appraiser.
 This is one of the best ways to see if you really like appraising and to find out what appraising is all about.
 Banks and savings and loans of all sizes hire trainee appraisers who have obtained their trainee licenses right off the street. It's a great way to get paid and get an education at the same time.
 Do what you can to work with (or for) experienced appraisers in your area. Give them an incentive to hire you.
 Since most of appraisals are done for bank loans, it will serve you well to find the people giving the loans and talk with them. A good relationship with a loan broker will go a long way.
 As a trainee, your pay will be minimal until you obtain your normal license. It may take many months, but hang in there !

, Your sales license may be needed to obtain MLS data for your appraisers, and it can't hurt.
 You will be required to take 150 hours of state approved appraisal license education, including the 15 hour USPAP course., You can't complete these hours in less than 1 year.,, Individuals seeking to become a Certified Residential Appraiser must successfully complete a minimum of 200 AQB approved hours of education, obtain 2,500 experience hours and pass an examination administered by the jurisdiction awarding the credential.

Note: some states do not accept distance education for qualifying education credit., All individuals seeking to become a Certified General Appraiser must successfully complete a minimum of 300 AQB approved hours of education, obtain 3,000 experience hours and pass an examination administered by the jurisdiction awarding the credential.