


If you don't have parchment paper, you can dust the pan with additional flour. Note that this is not the flour called for in the recipe.
 Place the flour, baking soda, and table salt in a medium to large mixing bowl. Toss the ingredients together with a whisk until evenly combined


All-purpose flour will create the most conventional soda cracker, but you may also substitute up to half the flour with whole wheat flour if desired.
 Place the butter and egg in the mixture. Use a pastry blender, knife, or fork to cut the butter into the dry ingredients and simultaneously mix in the egg. Continue until the mixture becomes crumbly.You can use butter, margarine, lard, or shortening, but make sure that the fat used is cold and solid before you begin. Similarly, you can also combine fats in equal amounts, e.g., 1/2 Tbsp (7.5 ml) butter and 1/2 Tbsp (7.5 ml) shortening.
If you don't have liquid eggs, use half of one large egg. Lightly beat the egg with a fork and measure out 2 Tbsp (30 ml) for use in this recipe.
 Pour the buttermilk into the crumbly dough. Stir well, continuing until a soft, sticky dough forms.
 Lightly flour a clean work surface and turn the dough out over it. Using a rolling pin, lightly pound the surface of the dough until air bubbles form across the entire surface. This may take around 20 minutes, and you should fold the dough repeatedly throughout the process.


Alternatively, knead the dough for 3 to 5 minutes, then let it rest for 5 to 10 minutes. Some air bubbles should form while the dough rests.
 Roll out the dough using a lightly floured rolling pin. Continue until the dough is 1/16 to 1/8 inch (1.5 to 3 mm) thick.
 Using a sharp knife or pizza cutter, divide the dough into individual crackers. You can vary the size as desired, but 2 inch (5 cm) squares are standard.


You also need to transfer the crackers to the prepared baking sheet. Lift them with a flat spatula, then arrange them so that they are close but not touching. Soda crackers will usually shrink during baking instead of spreading out.
 Using a fork or toothpick, prick the surface of each cracker several times, creating holes in the dough. This should allow the crackers to bake flat.


If you wish to add salt to these crackers, sprinkle coarse salt over the surface of the dough now. Use your hands to lightly press the salt into the dough.
 Place the crackers in your preheated oven and bake for about 20 to 25 minutes, or until they become lightly browned around the edges.


There's no need to turn these crackers while they bake, but you should remove any that bake quicker than the others to prevent them from burning.
 Transfer the finished crackers to a wire rack and let them cool to room temperature. Enjoy them once they cool.


Store extra crackers in an airtight container kept out at room temperature. They should remain edible for up to one or two weeks.

