 This is a siren, not singing. Don't try to make it pretty. Just make it very connected, the same vowel all the way through, all of the sound smoothly sliding, with no breaks in the sound. The sound rides on the breath, so the breath must be steady. You will use less volume of air for this exercise than the breathing exercises above, which are exaggerated for purpose of defining the breathing method. If there are spots where breaks want to come in your siren, start a little above the spot and make your siren move more slowly through that area. Do not rush anything in this exercise. Take time to prepare your breath, and when you run out of breath, take time to get another well-seated breath before continuing the slide down. Imagine a line of sound coming from your mouth moving to or through the wall to keep the vowel siren steady. Make sure you have plenty of room in your mouth for the "ah" as if pleasantly surprised, but NOT yawning. You may try this on different vowels. Remember it is not singing. Slide through all the notes, but don't sing it like a scale. Many singers find this the most effective exercise for connecting the voice to the breath and getting a seamless sound throughout their range., Now sing the actual notes, but don't change anything in your body mechanism. Keep the face just as open, air just as flowing, etc. Move the 5 notes up or down the scale to warm up your voice. Take time to feel the center of your breathing (belly) before beginning each 5-note phrase. Don't rush., Take breaths more often than you would in singing it straight through, each breath low in the body. You are teaching your body to connect all the notes to the body and breath with a feeling of constant fluidity. Gradually try it faster. Consistent practice of this method integrates correct breathing into your muscle memory for the song you are working on.,, Vowels are the clothesline, and consonants are the clothespins. They intersect the line, but they don't stop it or cut it in two. Your consonants and diphthong vowels should occur at the last moment and be springboards for the next traveling vowel. They are liquid and supportive of the vocal line. Think a stretch through them from low in the body.You can re-think phrases in the following manner, first made popular by Robert Shaw to have a great vocal line in your singing: Written text=Don't know when I've felt so blue... Sung text = doh ntnoh wheh nah eevfeh ltsoh bloo. In other words, you are placing the ending consonant of the previous word onto the next word in the phrase. It works for some people as a nice little trick to get you singing a steady vocal line.