 A Gothic Lolita look has many parts you can vary or alter as you like, but there are a few basic rules. One of them is that Gothic Lolitas favor dark colors, with the exception of white or cream accents - you probably won't find one wearing pink or other bright colors prominently. Here's what else you need to know, arranged in the order in which you'd get dressed.


Start with undergarments. The most identifiable part of a Lolita look is the bell-shaped skirt that falls two inches above the kneecap or lower. Buying a petticoat, or pannier, built specifically to fill out Lolita skirts is essential. In order to maintain modesty in case the petticoat blows up in the breeze, Lolitas wear bloomers underneath the petticoat and over their regular underwear. Gothic Lolitas can also wear a corset, provided it's laced or buttoned properly. (Wearing a corset or bustier alone as a top falls into the Ero Lolita category.) Bloomers and petticoats should never be readily visible in the finished look.






Wear a refined, well-made blouse. Gothic Lolita blouses often feature fine tailoring, such as pintucks, embroidered details, and embellished cuffs or necklines. A slim, close fit is ideal; the blouse should never be baggy or saggy.






Put on an embellished skirt, JSK, or one-piece dress. Gothic Lolita skirts commonly include ruffles, elegant patterns or bustles. They should sit at the natural waist and no lower, as well as almost covering your knees when standing. A JSK, or jumper skirt, is one you "jump" into, applied from the feet up. It usually includes some part that will cover part of the blouse. A black JSK over a white blouse is a typical Gothic Lolita look. For fancy events, Gothic Lolitas will sometimes wear one-piece dresses without a blouse. These garments are designed to fit closely through the torso and flare appropriately to accommodate the petticoat.






Wear modest stockings or tights. Some Lolitas wear socks or tights that hit below the kneecap, but Gothic Lolitas tend to prefer those that go over the knee. Wear garters under your bloomers to hold them up, if necessary. In general, Gothic Lolitas eschew sheer nylon or tights, favoring an opaque look instead.






Choose dark shoes. Lolita style overall usually demands Mary Jane shoes, with perhaps a "Lolita heel" at the back. For Gothic Lolita, your shoes should be black or otherwise dark. If you choose to wear boots or another embellishment on Mary Janes, make sure they keep to a slim, natural leg silhouette - chunky combat boots would be out of place on a Gothic Lolita.






Use hair accessories. An iconic Gothic Lolita accessory is a dark, large Alice bow, modeled after that of the heroine of Alice in Wonderland. You can also wear embellished headbands, combs or clips, as well as fascinators, period-appropriate hats or tiny top hats.






Find a jacket. During colder months, Gothic Lolitas bundle up in well-tailored jackets. Choose black or another dark color, such as burgundy, navy, dark purple or hunter green.






Finish up with other accessories. Some Gothic Lolitas carry parasols to shield themselves from the sun; others wear jewelry focused on elaborate crosses or carry purses in the shape of a coffin. Be creative with your accessories to make the Gothic Lolita look uniquely yours.





;
, A well-made Gothic Lolita piece can last you a long time, but it will probably also be more expensive than your casual clothing. Invest in your wardrobe carefully, purchasing items you adore and that are constructed from quality materials. Start with bloomers and a petticoat, and build from there.


Pay attention to fabrics. Gothic Lolita culture favors cotton, wool, organdy, lace and other generally high-quality textiles. Satin and crushed velvet are regarded as costume-like, and frowned on for everyday use. Additionally, cheap lace that features heavy netting is also disdained, as it can look gray and ratty from a distance.
 One point at which Gothic Lolita culture diverges from American Gothic culture is makeup - Gothic Lolitas don't use whiteface or particularly dark eye and lip colors. A slightly smoky eye or red lip is acceptable, but generally Gothic Lolitas strive to wear natural-looking makeup.
 Wearing a Gothic Lolita look should be an event. Make sure everything is cleaned and ironed appropriately, and put effort into your hair and makeup - looking half-done while wearing such beautiful clothing would be tragic. Plan ahead.
 If you can't wear full Lolita outfits everyday incorporate details that you like and go with your usual clothing: maybe that lace choker will go well with your business suit, or that cute purse is nice for a trip to the mall. Things like that that make you unique and identify you as a Lolita, even if you can't wear your outfits everyday.

