 A quotation shorter than four lines of prose or three lines of verse does not need to be its own freestanding block of text. It can simply be incorporated into the paragraph in which you are using it. It should begin and end with double quotation marks., When quoting an excerpt longer than four lines of prose or three lines of verse, start by writing a signal phrase introducing the quotation, as you would with a shorter one. Begin the quotation on a new line below this.Indent the whole quotation one inch from the left.
Double-space it (in an MLA style research paper, everything should be double spaced).
Do not use quotation marks.
 The author’s last name and the page on which the quotation can be found should be included in parenthesis at the end of the quotation, before the next punctuation mark. This is called a parenthetical citation, and will help your reader locate the full citation in your bibliography or works cited page.For example: "Maybe the best definition of art is simply “beauty plus pity” (Nabokov 251)."
If you reference the author’s name before the quotation, you don’t need to repeat it in the parenthesis following the quote. For example: "Nabokov defined art as “beauty plus pity” (251)."

, This should begin on a separate page at the end of your research paper or essay. Label it “Works Cited,” in centered, non-italic text (without the quotation marks) at the top of the page.Double-space the page, but do not skip spaces between citations.
Do not indent the first line of each citation, but indent all subsequent lines by 0.5 inches from the left.
 Order your citations alphabetically by the authors’ last names. The basic format of an MLA style book citation is: Lastname, Firstname. Title of Book. City of Publication: Publisher, Year of Publication. Medium of Publication.There are many variations on this basic format based on factors like how many authors the book has, and whether it is something like anthology, an ebook, or a self-published book. If the book you are quoting does not fit neatly into this formula, consult a resource like The Purdue Online Writing Lab.