;
, If the cat is old enough, ask to see documents confirming that it's had its shots and tested negative for FIV and other such viruses. Depending on the cat's age, you should also ask whether or not it's been spayed or neutered, and if not and you're adopting from a shelter or rescue, whether or not they will do so before placing the animal. Most good reputable organizations will not adopt out a "whole" animal that still might reproduce and create more unwanted pets.
 You should get an idea of which ones are mellow, and which ones are friendly. Enter the area where they are kept and sit down. Again, the friendly, curious ones will probably come up to you, and the shy, mellow ones will hang back. A tail between the legs is a sign that a cat or kitten is afraid - if so, don't push things. Try playing with them with a simple toy, and see which ones are energetic and playful, and which ones look like their future will consist of long naps in the sun. While hyperactivity may be cute in a kitten, consider what kind of cat you will want 10 years in the future.
 If they are, pick the one that seemed to like you the most, check its gender, and pay for it (or maybe you don't need to pay for the kittens). Kittens are usually best adopted out after 12 weeks of age, although there's no upper limit on how old a cat can be when you bring it home (shelters are often full of adult cats, and they're usually already litter-trained, too!).
 Cats sometimes come into shelters with another cat with whom they have already bonded, or form a bond while in the shelter. If separated they may suffer emotionally and have difficulty forming future bonds with other pets. If you are looking to adopt two cats, an already bonded pair is a good choice, as they will comfort each other through the stress of relocation.
 Pick out a name that fits your little bundle of furry joy.
 While you're waiting, you can make sure to purchase everything you'll need for it.
 You can order a tag online. Collars are available at any pet store in your area.
 If it already knows how to use one, make sure the first thing it finds is where the litter box is. Also, if your house is large, consider allowing the kitten to only explore one room at first, followed by another, and another until it knows its way around the entire house.
