 The full Cindy is a 20-minute timed CrossFit workout consisting of pull-ups, push-ups, and air squats. The Half Cindy, timed at 10 minutes, is a good jumping off point if you've never done CrossFit before and want to start at home. The Half Cindy involves the same exercises on the same rotation as the full Cindy, but you'll do fewer reps overall.Start with five pull-ups. You are allowed to "kip" these pull-ups, which means you can use your legs and hips for leverage to push your body up over the pull-up bar. If you don't have a pull-up bar, you can do five burpees instead.Immediately drop to the ground and do 10 push-ups. Then do 15 air squats to finish the round.
After you finish your squats, return right back to pull-ups. Do as many rounds as possible in 20 minutes, or 10 minutes if you're doing a Half Cindy.;
, Helen is a challenging workout (Workout Of the Day, or "WOD" in CrossFit) in which you'll be competing against your fastest time. To do this workout at home, you'll need space to run, a pull-up bar, and a kettlebell.One round consists of a 400-meter run, 21 American kettlebell swings, and 12 pull-ups. To complete a full Helen, you'll do three rounds back-to-back for time.
Be careful not to max out your intensity in the first round, or you won't be able to complete three rounds.
 You'll need a stop watch for this circuit, because you're going to measure your rounds by the minute. This WOD consists entirely of bodyweight exercises so you can do it from home, even if you don't have any equipment.Start with one minute of air squats. Move immediately to one minute of push-ups, then one minute of sit-ups.
Do one minute of burpees, followed by one minute of jumping jacks, and then one minute of rest to close out the round. The entire workout consists of three rounds.
For each minute of each round, complete as many reps as you can with good form during the one-minute period. In CrossFit, this is abbreviated as "AMRAP," which stands for "As Many Reps/Rounds As Possible."

, This WOD is one in which you'll compete against your best time. You want to do the prescribed exercises as quickly as possible with good form, but pace yourself so you're able to finish the workout.The baseline starts with a 500-meter row or a 400-meter run. Immediately after your run, do 40 air squats, followed by 30 sit-ups. Then do 20 push-ups, followed by 10 burpees. Notice the number of reps decreasing for each exercise.
Record your time so when you do this workout again you can aim for a faster time.

