 Windows computers come with built in troubleshooters that can help you fix volume issues. Click on the "Start" bar, usually found on the lower lefthand screen. Click "Control Panel." On the control panel, click "Troubleshooting" and then "Hardware and Sound." From there, select the option "Troubleshoot audio playback." Your computer will ask you a series of questions that will help the troubleshooter determine the cause of your volume issue. In most cases, a volume issue can be fixed using Windows built-in troubleshooter., A sound card is a device you need to install in a windows computer in order for the computer to play sound. If your volume is not working, check to make sure your device has a sound card and that it was installed properly.


Access the search bar on the lower right hand of your computer's screen. Type "Device Manager" into the search bar. This should pull up the Device Manager, which you can use to check your sound card.From there, click "Sound, video and game controllers." If a sound card is listed, you have a sound card installed. Your volume issue is being caused by something else. If no sound card is listed, you may have to purchase and install your own sound card. Your device's manufacturer's instructions should provide advice on how to do this., Check the cables connecting your speakers, headphones, microphones, or other devices to your computer or laptop. It's not uncommon for cables to become jostled or loose as you're using a computer. If a cable has come unplugged, this is likely the cause of your volume issue. Reinsert a loose cable and see if the volume on your computer improves., It's possible the volume is very low or the power is turned off. This can make it very difficult to hear sounds from your computer.


Once again, access the search bar on the bottom right corner of the screen. Type "Adjust speaker volume" in the search box and tap the icon that comes up. Move the slider to increase the volume and see if you can hear better.You may have to check the volume control for several devices. Windows Media Player has its own volume control, as do any external speakers your'e using. Some websites, like YouTube, also have their own volume control. Check to see if the volume on any of these devices is muted or turned very low., Sometimes, your sound card may be incompatible with Windows software. In this case, installing any necessary updates can help address the issue. There are several ways to install updates.


Windows Update, a feature that updates software to fix errors and bugs, is probably the easiest way to install updates. You can simply click "Install updates" when prompted. You can also manually check for updates by accessing Windows Update through the control panel. This should keep your software up-to-date and fix any sound issues.In some cases, you may have to manually install a driver or sound card. If you bought the device from an outside manufacturer, you will usually have to install and update it on your own. The manufacturer's instructions for that specific sound card should provide information on how to install., If sound is not playing from your computer, this may be because the wrong playback device is selected. For example, if the computer is set to play sound through headphones, sound may not come out of external speakers. To check the output device, click "start." Then type "sound" into the search bar.


Click on the "Playback" tab. See what playback device has been selected for your computer. If it's something other than the device you're using, this is likely the cause of your loss of sound.Simply select the device you're using as the playback device. Sound should resume.