 There are many reasons your doctor might suggest you take a test to measure fasting blood sugar. A family history of diabetes, any symptoms of diabetes, or just regular screening for diabetes are all valid reasons for the test. He or she will discuss your risk factors with you, and schedule another appointment at which to perform the test.


If you’re unsure why you need the test, just ask! Say something like, “Can you please explain your rationale for ordering this test?” Your provider can then elaborate: “Because your mother got diabetes at age 40, we want to check to make sure you don’t have it, too,” or, “You mentioned you’ve been using the restroom a lot more frequently in the last two months. This can be a sign of diabetes, so we just want to check.”
Anyone over the age of 45 should be screened every three years. You should be screened more often if you are overweight (BMI >25), have high cholesterol or blood pressure, are a member of a high-risk ethnic group, or have certain medical conditions.Symptoms of diabetes include the need to urinate more often, vision changes, lightheadedness or fainting, confusion, and having a seizure for the first time.;
, “Fasting” blood test means one that is done after 8 hours or more of not eating. It’s used to measure the baseline blood sugar in your body, so that food you eat doesn’t interfere with the reading. It’s okay to drink water the night before and the morning of your test, but avoid food and other fluids like juices and soda (these have lots of sugar in them).


Most fasting tests are scheduled for first thing in the morning so you don’t have to go hungry all day long. Request an early appointment if one isn’t already suggested for you.
 Having your blood sugar tested at the doctor’s office involves having a blood sample taken, generally from inside the crook of your elbow. A nurse or other healthcare provider will use a disinfecting swab to clean the area, and will apply a tourniquet (a tight band) to the top of your arm to keep blood in the area they want to sample. They will withdraw blood with a syringe. Some people feel moderate discomfort when the needle is inserted, and others feel only a small prick like a bee sting. You may experience mild throbbing or a small bruise afterwards. The nurse will remove the tourniquet when done, and apply a bandaid. The whole process takes about a minute.This blood sample will probably also be tested for other things, like your hemoglobin A1C – this indicates your average blood sugar over a two to three month period, and is another methods of testing for and monitoring diabetes.
 Normal results for a fasting glucose test is in the range of 70 to 99 mg/dL. A level between 100 and 125 mg/dL indicates a higher risk for type 2 Diabetes because your body isn’t making or responding to insulin appropriately. A reading of 126 mg/dL or higher on two separate tests indicates diabetes.Discuss the results with your doctor.Someone from your doctor’s office should call you or have you schedule an appointment to explain your results to you. If not, be sure to ask, “What are the results of my fasting blood sugar? What does that mean?” Your doctor or nurse can then explain what your reading was, for instance, “Your test showed a reading of 95 milligrams per deciliter, which is a healthy level,” or, “Your reading was a little high at 115, so we’d like you to come in next week to be retested. You might be pre-diabetic, and if so we want to catch it early and talk about lifestyle changes you can make.”
A measurement of 100 mg per dL means that there are 100 milligrams of glucose for every deciliter of blood in your system.
A high reading on a fasting blood sugar test is typically the first sign of diabetes or pre-diabetes. Being aware of your glucose levels and working to keep them appropriate can prevent serious health complications in the future.
70 to 99 mg/dL = 3.9 to 5.5 mmol/L, Talk to your doctor about dietary and lifestyle changes you can make to improve your blood glucose, like exercising daily and eating a low-sugar diet. Schedule a follow-up fasting blood sugar test in 1-3 months, depending on what your doctor prefers, so you can put your plan into action and see the results. Always try lifestyle modifications to improve your blood sugar before taking medications, unless your blood sugar is dangerously high as indicated by your doctor.


Set realistic goals with your provider – you’re not going to change all of your habits overnight. It’s common for your doctor to ask questions like, “Do you do anything for exercise? How often do you drink soda?” and then make recommendations: “Try to take a fast-paced walk for 30 minutes 4 times per week, and drink water with your meals instead of soda. What do you think of those changes?”

