 Do you want a one-night stand? A casual encounter? Or a long-term romance? If you're looking for something long-term, a vacation probably isn't your best bet, since most of the guys you meet will probably be returning to different parts of the country or the world after you part ways.;
, Depending on your chosen getaway location, there can be numerous groups from which to select the man you want to snag. You might find a possible match in your tour group, lounging on the beach, sipping a pina colada by the pool, or even (if you're feeling confident) among the locals. Try choosing a group with which you're most likely to identify: for instance, if you enjoy modern art, take a tour of the local museum and use your common interest to strike up a conversation with one of your fellow tourists.
 Now isn't the time to home in on one guy, at least not at first. Because you have a limited time frame, and because there are so many possible complications to striking up a quick relationship while on vacation, homing in on one guy too soon will significantly lower your chances of finding someone available and interested.
 Dress well, attend to your personal hygiene (yes, hotel showers are gross, but so are you when you haven't washed in days), be friendly, and flirt. Remember that both you and your target guy are in a new setting, so your confidence levels are likely to be lower than usual. If you can still manage to appear confident (your physical appearance is a HUGE factor in projecting a confident image), you're likely to impress your target guy with your woman-of-the-world status.
 A vacation is the perfect setting for having fun adventures with a perfect stranger. Since your target guy, like you, is there to have fun, he's unlikely to say no when you suggest trying a new restaurant, taking a guided tour, or heading to the beach together. If he's interested in you, he may even let you compare schedules with him and find activities you can participate in together.
 Now isn't the time to be coy or standoffish. You're in an extremely limited time frame, so make the best use of every second. Tell him you're interested in him to his face if you have to, or just get him alone and (if you sense he is interested too) initiate a quick kiss. Alcohol is the great catalyst of sudden romances, and tourist locations (luckily) seem to serve more of the good stuff than they do water. Don't be afraid to drink with your target guy, but of course don't take it too far. A good rule of thumb: when you can no longer walk a line in heels (assuming you can walk a line in heels while sober), put the bottle down.
 Are you hoping to keep in touch? Or perhaps visit each other occasionally? Or is the physical distance separating you simply too great a challenge? Open communication, as always, is an asset.

