 The outside of the fireplace should be cleaned at least once a month. The inside of the fireplace should be cleaned anytime ¼’’ or more of soot buildup occurs. For some, this could mean cleaning once a year. The fireplace may need to be cleaned a few times a year if it is used often., Make sure to surround the area around the fireplace with a tarp. You should do this to protect the hearth and floor from the chemicals used in cleaning. You can buy a tarp, or use cheap shower curtains from the dollar store. Seal the tarp down with duct tape., Lay towels or blankets in the area around the tarp. This will catch any dripping or running from the cleaning solution. Only use only towels or blankets that you wouldn’t mind getting stained., Use a broom and dustpan to sweep up what ash and dust you can. Sweep around the hearth and use a smaller brush to dust the fireplace. Then, spray the fireplace with water. This makes it more susceptible to cleaning solutions., Always wear eye protection and rubber gloves when using chemicals. You can choose not to if using a milder solution, but you definitely should when using bleach, strong cleaners, or trisodium phosphate. You should also open a window to bring fresh air in while you’re cleaning., Wash the fireplace down with an all purpose cleaner. Some all purpose cleaners are Mr. Clean Multi-Surface Cleaner and Goo Gone All Purpose Cleaner. Spray on the cleaner and use a sponge to scrub off the buildup., After doing an initial scrubbing, switch to a mild soap. Mix the mild soap with water. Continue to scrub at the stone., Switch back to the all purpose cleaner after you’ve scrubbed for with the mild soap. Scrub for a while and then switch back to the mild soap if necessary. Continue switching back and forth until you are satisfied with the outcome. Allow a few minutes for the stone to dry., Use ½ or 1 cup of the trisodium phosphate (TSP). Put the TSP into a gallon of warm water. This is a very strong chemical so be sure that you have all of your protection on when handing the TSP., Dip a scrub brush into the mixture. Begin to scrub the fireplace. You may have to do some tough scrubbing to remove all the buildup. Make sure to get into the hard-to-reach places and nooks and crannies., If the tough spots aren’t coming off, then you can make a paste out of a small amount of water and TSP. Apply the paste directly to the spot. Scrub until the spot begins to lift., Dip a clean sponge into water. Rinse every part of the fireplace that you used the TSP on. Allow time to dry.