 There are two main types of cookie recipes: drop cookies and rolled-out cookies. The best type of cookie recipe to use for this method is the drop cookie, where you roll it out into a ball, then drop it onto a baking sheet. You can also use a refrigerated, store-bought recipe. Most chocolate chip cookies will be drop cookies. Many sugar cookie recipes will also work.
 A single batch of cookie dough will be enough to fill two mini muffin tins. You can cut the dough in half, however, and use it to fill just one mini muffin tin.You should grease the tin even if it says nonstick; this will make the cups easier to remove.
 What temperature you preheat the oven to depends on the recipe that you are using. For most recipes, this will be 350°F (177°C). Follow your recipe closely. When you finish kneading the dough together, stop., Roll the dough into 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) balls, or form them using a cookie scoop. Drop each ball into a well in the muffin tin.Plan on using about 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of cookie dough for each well., Press the balls into the bottom of each well. Use a wooden spoon handle or your thumb to make a well in the middle of each ball. Press the dough against the bottom and sides of the cup. Only make them go two-thirds of the way up., Keep in mind that the baking time may vary depending on your recipe. The cookie cups are ready when they are lightly browned on the edges.
 Sometimes, the cookies will puff out while they bake, and the wells will become smaller. If this happens to you, press down onto the center of each cup with the handle of a wooden spoon. You must do this right after you take the cups out of the oven, while they are still warm and in the muffin tin., Let the cups cool for about 5 minutes first. Invert the tin and let the cups fall out. Transfer the cups to a wire cooling rack and allow them to finish cooling.If any cups are stuck in the tin, pry them loose with a paring knife.
 These cups are really small, so you won't be able to fill them with large amounts of dessert or ice cream. You can turn them into mini pies and desserts, however. Ideal fillings include:


Custard or pudding
Mousse
No-bake cheesecake
Whipped cream and a sliced strawberry

