 Most people's eyebrows grow in a 3-4 month cycle, so hide your tweezers and get comfortable with the idea that your eyebrows might look a bit strange for several months.This is a fairly lengthy process and you're going to have to be patient.


Leave all those random looking baby hairs alone, even if they seem nowhere near your brow. If you have hairs that grow in odd directions or straight out, it could be due to damage from tweezing or waxing.If the regrowth really bothers you, you can try taming them with brow gel or cover them with a little concealer.;
, Most serums will prolong the first stage of hair growth, the anagen phase, which is when your hair is actively growing. This results in longer, fuller hair. Some will also stimulate more follicles to enter this stage so you actually grow more hair.Most of these serums require daily (sometimes twice-daily) application, and don't provide a permanent boost in hair growth: you have to continuously use them to keep seeing results.It usually takes a minimum six weeks of diligent use to start seeing results from a growth serum.Look for products with prostaglandin, a hormone-like compound that occurs naturally in the body and can increase hair growth.There is no guarantee that growth serums will work on everyone--sometimes hair follicles are damaged or made dormant by long-term tweezing, which makes it difficult to regrow hair., Vitamins B and E, biotin and zinc are all linked to hair growth and health.


Your hair is made from proteins, so make sure your diet contains foods like greek yogurt, nuts, and lean meats like chicken and turkey.Biotin nourishes hair and helps it grow and can be found in eggs, another source of protein.Zinc is found in oysters, beef, crab, spinach, and tofu, and keeps your hair from falling out by repairing cells and keeping them healthy.Vitamin E helps with circulation, which aids in hair growth. Find it in almonds, kale, avocado, and kiwi., You will still have hair that is growing not quite at your brow line, but don't start shaping or plucking them yet.Even at this point, your hair may still be growing back at unruly angles. Don't give up on these hairs--as your follicle becomes healthier and your hair goes through a few growth cycles, they will begin to come in at the right direction., It can take up to 12 months for your brows to reach their full potential. Once this happens, don't go crazy with the tweezer, and definitely don't wax. Plucking gives you control to do maintenance (you want bushy brows, not a unibrow) and leave a full brow. It's far too easy to ruin all your hard work with a waxing mistake.Don't use a magnifying mirror or super bright lights when tweezing. It is easy to lose perspective and over pluck.