 This should include all the information about a new product, sale, promotion or service that is offered and only available through your business. Include high-quality images.


A press release should only be 1 page. Few people will spend time reading a whole story, so choose a catchy headline and make arguments for how it is relevant at this time. Include your name, phone number and email address so the television station can follow up.
Consider including 3 or more images. You want to communicate that this is a visual story. If your release can encourage the news station to shoot a story, then you are likely to benefit greatly.
Focus on 1 subject that suggests 1 story. Your press release will catch the most attention if it convinces the station that there is a ready-made story that simply needs a reporter.;
, Try to choose a time of year when there isn't a heavy news stream, such as graduation time, mid-summer or Christmastime.


Search online for local television stations, producers, shows and contacts. Make a thorough list of the people, the subjects of the shows and what they like to report on. Consult this list throughout the year when you want to submit a news story.
 If you can leave a message or talk to a person about your story, you have a chance of convincing the person of the relevance of the story.
 If you see something that applies to your service or your industry, email the producer or chief of staff to tell them you would be happy to appear as an expert in your industry. You can be the face of your company, which will increase your brand awareness.


For example, if you are a nutritionist, you can give advice on how to combat diabetes, after a major report on diabetes comes out in the news. If you own a gym, you can give people tips on how to get ready for a hometown marathon or swimsuit season.
, If you have a story idea for Christmas, submit it in October, so that the television show has time to put it on their schedule. Do not do this too often, or you may be seen as an annoyance rather than an expert.

