 Butterbeer is one of the most popular drinks in the wizarding world, and now you can drink it whenever you'd like. To make this recipe, you will need 6 twelve ounce bottles of cream soda, 4.5 tsps imitation butter flavor, 2 cups heavy cream, 6 tbsps sugar and 2 tsps vanilla extract.Set out six 16-ounce glasses. Add ½ tsp of imitation butter to each glass, then pour a bottle of soda into each glass.
In a large bowl, whip the cream for 3 minutes, or until the cream starts to thicken.
Add the sugar and continue whipping until soft peaks begin to form.
Stir in the vanilla and the rest of your imitation butter, then whip for another 30 seconds.
Divide the foam between the six glasses and serve.
 In the magical world, Polyjuice Potion transforms the drinker into someone else, but in real life, it just tastes really good. To make this recipe, you will need 2 packages of Kool Aid lemon lime drink mix, 1 can frozen lemonade concentrate, 2 cans frozen limeade concentrate, 3 2-liter bottles of ginger ale and 4-5 cups of lime sherbet.Mix the Kool Aid and concentrates together. Add ginger ale and slowly stir in the sherbet.
Serve the punch in a large punch bowl or oversized cauldron.
 In Harry Potter, Sugar Quills are a treat intended to help students waste time in class, but they also make a great party favor. To create a Quill, you’ll need a large feather, silver cardboard, scissors, tape, a glue gun, a marker and a Pixie Stick.Cut the cardboard so it is 1” wide (2.5cm) and the length of a pixie stick.
Cut the tip of the cardboard, so it is angled, like a triangle.
Fold the cardboard in half, lengthwise, and attach the two sides using tape.
Use scissors to poke a hole in the cardboard 1” (2.5cm) north of your tip.
Place a dollop of hot glue into the hole, then slide the tip of the feather into the hole.
Line the back of the feather with glue, then secure the feather to the folded piece of cardboard.
The feather should now be affixed to the front of the cardboard, hiding everything but the tip.
Use the marker to draw a line down the center of the Quill’s tip to indicate ink.
Open the top of the pixie stick and slide the stick top down into the cardboard sleeve. The sugar should slide out of your Quill as you pretend to write.
When the pixie stick is empty, replace the old pixie stick with a new pixie stick.
 Licorice Wands are a popular wizarding candy and they're a treat you can easily recreate at home. For this project, you will need a package of Twizzlers, chocolate and gold sanding sugar.Leave the Twizzlers out overnight so they will become slightly hard.
Break your chocolate into chunks and place it in a microwave-safe bowl. Microwave the chocolate in one minute increments until the chocolate is melted.
Dip the top third of each Twizzler into the melted chocolate, then cover the chocolate with the gold sanding sugar.
Place the Twizzlers on a cookie sheet and leave them in the fridge to set.

