 When practicing mantra meditation it is not entirely necessary to practice in the traditional way (e.g. sitting down with eyes closed). If this is not possible, you can also practice mantra meditation wherever you are and whatever you’re doing.If you can spare a few minutes to sit quietly, try to do it in a peaceful place where you won’t be bothered.
For example, you could also try this type of meditation while washing the dishes, or while walking to school or work.
 Before you begin your meditation, it may be helpful to take one or two minutes to think about what has upset you. Think about the emotions you are feeling a bit more deeply. Are you feeling scared, sad, worried?


Realize that if you say you are “angry” that there is a more primary emotion underneath that. For example, if you think to yourself, “Oh, I am so angry because of that negative feedback I received on my work.” Think about the reason for your anger. For example, maybe you feel worried that you might lose your job, or you feel scared that you aren’t good enough.
If you feel that you have exhausted yourself by thinking of your problem, then skip this part. It is simply a way to help get your thoughts in order, but it is not necessary for a successful meditation.
 When using mantra meditation as a means to calm down, you can choose a word, phrase, or sound that helps you to relax. If possible, you should say your mantra out loud, but you can also say it internally to yourself.For example, your mantra could be, “Let it be,” “Take a step back,” or “It’s not the end of the world.” Remember that these are just examples, and that you can choose whatever helps you to become more calm.
 Before you begin chanting your mantra, just take a bit of time to center yourself. Take a few slow, deep breaths and notice how they feel going in and out. Allow your breath to return to normal and then continue to follow the breath for a bit longer.The purpose of this is to give yourself a more calm feeling.
 If you are saying the mantra out loud, take a deep breath in before you begin to say it. When you begin to say the mantra try to say it in one exhale.If you are saying the mantra internally, you can still practice this. To do this, take a deep breath in and then, as you breathe out, say it silently to yourself.
 Ideally, you will take a deep breath in, and as you breathe out, you will say your mantra. You can allow the last sounds of your mantra to linger if you are still breathing out.These are not hard and fast rules, but will help you get into a more meditative state.
 The word, sound, or phrase will take on a meaning of it’s own as you get into a rhythm of saying it. Instead, focus on your breath and the mantra as it flows with the breath.The point of meditation is to help your mind become more focused and relaxed. If you spend time analyzing the meaning of the words, your mind will not become relaxed.
 As with other types of meditation, you can set yourself a timer for a specific amount of time; however, if you just want to calm down, you could also repeat the mantra for as long as you need to begin to feel more calm.


Try to keep in mind that there are guidelines for meditation, but the purpose is to make you feel more calm and centered. If you stress yourself out about meditating “correctly” then you are defeating the purpose.

