


You must be under 37 years of age when you're hired but at least 23 years of age.
Have a driver's license in a US state.
Have a minimum of a Bachelors degree from an accredited four year university
Be physically able to complete the training and execute the duties. This includes the ability to fight, complete fire arms training, and other duties as required. You should consider yourself physically fit.
You should be able to transition into one of the following areas of expertise:

Law (Must also possess a Juris Doctor)
Language (Must be proficient in a language and able to pass the FBI language exam)
Accounting (Must major in Accounting and be able to pass the CPA exam or FBI equivalent)
Diversified duties (require an advanced degree with work experience or a minimum of 3 years of work experience)


A three year commitment is required when you accept employment.;
,


Felony conviction
Currently in default of your student loan
You can't have a history of illegal drug use (Marijuana use longer than three years ago will be ignored, are otherwise qualified and you didn't use any other illegal drugs, in the last ten years. This includes steroid usage. If you ever used drugs in a position of law enforcement or public trust is also a disqualification.)
You have to pass a drug test

You have to be registered for selective service

, This contains basic information and background information.


Provide addresses and dates of residence for all homes from birth until present, this includes college, military, parents' homes, frat houses and everything including the temporary housing you lived in with your parents when you were a year old.
Provide a complete work history, any volunteer work, any law enforcement experience or military, awards and academic achievement.
Fill out the application and send it in to your local FBI office or the nearest one.
 This is also known as Phase I testing.


This isn't a test you can study for, more of a personality quiz than anything else.
 This is the one that is long and detailed. Goes into a lot of depth about you and your immediate family. They do an extensive background investigation.
 Basically, they throw you into one of three groups:


you look good on paper, time to actually meet you in person
They like you, but there are better qualified people in front of you
They don't really want you

, This will include details about family history and more details for an extensive background check. Don't be shocked if they call your kindergarten teacher or the person you dated in Junior High or the parents of the person you dated in Junior High.



This includes an interview and more written tests.
 This process includes:


Polygraph
Drug test
Extensive background check
Conditional appointment
Physical exam
Security interview
Commitment to be available to begin work in two-weeks.
Credit check
Anyone you've met who isn't a US citizen or associations with non-US citizen, any foreign travel, etc.
Psychological testing

, This is usually done by mail.
 If all goes well to this point, you'll be shipped off to Quantico, VA for field agent training. Agent training last approximately sixteen weeks. Failure at anytime will result in rejection.


Try to leave your old job under good terms.
Acceptance is no guarantee you will successfully complete training and testing at the FBI Academy.
 Although it is tempting you shouldn't advertise your achievement to everyone. Modesty is best.
 To eliminate any chance of favoring friends, family, etc. they will almost always move you to another city.


The city will probably be an area not desired by tenured agents and where you can gain experience.
Don't be shocked if you are required to report to Fargo, North Dakota for a period of time following the academy. Prepare your loved ones for this possibility. Desirable postings in ideal cities require experience, training, a special or desired talent or time served.
 They will open every closet to inspect every skeleton before hiring you. Failure to disclose information will result in immediate rejection from hiring pool or immediate termination if already hired.
 Excessive applications with certain agencies may send up red flags.
 (See link in Citations and Sources.)

