 To recognize the value of your employees is key. Many business have the attitude that employees are a 'dime a dozen'. If one leaves, another can be found to take their place without much trouble on their part. While this maybe true to some extent, the cost of advertising, interviewing and training the new employee can be prohibitive.;
, Simply stating a few words of thanks or sincere admiration for a job well done will help increase morale among employees.
 Sponsor social events such as a softball team, barbecues for employees and their families, or office picnics.
 This gives employees a goal to work towards and can create enthusiasm which is often contagious among employees. Open the lines of communication with employees to find out what kind of things or programs would get them motivated. This will also help them feel like they are an important, contributing factor of the company.
 A dreary office lacking light and color can cause depression and a lack of motivation. Brighten up the space with a soothing paint job, green plants, and tasteful artwork.


If it is not possible to fix up the environment (i.e. a warehouse or factory), make sure you offer adequate breaks and a break room where employees can relax, eat, and rest.
, Doing so will allow employees to feel comfortable to voice their opinions and make suggestions to improve conditions and work. Listen to the employees you do have. What are their concerns? Well, money probably ranks right up there at the top, but what other concerns do they have? Is it lack of recognition? Lack of perks? Lack of appreciation for the job they do?

,, Most employees in the work force want to work for a company they can trust and believe in.
 Offer flexible schedules, work-from home schedules, gym memberships, etc.
 If business starts to decline, find ways to keep employees without cut backs or lay offs. Be sure to offer promotions and pay raises to those who deserve it.
 'Wear a Hat to Work Day' can be turned into a chance to help a local charity. Employees pay a dollar or two for the privilege of looking silly and the money goes to charity.
 Do you rule by intimidation? Surely not, but every atmosphere can be lightened up to a degree. Stop and think, "Will what I'm doing today have an impact a hundred years from now?"; or, "Will what I'm doing today hurt or harm someone if I don't act like a dictator?". If not, come out of the throne room and lighten up!

, You don't have to dress in a clown's costume, but you can promote a feeling of happiness and satisfaction in the workplace. Go out and talk to your employees. Smile. Recognize what they do, for without them, you wouldn't have a business to start with.

