 The easiest way to get a marketing job is to gain more traditional experience in the marketing world. To find a job that can help you play up your marketing abilities, you have to know where to look. Here are some places to consider:


Inquire about a marketing position at the company where you work. More and more companies are looking to promote laterally and hire from within. They already have a good grasp of your abilities and work ethic.
Look for entry-level marketing jobs that offer on-the-job training. Although these do not always have large starting salaries, the experience you gain will be valuable.
Do small jobs or contract work to develop your portfolio. Look for people who need a little help with graphic design, Constant Contact emails or Facebook marketing and charge a small fee per month. While you hone your skills, you can also build your resume and your references.
Search for jobs in small companies in addition to large marketing firms. Almost every business has a marketing budget these days, and some hire full-time marketing people.
Don't turn down a marketing internship just because it doesn't pay. This is a valuable way to put some marketing experience on your resume.
Find your niche. If you want to market men's clothing, working in a men's clothing store can help you gain a perspective into what it takes to sell men's clothing. If you can move up in this job, you may be able to find yourself in a marketing position. Working in a men's clothing store and blogging about it? Even better.
Sign up for marketing newsletters from large marketing firms, such as the Intelligence Group, Linked In, Marketing Today and the American Marketing Association. This will help you stay on top of trends and demographics, and it will also help you learn about more job opportunities.
 These programs can help graduates gain experience in the marketing world. Here are some places to look:


The Mars company. This company has a cross-functional management development program that gives graduates access to opportunities in marketing. Nestle. This company specifically recruits new graduates on a needs-basis, so it's a great place to start out. Procter & Gamble. This company recruits graduates into one of its eight career tracks, which include consumer and market knowledge and marketing. , Many companies won't even look at your resume if you don't have basic experience in a variety of computer design and advertising programs. You don't have to be completely proficient in dozens of programs, but having a proficient knowledge of a few basic programs can make you look like a much more attractive candidate. Here are a few things to try:


Learn to use computer design programs. Marketing departments often look for people with experience in Adobe Creative Suite, email blasting websites and web programming. If a company already has a small staff, you can fulfill requirements that might be more important than a marketing degree.
Improve your skills in Google Docs, Excel, PowerPoint, and Pagemaker.
Master HTML, CSS, video editing, SEO digital marketing, Facebook advertising, and Google advertising.
 Having a personal blog or a website is an excellent way to market yourself and to share more of your ideas with the world. If you have enough followers on social media, then it should be easy for you to get people to be interested in your web site or blog. This will show that you're comfortable with writing on the Internet and can use your critical and creative skills to promote a brand or enhance a product. Here's how to do it:


Whatever the purpose of your blog or website, make it look professional. If you have a friend who is savvy in web design, you can ask for help, or you can spend some time on your own to make your site look professional, sleek, and eye-catching.
Update your site often. Though you don't have to blog every day, you should try to share your thoughts as often as you can to keep people interested. If you only update your blog once a month, people will stop looking at it.
Be interesting. To keep people coming to your site, you'll have to write about engaging topics and use a lively voice to do it. Make a habit of browsing the Internet for half an hour each day to check out the most relevant topics, and come up with something to say about them.
 There are other ways to write online in addition to having a blog or a website. Here are some things you can do online to further your writing experience:


Create a marketing blog. Using a free blogging platform, like WordPress or Blogger, publish daily or weekly blogs. Chronicle your observations and insights about the latest marketing trends, and they will serve as proof of your marketing prowess. Use your blog to network and link to other marketing bloggers and firms.
Publish marketing articles online. You can become a marketing examiner in your area or find other places to submit free marketing articles. Pay attention to your writing quality and make sure not to plagiarize.
Write quality reviews online. You can become a member of Yelp Elite or an Amazon top reviewer. You'll not only get some perks, but you'll be able to show your Internet presence.

