 Sometimes failure can make you work even harder, and give you the motivation to push yourself further. Use each mistake as a way to build strength and courage. By embracing failure, you will become more comfortable with it as a part of your life and work. Think about the most difficult challenge that you have overcome. Use this as motivation that you can overcome what's happening now.
Use failure as wisdom for the future. When you look back in a week, month, or year from now, you may feel stronger for having faced your failures.
Remember this as a way to embrace failure: "Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.", Who doesn't make mistakes at some point in their lives? While mistakes are things that happen, it is about what we learn from them that matter. We can't take back the past, but that doesn't mean that history is going to repeat itself.Try thinking of mistakes as experiments. You won't know whether or not something works unless you try it. And if you try, and it is a failure, then now you have more information moving forward. Place the importance on what you learned, rather than what was. When something doesn't work, you become more informed about what might work in the future.
Find people that support you. Listen to their advice about what to learn from this experience. If you're on a sports team, your coach and fellow players may have helpful advice about what to do.
Think about how many famous businesspeople, inventors, artists, and scientists all had failures before they had success. They learned from their mistakes, and kept going., If you never try, then you never succeed. Perseverance is key to many successes. Few people succeed by sheer luck. You often have to work hard and avoid letting others determine your fate. While your measures of "success" may not always be attainable, that does not automatically mean that you have failed.


Many athletes, scientists, and business tycoons will all tell you the same thing: failure is a part of what makes you successful.You will learn more from the hard failures than from the easy successes. You will actually be stronger and more resilient from those failures.

