, If your laptop has a removable battery, it may need to be reseated. Take the battery out for a few seconds, then put it back in. Try rebooting the unit.
 If you hear the normal chime but nothing appears on the screen, the computer is experiencing a video/display issue. If you hear beeping (or silence), you can skip this step.


If you’re using a laptop, make sure it’s plugged in. If the screen still doesn’t activate, the computer will need to be repaired by an Apple authorized dealer.
If using a desktop, make sure the monitor is plugged in and turned on. Try a different monitor or different monitor cable. If the monitor is connected to the computer with two “chained” video adapters, try plugging in each adapter separately.
 If you hear beeping instead of the chime, there’s a hardware issue. If you hear silence, skip this step.


A single beep that repeats every 5 second indicates missing or improperly connected RAM. If you recently installed RAM, make sure it was the right kind. Also, remove the new RAM and then plug it back in. See How to Upgrade RAM on a MacBook Pro, How to Install RAM in a Mac Mini, or How to Install RAM in an iMac.

Three beeps followed by a 5 second pause indicates that the RAM installed is faulty and should be replaced.
Three long beeps, three short beeps, then three long beeps is a pattern that indicates firmware corruption. The computer should start a firmware repair process, indicated by a progress bar. Let the repair process finish. The computer should start normally afterward.
 Verify that the power cable is securely connected on both ends. If you’re using a laptop, plug it in now. If the battery has completely drained, you may need to leave the laptop plugged in for several minutes before the unit will turn on.
 First, remove any surge protectors or extension cords and plug directly into the wall. If the computer still doesn’t power on when plugged in, try connecting an electric device you know works (a lamp, clock, etc.) to verify that the outlet is working.
 If the outlet is working, the issue may have something to do with the power adapter or cable.


If you’re using a laptop, make sure you’re using the correct type of power adapter. Check with Apple Support to verify which type of adapter should be used with your laptop.If you’re using a desktop, the power cable is a standard universal computer power cord. You can buy them at any electronics store or borrow one from a friend.
 Press and hold the power button for 10 seconds. When the time is up release and try pressing the power button as you normally would.
 There are two different ways to do this:


Laptops with batteries that are not removable: Connect the computer to power, then simultaneously press the left side ⇧ Shift+Ctrl+⌥ Option keys on the keyboard AND the power button on the computer. Press the power button again to try to start the computer.
Desktops: Unplug the power cord and leave it unplugged for 15 seconds. Now, reconnect the power cord and wait 5 seconds before attempting to turn on the power.
Laptops with removable batteries: Unplug the power adapter, then remove the battery. With the battery removed, hold the power button down for 5 seconds. Put the battery back in, connect to power, and try to turn on the computer.
 If these troubleshooting steps don’t yield results, you’ll need to bring your computer to an authorized Apple repair center. To find the nearest repair center, visit http://locate.apple.com/country