 If possible, try to appear non-flustered by minor events or by opinions of others, even if you feel upset.;
, Try working up from feeling down or working off energy or sublimating--elevating feelings by doing something like practicing on the piano--or be energetic playing vigorous sport. Whatever works well for you will be helpful, and some may be helpful in group activities.


Keep it simple: Some people get satisfaction from

Walking fast, jogging,
Playing basketball, or swimming.
 For example, you might overcome anxiety, cope with depression or stop being paranoid, if you could slowly open up to situations that challenge you somewhat, and slowly learn to conquer your them. You show courage and make effort and so, feel good about that! These may be called baby steps. Don't start big; start with simple and easy improvements. Don't try to do too much--that can lead to sore muscles or sore feelings.
 So avoid acting and talking in a negative way, but use positive thinking. You might be more successful by being kind, inspiring gratitude by being nicer and helpful.
 Since you may not always pick up cues about other people's feelings, it's wise to ask if they are interested and have time to listen before launching into an involved discussion of complex topics. Don't be offended if people seem uninterested.
 Stop believing that you have super clear hearing. If only a few words are clear, then it very well may be your imagination filling in things that were not "heard." Doubt your negative interpretations of what you "heard" or saw; suspend judgment of subtle ideas or actions, and avoid groundless beliefs (unfounded opinions) or thinking that you have everything all figured out.
 Being friendly and considerate will help you stop being anxious; so you will feel like people may be on your side.
 A way to achieve relaxed eye contact is to look at the left eye of the person briefly and then shift to other right eye. That way you are not so uncomfortable--because you are controlling the way you look at people--without just staring.
 So respond quietly when you feel extremely irritated or like raging about a wrongly prepared food order or some such thing; remember that if you make the wait persons and cooks mad they may "accidentally-on-purpose" drop your steak on the floor and pick it up and dust it off, serve it... Consider this as "Service with a Smile."
Don't glare and grimace at people-smile a little; if you're not sure if your brow is furrowed in a frown, casually touch your forehead to feel the wrinkles. Now take a deep breath, but let it out slowly, smile (Learn to laugh at yourself.) and relax. Don't wear a big grin all day or a "never-ending smile" either--try to wipe an uncomfortable grin off your face; relax a little do the deep breath again...
Avoid erratic behavior--don't act shocked, shake your head, whirl about, giggle (for no apparent reason); Avoid rambling speech--get back on topic;
Do not argue or accuse people of insults, etc. in a public place. Does it matter what strangers think? No! Will you be seeing them again--No! Let slights and insults drop; just let it go! Don't worry and don't react to strangers; if it seems that someone is confronting you or disrespecting you, just let it go. They don't matter.
, But, don't argue or grumble in public.
 Well, you did and it helps sometimes.
 Have you seen a guy walking down the street who was repeatedly looking back and around in an anxious manner. That looks strange right... Maybe he had good reasons, but most likely it was fear or paranoia (not totally composed at that time anyway).
 They were probably just headed for the same department of the store, or heading up to the front behind you when you are. Don't accuse anyone of following you to the cash register or such things. Just shop in safe stores and walk in well lighted and safe areas with other people, and then think nothing of it--if ordinary people are walking along behind you.
 Since silence is not always so golden, it is good to have some things you are prepared to say: "I don't think this working out."--or to think to yourself: "This appears to be an unfounded fear." Such things can do a lot of harm to your nerves if you entertain groundless fear--or conversely ignore reasonable fear. Ignorance is not always bliss.
 Instead say "to yourself," "I reject that thought!" and recite some positive spiritual thought like: "Bless the Lord--oh, my soul--and all that is within me bless His Holy name." or something simple like, "Things will be all right: it'll be okay!"

, Also, seeming defensive, depressed, or irritated will validate self-doubt that you may be experiencing.
 Find activities that are plausible, and that can improve and for which there will be evidence. For instance, if you never see any people involved by your charity, you won't feel much accomplishment for just sending money to some address.
 Focus on the present, not the past. Instead of thinking what could have been done, focus on what you can do now.
 If you shed light on them--they won't have as much power of the unknown!

, It's a new start today!

,