, Touch your horse to get its attention (as the man tells you to do).;
, He will introduce you to different things you can do on My Horse.
 Go to your profile by clicking the empty circle person image at the top left corner of the screen. Tap where the nickname box is and type in a new nickname. Do the same with your horse name, if you want a different name (the default name when you have just made an account is "Beauty").
,, You will need these to complete care tasks and work tasks. You can earn these things by playing mini-games (found in the journal the man shows you) when you start off.
 The coins are the work tasks, allowing you to earn coins and XP. They cost energy. Care tasks are found via the other picture, and these give you health and happiness; they cost energy and coins.
 When you start your account off, the only ones available is stable maintenance and riding lessons.
 When you start your account off, the only tasks available will be the first options.
 If you level up, you will automatically earn new tasks. If you have gems, you can buy the new tasks with them.
 You can also wait to let your horse rest to get more energy. It's best if you let your horse recharge to 100 energy to save your gems.
 Tap the tab that shows a picture of a medal on it.
 Tap that one.
 One you finish more competitions, you will be able to move on to other competitions.
 Depending on how many stars you see over each trick, that shows how many times you need to train for that trick. You will need to complete the training half and half or in thirds to fill in one star. The first competition takes only one star.
 The excellent and good results are okay, but try not to get results in any of the other colors.
 You will also win coins and XP this way.
 You will see some "minigames" (competitions and buying a new horse are not part of this); grooming, feeding, mucking out, and cleaning up the paddock. When you just started your account, the only one available is feeding.
 Use this guide to show you how to play each of the minigames:



Feeding - Choose a recipe that you can afford to buy with your coins. If you look at the top, there will be more tabs with more recipes you can use. Pour in the correct ingredients until it reaches the red point. Drag the bucket to the side to fill in other ingredients. When the mixing picture appears, press it and mix the ingredients together.

Mucking out - Drag dirty straw into the bucket nearly at the top left corner. Don't drag clean straw, or it will lower your score. Depending on how long you take, slowness will also lower your score. Swipe the block of new straw and spread it out for a nice bed for your horse.

Grooming - Touch your dirty horse to remove dirty marks. A checkmark button will appear when you cleaned most of the horse. You can press it to finish, but if you want more coins and XP, clean the horse some more until the checkmark is filled green.

Paddock cleanup - On the side of the screen, when there is a shovel, tap the horse's business. When you see a rake, tap the weeds. Depending on how long you take, the highest score is 6 health, 6 happiness, and 12 XP.
 Later in the game, another generated helper who appears just like the man but is a girl this time, rewards you with gems sometimes when you win first place in a competition.
 Goals are unlocked later in the game where you do a certain event a certain amount of time. For example, "Care task: Muck out 20x". You will earn a gem when you finish everything it tells you to do, like a to-do list.
 Earn lots of XP in order to level up. Play minigames, care/work tasks, and compete. Press the XP box to show how much more XP you need to level up to the next level. When you do, you will earn a gem.
 Go to the minigames tab. You will later unlock the Free Gems. Tap it and it will ask if you want to watch a video to earn a gem. Press okay. All you have to do is watch a commercial and you will earn a gem as the reward.
 This may be the fastest way to get lots of gems.
 It will take some time, but eventually you will get it.
 Tap the option to buy a new horse.
, Make sure you can afford it.
 You will get more tasks you can do in care/work tasks. Some tasks will explain that you need a certain amount of horses. Use your certain amount of horses to do these tasks.
 Press the horse you want to check on, and press Done. You will see your horse. Repeat this process to do this with other horses.

