 One simple trick that can sometimes "unfreeze" an iPod is to simply plug it in. When the iPod starts receiving power, it will often momentarily interrupt any ongoing processes to acknowledge that is charging in (by displaying a battery icon, lighting up, etc.) This can often "thaw" your iPod without any other action needed on your part.


This works whether you plug your iPod into a computer or an outlet — either will do.
 Is your iPod so frozen that you can't even reset it with the steps above? In this case, one thing you may want to try is leaving your iPod in a safe place for a long time so that the battery can completely drain. When this happens, the iPod will be forced to turn off, ending whatever process is keeping it frozen. After this, simply plug it in, let it charge for a few minutes, and try to turn it back on.


Your iPod may take quite some time to run out of battery completely, especially if it didn't freeze in the middle of an energy-consuming task like playing music. If your iPod froze in an "idle" state with a full battery, it may take days for it to drain, so be patient.
 If nothing you do seems to get any results, you may want to try the last-resort method of wiping your iPod's memory completely. This will return it to its factory settings, meaning that any music, apps, videos, and personal data on the device will be lost. If possible, you will probably want to back up your files onto one or more computers. To perform a factory reset:Connect your iPod to your computer and start iTunes.
If possible, take the opportunity to sync your iPod with iTunes so that you can easily retrieve your files after the restore.
If you have an iPhone, turn off the "Find my iPhone" feature under Settings > iCloud to disable the activation lock.
Select your iPod in iTunes.
On the "Summary" tab, click "Restore"
Confirm your choice in the pop-up window. Wait for the process to complete as iTunes downloads the new OS files and restores your device.
Follow the set-up prompts once your iPod restarts to get it working again.
 Have a problem that's not addressed in this article? Apple's official help resources are a great place to start. Visit the iPod Support page (available here), select the iPod model you have, and use the options on the left side of the screen or the search bar at the top to find what you are looking for.