 Bacterial vaginosis is typically marked by certain symptoms. These include:Vaginal discharge with an unpleasant odor, often described as “fishy”.
Vaginal discharge that is white or grey and may look foamy
Burning on urination
Itchiness and irritation around the vagina
Keep in mind that not all women with BV have symptoms.;
, Yeast infection symptoms can often resemble the symptoms of BV. These symptoms include:An abnormal vaginal discharge. The discharge can be a watery, white discharge to a thick, white, and chunky discharge. This is often described as looking like cottage cheese.
Itching and burning of the vagina and labia
Painful intercourse
Painful urination
Redness and swelling of the area just outside of the vagina.
 Symptoms of trichomoniasis (sometimes called “trich”) in women can be:Vaginal discharge that is usually smelly or itchy
Vaginal discharge that is typically frothy or foamy
Vaginal itching
Yellow or a gray-green discharge
Painful urination

, Vaginal infection symptoms can differ depending on where a woman is in her cycle. This is because the hormonal changes during the menstrual cycle can affect the composition of the bacteria in the vagina and the characteristics of the vaginal environment. Knowing your menstrual cycle will help you keep track of changes that you’re experiencing.
 Many women have BV or trichomoniasis but they do not have any of the tell-tale symptoms.If you suspect you might have an infection, see your doctor.
Trichomoniasis can be transmitted to sexual partners. If you suspect you have trich, see your doctor for a diagnosis and treatment.
 Most women have probably had at least one experience with BV. There is no specific cause. Essentially anything that disrupts the normal bacterial balance in the vagina can result in BV. The risk of BV increases with:Having a new sexual partner
Having multiple sexual partners
Having sex without a condom
Douching
Using an intrauterine device (IUD) as a method of birth control

, Yeast infections, also called candidiasis, are increased by:Wearing tight underwear or non-cotton panties. These styles of panties can increase the temperature, the moisture levels and can be irritating.
A weakened immune system
Using vaginal douches and/or perfumed feminine hygiene sprays
Vaginal trauma. This can be scratches in the vagina that occur during insertion of a tampon or other objects, or during rough sex.
 These types of infections can occur because of a number of causes.


In BV, there is no specific cause, but it typically results from an imbalance of the normal bacterial populations.
Yeast infections can result after antibiotic use; the antibiotics kill off the normal bacterial populations, allowing the yeast to get a “foothold.” They can also come about as a complication of diabetes, or during hormonal changes, including a normal menstrual cycle or the use of birth control.
 It is important to get the correct diagnosis from a doctor before starting treatment. The treatments for the different forms of vaginal infections can be different, depending on the degree of infection.


At the doctor’s office, your physician will likely take a sample of the vaginal discharge, ask for a urine sample and perform a vaginal exam. This exam may be uncomfortable but it is usually over quickly. The discharge will be tested for the presence of bacteria, yeast or other organisms such as Trichomonas.
It’s important to get a specific diagnosis from your doctor. The approaches for treating vaginal infections differ depending on the type of infection.
 Untreated or incorrectly treated BV can result in complications such as pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), pre-term births and low-birth weight babies and put a woman at higher risk of sexually transmitted infections such as HIV, herpes simplex virus (HSV ), chlamydia and gonorrhea.Untreated or incorrectly treated Trichomonas infections can also lead to increased risk of HIV., If you choose to only use natural remedies, make sure you call your physician if:There is no improvement in your symptoms after three days.
You develop a fever.
You experience difficulty or pain on urination.
Sexual activity is painful.
You have abdominal pain.
The amount or characteristic of the vaginal discharge increases or changes (such as changing odor or color).
You have a new rash that appears anywhere on your body.
 You should always get a diagnosis from your physician when you first start experiencing any of the symptoms. This is because some natural treatments work better for BV or candidiasis, and others may not work as well. You can also use these treatments along with the medications prescribed by your physician. They don’t interfere with oral antibiotics.


Tell your doctor that you are using these approaches. If you are successful, perhaps your physician can recommend the method to others.
 Trichomoniasis is classified as a sexually transmitted infection (STI), so if you are diagnosed with trichomoniasis, you should inform any sexual partner so they can be treated as well. ,If trichomoniasis is the diagnosis, then home remedies are not appropriate.

