 You may assume that your parents already know you love them. Even if this is true, it’s nice to hear those three little words. Tell your parents you love them whenever you can. You may be amazed at how happy it will make them., Although telling someone how much you mean to them in person is great, there’s something about putting a pen to paper. Write your parents a letter thanking them for all that they have done for you. Having it on paper allows them to look at it whenever they want to remember your thoughtful words. It may also be easier for you to express yourself in this way, rather than saying it to them face-to-face.You could also write a poem or short story to express your gratitude and love. They will likely appreciate the time and effort you put into creating this gift for them.Another option is to send a nice e-card with a personal message if you are not the creative type.
 Touch is the most basic form of communication among humans. As a baby, your parents comforted you when you cried. As a growing child, they may have nursed your bo-bos or caressed you after a nightmare. Unfortunately, touch as a form of affection is often lost as children grow older. Offer your parents a hug to show your love.


The act of hugging releases a bonding hormone that reduces stress and helps fight off physical illness. Hugging your parents more often could actually benefit their health., No matter what their age or their children’s ages, parents usually love homemade gifts. They understand that it takes more time and consideration into making a present than it does to purchase one. Even if the present is less than perfect, they will still appreciate the gesture.


You could paint your parents a picture, make them a card, take a portrait of them and put it in a frame, or even create a sculpture. Or, you can just dedicate an entire day to spend with them one-on-one., If you’re away at college or otherwise living outside of the home, don’t forget to connect with your parents. A simple phone call once or twice a week to check in and let them know how you’re doing shows just how much you care about them.


Your phone calls don’t have to be long. A few minutes of your time is often enough. However, ensure that you are engaged in the conversation. Calling them when you are spending time with others, driving, or are preoccupied in other ways makes it seem that they are secondary. Give them your full attention and they will appreciate that you put them first.Talk with your parents to decide how much telephone contact you all are comfortable with. Some parents may not enjoy talking on the phone as much, while others might like a weekly chat.
Be sure to check what times work for them.

