 There are two main ways that you can call someone in the US from Norway: using a phone and using the internet. Using a phone line can be a simple way to call someone in the US, but it may have high fees attached to it. Making a call using the internet or VOIP services can be affordable, but may require a bit more effort to set up. Consider your options before picking a method to make your call.


Calling from a phone line will require you to enter in the correct phone number you are trying to reach.
Calling with an online service will likely require you to setup a profile with that service and pay that service's fees.
If you and the person you are calling have smart-phones and data plans, you may be able to use an app to make a free international call.
Most online calling services will connect you with other users for free.
 International calls will almost always come with a fee attached to them. The amount you are billed will vary depending on the length of your call and your phone service provider's rates. Knowing how much you can expect to pay will help you plan your calls and avoid being shocked by a large bill. Always make sure you know the rates of international calling before making your call.


These fees will apply to traditional phone lines.
Talk with your phone service provider to learn more about their international calling rates.
Ask about any special calling plans your phone service provider may have for travelers.
 Before you make your call to the United States, you'll want to make sure you know what time it is there. Because of the differences in time zones between Norway and the United States, your call will be hours ahead of the person you are trying to reach. To avoid calling at an inconvenient time, make sure you know what time zone your contact lives in.Someone on the east coast of the United states will be 6 hours behind Norway.
Someone on the west coast of the United states will be 9 hours behind Norway.
Norway observes daylight savings practices. However, not all US states observe daylight savings time. Make sure you know what time it is in the state you are calling.
 Not all cell phones will be able to function while you are traveling in Norway. Depending on the network your phone runs on, you may or may not be able to make a call to the US from Norway. Talk with your cell phone provider to learn more about your phone and its international calling capabilities.If your phone is on a GSM network, you will likely be able to make international calls.
A CDMA network will be much more limited and may prevent you from making an international call.
You can also try buying a Norwegian SIM card for your phone. This can allow your phone to function on Norwegian networks and will save you money on your call charges. This will only work with GSM phones.