 As mentioned above, the methods for breaking in a leather jacket that use moisture all have one important caveat: don't use too much. Soaking leather can cause serious damage. Once it dries, the microscopic fibers that make it up can be stripped of their oils, leaving you with a stiffer, drier product.Prevention is the best fix here: whenever possible, do your best to keep your leather from getting too wet.


Be cautious of methods that recommend you send the jacket through the washer and dryer. While the dryer will obviously dry the leather quickly, preventing long-term damage, this can still cause noticeable shrinkage and change the texture and appearance of the jacket.
If your leather does get wet, try wiping it gently with a towel, then applying a layer of leather conditioner over the soaked leather to replace its oils as it dries., Leather is an exceptionally durable clothing material, but once it's damaged, it's hard to repair. Keep this in mind as you break your jacket in — while nearly all leather jackets will be able to handle a certain amount of wear and tear, you should never intentionally do anything that can tear, cut, gouge, or otherwise damage the leather. If you do, you may be wearing the jacket with these marks for a long time.


Keep in mind that leather jackets made from lamb and goatskin tend to be softer and more delicate than cow and horse skin jackets.
Tears along seams may be able to be stitched up (see our article on mending seams). However, tears in the middle of a piece of leather can require glue or patches.
 When in doubt about how to treat any garment, including a leather jacket, look for clues on the garment itself. Usually, this will be in the form of a small tag or label somewhere on the inside with care instructions stitched in. Every jacket is different — some may even be made in such a way that the instructions in this article aren't safe for use on them. When in doubt, follow the instructions on the care label, not the ones given here.

