 To decide on consolidating private loans, you’ll have to shop around. Compare loan servicing agents like Chase, NextStudent, Student Loan Network, and Wells Fargo, which are highly rated by Forbes.As you compare consolidation loans with various private companies, pay particular attention to the interest rate – this will make a huge difference in how much you wind up paying overall.
For federal student loans, there’s no question – you are better off consolidating with the Department of Education, where interest rates are capped and you keep your access to programs like deferment, forbearance, and forgiveness.;
, After you shop around and find out the deals that other lenders are offering, then contact the bank or servicing agent that handles each of your current loans. Find out if they will match or beat the deals that you have found. Your own bank has an incentive to keep your business, so if the offers you have found are reasonable, then your own lender may be willing to offer you something a bit better.
 Lenders will generally advertise the incentives that they offer, in order to get your attention and get your business. However, you still may have to ask. When you find a lender that you think looks promising, and you find an interest rate that you believe you can afford, find out if they offer a rebate program for consolidating. Ask the following questions:Do they offer a rebate for consolidating student loans?
Do your particular loans qualify for the rebate?
Is the rebate a fixed amount, or is it a percentage of the amount of your loans?
How much can you receive?
Is the rebate issued to you in cash, or is it only available to deduct the loan amount? (Some lenders will advertise a rebate program, but the rebate is only available as a loan deduction.)

, As you speak with various lenders, keep notes of the programs that you find. You should compare the interest rates, length of the consolidated loan, and the details of any incentives that they offer. There is no single formula to determine the best offer. You will have to decide what your primary goal is with consolidating. If you mainly want to lower your monthly payments, then you may not be as concerned with the overall length of the loan. However, if you want to reduce your total payment, then you need to compare both the rate and the total length. Finally, if you are focused on getting a rebate to “earn” some immediate cash in your pocket, you will have to consider the amount that each lender is offering.The agent for each lender should be able to help you with the comparisons. You should be able to ask, “What would the total cost of the consolidated loan be?” and the agent should be able to calculate that for you very quickly.
 After comparing all the data, you just need to make a choice. Choose the consolidation program that best fits your needs. This will be the loan that creates a monthly payment that you can afford, while keeping the total cost in a range that you are satisfied with. If the rebate is important to you, then choose the lender with the best rebate offer.


Understand that some rebate offers appear attractive at the time, but over the length of the loan an offer of a lower interest rate may wind up saving you much more money. The choice is yours., Once a lender gets your signature on the loan contract, then the lender’s incentive to help you may vanish. You will need to read the contract very carefully and follow through with the detailed instructions to complete your rebate. You often have some forms to complete and submit to an office, in order to claim your rebate.If you do not submit the paperwork on time, you may be disqualified from receiving your rebate. Your loan consolidation will still be complete, but the rebate will be gone.
 If the contract does not provide clear enough instructions, or if you have any questions at all, you should be able to call the agent and ask about claiming your rebate. You may have to submit a form, or you may need to register an account online., Some programs will issue a rebate only after you satisfy some specific condition. Usually this is tied to making payments on the loan. Whatever the condition, you need to understand it and then meet it. Even a small, seemingly technical omission can cost you the full rebate.


For example, one loan program offers a cash rebate, at the time you enter into the loan, of 1.5% of the amount of the loan. However, the condition is that you must then make the first twelve monthly payments in full and on time. If you miss even one payment, or are late at all, the amount of the rebate is added back into the loan.Working with that example, suppose you borrow $40,000. You would receive $600 cash at the time of the loan. But you would then be required to make your monthly payments all on time. If you miss one, the $600 would be added back into the loan amount. In effect, your rebate would be lost.
 You may have any combination of Stafford, Perkins, PLUS, and other federal loans. In addition, you may owe on some private loans as well. Many borrowers don’t have an accurate sense of what they owe. Gather all your records and make a list of all your loans. Write down the names of the lenders and your monthly payments, whether or not you have actually been making those payments.


You can get data about your federal loans from the National Student Loan Data System at https://www.nslds.ed.gov/npas/index.htm. This site will allow you to see all of your federal financial aid records.
If you are unsure about your private loans, contact the lender directly. Ask for information about your outstanding balance and documentation about the terms and conditions of your loans.
 Once you have an accurate and complete list of the loans, review the information to determine whether consolidation would be helpful. Ask yourself honestly if you are able to make your payments on time and whether you can afford them. If any of your payments are delinquent, then consolidation may be a good idea. You may need to consolidate your loans if any of the following situations apply:Your federal loans are in default. This means you have not paid for 270 days. Consolidation will move them out of default status and reduce the effect on your credit rating.
You are behind in paying on your private loans, and you cannot get caught up. Consolidation will help you get the debt under control and minimize the long-term damage to your credit.
You are making payments, but you do not believe that you can continue to afford them. If you worry that you will become delinquent or default in the future, then consolidating your loans may help you get a lower monthly payment so that you can keep your loans current.
You are making multiple monthly payments on different loans and want to simplify the process. Consolidating your loans will simplify the process, because you will make only one payment to one lender, rather than multiple payments. You cannot consolidate private loans and federal loans together, so if you have a combination, you would then have two payments. But this still may be an improvement.
 Consolidation is not a perfect solution for everyone. If you consolidate to lower the monthly payments, you could wind up making those payments for more years. In the end, you may wind up paying more in total.In addition, you need to consider the following:


For private loans, a fee of up to 18.5% of your loan balance may be added to your principal as a service for the consolidation. If you owe $20,000, for example, this would amount to a service fee of $3,700.
Your interest rate could increase. Federal interest rates are capped by law, but even the cap is fairly high, especially when you consider that you may be paying for decades.
You may lose benefits associated with specific loans. If you are consolidating with a plan of receiving a rebate, you need to read the loan carefully. Consolidating creates new loans in place of the original ones. Any benefits or special terms that you had under the original loans may disappear. You need to ask the lender very carefully if you might still be eligible for a rebate after consolidation.