 There are at least a half a dozen specific muscles on your face and scalp that you can work to help relieve your headaches. The areas you want to work on include: above each eye, at the rim of your eye socket, just below your eyebrow (orbicularis oculi); just above the ends of your mouth (zygomaticus major); the area to the left and right of the end of your mouth, if you pretend your mouth extended another inch or so (buccinator); directly above your eyes and eyebrows, slightly to the inside of your face (frontalis); the spots on the back of your head, at the same level as the top or mid part of your ears (occipitalis); the spots under your jaw, on both sides, if you follow the curve and direction of your ear lobe several inches downwards (platysma)., There are two ways to apply pressure to these muscles. One method is to simply use your index finger and press on the spot above your eye and below your eyebrow, on the bone of your eye socket. You’ll know you’ve found the right spot as it will probably feel uncomfortable. Another method is to actually pinch this area between your fingers and squeeze., You can work both spots with the same technique. Put your right thumb inside your mouth on the left side, with your right index finger on the outside of your mouth in the same area. Pinch the skin between your thumb and your index finger. You’ll want to move your fingers around from your cheek to the bottom of your jaw — wherever you find an area that’s uncomfortable. Repeat on the right side of your face with your left hand., This one is quite simple — just use your index and middle fingers to apply pressure to the area above your eyebrow, on your forehead. Move your fingers around to all the spots where you feel discomfort., You can work this area in one of two ways. The easy way is to simply use your index and middle fingers to apply pressure to the areas at the back of your head where you feel discomfort. You can also lie on the ground, while looking at the ceiling, and use a tennis ball to apply pressure to these areas.