 Communication is one of the basic ways people get to know one another and forge bonds. As a deaf or hard of hearing teen, you are challenged with helping others communicate with you. It can also help to anticipate communication roadblocks and prepare for them.

For example, you might keep a notepad with you so that you can quickly explain that you are deaf and allow others to communicate with you.
You might learn fundamental communication skills in a class, but you can also get tips on how to navigate such situations by turning to online resources. The Listening and Spoken Language Knowledge Center features a variety of blogs and videos that show you how to overcome common communication barriers.;
, Identify community groups and national organizations for deaf and hard of hearing people. Such organizations like the Hearing Loss Association of America have local chapters where you can connect with others like you.Advantages of such groups include getting the opportunity to communicate with other deaf or hard of hearing teens, getting current info about assistive technologies, and learning practical coping strategies from other members.
 Being deaf or hard of hearing doesn’t have to hold you back from living a rewarding life as a student. Your hearing shouldn’t stand in the way of you participating in school sports, clubs, and other student activities.Choose one or two groups that pique your interest and sign up. Your school should offer accommodations so that you can fully participate in any offered activities.
 Beyond school, you can find joy and meet new friends by engaging in a range of hobbies or interests. Consider different hobbies you might like to pick up that aren’t limited by your hearing loss. Options include exciting activities like writing, dance, crafting, painting, gardening, and woodworking.When you participate in activities you enjoy, you are more likely to build connections with others who have similar interests.
 People with conditions such as hearing loss may be the subject of teasing by others. In addition, you may be excluded and/or discriminated against at work, at school, or in the community. Understand that you have the right to be treated fairly and know who to contact if bullying or discrimination occurs.

Confide in an adult you trust and whom you are comfortable communicating with. Explain to them what happened and that you would like to take action.
You might sign or write a note saying something like, "The kids at school never leave a seat for me. I have to sit on the floor. It makes me feel terrible. Please help."