 The National Weather Service has great technology that detects when fires are likely to occur and if they've already started, how they'll behave. If you're out camping, take note of any warnings issued or fire forecasts for your area.



Red Flag Warning: This is issued when existing environmental conditions (aridity, etc.) combined with expected weather conditions could result in fires starting within the next 24 hours.

Fire Weather Watch: This is issued when Red Flag conditions are expected to arise within the next 3 days.
National Fire Danger Rating Forecasts are point forecasts issued for selected observation sites. These forecasts are used as input for the National Fire Danger Rating System which generates indexes which are used in determining fire danger for a given area and to plan for the necessary human and other resources needed to fight wildfires.
 Contact your local fire department in advance to confirm that burning is allowed and to find out whether a permit is required to burn debris.If it is, follow these standard guidelines:


Check the weather forecast. If it is particularly windy in your area, it may not be advisable to start any type of fire.
Prepare the site correctly. The ground around the burn site should be surrounded by gravel or mineral soil (dirt) for at least ten feet in all directions. Keep the surrounding area watered down during the burn.Remain with your fire. Stay with it until it is completely out. To ensure the fire has been completely extinguished, drown the fire with water, turn over the ashes with a shovel and drown it again. Repeat several times., Having a bonfire can be an absolute blast, but if done unsafely, can result in serious damage. Make sure to exercise logic and caution when having a campfire.


Do not build a fire at a site in hazardous, dry conditions. Do not build a fire if the campground, area, or event rules prohibit campfires. If there is not an existing fire pit, and pits are allowed, look for a site that is at least fifteen feet away from tent walls, shrubs, trees or other flammable objects. Also beware of low-hanging branches overhead.Clear a 10-foot diameter area that's downwind around the site. Remove any grass, twigs, leaves and firewood. Also make sure there aren't any tree limbs or flammable objects hanging overhead. Circle the pit with rocks.If you do not have water, use dirt. Mix enough dirt or sand with the embers. Continue adding and stirring until all material is cool. Remember: do NOT bury the fire as the fire will continue to smolder and could catch roots on fire that will eventually get to the surface and start a wildfire.

Remember: If it's too hot to touch, it's too hot to leave!, Today, most mechanical devices come with built-in safety tools. Spark arrestors are used to destroy exhaust particles released from combustion engines before they can wreak any havoc. However, if they're not working properly, using the machine could be dangerous, releasing sparks into a dry, grassy area, starting a fire inadvertently.Multiple position small engine (MSE) arrestors are used for handheld equipment like saws and blowers. General purpose (GP) arrestors are used for immobile engines -- tractors, motorcycles, etc.