 Start by going on walks around your block. Walk alone or with friends for about 15 minutes daily. Over time, add time to your walks in five-minute increments. For instance, if you start out by walking for 15 minutes daily, extend your walk to 20 minutes after a week or so. After another week, try walking for 25 minutes daily. Continue in this way until you’re spending an amount of time walking that accord with your lifestyle and fitness level., Riding a bike is a great way to stay active with psoriatic arthritis. If the weather is poor, you could visit your local gym to use a stationary bike. If you have room in your home and really love riding your bike, of course, you could get a stationary bike of your own., If you live near a beach and the weather is appropriate, head out for a swim. The buoyancy of the water makes working your arthritic joints easier. You could also swim in your own backyard if you have a pool. Even if you don’t have a pool in your backyard, you might be able to access one in your area. Many municipal athletic programs offer open swim sessions at local high schools or community athletic centers.If you’re interested in swimming at a community athletic center, check their website to see if and when they offer open swimming sessions.
 Cross-country skiing is a winter activity that requires snow. To get started, you’ll need some skis, which are elongated shoe-like devices. With your skis on, push yourself along with your two ski poles, one in each hand.You can often rent skis at the trailhead of your local cross-country ski trails. Contact the parks and recreation department that manages your cross-country ski trails for information about the availability and cost of renting skis.
Alternately, you could visit your local gym and use the ski machine, a stationary device that simulates cross-country skiing.
If you really love cross-country skiing and you have space in your house, you could invest in a ski machine of your own.
 Tai chi is an ancient practice devised in China. It consists of moving through a sequence of slow and graceful movements, and is appropriate for people of all ages. Try doing tai chi to stay active with psoriatic arthritis.To get started with tai chi, visit your local traditional tai chi instructor and sign up for lessons. Use the Tai Chi Health Institute’s online instructor database to find an instructor near you.
While you could start doing tai chi using a book or instructional DVD, it’s best to learn from an instructor who can give you personal tips and correct your form as needed., Like tai chi, yoga is an ancient form of physical activity that consists of moving the body into different positions. Yoga can help you develop flexibility, strength, and balance. The exercises can also help you improve your breathing.Yoga is also like tai chi in that it is best to start with an instructor rather than a DVD or instructional book. Once you master the poses, you can begin practicing yoga without an instructor.Locate a yoga studio near you to get started.
 Social dancing means dancing with a partner. There are many sorts of social dancing. For instance, you might like ballroom dancing, a sort of dancing with a partner that typically accompanies waltzes. Or you might enjoy a hoedown, a type of traditional folk dance native to the American South. Whatever sort of dance you enjoy, there’s probably a club in your area that empowers you to explore social dancing of one sort or another.


To find opportunities to engage in social dancing in your area, try typing a word string like “social dancing ” into your preferred search engine.
 Try to find a sport you enjoy and can participate in regularly. However, beware of high impact sports or sports that involve twisting the joints, like some of the motions in racquet sports like tennis. Some people will tolerate some sports or motions better than others so start slowly and try a different sport or exercise if you seem to have more pain during or after playing., Instead of (or in addition to) going out of your way to get physical activity with psoriatic arthritis, you could make your day-to-day routine more physically active. One way is to incorporate walking into your daily routine. For instance, walk to the store or to work instead of driving. You could also choose to ride your bike. And instead of taking an elevator, climb the stairs.Daily chores like mowing the grass or other yard work also provide valuable opportunities to engage in moderate physical activity.

