 Make sure you put as much effort as you can in to each assignment. Go over it to look for mistakes, and make sure you've mastered the material. If you mastered the material for your homework assignments and essays, you'll have an easier time when it comes to studying for tests., If throughout the semester you've been showing up to class, you've shown your professor you're committed. However, don't just show up--participate. Engage in the discussions that your professor is facilitating. Ask questions when you have them. Show your professor that you care about learning, not just about your grade.In addition, you'll learn more by being engaged, and your grades will go up. Plus, some professors make attendance part of your grade, so you can literally improve your grade just by being there.Also, by paying attention, you'll get a sense of your professor's personality and expectations. Knowing those two things can help you when you go to ask for extra credit, and they'll also help you write better for that professor when given essays., Try to jot down the main ideas while your professor is lecturing. Your professor will cover what she thinks is most important, so those notes will help you when get around to taking a test or writing an essay., You can't participate well without doing the work and without studying hard. Your education is your job. Like a job, you should expect to put in 40 hours a week. In high school, that may mean you're studying 4 to 5 hours a night, but in college, that definitely means you need to put in 5 hours of studying a night on weeknights.Take notes on the chapter. Try to capture important themes. The headings in the chapter should give you an idea of what is most important.Jot down questions. If the teacher doesn't cover what you don't understand, ask her about it during class., Turning in your homework with ample time takes some planning. If you have trouble with that kind of planning, get a student planner and record all your assignments in it. Add in reminders for when you need to start working on an assignment. Turning in your homework improves your grade, helps you learn the material, and shows you are committed., Whether your a visual learner, an auditory learner, a tactile learner, or something in between, use it to your advantage. If you're a tactile learner, make sure to incorporate it into your studying. Maybe you need to write notes when you're first learning material or even re-write them when you are studying for a test. If you're auditory, maybe your best bet is to read aloud or be read to. Many ebooks have a read aloud option, so you can use that to help you learn., Tests are often a large part of your grade. However, not everyone knows how to study for tests, and not everyone takes tests well. You can, however, teach yourself to do better on tests.Plan what you need to study. Often, your professor or teacher will give you a study guide for your test. If she doesn't, you can still make an outline by using the syllabus or textbook. Look at the major ideas, and decide how much detail you need to go into for your test. Remember, it's always best to study what you know the least about. If you know something really well, don't spend as much time reviewing it.Have a plan for the test. If you think you'll forget something, write it down when you first get the test. Skip questions you don't know. You can always come back to them later if you have time. For multiple choice, come up with an answer before looking at the answer choices, while for essay questions or short answers, make a small plan for the points you want to include. Finally, always be sure to read all questions carefully. You don't want to miss a question you know just because you were rushing through the test.