 Schools in the US and across the world must offer children with disadvantages an Individualized Education Program, or IEP, to help them succeed in school. The sooner you start this conversation, the easier it will be to implement, getting your child the specific help and attention that they need.


Talk to the school's guidance counselors as soon as signs of autism occur. Many experts recommend IEPs as early as age three., You might let the child walk outside for a few minutes, allow some coloring or play time, or simply let them sit and relax. Simply give them a few moments to regain composure, as the myriad stresses and stimulations of a class can cause sensory overload. These breaks help them relieve some of that tension."You seem stressed, let's take a break and come back."
"Time to stretch! Let's relax for 5 minutes before starting again."

, Do not rely purely on talking or writing to help get the point across. Autistic children often react well to visual aids, so use pictures along with speech to include them in activities and materials. This could include pictographs, such as using a picture of a sandwich instead of the word "lunch," or using more visual aids like photographs and videos during lessons.


For very young kids, consider picture cards, with pictures like a toilet, food, or crayons that you can show to them when words don't work.All kids have different learning styles. Some prefer to read, others to listen, and others like direct interaction. By trying to use two to three different styles at once (ie. visual aids while lecturing, videos followed by discussion, etc.) you can reach kids of all learning abilities and styles., An autistic child may never feel comfortable leading a group project. He can struggle with social interaction his whole life, and forcing him into these situations repeatedly will do nothing but cause anxiety. Remember that the purpose of school is to learn and grow, not to conquer a set number of papers, exams, speeches, etc. Is there a way you can get this same information across without forcing the kid into situations where they are bound to fail?


Instead of forcing a kid to speak in front of the class, let them build or make something, like a diorama. They can share this with the others in place of a spoken presentation.
When taking tests, consider letting them take the test separately if they have trouble sitting down for long periods, or give the test orally if they seem receptive to the idea., Autistic kids often take things very literally, and they can struggle with vague concepts or goals. Don't say, "study for one hour to prepare." Instead, tell them to do 10 practice problems from each section and check the answers. When assigning papers, give them definitive word limits and areas to cover for each paragraph.


Repeat instructions, especially if you are worried they aren't getting across. Repetition is usually helpful.
Don't worry about being patronizing or overly specific. You want to break things down into actionable, literal steps.
Avoid figurative speech, or vague generalizations. Things like, "the paper should be as long as it needs to be" will create undue confusion., There are lots of ways to notice impending issues and find a way to stop them before they happen. Talk to the parents for advice, and keep your eyes out for warning signs. Most children have specific tics, like spinning, moaning, or excessive fidgeting that can clue you into a coming meltdown. While you cannot always prevent an outburst, try to be proactive whenever possible:


Give them space to be in peace and quiet -- go for a walk, let them perform another task by themselves, or simply let them sit outside for a few minutes.
Speak calmly and quietly. Some kids will respond well to touch, such as gentle, rhythmic back rubs, but don't attempt this unless you know how they will react.