 Participating in extracurricular activities, and taking leadership roles in them, is something colleges look for and often expect. It can make the difference between being accepted to a school and not. It also increases your chances of getting scholarships and internships. Being involved in them is also attractive to prospective employers. It shows both that you’re responsible and well-rounded.You also make new friends, learn new things, master skills, get the chance to compete, discover new interests, relieve boredom, take trips, and have a lot of fun. , Choosing extracurricular activities that benefit you in some way will make you enjoy doing them more. Think about your interests, abilities, how much time you can spend on it, skills you want to learn, and what you hope to get out of joining when you select activities. Talk with your guidance counselor or the activities department to see what is offered and how to become involved.Guidance counselors will also be able to tell you which activities look best on resumes and applications for colleges and jobs.
Explore several extracurriculars to see which is the best fit for you. And don’t avoid trying a new one if the first didn’t work out.
Sometimes a club or activity might not be a good fit because you don’t have enough time. If so, look for something that will work and stick with it.The quality of the activity and your level and length of involvement in it matters more to colleges and employers than the quantity of activities you participated in., To help you make a decision, you also need to know if there are any specific requirements for joining. You should find out if you have to be a certain age to participate. Ask if there are fees for joining or participating. Determine if you need to have a physical exam and if you need to try-out to join a sport. See if there are minimal time or event requirements. Finally, find out if there is a minimum GPA to join or to continue participation.


Also ask if there are opportunities to take on a leadership role in the group.
If there are, think about your strengths and ultimate goals when picking one., Aside from guidance counselors and activities directors, you can also talk to teachers, principals, other administrators, your friends, and members of groups about how to join. They can also give you insight into what’s it really like. Friends or members can be very helpful with this because they’re actually doing it.


Also check out bulletin boards on campus because clubs and organizations post information there. Write down the website address or contact information if it’s included on the poster or flyer. Then investigate it.Consider creating a club or activity that you’re interested in if your school doesn’t offer it. Talk with administrators about getting funding for it.

