






Find a tint shop that has been in business for 5 or more years at the same location. This shows a stable business that will be there years down the road if somehow the tint goes bad.






Often times, successful tint shops open car tinting branches in neighboring cities. Although the installers of the branches may not be the master tint of the bunch, since opening new shops means training new employees; however, branches are a sure sign of a successful tinting business.





;
,


Quality tint shops carry complete lines of window film from one or multiple window film manufacturers. They should carry dyed, hybrid, and metallic in a variety of colors and darkness. Beware of tint shops that only carry one or two lines of film, and sells them aggressively. They may have acquired this film on sale, and may not be thinking of your unique requirements and concerns.






The warranty on the car tint varies depending on the window film you choose. Try to install only window film backed with a lifetime warranty for materials and labor. Most films don't guarantee color and fading, it is recommended that you also choose one that does.






For the warranty to take effect, check out the window tint laws for your state. Illegal tint can nullify any manufacturer's warranty. When you purchase your tint, be sure sure you get a manufacturer's warranty card from the dealer with the date, the window film used on each window, and the total cost of installation as well as the receipt.



Tint shops can sound like the best shop on the phone, but 15 minutes on-site should tell you all you need to know.






Good dealers pay attention to customer service. They should be happy and willing to spend the time to talk to you and explain how their shops work. Remember, if they don't spend time with you now, they might not spend time with you when something goes wrong with your tint job down the road.






A tint shop's work area should be indoors and clean. Their tools and window films are organized in a professional manner. If the tint shop is outdoors or in a parking lot, this is a negative since it is critical to remove all dust and dirt from the windows before applying window film.






Take a look at a car they have already tinted, and look at the rear window. Is the window film applied in a single piece or is it cut into strips that surround the defroster lines. The best tint shops always apply film in a single piece. Look at the borders of the rear window, in many cars there is a black 'frit' edge on the window, Make sure the window film is securely attached to the frit as well.






Look for slices in window gasket material inside and out.






Look for nicks in the paint around the windows.






Pay attention to side-windows. The window film should be applied to the inside and be completely flush against all 4 edges of the window. Now look at the window film itself. Don't worry if the film looks slightly streaky and discolored, window film takes a couple weeks to dry out and become completely clear. If there are bubbles of air under the film or the film itself is not complete flat against the window, this is a sure sign of sloppy tinting.
 Never compromise because there are plenty of other dealers out there that will offer your perfect tint. With these price quotes and your research on each tint shop, make the decision.
 Even if they say "drop-ins accepted" or "bring it over any time", you want your tinter to be calm and prepared for you when you arrive. Tinting may take a couple hours to half a day, so either arrange a ride or go to a nearby coffee shop with a good book. Enjoy!

