 Use vinegar or a mild household detergent squirted onto a damp cleaning cloth. Wipe over the bidet with the cloth and leave to air dry. Rinse the cleaning cloth immediately after use with hot water to keep it clean.Keeping a cleaning cloth and pack of disposable gloves near the bidet can help encourage all those using the bidet to keep it clean.
Use gentle cleaning materials. Because the bidet’s ceramic surface can be easily scratched or damaged, it’s important to use vinegar or a mild detergent and soft cleaning cloth.;
, If your bidet has a seat, clean beneath it at least once a year. Lift the seat by pressing the button on the side of the seat near the electrical cord and pulling up with your hands. If there’s no button, lift the seat by pulling it up and forward. Clean beneath the seat with a mild detergent., Unlike aerosols, which block smell with another (more pleasant) odor, carbon air deodorizers filter the air, leaving it free of unwanted odors. To ensure a fresh, clean scent, replace the carbon air deodorizer when it has stopped being effective. Most carbon air deodorizers last a few years and some are designed to last as long as your unit., Many bidet nozzles have a self-cleaning feature, making their maintenance very simple. To activate it, twist the knob to “Nozzle Cleaning.” If this feature is used regularly, you may never need to clean it manually., For all other bidets, clean the nozzle at least once a month by pressing the cleaning button for three seconds until the nozzle comes forward for cleaning. Then use water mixed with vinegar and a soft toothbrush to clean the nozzle. If your unit has a second nozzle, press the button again to extend and clean it., If the nozzle has low water pressure, chances are it’s clogged.

Extend the nozzle using the cleaning button and then unplug the unit so that the nozzle doesn’t retract while you’re still cleaning the nozzle tip. Carefully remove the nozzle tip by gently wiggling or twisting the nozzle.
Leave it in vinegar for 2-4 hours, then scrub it gently with a toothbrush to remove all the water deposits.
Reattach the nozzle tip and plug the unit.
 If the nozzle doesn’t have a removable tip, extend the nozzle and unplug the unit, then attach a vinegar-filled Ziploc bag to the nozzle with a rubber band or tape, making sure the nozzle tip is completely submerged in the vinegar.

After 2-4 hours remove the bag, clean the tip with a toothbrush, and plug the unit.
 If there’s water inside the bowl, sop it up with an old towel, and then pour a generous amount of white vinegar inside the bidet bowl. Leave overnight., Dip wads of toilet paper or paper towels into the vinegar and stick them to the stained areas around the edge of the bowl, or any location where the vinegar does not reach directly. Leave overnight., Remove the toilet paper and scrub the inside of the bowl with a cloth dipped in vinegar. Then rinse the bowl with water. Repeat the process if necessary.