 Regardless of testosterone, bone health is important, and physical activity helps keep bones strong. Individuals who are physically inactive and lead a sedentary lifestyle are more likely to suffer from osteoporosis than those who exercise regularly.Even for individuals with low testosterone who are undergoing testosterone treatment, it’s important to remain physically active and to participate in activities that boost bone health.


Lifting weights will help encourage bone remodeling. Other forms of exercise—running, hiking, and playing sports like basketball—will also help with bone remodeling and help stave off osteoporosis.;
, A diet that is rich in calcium will improve your bone health and help stave off any losses of bone density caused by low testosterone. Try to include calcium-rich foods in each of your daily meals. Plan to consume foods including: milk, yogurt, cheese, and other dairy products; vegetables like broccoli and kale; and calcium-fortified foods including breads and cereals.While all men should consume calcium daily, it’s especially important that men over 50 consume at least 1,000 mg of calcium each day. If you’re over 50, check the nutrition label on your foods to make sure you’re consuming enough calcium.
If your diet is low in calcium, your bone density will be reduced and you’ll put yourself at risk for early loss of bone density and increased likelihood of bone fractures.
 Adults should consume between 600 and 800 international units (IUs) of vitamin D daily. Vitamin D can be consumed through vitamin supplements (available at your local health food store). Vitamin D is also found in fortified dairy products (along with calcium) and egg yolks, as well as fish and liver.If you’re concerned about your overall bone health or bone strength, or are worried that you may be suffering from osteoporosis, ask your doctor for a bone density screening. This procedure can remove the uncertainty of not knowing whether your bones are strong and healthy.
 Avoid smoking and other forms of tobacco use altogether, and moderate your drinking in order to maintain good bone health. Studies have indicated that prolonged tobacco use—whether cigarettes or chew tobacco—has a detrimental effect on bone strength. Excessive alcohol use—more than two drinks every day—is also linked to a higher risk of osteoporosis.Excessive alcohol consumption is detrimental to your bone health, as it diminishes your body’s ability to form new bone cells., If you are already afflicted with weak bones—including already suffering from osteoporosis—your best non-medical treatment will come through exercise. Individuals with weak bones can strengthen them through so-called “weight bearing” exercises, which place weight on your bones to mimic the strain that comes with supporting your body. Pushing a vacuum cleaner and mowing the lawn are two examples of weight-bearing exercises.Also start a regimen of resistance weight training to improve bone density. You can work on resistance training at a gym, using a weight machine or free weights, or at your home, using resistance-specific elastic bands.
If you’re interested in finding out more about specific exercises you can do to strengthen bones—and any that you should avoid—consult with your doctor.

