 It's always important to use water to help lather soap onto your body. Shaving without water or any moisturizing agent can cause your razor to glide unevenly and create burns or cuts on your skin.


If you're not in the shower or bath, you can get a wet wash cloth or cotton pad and dab it where you want to shave.
For best results, shave 10 to 15 minutes after you've been in the bath or shower. The water and heat helps to soften your skin and open up your hair follicles for a better, closer shave.You can also exfoliate your skin before shaving using exfoliating scrubs, a wash cloth or a loofah.;
, The trick is to choose something that is able to lather and cover your skin completely. It is also best to choose something that is moisturizing to help glide your razor across your skin smoothly to prevent burns and irritation. You can use soap products like:



Hair conditioner: Conditioner smooths and softens hair and is a great moisturizing agent.

Shampoo: Shampoo lathers quite well and can get rid of pollutants and grease from your skin.

Body Wash: Body wash acts similarly to shampoo and lathers better than conditioner. For best results, choose a body wash that uses body butter to better moisturize your skin.

Dish washing soap: When you've run out of body and hair soaps, dish washing soap is a good alternative that lathers very well. It is a low skin irritant but can be quite drying.
 Form a nice thick layer of soap to coat the skin. The coat not only helps glide your razor across your skin but can also serve as a tool for letting you know areas where you haven't shaved yet.









Add a few drops of glycerin to help increase lather and also moisturize your skin. Glycerin is a clear, odorless liquid that can be found at local drug store in the skin care or medicine aisle. It is typically used to treat and prevent dry, itchy and minor skin irritations, As you shave, be sure to rinse your razor often to get rid of soap and hairs.









Always shave with the grain. If you shave against the grain, you risk pulling hairs off your skin harshly and getting your razor's blades stuck on your hairs.
Shave slowly in sensitive or curved areas such as your neck, under your nose, armpit, genital area, the curve of your ankles and under your knee.
Razors with multiple blades will shave closer to the skin. Choose the best razor for your skin type.
 After you shave, rinse off any soap residue, dry your skin and apply a skin moisturizing. This softens your skin to prevent ingrown hairs from forming and treat any itching or inflammation.








