 Although many employers request that employees provide copies of W2s or tax returns to verify employment, these forms may need to be redacted to remove certain sensitive or potentially discriminatory information.


At a minimum, you probably should request applicants redact their Social Security numbers from these documents.You also should be aware that these documents may contain information about sick pay or benefits that would indicate the applicant is in a class protected by federal anti-discrimination laws. Some states such as California have laws that prohibit employers from even asking questions regarding this type of information, so you may want to ask that applicants black out that information as well., Most employers make the employee responsible for providing tax or Social Security documents as proof of employment.


Keep in mind that even if an applicant refuses to allow you to contact a previous employer, you still can ask for documents such as W2s to verify their income and the years they were employed.Tax or Social Security documents also can be an important way to verify employment if the previous employer has gone out of business and you have no way to get in touch with them to verify the employment.If applicants don't have copies of their W2s, they can order a transcript from the IRS for the years you need proof of employment. Transcripts for the current year and past three years the applicant has filed taxes are available online or by calling 1-800-908-9946.<ref.https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f4506t.pdf</ref>
Applicants also can get certified yearly reports of earnings from the Social Security Administration. These certified reports cost $56 for each year requested, although non-certified yearly reports can be retrieved online for free., Once the potential employee has submitted the documentation you requested, you can see if it matches the self-reported information.


Keep in mind that tax or Social Security documents only provide basic information about employment, such as the dates the person was employed and the income he or she received.
If the applicant had any contract or temporary work, the name of the employer listed on the W2 or another document may differ from that he or she listed on the application. In that case, you typically will need to call the temp agency or another service the applicant used to verify where the applicant was placed., If any discrepancies appear, you may want to get the story straight from the employer who worked with your candidate.


Rather than using the contact information your employee provided on their application or resumé, you might want to do an interest search for the employer and find an official address. Keep in mind that the candidate may already have talked to a co-worker or other friend and asked them to provide a positive reference if asked, so it may be in your best interest to skip the information given to you by the applicant and go directly to the source.
Mail a verification request to the human resources department or similar supervisor, and ask for written proof.In most states, you are allowed to ask the dates of employment, job titles and duties the applicant had, and his or her rate of pay. In some states you also may ask about the applicant's performance and disciplinary record, as well as the reason his or her employment ended., Once you've finished your review, let the potential employee know the outcome and any decision you've made based on the information provided.


You also might consider letting the applicant know what will be done with his or her sensitive information and how these documents will be kept secure. Keep in mind that federal law and EEOC regulations require you to destroy any such documents after a year.