 With any criminal matter, whether a felony or a misdemeanor, consulting with a lawyer is a good idea. A lawyer will help you minimize your sentence by negotiating with the prosecution and making valid legal arguments to the court. A good lawyer may even be able to get the charges against you dropped or reduced before the case ever goes to trial.


If you cannot afford to hire a lawyer, you can ask to have one appointed to you. If you are in jail, your first opportunity to ask for an appointed lawyer will usually be at your arraignment.If you are in jail and do not have access to lawyer information, ask your family or friends to hire an initial lawyer for you.
If you are not in jail and you can afford to hire a lawyer, ask friends or family if they have any recommendations. If they do not, visit your state bar association's lawyer referral service website. After being asked a few general questions, the state bar will recommend multiple qualified lawyers to help you.
Never represent yourself if you can help it. The legal system is complex and legal experts are needed if you want to get your misdemeanor sentence reduced.;
, Many misdemeanors do not result in an automatic arrest. Instead, you may be issued a citation, a ticket, or a summons to appear for a hearing or trial in order to address the charge(s) against you. The first thing you need to do is understand very thoroughly what the law says that you are charged with violating.


If you received a written ticket or citation, it should contain a reference to the statute that you are charged with violating. You should look up that statute so you can understand the details of the charge. For example, you should know if you are being charged with simple assault or assault with a dangerous weapon. Being charged with “evading arrest on foot” may have a different penalty than “resisting arrest.” If you are charged with stealing, it may make a big difference to sentencing to know the value of the item included in the charge. Paying attention to the details can give you something to negotiate or bargain with later in the proceedings.
 The arraignment is the initial hearing before the court to address the charge. This is your opportunity to plead “guilty” or “not guilty.” If you want to defend the charges against you and attempt to reduce the sentence, you should plead not guilty so you will have an opportunity to prepare a response.Remember, the arraignment is a great opportunity to request counsel if you have not already hired someone.


If you receive a summons, which is a written notice to appear in court for your arraignment, make certain that you arrive on the correct date. Plan to arrive at least a half hour early so you can find the courtroom, check in with the clerk’s office, and take care of any other business that may be required. You absolutely should not be late.
 Your lawyer will have your best interests in mind when he or she gives you directions or tells you what to do. Therefore, never do or say anything about the misdemeanor charges without consulting your lawyer and having him or her present. If your lawyer tells you to remain silent - do it.


For example, never speak with the arresting officer about your charges. Police officers are not on your side and are not likely to give you any helpful information at all. In fact, if you speak with a police officer about your charges, your actions and statements can be used against you in court.
In addition, do not speak with any district attorneys or others working the case against you. The only reason you would talk to the prosecution is if your lawyer tells you to do so and he or she is present when the discussion happens.
Finally, do not speak to any judge or court official about your case unless your lawyer advises you to do so. Speaking to court officials when you are not supposed to can be detrimental to your case.
 If your case is going to go forward to trial, you should help your lawyer collect any evidence you can. This may include physical items or the statements of witnesses. If you have any witnesses who can testify on your behalf, you need to review what they saw or know about the charge against you and make sure that they can appear in court on the day of your trial.


Your lawyer will be the one to collect witness statements and physical evidence. If you complete these tasks on your own you risk appearing as if you are tampering with evidence and/or threatening witnesses.
You can help your attorney by telling him or her what you saw, who was around, and how your lawyer can reach important witnesses.
 The pre-trial conference serves two purposes. First, it is the time for the prosecution and defense to discuss the case and decide on certain procedural matters for the trial. Second, and perhaps more important, it is your lawyer's opportunity to discuss the charge against you and the evidence both against you and in your favor, and negotiate a plea bargain with the prosecutor. At the pre-trial conference, there are several possible outcomes:Get the charges dropped. If this is a truly minor offense, and if you have a spotless record, your lawyer may be able to get the prosecutor to drop the charges against you altogether. This is especially possible if you have gathered any evidence, witnesses or arguments that weaken the prosecution’s case against you. The prosecutor has a strong interest in not wasting the court’s time and resources on cases they might lose.
Get the charges reduced. Again, court time is precious, and jail space is limited. Your lawyer may be able to get the prosecutor to reduce the charges against you to something that requires no jail time or probation. You may wind up pleading guilty to something, but you can try to keep it to a minimum.
Get a deferred sentence. A deferred sentence is sometimes referred to as an alternate sentence. Instead of receiving a sentence of jail time, you might plead guilty to the charge against you or a lesser charge, and in exchange, agree to perform community service, attend counseling, or perform some other tasks. If you complete everything in the agreement, then the prosecutor will ultimately dismiss the charges against you.
Get a suspended sentence. This is where you plead guilty to the charge, but the prosecution agrees that you are not a danger to the community, so that jail time is not immediately necessary. A probationary period is set, and as long as you stay out of trouble for that length of time, you will not have to serve time in jail.
 If you do not come away from the pre-trial conference with a satisfactory result that eliminates the need for a trial, then you will need to help your lawyer put your case together for trial. Think about the events that led to the charge against you. Organize your facts and details into a logical order so that you can tell your lawyer what happened.


Make sure your lawyer knows who possible witnesses are and what you think they saw.If you are relying on any documentary evidence, you or your lawyer should make copies of everything and organize them into a trial folder. This way, your lawyer will be able to reach things quickly and efficiently when you need them.
 Sometime before the date of your trial, visit the courtroom and observe one or more trials in progress. This will help you prepare for your trial. Watch how judges interact with defendants and ask your lawyer to walk you through the process as well. This courtroom experience will help ease your nerves on the day of trial.
 If you have not disposed of the case yet, and the trial will go forward, arrive early. Make sure you have time to find out where to go, where to park, where to check in and where to find the courtroom.


When you get to the courthouse you will have to go through security. Do not bring any weapons, drugs, or anything else that could get you in trouble.
 The courtroom is a formal place of business and your appearance will count a great deal in the outcome. If you appear in professional dress and look responsible, the prosecutor and the judge are likely to treat you that way. Your sentencing--or even whether you have a trial at all--could turn favorably if you present a positive appearance.Wear a suit or at least a collared shirt.
Do not wear a tee shirt or other clothing with slogans, especially with any references to guns, drugs, or alcohol.
Cover up any tattoos, regardless of the subject matter. You have the right of free speech under the First Amendment, but a professional image is most likely going to help reduce your sentence.
In some courts, you may be sent away for improper dress.
 Different courts will have different procedures. Usually you will need to check in at the criminal clerk’s office on the morning of your trial. If you do not check in by a certain time, the clerk will report that you are not appearing, and a default could be entered against you automatically. This would give the judge the opportunity to impose a sentence and you will miss the chance to present your defense. Make sure you are on time., The court will often hear several cases in a row, so you may need to wait for some time. Be early.
 Eventually your case will be called. At that point, the prosecutor will begin by reading the charges and presenting the evidence against you. Listen carefully to everything that is said, because you never know when the judge may interrupt with a question. After the prosecution has presented their case, your attorney will present your case. You should sit attentively and observe the proceedings. Be ready to answer any questions that the judge may present to you.If you have to Defend Yourself in Court, do it in as organized a manner as possible. Keep your presentation brief but be sure to include all important details. If the prosecution has any witnesses, you will have the opportunity to cross-examine them. This is your chance to challenge the validity of the charges against you, to try to weaken the evidence, and try to show that you are not guilty of the charges.
 At the end of the presentation of your case, there will be a time to discuss sentencing (assuming that the judge does not rule completely in your favor). Be sure your presents everything that will be helpful. For example, to minimize a sentence, ask your lawyer to point out the following (assuming they are true):that you have no criminal record
that you are steadily employed
that you have a family
that you are involved in your community.
 For misdemeanor charges, a judge often has a range of punishments that he or she can impose. Your lawyer should be prepared to make a recommendation to the judge that does not involve jail time., The judge can order that you perform a set number of hours of service for some court-approved community service organization. You will be given a deadline to complete the service, and you will need to get someone from the organization to sign something that verifies that you did so., This is a way of compensating any victims for any financial harms that you caused, as in a case for vandalism or property destruction. If you promise to make restitution, either immediately or over a defined time period, you may be able to avoid jail time.If your lawyer is going to suggest restitution as an alternative, make sure that you can afford to pay it. There is no point in recommending a sentence that you cannot fulfill.
 This is an order that suspends any jail sentence for a set period of time. During probation, you would be ordered to meet with a probation officer and stay out of trouble. If the probation officer certifies that you did so, then the charges may be dropped.Probation is quite often a sentence imposed on juveniles with an otherwise clean record. In order to get a sentence of probation, your lawyer needs to convince the judge that you are not going to be a danger to the community if you are not incarcerated.
 If the charge against you was based on the abuse of alcohol or drugs, or on mental illness, your lawyer may be able to encourage the judge to assign you to attend counseling. If you attend a counseling program regularly for an assigned period of time, you may avoid a jail sentence.If you believe that a counseling assignment is appropriate, have your lawyer do some investigating before you even go to court. Find out what programs exist in your area, and see if they are accepting new members. When the question arises in court, you should be ready to give the judge the details.

