 Remember to always wash your hands thoroughly before you begin the injection process. This will help decrease the risk of infection, especially at the injection site.Use an antibacterial hand-sanitizing soap and a clean, disposable paper towel to dry your hands.;
, If you are uncomfortable about injecting yourself with the Ovidrel shot, it is possible to get the shot administered at your doctor’s office. You will likely have to pay for any fees associated with a visit to the doctor’s office. But this may be a better option for you if you feel unable to do the injection yourself.But remember that it is quite safe to do these injections at home, so you may want to try pushing through your uncertainty and doing it yourself anyways. The first time is always the hardest, and it only gets easier each time.
Your partner may also be able to administer the Ovidrel shot, if they have been properly trained by the doctor.
 After injecting the Ovidrel, make sure you monitor your symptoms to ensure that you don’t have a bad reaction to the drug. Reactions are rare, but you want to be able to notify your doctor immediately if you notice anything out of the ordinary.Normal side effects include slight discomfort, swelling, or bruising at the injection site; mild nausea; or digestive issues.
Contact your doctor immediately if you experience extreme abdominal pain, intense nausea and vomiting, shortness of breath, dizziness, or decreased urination.
 Take the syringe with the Ovidrel injection out of the box it came in. You’ll need to unwrap the packaging and remove the cap from the needle end of the syringe.Make sure the syringe is in the original sealed package. It is dangerous to use needles that are not sterilized or that have been used by others.
 Once you unwrap the syringe, you’ll see a small air bubble on top of the liquid inside; this needs to be removed. You may need to gently tap the syringe until the air bubbles settle at the top. Hold the syringe with the needle pointing up and push the plunger slowly and gently until the air bubble is completely gone.Be careful not to push too quickly or you may waste quite a bit of the liquid medication inside. You want to only expel one tiny drop that covers the tip of the needle.
 Make sure that you follow any directions your doctor gave you about administering the Ovidrel injection.You should also discuss your overall health and any preexisting conditions you may have with your doctor before administering the Ovidrel treatment.
 You should pick a spot that is about two inches away you’re your bellybutton – on either side or below it. Sterilize the area with an alcohol swab and let it air dry.Drying the injection site (or wiping off any excess alcohol) with a towel will re-contaminate the area and negate the sterilizing process you just completed.
 Sit in a comfortable location and pinch an inch or so of your skin/fat in the now sterilized area. Stick the tip of the needle into your skin and slowly push down on the plunger until the entire dose is emptied out of the syringe.Make sure you stick the needle far enough into your skin (about ¼ inch or so).
Gently remove the needle and use a Band-Aid (or gauze) if your skin is bleeding at the injection site.
 Once you’ve finished injecting the Ovidrel, you need to dispose of the syringe in a safe manner. Put the cap back on the syringe and put it in a waste bin intended for hazardous/sharp objects.If you don’t have access to this kind of trash disposal, try putting the syringe inside a thick plastic bottle with the lid screwed on. This should protect others from accidentally getting poked by the needle.

