 Be courteous and considerate, but don't be a doormat. If you have a problem, don't be afraid to bring it up, but think carefully about how you address them. It is more productive to use "I" statements, like "I can't sleep well when there is loud music. Could you wear headphones after midnight?"

, If you decide early on what is okay and what isn't, it will help avoid resolve conflicts later. Some important talking points:


Music and noise. If you have really different taste in music, you may have to alternate music playing or resort to headphones. Set some "quiet hours" and some "loud hours" if you need too. An example: roommate A loves to sing along loudly to Disney songs. Roommate B can't stand it. Set an hour aside where roommate A can blast the songs and sing along to get it out of their system. If you or your roommate is uber-sensitive, try earplugs. The other person shouldn't have to walk on eggshells all the time.
Visitors. Do you mind platonic sleepovers? How about non-platonic? Set up rules about overnight visitors before you think you'll need it to avoid awkwardness. Agree on a door signal or a message system ahead of time.
Partying. Talk about what is and is not okay. Maybe you are okay with a few friends over for beer, or maybe you want full party every weekend, or maybe you are not okay with any substances. Be willing to compromise both ways. It's not fair to forbid your roommate from being social in their own space, but it's also not fair to be constantly inundated with drunk people if it makes you uncomfortable.
 Personal preferences vary, but be considerate of your roommate, and don't let it get smelly in order to guarantee survival.
 Laundry rooms and shared fridges can result in lost belongings. Depending on your school and where it's located, you may need to lock your bike and keep a close eye on your laptop too. Find out from older students how careful you need to be.
 Typically, dorms have a residential director and residential assistants that can help make you feel at home while you're living in a dorm. If you’re having big issues with your rooming situation, contact resident life.
 Some dorms are dry dorms, some are single-sex, some have very strict fire policies. Be careful.
 Make sure you wear shower shoes! Some disease can be transmitted through the feet. Besides, you don't know what's gone on in there.
 It's recommended that everyone gets at least 8 hours of sleep nightly, though it varies by person. It can be hard, whether you are socializing or studying, but it makes a big difference in your classes and in your health.
 Some campuses discard items left outside your room, or have theft problems.
 Call your family: you're never too old to call home.

