 You may have none of the common sleep disorders doctors test for, but still exhibit obviously strange behaviors in your sleep. If you thrash, have nightmares, talk to yourself in your sleep, or physically act out your dreams, you may have an abnormal sleep behavior disorder. Like narcolepsy, these indicate a poor boundary between the stages of sleeping and waking, and happen to adults and children alike.


Sleep terrors resemble nightmares, but are distinguished by arousal, physical movement (thrashing, screaming), large pupils, sweating, and increase blood pressure. They tend to take place early in the sleep cycle. Unlike nightmares, they take place during non-REM sleep. Children rarely remember the dream, while adults may recall fragments.REM Behavior Disorder causes you to act out your dream. If you sleep walk, sleep talk, jerk your arms and legs, or attempt to fight your sleep partner while dreaming, you may have RBD.
 If you cannot sleep during socially conventional hours, either for work-related, vision-related, or unknown reasons, you may have a circadian rhythm sleep disorder. Talk to your doctor if you think you may fall under one of the following categories.Delayed phase sleep disorder is common in teenagers in young adults. It is diagnosed when you are unable to fall asleep before 1am or so in the morning, and wake in the late morning or the afternoon.
Non-24 hour sleep wake disorder, or irregular sleep-wake rhythm, occurs when you can only sleep in naps throughout the day.
Shift work disorder occurs in people whose work hours are scheduled during ordinary sleep periods, such as nurses. It can also occur in people with sleep apnea or other disorders.
 Sleep hygiene refers to your bedtime habits and rituals which can set you up for a good night's sleep. This includes making sure your bedroom is a good environment for sleep, avoiding stimulation before bed, getting on a regular sleep schedule, and getting enough sleep every night.Go to sleep at the same time every night and wake up at the same time every morning (even on weekends). If you need more sleep, try going to bed earlier.
Adults need seven to nine hours of sleep a night, with as few interruptions as possible.Teenagers need nine to 11 hours.Eat two to three hours before bedtime, and don't consume caffeine in the six or more hours before you fall asleep (remember that chocolate contains caffeine). Avoid alcohol and smoking as well.
Avoid napping during the day.
Avoid vigorous exercise too close to bed — try to do it in the morning or early afternoon. A relaxing exercise, like yoga or gentle stretching, can be done before you go to bed.Do not go to bed emotionally upset. Try to resolve all conflicts before bedtime.Keep a journal on your nightstand to write down any troubling thoughts so you can tackle them in the morning.
Use your bed only for sleep or sexual activity. Do not work or do homework in bed, watch TV, or even read in bed if you can avoid it.This way you train your body to know that when you hit the pillow, it's time for sleep.
Make sure your room is dark, with no ambient light, and a cool temperature.
Do not look at screens before bed — this includes your smartphone, laptop, TV, or tablet. The blue light emitted from these devices make it difficult to fall asleep. One to two hours before bed, reduce your exposure to light and your devices.If you practice good sleep hygiene and are still experiencing symptoms of sleep deprivation, visit a sleep clinic or your family doctor.
 Many illnesses, allergies, medications, cognitive differences, and experiences can cause sleep disorders. Sometimes the cause and effect of illness/sleep disorder is unclear. If you have ADHD, Alzheimer's, dementia, or depression, you may experience sleep disorders.


Asthma, COPD, and difficulty breathing can also contribute to your risk, as can epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, pain from injury, and fibromyalgia.
Experiences of trauma can lead to disordered sleep. If you are suffering from PTSD, talk to your doctor about best sleep practices.

