 Starting a corporation is a legal matter, and it would make sense to enlist the help of an experienced attorney. Even if you just want to have someone to ask questions or review the paperwork, getting an attorney is a good investment in the future of your corporation., In most states, you will not be allowed to have a duplicate name of an existing company or corporation, so make sure you research this before filing. When writing your business name, ensure that you follow the name with the correct identifier, such as Inc., LLC, or Corp. Most Secretary of State’s offices will have an online search tool that will help you search for allowable names., This section of the articles of incorporation provides a business contact and a legal address. The registered agent is, at a minimum, someone who will accept mail or legal service on behalf of the corporation during normal business hours. A registered agent could be an officer or director of the company, or you could list an affiliated party as an agent. The address of the registered agent must be a physical address and not a P.O. Box number.Many corporations choose to name a registered agent that is not directly affiliated with the corporation. There are some commercial companies that provide registered agent services: they will accept legal service and forward mail to the company's operating address. Choosing a professional registered agent of this type can also insulate your company from prying investigations.Because the intent of the registered agent requirement is to be able to deliver legal service during business hours, you most likely will not provide your home address. The person named and the address given must be available at all times during normal business hours.
 This may or may not correspond with the address of the registered agent. For example, if you are incorporating in one location, but are physically located in another, you will need to provide a legal address of the company, as well as a legal address of the agent., The incorporator is the person filing the articles of incorporation. Most states require a legal address for the incorporator as well as a signature.The incorporator may be, but is not required to be, an officer of the corporation. The incorporator's function typically ends with the filing of the articles of incorporation. He or she does not retain any ongoing responsibility with the corporation solely as incorporator. (If the incorporator is also an officer, then obviously the relationship will continue.)
In many cases, a lawyer may be the incorporator. If so, the lawyer serves the purpose of physically drafting and filing the articles of incorporation, but then does not continue to hold an office in the corporation., Check with your state for guidelines. Some states require a listing of all business directors, while others need only one main director listed. In some states, the director may be the same as the incorporator., This is a statement, to be mapped out in general business language, which defines what your company is and how your business will operate.Be careful not to be too specific in stating your purpose. In many states, simply saying that your purpose is, “To engage in any lawful corporate activity in this state,” may be good enough. If you wish to be more specific, you should at least allow for expansion, and include the phrase, “... and to conduct any other business that is lawfully allowed of a corporation in this state.”

, This will indicate how many shares of stock are issued and the breakdown and percentages of stocks held by shareholders. For instance, as a business owner, you may own full shares of stock, or it may be split with other directors within the company., Not all states require this, but you may have to fill this section out in your state. The par value of stock states the minimum starting value of shares. This is set up so that a stock cannot be sold for less than the par value initially appointed to it.