 First, open your app store to download Feature Points using your smartphone. If you are using an Android phone, open Google Play. If you are using an iOS phone, then use the App Store. Feature Points is a free app, and it should take up about 1.8MB of memory space.Click Download to get the app on your phone.;
, Once the app has downloaded, you should be ready to install it. The app will prompt you to enter a referral code. If you have a code, enter it for 50 free bonus points. You can only enter this code the first time that you download the app. Wait for the app to download, and then open it to begin., If you are signed into your Google or Apple account, then you can download the app onto your phone using your computer. Bear in mind, however, that you must use Feature Points from your phone. Visit the Feature Points website.Select "Download for iPhone" to reach the App Store, and choose "Download for Android" to link to Google Play.
 Navigate to the Earn page, and browse the list of apps. If you find an app that you want to try, click on it to check how many points it offers. Then, click "Download" to go to the store page and download your first app!

, Bear in mind that it may take a day or two for Feature Points to credit you with the points that you've earned for a given app. You may not get points if you've downloaded the app before, or if you fail to complete the app's tutorial. Once the two minutes are up, you can close the app and return to Feature Points to download another app.
 Keep downloading and using apps in order to generate a steady flow of reward points. Set a goal for yourself: aim for a specific number of points, or play with Feature Points for half an hour to try it out.


Make sure that you are connected to WiFi, if possible. Downloading a lot of apps with your data plan can max out your data very quickly.
Feel free to delete apps from your device after you've earned your points. At a certain point, you will fill up your device memory if you keep downloading new apps without deleting the old apps.
 Once you've earned a few hundred points, navigate to the Rewards section of the app to browse your options. Bear in mind that you will need a few thousand points, at least, to reach even a $5 PayPal deposit.
 Possible rewards include PayPal deposits, Amazon gift cards, and iTunes gift cards. If you have enough points, you may even be able to afford a device like an iPad Mini.Don't wait too long! Be aware that points expire. If you do not download an app for 60 days, then your unspent points will be reset to zero.Choose wisely. There are no refunds. Once you spend your points, there's no turning back.
 Sometimes there are special drawings in which each time you download an app, you are entered for a chance to win. The chances may be slim – but you never know when a small effort will pay off!

