 Turn the oven onto 325 degrees F (160 degrees C). You'll also need to prepare your baking sheets. Lightly grease at least two baking sheets so the cookies don't stick.


You could also line the baking sheets with a silicone mat or parchment paper to keep the cookies from sticking.;
, Place 1








It's important to beat the butter and sugars till they're light and fluffy. This will help your cookies rise and give them volume.
 Stop the mixer and add one egg to the creamed butter and sugars. You can also add any flavor extract at this time (1 teaspoon). Turn the mixture back on to medium speed and beat it until the egg is combined.








The egg will help the cookie dough bind together and adds moisture.
 Take 3 or 4 ripe persimmons and cut the tops off of them using a sharp knife. Use a spoon to scoop out the persimmon pulp and place the pulp in a food processor. Blend the pulp until it's completely smooth and pureed.Always use caution when using knives and food processor blades.
 Measure out 1 cup of the pureed persimmon pulp from your food processor. Add the pulp to the bowl with the wet ingredients. Stir or beat the persimmon pulp into the wet ingredients until they're completely combined.You can save any excess persimmon puree for use in another recipe.
 Place a sifter over a medium-sized mixing bowl. Add your dry ingredients and sift them into the bowl. This will break up any lumps in the dry ingredients and help them mix with the wet ingredients more evenly. You'll need:2 cups (240 g) of all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon of baking soda
1/2 teaspoon of salt
1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon of nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon of ginger
1/8 teaspoon of allspice

, Turn your mixer on to low and gradually add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients. Turn off the mixer as soon as the dry ingredients are incorporated. If you mix the dough too long, your cookies will be hard and tough.Avoid mixing the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients on a medium or high speed. Mixing on low ensures that you don't over mix the dough and it keeps the dry ingredients from being beaten out of the bowl.
 Add 1/3 cups (30 g) of old-fashioned oats, 1/2 cups (60 g) of dried cranberries, 1/4 cups (45 g) of white chocolate chips, and 1/4 cups (30 g) of roughly chopped almonds. Stir the dough until they're just combined.


Try to ensure that these ingredients are evenly mixed throughout the dough so that each cookie ends up with a little of everything.
 Use a cookie scoop, ice cream scoop or spoon to scoop about 12 cookies onto each baking sheet. Each ball of cookie dough should be about 2 to 3 tablespoons in size. Bake the cookies for 14 to 16 minutes or until they're golden brown and almost firm to the touch. Remove them to a rack to cool.








The cookies should be at least 2 inches apart on your baking sheet.
 Instead of roughly chopped almonds, you could use your favorite baking nut. Just try to keep the amount (1/4 of a cup) the same. You could use chopped:

Pecans
Walnuts
Hazelnuts

, If you don't like the tart flavor of the dried cranberries, you could make this recipe with dried raisins or golden raisins (sultanas) instead. These can make your cookies taste sweeter as well.

You could also experiment with dried fruits like apricots, cherries, or currants.
 White chocolate has a mellow sweetness, but if you want a richer chocolate flavor, try substituting the white chocolate chips with milk or semisweet chocolate chips.

Be aware that a bittersweet chocolate can overwhelm the flavor of the persimmon, so only swap the chocolates if you want less of a persimmon flavor.
 To add depth of flavor to your cookies, you could add 1 teaspoon of a flavor extract when you add the egg to the butter and sugars. Try using vanilla or almond extract.

Don't expect a lot of flavor by adding the extract. It will enhance the flavor of the cookies instead of overwhelming the flavor.

