 If you are a citizen of one of the countries with which the U.S. has entered an investment treaty, you may qualify for an E-2 visa.The U.S. Department of State has a list of treaty countries online at http://travel.state.gov/content/visas/english/fees/treaty.html. If you are unsure, you can check that list and see if you are eligible for an E-2.
Apart from being a citizen of a treaty country, you must make a substantial investment in a new or existing bona fide enterprise.Although there's no minimum dollar amount, your investment must be enough to demonstrate that you are putting assets at risk and trying to make a profit. The E-2 is the closest thing to a "start-up" or entrepreneurial visa available, allowing you to build your own business in the United States with a little capital investment.U.S. immigration law defines a bona fide enterprise as a real, active undertaking in which services or goods are produced for profit. Beyond that, the enterprise must be capable of generating enough income to provide a living for you and your family.You must be coming to the U.S. to work for a company that you own, or that is at least 50-percent owned by you and other nationals of the same treaty country.If you are an employee for another company, and don't have an ownership stake, the L-1 might be a better fit for you if your employer has existing operations in the U.S. or is expanding overseas., An E-2 visa has a number of benefits that may make it a better choice for you personally than an L-1, even if you qualify for both.


You can get an E-2 even if you are self-employed, and it comes with unlimited extensions.The difference is that you can apply for a green card with an L-1, even though you can't extend it indefinitely. If citizenship status is important to you, an L-1 may be a better option assuming you qualify for either.Although you must intend to leave the U.S. when your business in the country is completed, you are not required to maintain a residence in your country of origin.Your spouse and children also can get visas to accompany you, and your spouse is eligible to apply for a work permit once you reach U.S. soil.Your initial visa period lasts up to five years, and can be renewed indefinitely in two-year increments. However, you can work legally in the U.S. only for the employer or self-owned business that acted as your visa sponsor., Unlike with the L-1 visa, you don't have to have a Petition for a Nonimmigrant Visa approved by USCIS before you apply for your visa.As part of your online application, you will need to upload a photo.The photo must meet the basic format, size, and resolution specifications of the Department of State. The best way to meet these specifications is to use a professional visa photo service.After you complete your online application, you must print the confirmation barcode page to take with you to your interview. You won't need to print out your full application., After you've completed your visa application, you must schedule your interview at the U.S. embassy or consulate office nearest where you live. It won't be scheduled for you., An interview is required at the U.S. embassy or consulate office nearest you if you are between the ages of 14 and 79 and have applied for a nonimmigrant visa.Before your interview, you must pay an application fee of $205. Keep your receipt for this payment because you will have to show it at your interview.Gather other documents you will need at your interview, including your valid passport, your Form DS-160 confirmation, your photo, and your Form DS-156E. The DS-156E is an additional application form required for anyone seeking an E-2 visa.Because you must demonstrate that your investment enterprise meets the E-2 visa requirements, your consular officer may provide you with special forms to fill out, or a list of documents you must present at your interview., During the interview, a consular officer will determine whether you meet the requirements for an E-2 visa.


During your interview, digital fingerprints will be taken as part of the application process.
If your application requires further processing, the consular officer will let you know. Otherwise, you should be able to find out approximately when your passport with visa will be ready for you to pick up.