 Look for language institutes or other centers that offer Spanish Language classes. If there aren’t any in your area there might be also programming at community centers, youth centers, or international cultural centers.


Language schools often sponsor clubs or even courses that give members the opportunity to practice conversational Spanish, check with them to see what your options are. If they don’t have any clubs you can always ask to start one.
They may also be able to put you in touch with other students who are looking for Spanish immersion opportunities. It is likely that they will have students who are also looking for practice opportunities.
Ask if they have a community board where you can post to make connections with other Spanish speakers. Many language centers will provide some kind of forum for Spanish speakers who are looking to make a connection.;
, Try the Spanish departments at local colleges and universities, community colleges, and high schools. All these institutions will have Spanish teachers on staff. They will have students who are learning Spanish who may also be looking for places to practice.


While local high schools and universities will likely have Spanish-speaking instructors and courses, they may also have extra-curricular study groups you can take part in. Many groups may be open to the public or members of the community.
Ask if there are students who are studying Spanish who may be willing to practice with you. There usually be students who are also interested in expanding their skill set. Some people find it easier to learn in groups.
If there is a school nearby that offers advanced course or even degrees in Spanish ask where their students go to practice their language skills. Students learning Spanish are likely to also be looking for immersion opportunities, local schools may be able to provide you with the advice that they provide their students.
 Tutors can provide more than initial lessons.They can also help with guided practice and connecting you to the Spanish speaking community.


Private tutors are not always expensive, look for college students, or teachers who are on summer break.
Tutoring doesn’t have to be formal, some will be happy to meet you at a coffee shop or even give you lessons online.
A tutor is a great first stop because he or she can help to introduce you to the Spanish speaking community in your area.

