 Your skin should be as even as possible when you apply the highlighter, so you should start with a foundation. It’s best to use a matte or satin finish formula because the highlighter will add enough glow to your skin. Use a brush or sponge to apply the foundation for the best coverage.For oily skin, choose an oil-free foundation formula to help prevent shine. A powder foundation is often a good option.For dry skin, choose a moisturizing foundation to help prevent dry, flaky patches. A cream foundation is often a good option.
A liquid foundation works well for most skin types. If you have oily skin, choose a matte finish formula. If you have a dry skin, choose a satin finish foundation.
If your skin is mostly clear, you can use a tinted moisturizer or BB cream in place of foundation for lighter coverage.;
, Applying a brightening concealer in a triangle shape beneath your eyes and along your cheekbones creates a base for the purple highlighter. Choose a concealer that’s one or two shades lighter than your skin tone, and draw a triangle from the inner corner of the eye to beside your nostril in the center of the cheek to the top of the cheekbone beside the outer corner of the eye. Be sure to blend the concealer in well for a seamless look.You can use a fluffy concealer brush or a clean finger to blend in the concealer. A brush works best with liquid concealers, while a finger usually works best with a thicker cream formula.
If you have discolorations on your face that you wish to conceal before applying the highlighter, don’t use the brightening concealer -- it will draw attention to the spots. Instead, use a concealer that matches your skin tone exactly for blemishes and other discolorations.
 To ensure that your foundation and concealer stays in place all day and the highlighter applies smoothly, it’s important to set your face makeup with a setting powder. Use a fluffy powder brush to lightly dust the powder over your entire face.If you want extra coverage from your setting powder, use a pressed powder.
If you prefer a lighter look with your powder, opt for a loose, translucent setting powder.
If you have very dry skin, you may want to skip setting powder because it can accentuate dry patches.
Make sure to set the concealer under your eyes too. Use a small, fluffy brush to dust lightweight, translucent powder over the area.
 The most common spot to apply purple highlighter is the tops of the cheekbones. Use a small, tapered highlighter brush to sweep the highlighter above the cheekbones and back toward the hairline to add a pretty glow and help shape the face.Make sure to tap any excess highlighter powder off the brush before applying it to your skin. Excess powder may fall on other areas of the face where you don’t want the highlighter.
While you can wear purple highlighter no matter what your skintone, it can sometimes look ashy on darker skin. To combat the ashiness, apply a layer of a gold or peach highlighter over the tops of your cheekbones first and then dust the purple highlighter over it.
 You can add brightness to the center of your face by applying the purple highlighter to the bridge of your nose. A highlighter brush may be too thick for your nose, so use a small, fluffy eyeshadow brush to lightly apply the highlighter down the center of your nose.For the most flattering look, it helps to contour your nose on either side of the highlight. Use a small, tapered shadow brush to apply a contour powder in a line on both sides of the highlight and blend well. Contour powders should always be cool-toned with gray undertones to mimic the look of shadows, but it’s especially important to choose a cool contour powder when you’re using purple highlighter.
 You can draw attention to your lips by applying a little of the purple highlighter to your cupid’s bow, or the small indentation just above the center of your top lip. Use a small tapered eyeshadow brush to lightly dust the area with the highlighter.When you’re using a purple highlighter on the cupid’s bow, it’s important to choose your lip color carefully. Cool shades, such as blue-toned pinks, lilacs, and plums, are good options., Before you use the purple highlighter to accent your eyes, you should apply your usual eye makeup. Put on your eyeshadow, liner, and mascara as you normally would, even if it means not wearing any eye makeup.Choose cool-toned eye makeup to pair with a purple highlighter. Other purple shades are a particularly pretty option. A soft smoky eye with gray shadows can be a lovely combination too.
If you don’t like a lot of eye makeup, you can even substitute the purple highlighter for shadow completely and sweep it across the lids. Finish with mascara, and you’ll have a pretty but subtle eye look.
 Because the purple highlighter will draw attention to your eyes, it’s important to ensure that your brows look neat and polished. If you have full eyebrows, comb them with a brow comb and use a clear gel to keep them in place. If you have sparse eyebrows, fill them in with a powder or pencil and then use the gel to comb them into place.For the softest, most natural look, use a brow powder to fill in your brows with a small, angled brow brush.
A brow pencil is a better option if you want a more dramatic, precise look for your brows.
 If you want your eyes to look a little larger, applying some of the purple highlighter on the bone beneath your brow can make a big difference. Use a wide, flat shader brush to lightly sweep the powder beneath your brows.Make sure to blend well so you don’t have a stark line of highlighter beneath your brow.
If you prefer a more subtle highlighter look, just apply the highlighter beneath the arch of your brow.
 If you didn’t get much sleep, fake a wide-awake look by adding the purple highlighter to the inner corner of your eye. Use a small pencil brush to lightly dab the inner corner near the tear duct for a look that instantly brightens your eyes.If you don’t have a small pencil brush, you can tap your pinky finger into the purple highlighter and gently press it into the inner corner.
 If you want your eyes to look brighter and more awake, it also helps to add a little of the purple highlighter to the center of your lid. Use a small, flat shader brush to lightly pat the highlighter on just the center of your eyelid over your shadow to catch the light.Make sure to keep the highlighter just on the center of your eyelid. Don’t extend it into the crease.
 While your purple highlighter is likely marketed for use on the face, you can also use it add glow to your body. Dust it over your collar bones and the center of your shoulders when you’re wearing outfits that expose them. Sweep it down the center of your shins when you’re wearing shorts, dresses, or skirts to help make your legs look longer.When you’re applying the purple highlighter to your body, it’s best to use a large, tapered brush. That will allow you to work more quickly, but still keep the highlighter right where you want it.
 If you wish that you had fuller lips, your purple highlighter can help make them look more plump. Tap your finger into the purple highlighter and then lightly dab it on the center of your bottom lip for a fuller look.Make sure that you’re wearing a cool-toned lipstick, such as a blue-based pink, lilac, or plum shade.
 If you want major glow for your face, you don’t have to keep your purple highlighter contained to your cheekbones. Instead, apply it to the apple of your cheek over a blush on your cheeks with a tapered highlighter brush and blend well for a more intense glow.You should coordinate the blush with the purple highlighter so stick to cool shades, such as blue-based pinks, plums, and lilacs.

