 Before the pertussis vaccine was developed, whooping cough was mainly a childhood disease.Nowadays, whooping cough mainly affects infants yet to be vaccinated, as well as adults (young and old) whose immunity has faded or were not immunized. If you or your child develop a severe hacking cough that won't go away after a few days or so, then consult with a doctor to get it diagnosed and treated.


Once you catch the infection (from the Bordetella pertussis bacteria) symptoms take about seven to 10 days to develop and are much like those of the common cold: runny nose, congestion, mild fever, mild coughing. This is the first stage of whooping cough, known as the catarrhal stage.After one to two weeks, symptoms will worsen if you have whooping cough because thick mucus accumulates in your airways and triggers uncontrollable coughing fits. This is the second stage, or the the paroxysmal stage.Your doctor will diagnose your infection with specific tests (see below), but will also rule out conditions that cause similar symptoms, such as pneumonia and bronchitis.
The third stage of whooping cough (or the recovery stage) is when the person gradually recovers, usually over a period of two to three weeks.You may still experience coughing spasms and respiratory infections in the months following your recovery from whooping cough.;
, The most characteristic symptom of pertussis is the distinctive high-pitched "whoop" made by inhaling air after a coughing spasm, and to a lesser extent, the force of the hacking cough.However, some people (about 50% of adults) don't develop the characteristic whooping sound and sometimes the persistent hacking cough is the only sign that indicates a pertussis infection.Listen to your child after a coughing spasm for the distinctive sound.


Whooping cough can go undiagnosed by doctors because it has become fairly rare, and they have never heard or had the opportunity to hear the characteristic "whoop."Other symptoms that may accompany the hacking cough and whooping sound include: a bluish or red face from coughing and not being able to breathe well, extreme fatigue, potential vomiting.
Infants may not cough at all if their airways close from mucus build-up. Instead, they may struggle to breathe and even pass out.
 For a more definitive test, your doctor will take a swab from the area where your nose and throat meet (called the nasopharynx).The mucus on the swab is then grown in a culture and checked under a microscope for evidence of the whooping cough bacteria, Bordetella pertussis. This is the best and most specific way to test for and confirm whooping cough.


Co-infections often occur with whooping cough, so the doctor (or lab tech) may find evidence of other bacteria or viruses in the mucus sample.
There are different strains of Bordetella pertussis and a lab culture can identify which one you have, which may help to determine the best antibiotic to use for treatment.
The best time to take a swab and culture it is during the first two weeks of infection. After that, the sensitivity of the culture test is decreased and the risk of false-negatives increase.
 A swab or sample of mucus from your nasopharynx is also needed to do a PCR test, which amplifies or enhances the genetic material of the bacteria so it can be detected and identified readily.It's a quick assay-based test and has excellent sensitivity for identifying what strain of bacteria is causing the infection. The swab of mucus used to grow a culture can also be used to do a PCR test.


PCR testing should be done within three weeks of symptoms (coughing) developing for best results.
After the fourth week of coughing, the amount of pertussis bacteria DNA in the nasopharynx rapidly diminishes, so PCR testing becomes more unreliable for testing.
In most cases, a pertussis culture and PCR test will both be ordered together when the symptoms are within a few weeks old.
 Your doctor will also take some of your blood and send it to the lab to be analyzed in efforts to determine if you have an infection. Virtually all types of infections (both bacterial and viral) cause the white blood cell count (leukocytes) to increase, which is a sign your immune system is actively trying to fight the infection.As such, looking at leukocytes levels is a general confirmation of infection, but not specific for whooping cough.


Some labs can test for pertussis antibodies, which is a more specific method for testing for a whooping cough infection. The problem is that people produce pertussis antibodies against old infections too.
As such, antibody testing is not useful to determine if a person has an acute (recent) whooping cough infection.
Some pertussis antibodies are present in the bloodstream for a while after vaccination and not indicative of an infection.
 If your symptoms are long lasting or particularly severe, your doctor may also take an x-ray of your chest to check for the presence of inflammation or fluid in your lungs.Whooping cough doesn't usually cause much inflammation in the lungs by itself, but a co-infection with pneumonia often does lead to fluid build up.


Bacterial and viral pneumonia significantly complicates whooping cough (and other respiratory infections), which increases the risk of death.
Fluid build up from pneumonia causes severe chest pain and difficulty breathing, both inhaling and exhaling.
 If your whooping cough infection is diagnosed by your doctor in time (within two to three weeks) antibiotics such as erythromycin can make your symptoms go away more quickly because they can directly kill the Bordetella pertussis bacterial strain.However, most people are diagnosed too late (beyond three weeks), when antibiotics tend to be relatively ineffective. Ask your doctor if you're a good candidate to take antibiotics for whooping cough or not.


Even if it's too late to make much difference in your symptoms, taking antibiotics can help reduce the risk of you spreading the disease to others.
If your whooping cough is particularly severe, your family members may also be given antibiotics by your doctor for prevention.
If you are given antibiotics (typically for two weeks), make sure to follow your doctor's directions exactly, even if you start to feel much better before finishing all the medication.
 Although many people with whooping cough try to use various types of cough syrups to reduce or suppress their symptoms, most are not helpful and can actually prevent getting rid of mucus build up.As such, avoid all cough mixtures, expectorants and suppressants. Instead, focus more on keeping well hydrated (lots of water) and breathing in clean air.


Drinking lots of purified water (at least eight 8-ounce glasses per day) helps wash mucus down so your airways aren't as clogged.
Breathing clean air helps to reduce triggering coughing spells. Keep your home free of irritants such as tobacco smoke, cleaning products and fireplace fumes.
 The best way to prevent whooping cough is to vaccinate your child and get booster shots as an adolescent and adult.The pertussis vaccine is typically given to children in a combination vaccine that gives protection from two other diseases, diphtheria and tetanus. Consequently, the combo vaccine is known as the DTaP vaccine.


Five DTaP inoculations are recommended during childhood, usually at the ages of two months, four months, six months, 15 to 18 months and four to six years.Immunity from the DTaP vaccine tends to wear off by age 11, so doctors recommend a booster shot at that time.
Doctor's also recommended that adults aged 19 years and older receive a booster shot of the TdaP vaccine for prevention, as their immunity may have faded.Common side effects from vaccination include: mild fever, crankiness, headache, fatigue (tiredness) and/or muscle soreness at the injection site.

