 Demonstrate kind behavior when you're with your own friends, loved ones, and your children themselves. Children mimic the language and behavior of parents. If you want your child to be nice to other children, be nice to your child.


When your child is around, try your best to keep an even temper. Don't let your child see you yell, or argue with others. Act like an adult. Act like you want your children to act.
Never belittle your child for wanting to play, or for being a child. Let them play and have fun, and they'll behave that way when they're with other kids as well.;
, It's tough to teach your child to "not" bully, because some children instinctively want to push the boundaries. It's much more productive to teach your child to be a good and positive friend to others. Focus on showing your child to be loving and kind with other children.


If your child has bullied in the past, it's important to engage them more directly and talk to them specifically about bullying. Just don't put any ideas in their head if your child is innocent.
 Your time and love are the greatest gifts you can give to your child if you want them to grow into well-rounded people. Demonstrating good behavior doesn't need to take up a lot of your time. Just make an effort to engage your child in play a few times a week. Listen to them talk and ask them questions.


Encourage your children in their play. You don't necessarily have to be down in the dirt playing with your child, especially if you've got better things to be doing. But listen to them when they tell you what they did. Ask interested questions.
 If a child is taught from an early age how to pet a cat, or have fun with a dog, this can help them develop a sense of gentle affection for others. If your child learns how to care for a pet properly, they will often be a better friend to their classmates.
 It can be difficult to know how your children behave when you're not around. As a test, make a point of regularly inviting friends and classmates over to your house so you can observe your child in play. This way, you can correct any negative behavior you see more effectively.
 Did your child bully at school, preschool, daycare, church? It's important that you learn all the facts as quickly as possible, if your child has gotten into trouble for being a bully.


Try to go into things with an open mind. You may want to defend your child instinctively, which is understandable. You love them and want to make sure they're not being accused of something falsely. But try to listen to what other people have to say and get all the facts in place.
 Don't scream or yell, but be firm as possible and make it very clear to your child that bullying and beating will not be tolerated. Remember to listen to what your child has to say, but remain firm.


Never hit your child in these instances, or punish them for doing something. If your child has already demonstrated a tendency toward intimidation and bullying, physical punishment will only reinforce negative behaviors.
 Why is your child acting out? You need to learn what's going on in your child's head to figure out how to address the issues causing the bullying. Ask your child these questions:


How is everything going at school?
Are you getting along with the other kids at school?
Do you treat other children with respect?
Do you get along with your friends?
Are other children at the school bullying you?
Do you know what bullies are?

, Most bullies don't think of themselves as bullies. Most children don't see the harm in "joking around with" another classmate. For this reason, it's important to show your child that what they do has serious consequences. There are a variety of resources, including videos, books, and other learning materials that you can consult online., It's important for you to try to learn what you child is doing and why your child is acting out. Often, bullies act out because of other problems that might be starting at home. Most bullies have self-esteem issues that you can start to work on with your child, to keep them from working these issues out at school in destructive ways.
 If your child is struggling at school and at home, and you're struggling to figure out what to do, there may be more serious behavior problems that you need to address first. Bullying may be a symptom of healthy problems that can be corrected with counseling or medication.


If you think your child struggles to empathize and can't feel remorse for bullying behavior, it's important to talk to a counselor. This can be a sign of serious developmental and emotional problems down the road.

