 You can prevent heart problems by limiting stress. Engage in hobbies you enjoy and spend time with friends. Try yoga, deep breathing techniques, and regular exercise — at least 30 minutes five days per week — in order to reduce stress. Identify situations or people that stress you out and avoid them when possible.
 A diet rich in whole grains, fruits, and vegetables will keep your heart healthy and strong. Avoid processed foods with high levels of salt, sugar, and fat. Eat foods rich in vitamins and nutrients but low in calories like spinach, broccoli, kale, and strawberries. Obtain protein from lean sources like soy, nuts, seeds, and eggs. Avoid red meat.Eat berries in cereal, for dessert, or as a healthy snack.
Incorporate kale, spinach, and other leafy greens into salads and wraps.


Keeping your body mass index (BMI) within the healthy range is an important way to prevent heart problems. Monitor your caloric intake each day with an activity monitor like Fitbit, or use a diary to track the calories your burned and those you took in. If you need to lose weight, take in fewer calories each day than you burn. When you've reached a healthy weight, ensure the calories you burn and ingest each day are of equal amounts.

A useful BMI calculator is available at http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/educational/lose_wt/BMI/bmicalc.htm.
You also need to make sure you eat enough calories to avoid lightheadedness and episodes of fatigue and blood sugar fluctuations. Aim to eat at least 300 – 400 calories three times per day, plus one to two 200-calorie snacks. If you are trying to lose weight, these numbers may be different, so be sure to personalize your meals for your individual needs. Remember that women should not consume fewer than 1,200 calories daily and men should not consume fewer than 1,500.


If you smoke, quit as soon as possible. Reduce your intake from, for instance, one pack each day to one every two days. After a week or so, reduce your intake again by half. Continue in this way until you quit. Try nicotine patches or gum to curb cravings., You can strengthen your heart through even moderate exercise. Start slowly by incorporating simple physical activity into your daily routine. For instance, you could walk up stairs instead of taking an elevator, or ride your bike to work instead of driving.


While all exercise is beneficial, cardio is most important for strengthening the heart. Riding a bike or going for a run are two great options.
Work out with a friend or spouse to increase the fun. A workout buddy is also useful for keeping you on track with your workout goals.

