 There is nothing wrong with spending some time wallowing in your unhappiness, in fact, it’s part of the process, but eventually it will be time to get up, dust yourself off and start moving on. You may not feel like you want to, but when you’re ready, you may need to force yourself to get started.Focus on thinking positive thoughts and emphasize the parts of your life that are going well.
Make the conscious decision to start working on being happy again and take your happiness seriously.
Don’t ruminate on negative thoughts. When you feel yourself starting to get down, force yourself to think about something different.
 One of the hardest parts about rejection or not being with the person we care about is the feeling of helplessness it can create. No matter how strong your feelings are, they can’t change how others feel. Take control back from that feeling of helplessness by taking charge of your life and your actions.Make conscious decisions before you act. Don’t just get through the day, choose what you are going to do and then go after it.
Make healthy choices to double up on the positivity gained through taking charge of your life. Choose to eat better, go for a run or something else that benefits you.
 Once you are feeling more like yourself again, it may be time to get back on the dating scene. Try to meet some new people and even go on some dates. While you may not find the right person right away, you may find that you enjoy the process and the opportunities it presents.If you get into a relationship, take it slow and allow your feelings to develop naturally.
Don’t put pressure on yourself to date if you’re not ready. Making some new friends could do just fine.
 If things didn’t work out the way you’d hoped, that doesn’t make your friend or the crush that you’ve gotten over bad people. Just like with you, not being right for someone isn’t a gauge of their character. Don’t hold a grudge and try to remain friends if you’re comfortable with doing so.


If you don’t feel ready to be friends with either of them again, that’s okay. Take your time.
Remember that friendships are valuable. Treat each of them with kindness and there may come a day when things can go back to how they once were for each of you.
Remember that holding on to negative feelings hurts you more than anyone else.

