 Jump in the shower when you think your parents are about to ask you to take care of a chore. It should buy you 15 to 20 minutes, and you can continue to stall while you dry off and get dressed if you need to. Chores need to get done before everyone goes to bed, and your parents may just get frustrated and do it themselves if you take too long.;
, If you know a chore is coming, do something that will keep you from using your hands for a while. Make sure your hands get covered in something that’s really tough to get off. Digging around the yard will make your hands look dirty, but all the mud will come off with a minute or two of handwashing. Things like paint, shoe polish, and grease are all tough to clean off and will work great for this purpose.


Can’t think of any good ways to get your hands messy? Take off your old nail polish and repaint your fingernails. Decide it’s a good time to really give your bike a deep cleaning. Paint something like a birdhouse or your cell phone case with a lot of different colors. These will all make your hands too dirty for chores for a while.
 Your parents won’t ask you to wash the dishes if they think you might make them sick by touching them. You have to be really convincing though. Have a plausible excuse for why you don’t feel well, like eating something that made you feel weird afterwards. Make it seem like you are genuinely uncomfortable by sitting quietly and not doing too much.


Your parents know you better than anyone, so it may be tough to fool them. Make sure not to make classic mistakes like having a coughing fit one second then talking with your friend on the phone for half an hour. Keep your story straight and don’t change the symptoms you supposedly have. Whatever you do, make sure it doesn’t seem like you’re having fun., Friends depend on each other, something parents understand just as well as you do. If you know a chore you hate doing is on the way, text your friend and ask them to call you about something they’re upset about. Your parents will understand and allow you to console your friend instead of doing the chore. Make sure you call someone who is a good actor so your parents don’t get suspicious when they don’t sound upset.


Don’t worry if neither of you can come up with something that your friend might need your help with. Pretend they got in a fight with one of their good friends or are having relationship problems. These are all common issues that everyone faces, and your parents will leave you alone to deal with it.
 Your parents want you to do well in school, so they’ll let you off the hook if they think you have an important assignment to do. Have a plan for which teacher supposedly assigned it as well as a general outline of what the assignment is. You don’t have to have a whole lesson plan in your head, just a few details in case your parents ask questions.


Don’t volunteer information unless your parents ask for it. You probably don’t ramble on about the assignments you actually have to do. Make it seem like just another thing you have to get through to pass the class.
Don’t say you’re going to work on an essay and start playing video games. You’re going to at least make it look like you’re working. Open up a text document and a few web pages for research. Type a little bit, or just copy and paste some sections if you’re really feeling lazy. You don’t have to stare at this the whole time, but make sure it looks like you’re working when your parents are nearby.

