 An eight ounce glass of milk contains a third of the 1300 mg of calcium recommended for children above age nine. Three glasses of milk a day will also ensure your child gets the recommended amount of vitamin D, the substance that makes it possible for bones to absorb calcium.Try to limit the amount of soda they drink, since soda contains no nutritional value. Some preteens and teens think drinking milk will make them gain weight, so they choose diet sodas instead. Talk to your child about choosing skim milk or other low-fat options if maintaining a healthy weight is a concern.
If your child doesn’t like milk, try to include flavored options, like chocolate or strawberry milk. However, make sure to check the calories and sugar in flavored milks and choose lower sugar and calories options whenever possible. Consider fruit smoothies containing yogurt or milk as well.
Talk to your child’s doctor about options if your child is allergic to milk. Orange juice fortified with calcium and vitamin D is a healthy option for kids who can’t drink milk or who don’t like the taste of milk.;
, Soy and rice milks, especially calcium-fortified varieties, are good alternatives if your child doesn’t like cow’s milk or is allergic. These and lactose-free milks can also offer a healthy beverage option if your child is lactose intolerant. However, it’s important to keep in mind that fortified non-dairy alternatives actually contain about half as much calcium as the value listed on nutrition labels, so you’ll have to make sure your child drinks more or consumes other calcium-rich items.This is because about half of the calcium they contain separates and deposits at the bottom of the container. Even shaking the container won’t fully resuspend the mineral.
 Make sure their diet includes yogurt, cheese, and other dairy products. Feed them a calcium-fortified cereal for breakfast. One serving of each of these items will provide about a third of your child’s recommended daily need.Leafy greens such as kale and turnip greens contain about ten percent of recommended daily need per serving.
If your kids don't like leafy greens, experiment with cereals to find a few favorites, making sure to check labels for calcium content. Try serving yogurt to dip with fruit as a snack and making cheesy mashed potatoes or meatballs to add calcium to other meals.Remember that you can rely on flavored milks or fortified orange juice if your toddler or young child is especially picky. If even chocolate milk doesn't solve pickiness issues, talk to your child's pediatrician about a daily vitamin or calcium supplement.
 Treatments for asthma can reduce bone density after long-term use, including corticosteroids such as prednisone, cortisone, and dexamethasone. Other medications that can decrease bone strength include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI), methotrexate, and some anti-seizure medications, like phenytoin (Dilantin).If your child is prescribed any of these medications, make sure they consume more calcium than recommended. Talk to their doctor about how to modify their diet for their specific age and sex.
Talk to your child’s doctor about bone health if they have conditions such as Crohn’s disease, celiac disease, type 1 diabetes, and Cushing’s disease, which can each affect calcium and other nutrient absorption.

