 If it's spring already, the easiest way to capture the smell is to simply leave your windows opened. This works especially well if you have a backyard with a lot of trees. Try leaving windows open during the day to let fresh spring air waft inside.This may not work as well if you live in a more urban area. Unwanted smells, such as car exhaust, may seep into your home.;
, If you don't have any plants, stop by a greenhouse or department store and purchase some. Strong smelling plants will give your home a natural spring smell and provide you with some extra decoration.Go for plants that have a strong scent, like lavender, gardenias, sweat peas, and roses.
Plants like palms, ferns, and peach lilies are air-purifying and can help keep the air in your home smelling fresh.
 Instead of using store-bought incense, pick flowers from outside or buy flowers at a flower shop. Strong smelling flowers, like lilacs and roses, work well. Tie them together using a cotton string and hang them in a dry spot in your home until they dry. Once the flowers dry out, you can light the tips to create a fragrant spring smell.Make sure to watch your flowers closely when you light them. Some flowers, even when dried out, burn too quickly to be safe to use.
 You can buy jojoba oil online or at some department stores. Put the oil in a small bowl and then place two to three small sprigs from a pine tree in it. The oil should cover about half of each sprig. Place the bowl somewhere in your home and the pine smell should waft out of the bowl, creating a fresh, spring-like smell.If you have young children or pets, keep this bowl out of their reach.
 Place some herbs and dried flowers in a spray bottle. Herbs and flowers with strong smells, like lavender, gardenia, sweet pea, thyme, or rosemary, tend to work best. Spritz the spray in rooms to create a nice spring scent.You can spritz the water into the air in the room or spray down the walls and furniture.
If you choose to spritz your furniture, test a small patch with the spray first to make sure it does not cause discoloration or other damage.

