 Your divorce might make you feel heartbroken, embittered, or enraged, and it might seem like the easiest thing in the world to let the lawyers and the mediators handle the whole thing. That would be a mistake.Don’t put all of your trust in your lawyer or your mediator. They are professionals, but they’re still human, and they can be just as lazy or negligent as anyone in any other profession. It’s in your best interest to keep that in mind and supervise them closely.There is no foolproof way of choosing a professional, because unless you are a professional in the same field, you can’t evaluate them on equal terms. Take into account their experience, their style (combative vs. cooperative), their reputation, and their fees.
 Don’t take your spouse’s word that the assets they declare are in fact their only assets. Concealing assets is a very common tactic in divorce proceedings. Scrutinize any and all financial statements and declarations carefully.If anything seems like it’s missing or just doesn’t seem to add up, make sure your lawyer knows about your suspicion. Tracking down concealed assets is what they’re there for.
If you haven’t retained the services of a lawyer and you suspect your spouse is concealing assets, then you should look into retaining one.
 Cars, houses, boats, and motorcycles can all depreciate—almost all assets can and do depreciate eventually. Strongly consider selling off those assets rather than keeping them.


Ownership of the primary residence might not seem nearly as valuable in a decade as it does now. It might be far better to sell it off, split the money, and invest it somewhere else., There’s no point in engaging in trench warfare over every desk, chair, and paperback book. Wars of attrition over every single item in a home are not only costly, but guaranteed to make your divorce as painful as possible.While you might value the sofa, do you value the sofa more than your peace of mind? Do you value it enough to make your attorney fight for it at $200 an hour? Do you value the sofa so much that you want to talk about it during your mediation—that costs another $200 an hour?

, While you shouldn’t blindly put all of your trust in a lawyer, mediator, or accountant, you should consult with them. Use the experts to your advantage, just remember that they are your agents to be directed, and not your managers to direct you.Consider retaining the services of a Certified Divorce Financial Analyst (a CDFA) to examine the marital assets. They are basically “asset detectives,” individuals with background in accounting who specialize in uncovering hidden assets. Ask your attorney if they contract with a CDFA, and if they don’t, consider retaining one yourself.If your spouse retains the services of an attorney, then you should as well. If you suspect your spouse is concealing assets, consult an attorney or CDFA immediately.

