 Increasingly, women are choosing to sell their used wedding gowns rather than save them forever. It may make more sense to buy and pass on. By doing so, you can save thousands of dollars. A talented seamstress can usually do alterations to fit your properly and styling options.


You may have dreams of having your daughter wear your gown, especially if it was expensive and you want to justify the cost. But you likely do not know if you will have a girl, that she will get married, will be a similar size, and would want to wear your dress simply because what is in fashion today may be tacky or hideous in twenty years.
Check out websites such as Craigslist.org to find used wedding dresses.
Some stores have pre-owned wedding dresses too, which are gently used dresses and which can cost as low as $100. When you consider that the average wedding dress is only worn once for a few hours, it can make a lot of sense to get one that is used.
There are some stores which accept wedding dress donations and then sell those dresses at a steep discount, donating the money made to a charity or cause.
 Check with a formal clothing rental store in your area. They may have wedding gowns and men’s suits for rent. Rented wedding dresses can range in price from $200 to $2,000, plus a damage deposit, and will be available for a few days before the wedding. Keep in mind, however, that you will likely not be able to alter this dress., If you are going for a less formal event, (such as a beach wedding) you might wear more casual or non-traditional clothing. Men might wear khaki pants and a button-down shirt and women might wear a white sundress with a simple veil.


Consider your footwear too. If you are getting married in the summer, for example, you might be able to get away with simple white flats, sandals or even flip-flops, if they match the aesthetic of your event.
 Wedding dresses in particular can be very expensive, but if you choose a dress that is not sold as a wedding dress, it can mean huge savings. An elegant white formal dress can be absolutely perfect.

