 Choose a box that is a least 6 inches on each side, with a lid that seals.


You can find large plastic food storage containers at a thrift store or dollar store.
Using an icepick or a slender screwdriver, poke 6 – 10 breathing holes in the lid. Make the holes big enough to let air in, but too small for the ladybugs to escape.
This step can be very dangerous. Ask an adult to help with this one.;
, Add some fresh leaves and grass from your garden, so your ladybirds will have something to crawl around on.
 If you want to make your ladybird habitat pretty, you can add some decoration. Give your ladybugs small pebbles to explore, or tiny shells to hide under.
 Search your yard or garden until you find a ladybug – you'll probably find one on a plant leaf or on a branch. Using a large leaf, gently brush the ladybird off its perch and into the box. Put the lid on the box, and look for the next one.


You don't need too many ladybirds – three to six should be plenty.
It is best to look for ladybirds in a bright, fruit-and-vegetable-filled garden. If it has plants and flowers, it's more than likely you'll find some.
Ladybugs are more common in middle and late spring as well as early summer.
If you can't find any ladybirds, you can order them online from a gardening supply store.
 Place a few moistened raisins or banana slices in the box, so your ladybirds have something to eat. If you are going to keep them for more than one day, remember to add new food every day.Never feed ladybirds citrus fruits like oranges or lemons, or any type of acidic fruit.
Ladybirds can be kept for several days, but if you try to keep them permanently they will die of malnutrition. You should release them back into your garden within the week.
 Place a wet paper towel in the box, so your ladybirds will have access to water. You can also keep their foliage moist by misting it with water from a spray bottle, or add water droplets to the leaves with a clean eye-dropper., The little beetles will die if kept in a cage, so you'll want to return them to your garden after you've watched them for awhile. The ideal time to release ladybugs is early evening, which gives them all night to find shelter, food, and water.If you have a ladybird habitat in your garden, release your ladybugs near it.

