 Do not resent a complaint from a customer. Consider complaints to be a free source of feedback on how your company is viewed by its patrons.Resist the urge to be angry, resentful, or grouchy at a complaining customer: instead, be grateful that they are making you aware of a potential problem with how you conduct business.


A business's reputation depends less on the number of complaints they receive and more on how fairly and professionally they handle those complaints., A key to excellent customer service is responding as quickly as possible to a complaint. Get back to email complaints, complaints left over voicemail, or written complaints within two business days if at all possible. Even if you have not yet come up with a solution, you should let your customer know that you are working on it and that you have heard their concerns.Solving their complaint quickly will please your customer and will also save your company valuable time and energy. Try not to have complaints lead to multiple conversations or contacts: resolve all complaints on the spot if at all possible., Thank your customer for their patience, their business, and for taking the time to notify you of an issue.Your goal is not to make the customer disappear but rather to please the customer enough that she will continue using your goods and services.
 Use active listening techniques to make sure that you understand your customer's complaint and that they feel like they are being heard.Do not dismiss or ignore what they say: give them your full attention. Active listening involves:Making eye contact
Nodding and using other affirming body language
Not getting distracted
Asking follow-up questions to make sure you understand them fully

, Do not blame the customer or avoid your own responsibility. Instead, apologize clearly and directly for your customer's problem. They will appreciate it, and an apology is a first step in approaching a resolution to make you and your customer happy.It is especially effective if you pair an apology with the beginnings of a proactive solution. You might say:


"I am so sorry for your frustration. Let's work together to solve this matter."
"I would like to apologize on behalf of the company that your product never arrived. I will make sure that you receive a replacement shortly."
"I absolutely understand your frustration, and I am sorry for any trouble we might have caused. How can we make this better for you?"

, Most large companies have policies to resolve the most common customer complaints such as defective products, undelivered products, or delayed services. Ideally the procedure should be one that protects the interest of both the customer and the company by weeding out illegitimate complaints and by granting customers recompense if their complaints is legitimate.


It is easiest for you and your customer if you have a grievance procedure that is fair, simple, and fast. Technology can be very helpful in this regard: a website where customers can file complaints will make it easier for you and for them to reach a mutually beneficial solution., An immediate solution to a complaint can improve customer loyalty by 25%.Try to eliminate delays in refunding your customer's money, replacing their product, or giving them store credit. Make it possible for your staff members to undertake these transactions on the spot and in the store if possible. Common solutions include:


Refunding their money
Allowing them to exchange their product
Redelivering a delayed product
Redoing a service that was improperly done the first time, free of charge
Giving them store credit and future discounts

, These jobs are an important part of maintaining your customer base and keeping up goodwill. Make sure that your customer service employees are problem-solvers who do not anger easily. Moreover, give them the leeway to solve customer grievance procedures on their own if possible: give them the power to resolve complaints on their own without referring customers to management. This will empower your customers and eliminate time delays., A week or so after you have implemented the resolution, get in touch with your customer to see whether they are now satisfied. This is a great opportunity to apologize once again for their trouble and to thank them for their business. Hopefully they are now happy and will continue doing business with you.