 Communication is one of the most critical aspects of maintaining a healthy relationship with someone. Even if you aren't serious with the person you're seeing, it's important to have open communication with them. Don't hold anything back. If they do something that annoys you, have a conversation with them about it. Communicating effectively entails getting things off your chest while still staying sensitive to their feelings.


Don't let resentment or negative feelings build up without saying anything, and don't be overly critical or obsessive when it comes to their individual personality.
When giving criticism, try to say it politely so you don't hurt their feelings.
When receiving criticism, don't jump to feeling offended. Instead, evaluate what they are saying and why they are saying it, and have an honest and open conversation with them.Be interested in what they have to say and remember to listen instead of speaking over them.
 This all comes down to what you are looking for. You may be looking for a committed long-term relationship or you may just want to have fun. Either way, the guy that you're with should understand what you want out of the relationship. Have a conversation with them about your expectations and don't be afraid to hurt their feelings. If you wait and they make assumptions, it may end up hurting their feelings even worse later on.


If you just want to stay casual, you can say, "Hey, I really like you, but I don't want a serious relationship right now. I'm just trying to have fun and don't want to be committed. If you don't want that and don't want to see me, I totally understand."
If you want a committed relationship you can say, "I really enjoy your company and want to take the relationship to the next level. I only want to be involved with you, so what are your thoughts about being exclusive?"

, Carrying baggage over from previous relationships can harm your current one. Throw out old mementos, pictures, and items of your ex to help you get over them.Don't make assumptions about all men because of your previous experiences and don't think that you have an extraordinary intuition, especially when that intuition manifests negatively most of the time.


All people are vastly different, and just because someone in the past hurt you, doesn't mean all future men will.
If you still are emotionally withdrawn or depressed because of your breakup, it's a good idea to take a break from dating.
Another way to get over past baggage is to find at least one positive that you gained out of the negative experience.This may be a new insight or perspective that you were able to gain.
 You threaten the health of your relationship when you are unwilling to compromise. When both parties in a relationship can negotiate, it creates a healthy balance and allows both people in the relationship to be happy.Let things go and be willing to change if you care enough about the person. Keep an open mind and always show your appreciation for the guy that you're with.Don't change who you are for another guy, but try to think of the issue objectively. If it's in your best interests or helps the relationship, then it's something you should work on doing.
 Think about their desires and what makes them happy, and go out of your way to do it for them. This could be a day at the spa, a new pair of shoes, or a note that you leave for him at his house. Think of what he would like and do it. Small things will add up over time and will help you create a mutual appreciation for one another.


Don't overdo it and smother them. Just remember to keep them in mind.
Remember to always stay within budget and never spend more money than you have.

