 The more you know, the further you can learn in life and surpass other people around you. The smarter you are, the more successful you will become. But don't make it too obvious.;
, If on the ground, sit as if you were sitting on a chair, couch etc. One leg up and the other pointing away from you.


It might not be comfortable, so you can sit with your legs up to your chest but not with your hands on your knees (that's how L sits).
You can also fold your leg under you - as though you were sitting on it - and try to raise it slightly as a compromise to Near's original sitting position.
 Do not talk a lot and rarely show your emotions. But if you want to show your emotions, do it in private. Develop a calm exterior. When someone bothers you, leave them alone and just reply nicely and calmly. Use a serious tone, but only when actually needed.
 Then just walk, continuing from there.
 Learn to enjoy puzzles and build objects upon other objects to pass your time, so you can think about something. Try to use toys in as many explanations as you can. This is optional. Playing with toys is one way to have fun and calm yourself.
 People will like you a lot less. Try your best to think about any situations that you need to worry about and try to anticipate movements, people's actions and thoughts.


Try to get the best information you can when there is a "case" with your friends or family. Also try to "solve it" the best as you can.
 Be seen wearing only socks most of time. If it is allowed in your school, do this.


If wearing only socks is not possible, compromise by wearing white sneakers or ballet flats.
 Speak only when spoken to and try to always be thinking of something. In school/work, do not pay attention if it is something you've already learned. This will show and assure everyone that you are overly smart.
 (Most often on the right side, with your right hand, and just in front of the ear).
 If you are a girl wear binding on your chest to look more like a guy.
Have your hair cut short (not past neck) and bleach your hair white (if possible) or you could get a white wig.
Near also has bags under his eyes, so try wearing eyeliner, if wanted.
If at school, try to wear a loose, oversized, plain jacket. Make sure it has a light color, like white, beige, etc.
 Stack up dices and matchsticks, throw darts (but do not actually hit the target), use finger puppets as real people, solve blank puzzles (with the L logo), play with tarot cards, robots and remote controlled ducks all the while having a blank expression.

