 Thoroughly wash a vase with hot water and soap. Use a bottle brush to scrub out any residue and then soak the vase in a 5% dilution of bleach for a several minutes. 








Create a 5% dilution with one cup of bleach for every gallon of water. You should also use this dilution for cleaning your scissors before cutting your roses.
Bacteria that deteriorate freshly cut roses may reside in vases that have not been clean.
 Water your roses well the night before cutting them. The roses will have more substance thanks to the extra drink of water. While you water, make note of the location of the blooms you want to cut so that you can immediately refrigerate them after you have cut them in the morning.
 Cut your roses in the morning. You may cut them as early as you have daylight, which can be anywhere from 5:00 am to as late as 10:00 am depending on the time of year. Cut your roses earlier if the weather is hot. In contrast, cut your roses later if there is a lot of morning dew.Try not to cut your roses at midday or later as they will have the least amount of substance.
Keep your roses cool. Roses will last longer in cool weather and deteriorate in heat. If the weather is cool, you may be able to cut your roses later in the day.
 The degree of openness you want for your roses depends on their intended use. Cut the roses just after their budding stage as the petals just start to unfurl if you want them to last longer, like in the use of a bouquet. The variety of rose will open determine when you should cut them as some may be cut at a more open stage.For example St. Patrick and Moonstone roses have many petals and can be cut when they are more open.
 Cut the stems at an angle with clean, sharp cutters. The angle prevents the rose from standing flat, blocking any water from being absorbed. Place the roses in lukewarm or cold water as soon as they have been cut. Re-cut the stems when you have them underwater to eliminate air bubbles that can lead to premature wilting and shorten the life of your rose.Remove any foliage below the waterline if you’re using the roses for a bouquet.
 Fill a bucket of water so that the stem of the flower is completely under water but the bloom remains dry. Let the flowers drink the water in a cool and dark room for an hour. Refrigerate your roses at 38 degrees fahrenheit or until you are about to use them.Cut roses will last longer if they are placed in the fridge overnight as you sleep.
 Florists bread roses to last long once placed in a vase. If you are using you own roses, make note of which last longer once cut. Hybrid teas tend to last longer than antique roses.Varieties that tend to last longer in vases are:Crystalline
Secret
Red Intuition
St. Patrick
Veteran’s Honor
Black Magic
Andrea Stelzer
Louise Estes
Moonstone
Elizabeth Taylor



, Floral preservative can be purchased online or at your local flower shop or garden supply store. They can be added to the vase water to extend the life of the roses. Change the vase water often as old water contains bacteria. Softened water may contain salt that is not good for roses.Cut your roses under water every day as you change the vase water.

