 There are a variety of ways this can be done, but the most common ways are using a diamond stone or a whetstone, or water stone. Follow up with a honing steel to align the knife.
 Wet your whetstones, or water stones, by submerging them into water for at least 45 minutes. The surface of the water stone has to be wet while the knife is being sharpened against them.Keep a bowl of water nearby to moisten the stone as needed.
Allow mud to build up on the surface of the water stone. This will benefit the sharpening process by creating an abrasion for the knife’s edge to grind against.
 Hold the edge and the handle of the knife against the surface of the stone.Use your free hand to hold the blade of the knife steady.
Ensure that both of your hands are at a 15-20 degree angle as you prepare to make the first stroke.
 The knife should be sharpened against the grain and slid slowly and evenly towards you and the edge of the counter. The knife should be flat against the water stone and at a constant 15-20 degree angle.At the end of the stroke, the tip of the knife blade should be the last point remaining on the stone.
Once the tip of the knife touches the bottom of the water stone, reset the motions, and begin the stroke again.Repeat the action several times. When one side is thoroughly sharpened, turn over the knife to work the other side against the water stone.
Have your knives sharpened at least once a year, depending upon use.
 To steel a blade, hold the knife flat against a surface and slide it along, gradually raising the back of the blade until it begins to cut into the surface. From there, take your steel in one hand, and hold the back corner of the knife's edge to the end of the steel closest to you.


"Sweep" the blade towards the tip of the steel, making sure that all of the length of the blade comes in contact with the steel.
Do this “sweeping” technique against the honing steel ten times for each side of the blade.
 Access its efficacy, its level of resistance, its precision in making really thin cuts, etc. If it needs to be sharpened more, start the sharpening process over again until you have the slice you like.