 We cannot always know how or why something ended up stuck in our ear, but treatment varies depending on what the foreign object is. If possible, identify the object before making any decisions regarding care.


The majority of foreign objects lodged in ears are placed there intentionally, usually by young children and toddlers. These include food material, hair clips, beads, small toys, pencils, and q-tips. If you know what your child was doing before symptoms appeared, you may be able to determine what's stuck in his ear.Earwax can accumulate in the ear canal and harden. The buildup of earwax can also develop due to overuse or misuse of q-tips.Symptoms of an earwax buildup include a sense of fullness or pressure in one ear. Sometimes, this the buildup of earwax can cause dizziness and decreased hearing.An insect can be a particularly alarming and annoying foreign object to have in the ear, but also the easiest to detect. The insect's buzzing and movement can be heard and felt in the ear.;
, While annoying, the majority of the time a foreign object in the ear is not a medical emergency. If you cannot remove it yourself, it is typically all right to visit the doctor on the following day. However, in some cases you will need to visit the ER immediately to prevent greater physical harm.


If the object in the ear is something sharp, seek medical care immediately as complications can arise quickly.Young children often place button-type batteries in the ear. These are the kind of small, circular batteries that often go in watches or small household gadgets. If a button battery is in the ear, seek immediate medical attention. The chemicals inside can leak and can cause severe damage to the ear canal.Seek urgent medical assistance if food or plant material is lodged in the ear. These swell when exposed to moisture, creating the possibility of damage to the ear.
If you experience symptoms like swelling, fever, discharge, bleeding, hearing loss, dizziness, or rapidly increasing pain see a doctor right away., Oftentimes, the irritation of a foreign body in the ear is so great we leap into action without considering the consequences. Many do-it-yourself treatment options available at pharmacies do more harm than good when a foreign object is lodged in your ear.


Do not use Q-tips to remove a foreign object from the ear. Q-tips are often our go-to when coping with ear problems, but they do not work when attempting to remove a foreign object. In fact, they may actually push an object deeper into the ear canal.Do not attempt to irrigate the ear yourself. Many drug stores and pharmacies sell ear irrigation kits in the form of suction cups or syringes. While these DIY kits are helpful for day-to-day ear care, you should not attempt ear irrigation without a doctor's assistance if something is stuck in your ear.
Do not use ear drops until you know what is causing your ear discomfort. Foreign objects in the ear can mimic symptoms of other ear conditions. Ear drops can make the problem worse, especially if the foreign object has caused a perforated eardrum.
 Your first recourse should be to tilt your head downward and use gravity to help get the object out. Tilt your head to the side so that the ear with the blockage is facing the ground. Sometimes, this will be enough to let the object drop out.


To alter the shape of the ear canal, pull on the pinna, the outermost part of the ear (not the lobe, but the circle that begins at the top of the ear and stretches down to the lobe). Wiggling this can dislodge the object, after which, gravity will do the rest.Do not strike or hit the side of the head. You can gently shake it, but striking the head could cause further damage., You should only use this method if part of the object is sticking out and you can easily remove it with a pair of tweezers. Do not reach into the ear canal with tweezers.It is not a good idea to try this with anything stuck in a child's ears. See your pediatrician or doctor instead.Clean the tweezers before hand with warm water and antibacterial soap. Foreign objects can sometimes cause perforated eardrums or bleeding and tearing inside the ear canal. This makes your ear extra susceptible to infection.
Grasp the object with the tweezers and pull. Be gentle and go slowly in order to prevent the object from breaking before removal.Do not use this method to remove the object if it is so deep that you cannot see the tip of the tweezers while trying to remove it. Also, do not try this if the person in question will not be still. In such instances, it is preferable that you go to the doctor., If there is an insect in your ear, it can cause a great deal of discomfort by flying around and buzzing. There's also a risk of getting stung. Killing the insect can make removal easier.


Never try to remove an insect with your fingers as it may sting.
Tilt your head to the side so the affected ear is pointing upwards towards the ceiling or sky. For an adult, pull the earlobe backward and upward. For a child, pull it backward and downward.Mineral oil, olive oil, or baby oil works best. Mineral oil is preferable if you have it.Make sure the oil is warm, but do not boil it or microwave it before hand as you don't want to burn your ear. Only a small drop is needed, about as much as you would use when applying ear drops.Ideally, the insect will drown or suffocate in the oil and float to the surface of the ear.You should only use oil if you are attempting to remove an insect. If there has been pain, bleeding, or any discharges from the ear, it is possible that you have a perforated eardrum. It is dangerous to use oil in such instances; do not use oil if you have any of these symptoms. See a doctor after using this method to make sure that all insect parts have been removed from the ear., Inform children to keep small objects away from ears, mouth, and other orifices. Supervise closely children under the age of five when they are around small objects. Be particularly careful with disc and button batteries; keep them in a safe place, out of the reach of small children., If none of the home remedies suggested are viable, it is important to visit a doctor and seek professional assistance. Before doing so, you will want to collect necessary information. If the subject is a child, be sure to ask about all the details of the condition ahead of visiting the doctor. He might be more willing to share details with you than with a doctor.


Most importantly, you should inform the doctor of what is in the ear and how long it has been in there. This will give the doctor some sense for how much of a threat the condition is.
You will also want to tell the doctor about what has happened subsequent to the initial incident. Have there been any side effects? Did you try to remove the object? If so, how did you do so and what was the outcome?

, A doctor may suggest irrigating the ear canal with water or a saline solution to remove a foreign object. This is a relatively quick and simple procedure.


Usually, a syringe filled with clean, warm water is squirted into the ear canal.If successful, any foreign materials will be flushed out during the irrigation process.You should never try to irrigate the ear canal at home. Leave this to medical professionals., Though tweezers might not have worked at home, your doctor should have special medical instruments more adept at removing foreign objects from your ear.


An otoscope, a medical instrument used to illuminate and explore the ear canal, will be used in conjunction with medical tweezers. Your doctor can more easily monitor the tweezers inside the ear and avoid injuring any important or sensitive structures.Specialized tweezers, designed specifically for use on ears, or forceps will be used to gently remove the object from your ear.If the object is metal, your doctor can also use a long instrument that has been magnetized. This will make extraction much easier., Your doctor will hold a small catheter near the foreign object. Suction will then be applied to gently ease the object out of your ear.This is generally used to remove solid objects like buttons and beads rather than organic material like food or live objects like bugs.
 This is particularly common in cases involving young children and toddlers. Kids often struggle to stay calm and still during the above techniques. Doctors oftentimes recommend sedation to prevent movement that could result in an accident and injury to inner ear structures.


Avoid eating or drinking 8 hours before going to the doctor's office if your doctor mentions sedation as a possibility.Follow through with any instructions the doctor gives you before you leave his office. The doctor might want you to monitor the child's behavior in the event of complications. Listen carefully and ask any questions you might have., Occasionally, the eardrum might be punctured by a foreign object. If you have a perforated eardrum, the doctor will likely recommend treatment.


Symptoms of a perforated eardrum include pain, discomfort, a feeling of fullness in the ear, dizziness, and fluid or blood draining from the ear.In general, perforated eardrums heal on their own within two months. But your doctor might recommend a round of antibiotics to prevent infection. She will also advise you to keep the ear clean and dry while healing., After you have seen the doctor, she will likely recommend that you avoid swimming or immersing your ear in water for 7-10 days. This will help reduce your chances of developing an infection. Cover your affected ear with petroleum jelly and cotton ball when you shower or bathe.


Usually, doctors recommend a follow-up appointment within a week to make sure the ear is healing properly and there is no drainage, bleeding, or pain.