 Beat it well with a spoon so all the ingredients are evenly spread throughout the mixture.


Although this method will work well on all hair colors, people with darker hair should increase the amount of cinnamon they use to ensure a noticeable lightening of the highlighted hair.
 You don’t want your hair to be soaking wet, so don’t take a full shower. Using your hands, splash water into your hair to get it just slightly wet throughout, all along the length of your hair.
 Just as in the previous method, decide which sections of your hair you want to highlight and section them off with clips.


You might want to pull the remaining hair into a braid or low ponytail, so it doesn’t mix too much with the hair you’re trying to highlight.
Because this method requires long-term soaking of the product into your hair, make sure you have good clips that will keep the treated hair in place.
 Dip an old toothbrush into the mixture you’ve made, and use it to apply the mixture to the hair that you want to highlight.


Undo the clip holding back each section of hair, and only work one section of hair at a time.
When you’ve finished applying the mixture, pull the hair back up into a clip.
Work your way through all the sections of hair you wish to highlight.
 Make sure the clips you’re using to keep your treated hair separate are securely in place. Reinforce them with bobby pins and hair ties if necessary; just make sure your hair won’t come down and get mixed with the un-highlighted hair.


Cover the top of your head (the highlighted section) with something secure; you might use plastic wrap, a tightly-fitted shower cap or swimming cap, or a towel pulled into a turban for drying your hair.
Make sure that the un-highlighted hair does not get pulled up into this wrap.
 Once your hair is covered, forget about it for at least eight hours. Your best bet is to begin this procedure in the evening, then sleep with the mixture soaking into your hair.


Cover your pillow with a towel if you’re worried about getting it dirty.
 Shampoo and condition your hair with high quality products, making sure all of the mixture has been rinsed. Repeat your shampoo and conditioning routine an extra time if you have trouble getting your hair clean.

