 As a fire sign and the first in the zodiac, Aries are known for being bold, tireless and aggressive. Aries are headstrong, can talk a mile a minute, and prefer to be doing rather than sitting. Dating an Aries means that you’ll have your work cut out for you, and you should be prepared to be as energetic and agreeable as it takes to keep both of you interested.Dating an Aries may not be for the faint of heart. Between the rapid fluctuations in mood, the impulsive decision-making and the natural intensity of their personalities, they may sometimes be overwhelming to handle.
You can have a lot of fun dating an Aries because of their adventurous spirits. Don’t be resistant to going new places and trying new things. You’ll be given a chance to enjoy opportunities that you might not have otherwise experienced on your own.;
, Aries are born leaders and will assert themselves in leadership roles whenever possible. This goes for relationships, as well. If an Aries isn’t allowed to call the shots, they’ll begin to get anxious and resent the restriction, as this is literally in opposition to their nature. While all relationships should consider both partners’ feelings, it’s okay to let an Aries take the reigns. It’s where they feel most comfortable.Letting an Aries handle the planning aspects of dating can do you both a favor if you’re not good at making decisions.
While it’s one thing to give your Aries partner control of day-to-day sorts of details, you should both be on equal footing in the relationship.
 Never content to simply sit and luxuriate, Aries signs are fiercely driven and competitive and will jump at the chance to prove themselves. This means that your relationship will be punctuated by thrilling and unusual dates and activities. Rather than a relaxing night out at the movies, you can expect an Aries to want to take you dancing, be in attendance at rousing events and even plan adrenaline-charged outings like rock climbing and skydiving. If you want to date an Aries, you should get used to the idea of adventure.In general, you should try to be agreeable to your Aries date’s zany ideas, but don’t be afraid to let them know when something is a little too far out of your comfort zone.
 Planning only goes so far with an Aries. While it’s important for them to make and keep a schedule, most Aries men and women will prefer to take things at the spur of the moment, as this is more appealing to their thrill-seeking character than adhering to a strict calendar. Your Aries date might come up with outrageous date ideas at a moment’s notice, and you should be ready to show the willingness to go along with them.If you’re the kind of person that finds it draining to constantly be spontaneous, try to work out a balance between mutually agreed-upon plans that the two of you stick to and more on-the-fly sorts of activities.
 If you’re not a sign that naturally gets along well with Aries, explain these differences to your partner when conflict arises. That way, you can shift the focus to your respective personalities and emotional requirements and keep situations from growing heated. Discuss what you have in common and where you differ early on, so that you have an idea of what to expect from one another in the future.Fire signs like Aries (which also includes Leo and Sagittarius) tend to form the strongest bonds with air signs (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius) and other fire signs, so if you're a water (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces) or earth sign (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn), you may discover that your Aries interest possesses characteristics that clash with your own.
When talking about your differences, frame the conversation in such a way that each of you are presenting constructive elements of your personality that the other might lack and find comforting in a relationship.
 If you’re not a fire sign yourself, you may find it difficult or uncomfortable to open up about what you need from a relationship. You won’t have to worry about this with an Aries. They are by nature frank, sincere people, and will appreciate your directness. Since it can be a challenge to always know what your partner needs, it’s best when you can establish grounds for talking about these matters openly and avoid a lot of frustrating guesswork.Be extremely clear about what it is you need to feel comfortable in the relationship. It may be that the two of you will just be too different to meet all of each other’s needs, but if you make these needs known in unambiguous terms, an Aries’ action-driven character should be motivated to find ways of caring for them.
 Aries love to make plans and embark on new projects, but aren’t always the best at following through with them. If you’re a planner, use that organization to encourage and concentrate your Aries partner’s innate penchant for getting the ball rolling. Whether you’re thinking about moving in together or just deciding on a place to eat, you should use cool rationale to keep an Aries’ impulsive urges from leading to decisions that never get off the ground.This goes back to not letting your Aries partner become a tyrant when it comes to control. Make sure you’re involved in the decision-making process.
An Aries' almost blind determination to undertake new tasks can be a great benefit when it comes to getting things done as long as they’re not allowed to abandon the task whenever a distraction comes to mind.
 One of the most important things to keep in mind is that no matter how accurately an Aries’ moods and actions reflect the kind of traits represented by their sun sign, nobody can be distilled down to a simple collection of behavioral characteristics. Despite your habits, you’re both individuals, and should strive to view and treat each other on an individual level of respect and consideration. Talk things out, keep an open mind and work continually on compromise and the two of you will enjoy one another for a long time to come., Most of the time, an Aries will be a confident, take-charge person and will become chafed if things don’t go their way. However, it’s important not to let your Aries partner turn into a control freak. As half the relationship, you have a right to express your own feelings, even when you worry it might rankle them. Try to strike the right balance between letting an Aries take the wheel and knowing when to hit the brakes.Your desires, feelings and goals are every bit as important as your partner’s, whether you’re as fierce about expressing them or not.
 Though they are devoted, passionate lovers and will usually be very liberal with their affections, Aries signs also tend to be self-consumed people at a fundamental level and won’t appreciate too much constant attention and oversight—and they’ll have no problem letting you know it. Recognize that Aries are naturally independent people, and be prepared to deal with their romantic mood swings. Clinginess can be a death knell to a relationship with an Aries.An Aries will give and request affection when they feel like it according to their moods.
Every successful relationship needs space. You should enjoy your time alone or with friends as much as your time together., Since Aries are so aggressive, you should know better than to butt heads with them directly over relationship issues. Though this doesn’t mean you shouldn’t stand up for yourself and present your side of things, you should know that making things work with an Aries is about meeting their blunt forcefulness with tact and pliability. Don’t lose your temper when arguing; instead, wait until your Aries partner has had their say and then calmly explain your own thoughts on the matter.If you allow the argument to become heated, an Aries might use it as a chance to unleash their competitive side, even if it’s to one-up you in saying hurtful things. Try not to let disagreements turn ugly.
 It doesn’t pay to compete with an Aries, especially if you’re dating them. While it can make recreational activities and sex more interesting to be a little playful, Aries are arguably the most competitive sign that there is, and will never back down when it comes to pushing their will on others. When things get tough, this means you should adamantly maintain your position, but refuse to engage in terms that specify winning and losing.Compromise is about reaching a conclusion that both partners can live with despite having to make some sacrifice. All relationship matters are best resolved through compromise, not through one person giving in to the expectations of the other.

