 A tattoo design reflects a part of you and this part of you will be presented to the world every day. With this in mind, let your imagination go wild and think of a design that will be unique and will express to the world what you want it to. For example, this design could incorporate a symbol that has a special meaning to you, an animal that you have always loved, or it could use colors that signal an important period in your life.


Have a design in mind before you make an appointment with a tattoo artist.When thinking about a design, you should also consider its size. For your first tattoo, you may want to get a small tattoo. This will allow you to understand the pain, and how you react to it over time, without the commitment of several hours in the tattoo chair.Think of a design that you will be happy with in the future. While you can have a tattoo removed, it is a very, very painful process that can be expensive and time consuming.Because of this, just think of them as permanent from the start and get a tattoo that you will be happy with in the future.
You can either have your exact design planned out or you could rely on your tattoo artist to create a custom design for you. This is up to you.
 With your design in mind, find a tattoo artist that you want to work with. You can find one via word of mouth, for instance if your friend worked with a tattoo artist that they loved, or you can look online for tattoo artists in your area. Once you identify a tattoo artist, look at online reviews and look at their tattoo portfolio, either online or in their shop. If you like their style and their reputation, and you think that their style will translate well to your design idea, then book a consultation.Most artists will draw out your tattoo design for you so that you can approve it at the beginning of your actual tattoo appointment. If there is anything about the design that you don't like, feel free to discuss it with the tattoo artist, to that they can make it exactly like you want it to be.
Some tattoo artists are highly sought after and are not available for consultations in a timely manner. Instead, you will need to book an appointment with them months in advance. However, if you like a tattoo artist's work well enough, the high quality work may be worth the wait.
 While you can put a tattoo anywhere on the skin, there are some places that are more painful than others. For your first tattoo, consider getting it placed in a location that has more flesh and is not tender. This means an area that is not right on bone and that is not sensitive.


For example, a tattoo on your foot may be more painful than a tattoo on your calf because a foot tattoo will be hitting bone more directly.
Locations that are especially tender include the foot, the inside of the arms and thighs, and the ribs. In general, avoid areas where the bones are close to the skin and areas that get little exposure to the sun. Areas that are not exposed to the sun regularly tend to be more tender, and thus a tattoo placed there will hurt more., It is best to understand what the pain should be like before you begin. This will help you to mentally prepare for the experience. Many people describe the pain as fingernails scratching on sunburned skin. The pain is mostly dull but can become acute when the needle hits a nerve, hits an area close to bone, or goes over the same area repeatedly.


There are some topical anesthetics that some tattoo artists will apply to the skin to dull the pain if the pain is too great for you. However, the anesthetic can cause the color in the tattoo to be more dull and it can cause your tattoo to take more time to heal. Ask your tattoo artist about this but be aware that not all tattoo artists will be willing to use an anesthetic at all.
 Plan to stay out of the water and keep your tattoo out of the sun for several weeks after it is applied. This means that you should plan when to get the tattoo so that you do not have to rearrange your schedule to accommodate the tattoo's healing. For example, if you have a vacation coming up that will include a lot of swimming, you may not want to get a tattoo right before it.Your tattoo artist will give you additional aftercare instructions. These may include when to remove any bandages, when to clean it, what to clean it with, and what to look for to make sure healing it progressing correctly. If you have any additional questions, feel free to as your tattoo artist while you still at the shop or call the shop if you have questions later.

