 Use the bathroom within 30 minutes of taking your measurement. A full bladder can throw off your measurement by as much as 3 centimeters., For best results, use soft measuring tape such as the type used for sewing.While you can use other means of measuring, such as a ruler, remember that they can cause variations in measurement since your belly is round. If your measurement is wrong, then it is useless., You need to have a bare abdomen, so remove your clothing. Lie down as comfortably as you can and extend your legs out from your body. Avoid contorting your body in any way because other positions can cause variations in your measurement. The most accurate measurement can be taken lying down.

If you have an enlarged uterus, place a wedge under your buttocks., The fundus is the top of the uterus. To find it, run your hand up your belly until you feel the ridge of your fundus. Gently press into your upper abdomen until you feel the difference between the fundus and the area around it. The fundus should be located near the top of your abdomen.You may want to mark off the top of your fundus with a washable marker or pen so that you can more easily measure.
You will essentially be measuring the length of your baby bump.
 Your pelvic bone will be a hard line across your abdomen below your stomach. It should be just above where your pubic hair begins. Feel around with your fingers to find the bone., Center the “zero” point on the measuring tape on the top of the fundus. The tape should go along the center of your belly from the top to bottom. Position the end of the tape over your pelvic bone., Take the measurement at the point over your pelvic bone. This is your fundal height. Your measurement should be in centimeters., After 20 weeks, your fundal height should match your gestational week in centimeters, with an allowable variation of 2 centimeters.For example, at 25 weeks, your fundal height should measure between 24-26 centimeters.

Your fundal height does not tell you how long the baby is, but it does show you if your baby’s growth is healthy and as expected for its gestational age.
Your measurement can be incorrect if you are obese, have a history of fibroids, or are carrying multiples.If your fundal height is outside the expected range, make an appointment with your doctor to discuss possible reasons behind the difference.

