 Avoid contact with your ex. While you may feel like you want to call, text, chat, email, or see the person you love again, this will not likely help you to heal. After rejection, learn to reduce your thoughts of your ex. Find health ways to redirect your thoughts, so that you are less likely to contact your ex.Consider these ways:


Delete their phone number, and block them from all of your social media profiles.
Do something for 30 minutes when the thought enters your head to contact your ex. Watch TV, go for a walk, do household chores, or anything that can hold your attention for 30 minutes.
Create a list of reasons why it's better to move on and be without this person who rejected you. Brainstorm three things that will help you see the bigger picture about the relationship.
Find a “phone friend.” Talk with someone you trust who you can call, text, or chat with instead of your ex.
Create a "distraction" box that helps you to remember good times before your ex. Fill this with things that are not associated with one person or group of people. This could be music, movies, funny pictures, or simple things.
 Everyone has experienced loss from one time or another. Rejection or the end of a relationship is connected to feelings of grief and loss. You may be going through this "grief process" but that does not mean it will last forever. Understand that committing suicide is permanent, and but these feelings of loss are temporary.Rejection or loss can feel like a rollercoaster of emotions. But this rollercoaster can end with you safely getting off the ride and moving on.
The pain of loss can feel personal, but remember that you can get better and find new love. Remember that love starts with yourself.
Look back at your life, and consider other times when you were disappointed, held back, or unsuccessful. Consider how you have moved on since then and the successes that you have had despite those encounters. Realize that these feelings may eventually pass.
 Rather than dwelling on the past relationship, take control of what you can do to learn and heal from this experience. When you've been hurt, you may feel like hurting yourself in return. Remember that you can make it through this and heal your wounds.


Don't become fixated on the past and your relationship. It will take time to feel better and know that you can if you break from the past.
Each day is a new day to start fresh and to find new meaning in life. Take it one step at a time.
Learn how your past can act as a guide to find new roads, but the past does not define your future.
 There are many positive things that you can enjoy, even without the person you care about. Explore new things and do the things you're most passionate about. Avoid isolating yourself. Share time with others by doing things like:Take a class such as drawing, robotics, music, or martial arts. Find something that interests you. See what options are available in your community.
Go to the gym. Join a fitness class. Participate in an intramural sports team.
Go shopping. Find creative boutiques. Thrift stores. Bookstores. Interact with people with similar interests.
Get outdoors. Find activity groups. Go to a local park. Walk a nature trail.
 Be healthy in mind and body. Taking care of yourself also involves the basics of being healthy with your daily habits. Avoid habits that may make you feel worse about yourself. Love your body and do these things:Follow the treatment plan developed by your doctor and mental health professional. Sticking to this plan is your best chance to get better.
Eat well. Drink lots of water. Avoid junk foods.
Limit alcohol and drugs. Avoid the temptation to smoke or drink. They may make you feel worse long-term.
Get a good night’s rest. Your body needs rest in order to heal. Create a bedtime routine that helps you to relax. Avoid using sleeping pills regularly.
Use breathing exercises to relax you. Meditate. Pray. Try muscle relaxation techniques.
Talk with a trusted friend or family member who makes you feel relaxed and happy.

