 Don’t change your will by crossing out words, tearing out pages, or writing all over the will. Instead, change your will by writing a “codicil,” which is an amendment.


You can also rewrite the entire will, which is a good option if you used will writing software or an online program. Just include a paragraph stating that you are revoking your prior will., You might want to change the beneficiary who receives a piece of property. Take out your will and find the provision you want to change. You can also write a codicil if you’ve acquired new property you want to leave to someone.
 You can easily change your will by attaching a codicil. Format the document in the same way you formatted your will. Include the following information:


Title. Mention the name and date of your will. For example, your title might read, “Codicil to Last Will and Testament of Jill R. Jones dated March 1, 1978.”
Opening paragraph. Write something like, “I, Jill R. Jones, of DuPage County, Illinois, being of sound mind, declare that this Codicil to the Last Will and Testament of Jill R. Jones is effective as of this date, and amends my Last Will and Testament dated March 1, 1978 as follows….”, Find the paragraph you want to change. You’ll need to mention it in the codicil. For example, if you want to change the beneficiary of your stamp collection, find the paragraph in your will that includes that bequest.Write something like the following: “Paragraph Seven of my Last Will and Testament is hereby amended to read as follows: Paragraph Seven. I leave my stamp collection to Evan Westlake.”
If you’re adding a paragraph, you can write in your codicil, “My Last Will and Testament is hereby amended to add the following as Paragraph Nine: Paragraph Nine. I hereby leave my diamond bracelet to my daughter, Karen Little.”

, When you’ve made all of your changes, remember to state that you are republishing your will. Also state that your codicil will pre-empt your will if there’s any contradictions between the two documents.For example, you can write in your codicil, “Should this Codicil contradict the terms of my Last Will and Testament dated March 1, 1978, the terms of this Codicil shall control. In all other respects, I reaffirm and republish my Last Will and Testament dated March 1, 1978.”

, Remember to follow the same formalities you followed when drafting your original will. For example, have the same number of people sign as witnesses. Also make sure the witnesses don’t receive anything under the codicil or will.You should also draft a self-proving affidavit for the codicil.
Attach the codicil to your will. Also give your personal representative a copy of the codicil.

