 How much can you afford to spend on a touring band? How much do you need to spend to secure the venue, the house crew, bartenders, door staff, and other crew for the show? How much can you reasonably expect to make in ticket sales? Before you look for bands, answer these questions.


Most bigger touring bands require a guaranteed fee for appearing, in addition to or in lieu of a share of the ticket take at the door. That means if you book a big band and nobody buys tickets, you'll still owe a large fee.Lots of small acoustic acts can be booked for relatively cheaply, for between $750-1200, while larger bands will command guarantees in excess of $2500+ for several hours of entertainment.;
, When you're booking a band to play at your event, festival, or venue, you need to pick an appropriate band for the job. Who will you realistically get people in your area to pay good money to come see? Or, who will your set audience want to watch perform?


Sometimes the audience will be set, in the event of a wedding or other gathering, while other times you'll have a variable audience and the act you bring in will attract different people to come.
Be realistic. Are you going to be able to get a Scandinavian death metal/bluegrass band to fill a big venue gig in the middle of rural Iowa? Don't spend your money stupidly if you can't fill the space.
 Who would you like to get to play your venue or event? Even if you're hiring a band to play your wedding, you don't have to hire a "wedding band." You might be surprised at what's available to you with the right budget. If you want to get your favorite local rock band to play, they'll probably do it for the right price.


Look up the schedules of touring bands on Bandcamp, or their personal websites. Find out if they'll be in the area when you're looking to book. Listen to sound clips and look up video to see who would be appropriate.
Think locally, as well. Local bands often bring a bigger crowd and command lower guaranteed appearance fees. What bands in the area could you book for less?

, When you find a band you're interested in that's available when you need a booking, it's time to reach out and inquire about their rates, packages, and fees.


The internet is a great place to start. You can place an advertisement on Craigslist or reach out to bands on Facebook. Reverbnation.com is a wonderful resource to find local bands. It offers a search engine to narrow by genre and location.Often times the band will also have music on the site so that you can listen to a sample. If the band has been successful in setting up a Reverbnation account, they should have contact info or a link to their official webpage.
 When you find a band you'd like to book, reach out online or by calling them on the phone. Tell them about your event or venue, the date you'd like to book the band, and find out about their guarantee and other associated fees.


If you're hiring a bigger act or a touring band for a venue, you'll usually need to get in touch with the band's management or booking agent. This information is typically available on artists' websites, under the "Contact" tab.
If you need a band to perform at an event, but don't much care who or what kind of music is involved, the best way to hire is to get in touch with a talent agency in your area. These agencies will help you get in touch with bands in the area, or bands coming through the area, which will be appropriate for your event or venue.
 When you get in touch, you need to provide information about the show you're putting on. Give them a detailed picture of what you're doing, what you want, and what's available at the venue.


Be specific. What is your venue like? Do you have sound equipment available? Lighting? Will there be someone there to run sound? How long does the band need to play? Will there be accommodations available after the show?

, Before you book a band, you need to make sure you have a place for that band to play. It's bad form to book a band before you've made sure there will be an appropriate venue to showcase that band.


When you reach out to the band, make sure to provide a detailed list of the sound equipment available at the venue, and find out what type of rig the band will come with. You'll need to prepare much differently for a bluegrass band than for a death metal act.
If you want to know more about renting out a venue for an event, read this article.
 Depending on the size of the act you're booking, some bands will furnish these for the performance, while others will operate on a verbal agreement. It's important to get your agreement laid down in writing, for reasons of liability and payment.


Talk to a lawyer about writing up a unique contract that you can use for all bands you hire, or use a template. You can find one by clicking here.Verbal contracts mean nothing if you're selling tickets to get a band to appear. A local open-mic gig is one thing, but if you're trying to get a band to show up for a guaranteed fee and a door agreement, you'll want it in writing. Be professional.
 How much money do you need to make to come out ahead at the end of the night? How much will people be willing to spend to see a band? You might be able to bring a great act into town, but if you're charging $75 a ticket, it might be hard to get people to come out.
 Depending on your situation, you'll probably need to provide someone to help run sound at the venue. Venues typically do not provide live sound technicians if you're renting them out, and bands should never have to run their own sound. This is an essential part of putting on a successful show.


Live sound technicians can be hired from local sound studios, and venues will often have contact information for getting in touch if necessary.
 If you're putting on a big show, you'll usually want to get more than just the headliner to play. This helps to build up a crowd, because local bands will bring people to the show, while it also gives people more for their money.


If the headliner doesn't request a cut of the door, give it to the opening bands. This gives them incentive to bring people out to the show. The more people they bring, the bigger their cut.
Some touring bands will bring supporting acts along with them. Make sure you find out and get in touch with those bands as well.
 Some venues will furnish security, bartenders, and other staff, while you'll need to provide it at others. In generally, you'll need at least a few people to run security, someone to man the door, and wait staff if you're serving drinks or food at the venue.
 For bigger bands, you'll need to provide food and other accommodations. Generally, this information will be provided on a tour rider, along with other scheduling information and backstage requirements for the band's appearance fee. Get in touch and get the rider, then provide the requested items, or negotiate other options.


Most bands don't have elaborate backstage demands, some infamous examples notwithstanding. For most bands, some bottled water, some snack food, a couple free drinks at the bar, and a place to relax backstage is perfectly fine.
 As the person booking the band, you're the one responsible for getting people in the seats. You've got to start promoting your show several weeks, or even months, ahead of time.


Get in touch with local radio stations to buy time for promoting the show. Print up flyers and paste them around town in local business windows. Get the word out.
Promote the show online as well. Blast out reminders to your email list, and post about the show on Facebook. Keep in the people's ear.
 If people wait to buy tickets, they'll often decide to not come at all when the day of the show rolls around. If someone has a ticket in hand, however, those plans are concrete. You want to sell tickets, which means you need to encourage people to buy them. Now.


Offer a discount, and make tickets more expensive the day of the show. Offer other pricing bonuses, if necessary, just get the tickets sold.
 One of the best ways to sell tickets is to make them available at a variety of locations. Local record stores, music shops, and other like-minded venues are great places to pick up tickets. You can advertise the show at all those locations, and give other people a reason to promote the show. If people come into their store, they're more likely to buy tickets.
 The last thing you want is for a band to show up at some venue with no idea where to go, what to do, or who to talk to. Be in touch, and be there, ready to help out and to answer questions. A good show depends upon timely and appropriate management.


Help pack in and out if you want to get a reputation as a solid promoter. If you're out there at the van, lugging amps? That band will put in a good word for your venue.
 The day of the show, make sure everything is ready for the band when they arrive. Whatever you've agreed upon, provide in the backstage area, and work with the band to find out about additional things they may need. Power strips, water, any kind of last-minute things that might come up will be your job to take care of.


Gives bands some privacy. Touring is rough. Most bands just want to be left alone for a couple hours, shower, get something to eat, and charge their phones.

