 To be healthy, Sussex rabbits require regular exercise. Make sure that your Sussex rabbit gets two hours (or more) of exercise every day. You will need to let your Sussex rabbit out of her cage to get exercise. When you do so, make sure that you:Keep your rabbit indoors. Your rabbit will be in danger from predators if you let her play outside.

Confine her to one or two rooms. Try keeping her in your bedroom or putting up a couple of baby gates to make sure she stays within an area of your house.

Hide or cover electrical cords. You can hide electrical cords with some hard plastic tubing or spiral wrap. Or, just keep all cords off of the ground while your rabbit is out of her cage.Prevent your rabbit from chewing things she shouldn’t. A Sussex rabbit will chew on wall trim, door edges, chairs, and table legs, a rug, loose carpeting, or loose wallpaper.If you catch your Sussex rabbit chewing on something that is off limits, don’t get mad or punish your rabbit. Just gently pick up your rabbit, move her away from the object and provide her with something to distract her from the other object, such as a cardboard box or a piece of a raw carrot.
 To keep your Sussex rabbit healthy, you will need to take him for annual checkups and monitor your rabbit’s health closely. If your Sussex rabbit seems ill at any time, then take her to see a veterinarian. Signs that your rabbit may be ill include:not using back legs or not hopping
losing lots of fur
not going to the bathroom
having loose stools
producing dark red urine or no urine
seeming extra tired and not moving or reacting normally
having runny eyes and/or nose
drooling (wet chin)
having a fever of 105 degrees Fahrenheit or higher, If you don’t plan to breed your Sussex rabbit, then you should get him or her spayed or neutered. Spaying and neutering your rabbits prevents unwanted litters and may also help to protect your rabbit’s health.


Rabbits that are not spayed or neutered are more prone to hormonal behaviors, such as fighting or urine spraying. Not spaying female rabbits puts them at a higher risk of uterine cancer as well., Your Sussex rabbit will need to be brushed once per week to keep his fur soft and reduce shedding. Use a natural bristle brush or a fine-toothed comb to go over your Sussex rabbit’s fur once per week.Never bathe your Sussex rabbit. Rabbits may easily become hypothermic when they get wet. Sussex rabbits do not like to get wet either.

