 Cut eight identical lens-shaped (football-shaped) panels of fabric. The panels should each be 5 inches (12.7 cm) long and 2 inches (5 cm) wide at their widest point.


The panels must all be the same size and shape. To ensure consistency, cut out your first panel, then trace the shape of that panel onto your fabric seven more times. Cut out each of the remaining seven panels along those outlines.
If you have difficulty creating the panel pattern yourself, you can use the pattern provided here: http://www.purlbee.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/08/smallmediumball.pdf

Felt and other fray-resistant materials are the easiest to work with, but any fabric can be used. Similarly, you can use either one color or multiple colors depending on your aesthetic preference.
 Match two panels together with the right sides facing toward each other. Hold the panels in place using straight pins.


Repeat with the remaining six panels. When done, you should have four sets with two panels each.
 Stitch from point to point along one curved edge of your first panel pair. Leave 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance.


Note that you can hand stitch or machine stitch the pieces together. If hand stitch, use a back stitch. If machine stitching, use a straight stitch.
Leave the other curved edge open for now.
Repeat this step with the other three panel pairs. When finished, you should have four quarter pieces.
 Match the right side of one quarter piece with the right side of another quarter piece. Pin together, then stitch along one shared edge, sewing from point to point.


Backstitch by hand or straight stitch by machine.
Use 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance.
Leave the other edge open.
Repeat with the other two quarter pieces. When done, you should have two half spheres, each consisting of four separate panels.
 Match the two half-spheres together with the right sides facing one another. Pin in place, then sew along both curved edges.


Sew from point to point along the first curved edge.
For the second curved edge, start 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the top point, then sew all the way to the bottom point.
Backstitch by hand or straight stitch by machine, and use a 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance.
 Turn the ball right-side out by pulling the material through the 1-inch (2.5-cm) gap. Stuff the ball with cotton batting.


Use plenty of stuffing to create a firm ball with a spherical shape.
 Carefully fold the open slit, then blind stitch along this opening to close the ball.


Fold the raw edges of the opening inward by 1/4 inch (0.6 cm). Try to hold the edges in place as you stitch them together to create a clean edge.
You must blindstitch the opening by hand to keep the edge as even and hidden as possible.
At this point, the ball is sealed and can technically be used now. To create a more traditional "beach ball" appearance, however, you'll need to follow a few more steps.
 Cut two identical circles, each with a diameter of 1.5 inches (3.8 cm).


If using fray-resistant material, like felt, you do not need to do anything more than cutting the circles out.
If using material that can fray, you should fold the edges under by 1/8 inch (0.3 cm) and press the folds with an iron to hold them in place.
 Center one circle over one end of the ball (the spot at which the points of each panel meet). Whipstitch the circle in place or use fabric glue to adhere it.


Fabric glue is recommended for balls made of fray-resistant material, but whip stitching the circle by hand is advisable for fabrics that fray.
Repeat with the other circle and the other end of the ball.
 At this point, the ball should be finished and ready to play with.

