 Snacking on nuts in 1 – 2 ounce servings is one of the best ways to prevent yourself from eating other, less healthy foods. Further, nuts are both enjoyable and nutritious all on their own. This is especially true for raw nuts, or those that have not been artificially dried or seasoned.A 1-ounce serving of almonds will contain 20 – 24 individual nuts. About 16 – 18 cashews will provide a single serving, as will 18 – 20 pecan halves. You only need to eat eight to 11 walnut halves for a full serving, while you can snack on nearly 50 pistachios before you’ve eaten a 1-ounce serving.
Mixing raw nuts with dried fruit and seeds is a great way to enjoy your snack even more, not to mention get more vitamins and minerals.;
, Many people prefer the flavor and consistency of nuts that have been roasted. If you’re purchasing dried nuts, always opt for unsalted, dry-roasted options, as opposed to those that have been oil-roasted. Unfortunately, it can be challenging to find dry roasted nuts outside of extremely popular snacking nuts, such as almonds. Further, roasting of any type will likely decrease the nutritional value of nuts overall.If a nut a has been dry-roasted, it will be specified on the product’s labeling. Otherwise, there was likely oil added to the nuts during roasting.
For maximum nutrition in roasted nuts, try roasting nuts yourself.
 Different types of nuts have different types and amounts of fat. Fortunately, most of the fats in nuts are unsaturated, and can actually help you lose weight and keep your heart healthy when consumed in appropriate portions. That said, there’s enough saturated fats in certain nuts to take note of.Almonds, hazelnuts, and chestnuts all have the benefit of being extremely low in saturated fat. As such, almonds and hazelnuts are especially good snacks, and chestnuts can be added freely to your meal to add nutrients and keep you full for a longer.
Walnuts, pecans, and pistachios all have considerable health benefits, as well as moderate amounts of saturated fats. Definitely include these in your diet whenever possible, but don’t snack on them all day.
Brazil nuts, macadamias, and cashews are among those nuts that have the highest amounts of saturated fat. While these nuts can make great ingredients (especially if substituted for less healthy ingredients), they should be eaten less frequently than the nuts above, or in smaller quantities.
 If you're looking for ways to decrease your meat consumption, nuts provide an alternative protein option. Cashews, for instance, provide 5 grams of protein in each 1-ounce serving, as well as other nutrients, like iron (though it should be noted the iron in nuts is different and not as easily absorbed as the iron found in animal products).They also have much less saturated fat. By using cashews or another nut as the protein base, you can not only remove an unhealthy component of your meal, but add a healthy one instead.For example, cook a stir fry with plenty of vegetables. Instead of meat, add a handful of cashews right before removing the pan from the heat. The nuts will soften, as well as absorb the seasoning. Season with soy sauce, cayenne, garlic, and ginger. You can also mix cashew butter with these spices, and heat with a bit of water to make a sauce., Whenever you’re cooking rice, noodles, or veggies, you can always add nuts. Nuts are great because they can add texture and protein to pretty much anything. They will increase the dish's nutritional value, as well as its ability to keep you feeling full for a longer period of time.For instance, brown rice with walnuts or cashews, ginger, raisins, and nutmeg can make for a great dish. Additionally, pecans and hazelnuts will add great flavor to many savory soups.
 A healthy diet can include sweets from time to time, and nuts will help maximize a treat’s nutritional value. For instance, add nuts and granola to Greek yogurt and sweeten with honey. For an ice cream alternative, blend bananas, almond butter, almond milk, and dark chocolate in a food processor and freeze. Finally, add ground or whole macadamias to brownies or cookies, and reduce the amount of sugar and butter you include in the recipe.