 Research your state’s requirements and opportunities for homeschoolers. In the United States, you can look up each state's approach on the HSLDA website. Don't get caught by surprise because you didn't know you had to register your homeschool, or submit test results and work logs.The requirements can vary significantly depending on the state you live in. It is legal to homeschool your children in all US states. However, beyond that the rules can be very different. For example, some schools requires that you enroll your child in the local school even though they don’t actually attend. Other states require that you set yourself up as a private school.;
, Getting to know other families who are involved in homeschool will be a great way to get to know what works and what doesn’t, which resources are good and which are a waste of time, etc. Additionally, having a support system will mean you have someone you can go to when you feel like you are struggling.Having contact with other homeschool families will also offer opportunities for your child to interact with other children.
You can find a list of homeschool organizations and support groups at http://www.home-school.com/groups/.
You can find out information about homeschooling resources in your area by doing an internet search using the terms “homeschool” plus the name of your city and state. Don’t forget to check social media sites such as Facebook too. These offer great forums for asking questions and reading about the experiences and challenges of others.
There are hundreds of blogs written by homeschool educators, these are a great resource for finding information. You can find them easily by doing an internet search for “homeschool blogs.” There is also a recommended list of blogs that can be found here.
 Though the cost can vary based on a number of factors, homeschooling is generally more expensive than public school and less expensive than private school. Creating a budget will help you know what you can afford to spend. In some places, the state government might be able to help you pay for the curriculum. Set aside some money to purchase ordinary school supplies as needed, and for miscellaneous educational expenses.Generally speaking, homeschooling older children will cost more than homeschooling younger children. This is because the education for older students usually involves dense text books that can be much more expensive. There might also be examinations that your child must take, and that you must purchase for them.While you could, in theory, get all of the materials you need for your child’s education for free from the internet, this will be very time consuming. The most expensive option is to purchase a box curriculum, but this will include the curricula for every subject for the year.
 Besides finding other homeschool families to support you, you should also discuss your decision to homeschool with friends and family so that you are all on the same page. This will ensure that your child has everyone around them helping them to succeed.Some of these people may be prejudiced against homeschooling. If this is important to you, then spend time with those people. Show them how you are ensuring that your children has a balanced and well-rounded education complete with socialization and extra-curricular activities.
 You'll need a solid and thorough plan for your child’s education. There are hundreds of curricula to choose from online sources and books. You may want to pick and choose from several by subject or grade level. If you are new to homeschooling this can be overwhelming so be sure to ask your fellow homeschoolers what they have tried.It can be helpful before choosing a curriculum to set your child’s learning goals. What do you want them to know by the end of the school year? Writing down these goals will give you a clear idea about whether a particular curriculum suits those goals.
You can purchase a box curriculum, which will include everything you need, or you can pick and choose depending on the subject. For new homeschool parents, many experienced educators recommend purchasing a boxed curriculum in the first year. Once you’ve got the hang of it, you can venture out and explore different options.Your state likely has a few recommended curricula to choose from.
 Make homeschooling a priority. Keep free time separate from "school time," and don't let interruptions or distractions take over. Many children benefit from a daily schedule so they know what you expect from them. You now have primary responsibility over their education, and you need to set parameters so they complete their work.Homeschooling doesn't have to be six hours a day or five days a week. Pick the schedule that works best for each child. Your five or six-year old may only need a couple hours a day of dedicated schoolwork.
For example, if you are homeschooling your child who is between 1st and 6th grade, you should probably spend about one to two hours per day on their studies. It is a good idea to keep each learning session short (between 10 and 20 minutes for kids from grades 1 to 3, and 20 to 45 minutes for kids from grade 4 to 6). Break up these sessions with fun activities for your child, these could be educational games, but it could also just be independent play time.If you are homeschooling an older child, it is good to aim for at least two hours (or more) of time spent learning. For older kids, you can teach them about a specific subject for a bit longer than a younger child. For example, you can aim for a 45 minute or longer session., Although it is a good idea to have some type of schedule, it is important to remember that you may not always be able to stick with that schedule. An activity might take more or less time than you thought, or an interesting field trip opportunity might pop up. Don’t stress about it if you can’t stick to the schedule all of the time.Many homeschooling parents don’t stick to a strict schedule. If you had planned for a 45 minute session, but your child is obviously becoming very tired and frustrated, then it’s OK to cut it short.
If you have to deviate from the schedule, don’t worry. Do take the time to explain to your child why you are deviating, and how you will makeup for the missed work together.
 Your child will also spend a lot of their time engaged in independent activities. This doesn’t mean that you should let them sit in front of the TV for hours, though. These activities should typically involve some type of learning or physical activity. These activities can be a lot of fun for kids, they will encourage the child’s independence, and they will be completing the required learning at the same time.For example, you can have a part of the day where your child engages in physical activity (such as jumping rope or playing basketball, for example), where they do an art project or experiment with science projects. They can practice an instrument or read a book that they choose from a list you have created.
 Many states will require that you keep records of your child’s learning. If your child hopes to attend college, many college admissions offices will also require evidence of their learning. Besides fulfilling requirements, having records of your child’s education will help you evaluate what is working and what is not working, and where your child is excelling and where they are struggling.There is software that you can purchase, which is designed especially for keeping track of homeschool education. If you don’t want to purchase this type of software, you can also create your own system for keeping track of everything, but make sure to check reporting requirements in your state.
 Every child is different. A big advantage of homeschooling is the ability to teach each your children based on their individual strengths and weaknesses. Most home schools have a more relaxed learning environment, but some kids may excel with a more traditional school lecture approach. Do not hesitate to change something if it's not working out. There will be plenty of trial and error, but you'll get into the swing of things.If your child is frustrated with a particular book, switch to one with a different teaching style. The right book is challenging, but communicates ideas in a way that the student finds clear and engaging.
 Kids blossom when encouraged.Keep your calm even when you don't want to, and remember that taking homeschooling seriously doesn’t mean that you have to be serious all of the time. Make it fund and enjoyable for the both of you..


This doesn’t mean that you can’t have an honest relationship with your child or that you should teach them that they are entitled to everything they want. You should, however, do your best to stay positive and encouraging, especially when your child is feeling insecure or frustrated.
 Time management and responsible behavior stand out as the most essential, but many young adults don't know the first thing about cooking a meal or changing a tire. Learning life skills such as how to manage money, cook, and maintain a job is essential to anyone's development.Teaching practical skills likely won’t be a part of your curriculum, but having practical skills is still very valuable.
There are many different practical skills you can teach your children outside of the more traditional school subjects. For example, financial skills (e.g. understanding credit scores, how to make investments, etc.), daily living skills (e.g. how to swim, how to change a tire, how to cook healthy food, etc.), and even more philosophical types of skills (e.g. how to appreciate what you have, how to find the good in others, etc.).
 Some people wrongly describe homeschooled kids as isolated and unable to interact or function in society. They would be surprised to know that most homeschoolers have the opposite experience. Make an effort to get your kids involved with activities outside the house. Homeschooling associations often plan parties, sport teams, Key Club, 4-H, and many other activities. Empower your kids to become citizens with high levels of aspiration.Depending on regional laws, homeschoolers may be allowed to participate in public school extracurricular activities.
Take field trips to local attractions, especially ones with educational value. If you have close friends with interesting professions, you can even arrange observation days where your children can learn about a specific profession or hobby.
 Extracurricular activities go a long way, but social life is about more than just kids hanging out with other kids their age. Kids and teens benefit from socializing with people of all age groups. Plug yourself in to your local community through community centers, nursing homes, religious centers, and libraries. Have family outings to volunteer at events, take field trips, and visit the park.It is a myth that homeschool children are necessarily less social than children who attend public or private school.
If you don’t take any initiative to help your children get out of the house, they may not meet many people.
 Starting at a young age, teach your child to be inquiring, studious, and self-motivated. As they approach adolescence, they will be getting into subjects that are more difficult for you to teach. The earlier you encourage curiosity and critical thinking, the smoother the transition from childhood to the teenager years, and on to adulthood will go.


Let your children have time by themselves. Especially as kids get older, tension can build between parent and child if you are constantly around each other. Transitioning into adulthood is one of the hardest things a person will go through in life. Preparing your kids for adulthood by giving them responsibility and letting them earn trust is one of the most important things you can do as a parent.

