 Creating a page for your business on each social media site possible will expand your audience while also securing your brand name among competitors. Maintaining an active presence on each website is preferable, but at the very least, you should secure the space as soon as possible.Facebook and Twitter are probably the most obvious social media sites for you to use. In addition to those, however, you should also consider starting a YouTube channel, Pinterest profile, SlideShare profile, Flickr profile, and Instagram profile.
Make your company handle as consistent throughout each channel as possible so that your brand is easier to find from medium to medium.
On a special note, you should definitely create a LinkedIn company page. A company page allows you to grow your company's network and visibility in the professional word. You can set target markets, craft target-specific messages, and add documents, video, and pictures. Like most other social media sites, a LinkedIn company page is free to create and manage.
 If your business does have a Facebook page, you can pay Facebook for ad space on their website.Begin the process by going to your business's Facebook page and clicking the "Ads Manager" button on the Admin Panel. You'll immediately be asked to set your budget. From there, you will be lead through to process of setting up a funding source and narrowing the specifications of your ad. You'll be asked to set your audience preferences. You can choose to limit the audience to users living in your town, or you could expand that to state-wide and nation-wide users.
Alternatively, you can go to the "Build Audience" link in your Admin Panel and click on "Create an Ad" for more advanced options. From there, you can promote your page or even a specific post. You can direct people who click on the ad to your Facebook page or to your website. You can also set more advanced audience options, including an age range, gender options, advanced location options, and interests.
Facebook ads can only have 25 characters in their headline and 90 characters in the body of the ad. You'll also get to add an image.
You will be charged per view, not per click, and you'll pay based on the daily budget you set.
 If your business has a Twitter account, you can pay to have your tweets displayed in front of more people.


Begin by clicking on your settings icon in the top right corner of the page. Select the "Twitter Ads" option from the drop-down menu and navigate through the on-screen set-up process.
You'll be asked to set a target audience based on geographic location. Afterward, you should set a budget for your promotional tweets. Twitter recommends a bid of $1.50 per click, but the price you pay can be higher or lower. A higher bid will give your ad more visibility on the site, but you will only be charged per click.
You'll need to manually select the tweets you want to promote. Choose those that link directly to your blog or website.
After you set up your ad, you can also choose to have your Twitter account displayed in the "Who to Follow" box on the Twitter home page. You will pay per new follower, and Twitter recommends placing a per-follower bid of $2.50 when you sign up.
 Ads displayed through LinkedIn are similar to ads placed through Facebook. Once you set up your business's LinkedIn page, you can create an ad campaign by clicking the blue "Edit" drop-down on your company's page and selecting the "Promote this Page with LinkedIn Ads" option.


Most ads link to outside websites, but you can either direct the ads to an outside website or to your LinkedIn page. You can also create multiple options.
Ads have a small thumbnail image. Headings can be 25 characters long, and the body of the ad can only be 75 characters.
After setting up your initial options, you'll be lead through a large number of targeting options. You can narrow down your audience based on geographic location, job title, age, gender, company history, and educational history.
The final step is setting your bid. You can either pay-per-click or pay-per-impression. At minimum, you will need to pay $2 per click or $2 per 1000 impressions, and your minimum daily budget is $10.
 This social media website directs users to other websites throughout the Internet. It has grown in popularity, recently, and is viewed as an entertaining way to share content.


Start the process by visiting this page: https://www.stumbleupon.com/pd

Click on the "Get Started" button and create your own campaign account.
You will not provide any ad copy. Instead, you only provide your website's URL, and that URL is inserted into the StumbleUpon flow. Users will then "stumble upon" it as they play with the website.
You will set the number of unique visitors you want each day and pay in advance. Each unique visitor will cost you 10 cents by default. You can pay more or less, though. Paying more gets your ad into more active users' feeds, while paying less restricts your ad to less active users.
You can also indicate preferred audience data, including demographics and user interests.

