 Place the butter and sugar into a large mixing bowl. Use your hand mixer or stand mixer to combine the butter and sugar. Your butter should be at room temperature when you mix it with the sugar.Mix until the ingredients are well-combined and they have a fluffy texture.
 Crack one egg and add it to the sugar and butter mixture. Then add 1 and ¼ teaspoons of peppermint extract to the bowl. Use your hand mixer or stand mixer to combine these ingredients.Make sure that you use peppermint extract and not mint extract.
 Next, sift together the flour, cocoa powder, and salt in a separate bowl. Then sift these dry ingredients into the wet ingredients. Mix all of the ingredients together until a dough forms.Use your hand mixer or stand mixer to combine the ingredients.
 After you have your cookie dough, wrap it in a piece of plastic wrap or in a plastic Ziploc bag. Then place the dough in the refrigerator and let it sit for at least one hour. This will help the dough to keep its shape when you roll it out and cut out the cookies.Chilling the dough will make it much easier to work with and keep its shape.Otherwise, the dough may slide around and not stay in the shape you cut the cookies into.
 The oven will need to be heated to 350 degrees Fahrenheit to cook the cookies properly. Turn on your oven and set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit just before you begin to roll out the cookie dough., Remove the dough from the refrigerator and remove it from the plastic wrap or bag. Lay the dough on a floured work surface and sprinkle it with some flour as well. This will help to prevent the dough from sticking to the rolling pin.Roll the dough out so that it is about 1/8 of an inch thick.
Keep sprinkling flour onto the dough to prevent it from sticking to the rolling pin.
You can also sprinkle the dough with confectioner’s sugar. This can help to prevent the dough from becoming tough from too much added flour., Use a circular cookie cutter to cut out the cookies. You can use a different shape if you prefer, but using a circular shape will make the cookies look more like real Thin Mints.Make sure that you cut the cookies close together to get as many cookies as you can from the rolled out dough.
After you have cut out as many cookies as you can, you can gather up the excess dough and roll this out again to cut more cookies from it if desired.
 After you cut out the cookies, transfer them to a parchment lined cookie sheet. Bake the cookies at 350 degrees for 10 to 12 minutes. When time is up, remove the cookies from the oven and transfer them to a cooling rack., While the cookies are baking, you can melt the chocolate. Place your bag of chocolate chips or candy melts into a bowl and microwave it for about one minute. Then, remove it from the microwave and stir the chocolate.If necessary, you can microwave the chocolate for longer, but do it in short intervals, such as 5 to 10 seconds at a time.
If the chocolate seems too thick, then you can always add a small amount of shortening to the chocolate to thin it out. Try stirring in 1 teaspoon to the melted chocolate to make it thinner.
 After the cookies have cooled and the chocolate is melted, you can begin dipping the cookies into the chocolate. Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper to place the cookies on after you finish dipping each one. Dip each of the cookies into the chocolate using a fork to hold the cookie.Wipe the excess chocolate on the rim of the bowl before you transfer the cookie to the parchment-lined cookie sheet.
Allow the cookies to set before enjoying. This will take about 10 minutes, but you can also pop them in the fridge to set if you like.

