 While you are still pregnant or waiting for the twins to arrive, it is a good idea to gather your feeding supplies. This prevents feeling stressed when the babies are crying with hunger. If you are bottle feeding with formula, gather items like bottles, nipples with varying levels of flow, bouncy seats, pillows for support, and formula.


Newborns will drink 1 to 3 ounces per feeding every two to three hours, which adds up to between 16 and 24 bottles in a 24 hours period.By the time they reach 6 months, they usually will be drinking 6 to 8 ounces only four or five times in 24 hours, making that between 8 and 10 bottles a day.
You can find both liquid and powdered formula, though liquid is more expensive., To make a bottle of formula, you should pour the correct amount of water (designated on the formula package) warmed slightly above room temperature into the bottle followed by a scoop of powered formula. This prevents having to warm up a cold bottle and eliminates clumping at the bottom.Make sure that you follow the directions on the formula package exactly.


A mixed up bottle can only be left at room temperature for one hour. Refrigerated formula bottles only last 24 hours.
Make the bottles up the night before, since at the beginning you may be going through up to 16 bottles a day. Read instructions on your formula package to determine if bottles can be left at room temperature or should be placed in the fridge., There are different ways to position twins to make it easier to feed them at the same time. After all, you are going to be feeding them a lot, and being hunched over isn’t good for your back. Try placing them in tandem bouncy seats or on a nursing pillow designed for twins to give you proper support.Set up bouncy seats in an area of your home where it is easy to quickly place the twins and strap them in.
Even though you aren’t breastfeeding, a nursing pillow for twins is very supportive. You can position the twins on the pillow alongside you with a bottle in each mouth, allowing you to hold the bottles in place without wearing out your arms.You can use two firm pillows, or two single-baby nursing pillows, as alternatives.
 In order to get a baby to suck from the bottle, brush the nipple against their lips. This should stimulate them to open their mouths wide. Place the full nipple in their mouth and allow them to suck.Make sure they can breath well. If they are propped up in bouncy seats, make sure their neck aren't tilting to one side.
If you are holding a baby, support their neck with your elbow and hold them as upright as you comfortably can.
 If simultaneous feeding is too hectic, you can try feeding them individually. This can mean having your partner feed one baby while you feed the other. Or it can mean feeding one baby first, and the other right after.Get them on the same schedule so that you are not spending 24 hours a day feeding the twins. Even if you want one twin to eat first, they can still share a meal time.
Try to get them on the same schedule by watching for signs that one is ready to eat. Feed the other one at this time even if they aren’t showing signs of hunger. Cues include rooting, sucking on their hands, and smacking lips., Burping is part of the digestive process whether breast or formula feeding. It is especially necessary for preventing gas and gas-related colic in bottle fed babies because they tend to swallow more air.


Try to burp each baby about halfway through their feed.
Burp one baby at a time. Persevere through crying, which may happen if you have fed the twins at the same time and both are uncomfortable because of a needed burp., Although of course newborns won’t be able to feed themselves, introducing the idea of self-feeding to an infant will give you a break sooner rather than later. Start at the newborn stage by placing their hands on the bottles, and within a few months they should start to understand how to hold it.Make sure they are propped up at small incline when feeding. However, don't prop the bottle up against the baby, leave the baby alone with the bottle, or let the baby sleep with the bottle.
 You can find an app for your smartphone for tracking feeding. Open and tap the app when you feed each baby so that you don't forget when they ate and which baby should go first next time.


You can also make a chart to hang up in your home and write on this instead.

