 Before you set any long terms goals or make any major running plans, you should evaluate your current fitness level. If you are new to running, you should do a baseline test by running or walking your fastest mile. This will help you evaluate how in shape you are and give you a reasonable first benchmark to beat as your move forward.If you have any health issues, it might also be a good idea to consult with your doctor before you begin any new workout routines.
Do not set your baseline while running on a treadmill unless your goal is to run a certain time on a treadmill. If you intend to run outside, make sure that you run your baseline outside.;
, With an understanding of your fitness level, set goals that you will be able to meet realistically. The easiest way to get discouraged is by setting goals that are outside the realm of possibility and that you will never meet. Start with running objectives that are not that much beyond what you are currently capable and, as you improve, set new goals.For example, if you are new to running, you will likely not be able to run a half-marathon or a marathon after only a few months of training. In reality, it will likely take at least a year of training before you are ready to run a longer race.
If you are an established runner, keep in mind that improving your times does not happen quickly. Improving your times is a gradual process. It may take months and multiple races before you shave minutes off your times.
 It is important that you create detailed goals that give you clear objectives to reach. Vague goals like “start running” or “run faster” will not inspire you or keep you motivated. Instead, you need concrete goals that you can measure.For example, if you are new to running, you can set a long-term goal of running in the local half-marathon a year from now.
If you are an experienced runner, you might set a goal to improve your personal best time by 5 minutes.
 This will help you stay accountable to yourself and keep you motivated. Pick specific benchmarks that you would like to meet in the future and set specific dates for them. Open-ended goals are easier to put off and fail to create a motivating sense of urgency.For example, you could set a long-term goal of running a half-marathon in 2 hours and 30 after training for exactly one year.
You can put extra pressure on yourself by signing up for races ahead of time. This will give you a solid deadline and place some pressure on your to run.

