 What areas do you see as being romantic? Do you like to receive gifts? Gifts can be of the usually stated types (flowers, chocolates, car care gear, etc.) or they can be something that truly reflects the interests of your loved one. Listen for the hints about things they enjoy having and doing, then find something that matches those likes. Just ask yourself what does my partner want (not necessarily need) that would be a nice surprise.;
, Ask yourself when was the last time you did something "just because I wanted to" for him or her? The first line of effective communication is action. Show your partner that you are thinking of them by doing something special for them.
 Take some time to hand write a series of special notes which let them know how you feel about them. Yes, hand write the notes. It does not matter if you have perfect penmanship, the thought will far outweigh the legibility issues. You also do not have to be hyper-flowery or an elegant poet to communicate your heartfelt ideas. Do take a while to write and rewrite your notes to get the wording as you want it to flow.   


A fun alternative is to write the note on several papers and number them one through whatever, so that the total is something like 1 of 5 and 2 of 5, etc. Then scatter the pages in places where they do not find them all at once. Part of the excitement is in the anticipation. The buildup is the part which stimulates the imagination.
Use emotionally specific words which stimulate sparks from your past together. Is there a certain song? Mention how it makes you feel about her. Does he wear a certain color shirt or is he extra sexy in a specific style of shirt or pants? Does a specific perfume make you go all giddy? Tell him or her what you really like.
Frame the thoughts in memories of past experiences. Are there places or events you enjoyed together which will stimulate warm thoughts?

, Here are a few open ended questions for you to modify to your own personality and situation. Realize that they are here to initiate conversation, not as an end all. You are going to want to set the stage, then ask one or more of these questions:


About the last few weeks and my romantic gestures, which ones did you like the best?
What do you feel is a romantic activity that we should do together?
What are four ways I can show you I love you, in this next week?
What is the most romantic thing I have ever done for you?

, Do not assume that your ideas about what is romantic are his or her ideas about what it means to be romantic. This is a learning process and you may be surprised by what you discover but you will also be better placed to ensure that all future romantic gestures are well targeted.


Be sure you find the right time to bring up such an intimate discussion.

