 How you teach your child about money should change as they age. Smaller children understand concepts differently than older children do, and this is no different when it comes to money. If you start young, however, you will be able to slowly introduce your child to managing money in a way that is easy for them to understand.

Younger children ages 1-4 can learn how to use a piggy bank. Help them place money that you give them into the bank. When the child has enough money, show them that they can use the money to make a purchase.
Children ages 3-5 can help you clip coupons and give them to the cashier. They also enjoy pretend shopping and playing store. Help your child set up a "store" in your home, then let them "shop" there.
Older children are ready to earn their money by doing chores.;
, All kids want an allowance, but in order to teach your children the true value of money, you may want to make them work for it. You can create a basic weekly allowance depending on good behavior and chore completion at an amount that is comfortable for you. Then, create a chart that lists out how much they can earn for doing additional chores, such as washing the car, babysitting younger siblings, or helping with breakfast., Depending on your children’s ages and knowledge levels, you can start teaching them to be frugal shoppers early on in life. You can do this when you are buying groceries and household necessities for the family, or you can supervise your kids when they spend their own allowance of gift money.

Take them to the store and quiz them on different items based on price, quality, and size. For example, you might show them the price of a 4-pack of toilet paper and then examine the 24-pack. Calculate the amount of savings they can enjoy buy purchasing items in bulk., If your children are in elementary school or older, you can teach them the value of saving by opening accounts in their names. You might deposit small sums into the account as you see fit, but also make sure your child is making deposits as well.For instance, if your son keeps begging you about purchasing a new gaming system, have him research the price of the system with tax included. Sit down and take a look at how much money he has in his savings account. Then, calculate how much he will have to save and for how long to have enough to make the purchase.
Your kids can do odd jobs around the house like taking out the dog or making their bed to earn small sums of money to put into savings. Kids can also use a portion of their weekly allowance to go to savings.

