 This is one part of being a tough can that you can start working on immediately. Even if bad things happen to you try to make the best of it and don't look for sympathy from others. This takes no special talent; you just have to develop an inner strength to deal with problems on your own. Try keeping everything in perspective. You might have a bad day and there is no denying that can be rough. However, you don’t need to tell everyone about it. Keep in mind that many people have bad days, and that this is something you can deal with on your own. Of course, if you are in deep emotional pain and need help that's a different story. But if you're just walking to a restaurant in the winter and you feel kind of cold, you can probably handle it. , It’s okay to be afraid of things, but learn how to overcome your fear. Bravery isn’t about having no fear; it’s about being afraid of something but then doing it anyways. Learn to be assertive. You can overcome your fears by facing them even when you feel uncomfortable. For example, lets say you’re really afraid to drive a motorcycle but you think it looks really fun. Maybe that is something that you could try out. Do the scary things that you would actually like to do. Tough guys enjoy adrenaline, conquer their fears and go outside their comfort zone to improve themselves.
 If you are unpredictable, people will not know what to expect from you. There’s no need to constantly talk about problems you had growing up or with your family. If you are quietly tough and silent you will earn much more respect. People will fill in the gaps. This doesn’t mean you aren’t allowed to speak, just don’t complain about your problems.


Being unpredictable means you don’t only have to do the classic tough guy things. Take up martial arts or wrestling. Learn to play guitar. Don’t fit into a box and you will be a true tough guy.
 One huge part of being a tough guy is having the respect of those around you. You aren’t a tough guy just because you say you are. If other people truly believe you’re tough then you’re doing a good job. Try to learn a skill, or multiple skills, and excel at it quietly. This is a great way to earn peoples respects. Bragging and showing off your ego will do the opposite. You can earn the respect of others by treating them well, being fair, listening to others opinions, and trying to follow your moral compass.


Do not help someone if they don’t show you the proper level of respect. You don’t need to grovel in order to get people to like you. In fact, you should avoid that at all costs. If someone does not respect you, earn it quietly or don’t worry about it at all. If they get in your face about not respecting you, you are allowed to stand up for yourself. Don’t let anyone walk all over you. , Many people act tough but when they are faced with an emergency they respond by getting panicked, or losing their cool, or blaming other people. Instead of worrying or getting scared take necessary measures to prevent, correct, and minimize the problem. This is a huge part of being a tough guy and it doesn’t involve having big muscles or being able to punch really hard. You just have to be calm and collected. Take control of these types of situations. For example, if a friend gets hurt on a hike be the one who responds quickly and administers first aid. , This is especially true for your friends and those you know are in a weaker or more uncomfortable position than you. You don’t have to go out of your way to pamper people but if you can help a person out, you should! Try to do it in a way that doesn’t draw attention to yourself or makes you the center of attention. People will respect you and see you as tough if you silently take care of your business in a kindhearted way. Think about what it means to be the white knight. Defending victims of bullying, stepping in and speaking up on behalf of the mistreated – these are the real ways to be tough. If you pick on people who are weaker than you you’re not showing that you’re a tough guy, you’re just being a jerk.
Don't try to be overly helpful, know the difference when someone needs your help and when they can figure it out on their own. If someone is getting attacked you should help him, but if someone is searching for a comb you don't have to run to the store to find them one.
 Never betray your friends or your girlfriend or your family. Exhibiting loyalty is a huge part of being a tough guy, and it will also make you a good person. Being loyal means being there for your loved ones through the thick and thin. If a family member is sick and needs your help, they should know they can count on you even if it is an inconvenience.

