 There's bound to be parties happening your senior year, but DON'T go wild. Your grades this year could be the difference between a scholarship or not, or, if your aim is a little lower, between passing and failing. On the other end of spectrum, don't get so wound up and worried about grades that you forget to have fun! This will be one of the more fun years of your life. Remember, the purpose of school is to learn. You can have fun while you learn.;
, Explore which college you like. Find out what that college's application process is like. Visit the campuses.
 Have no reservations. Try hanging out with different people than the same group you've been with all through school. Move outside your comfort zone from time to time.
 Expand your vocabulary. Ask a guidance counselor or librarian if they have any SAT/ACT prep material.
 The proverbial freshman 15 is around the corner! Try some different sports.
 Add to your resume as well as your soul! Tutor an underclassman, visit a nursing home, or host a clean-up on your street or around your school. Opportunities are endless. See something that needs to be done, take charge, and do something about it.
 Take lots of pictures! Maybe make a scrapbook with your closest friends.
 Take neat notes. Try keeping a planner. You'll be glad you did.
 Practice the Golden Rule. Whoever has the gold makes the rules? No! Treat others as you would like to be treated. You don't want to look back and wish you did things differently, especially when it comes to someone's feelings.
 Speech and Drama, Teacher Cadet, Art, and Weightlifting are just a few suggestions. Your school may have different choices. Try something new or something that parallels the college major you like most. Dual enrollment classes are great to get you some early college credit. Ask about what is available at your school.
 Make suggestions. Have fun with it.
 Have fun with your classmates! If you go, don't just sit at a table the whole night. You will regret not getting out there and letting loose. If you're not the best dancer, search for a How to Dance video, grab a partner for double the fun, and learn. Celebrate your last months of high school!

, Make sure you can handle a job with your schedule. If the job hinders your grades, you can try again next semester, next year, or when your schedule opens up more.
 Decide what steps you need to take to achieve those goals. Keep up with the list and see how far you've come. You have the ability to reach your full potential!

, Hopefully, you will have an amazing experience!

