 If you want to make a big change for fall, consider seeing a stylist. When you go, make sure to bring in a picture for your stylist. That way, your stylist knows exactly what you want, instead of trying to guess from your description. You can look up pictures on the internet to print or cut one out from a magazine.Also, be sure to allow enough time. When you make a big change, it can take some time to pull if off. Make sure you are blocking off several hours at least to get the changes you want done. Also, keep in mind that the bigger the change, the more money it's likely to cost.;
, Over the summer, your hair has likely been susceptible to some damage, in the form of sun and chemicals like chlorine. To make a fresh start with a new color in the fall, consider getting a trim to cut away some of the damage. Plus, it will help you get rid of dead ends, making it easier to color your hair., If you don't want to get a trim, at least try to repair some of the damage the summer has wrought on your hair. A good way to treat damage is to use a deep conditioner, which can help restore health and shine.It's always best to follow the directions on the package, but generally, you leave a deep conditioner in for 15 to 30 minutes. It can also help to heat the conditioner up (if suitable for the product). Also, make sure to pay particular attention to your tips, as that's where the damage is usually the worst.You can also try deep conditioning masks.
 If you have blonde hair with chunky highlights, think about thinning those out in the fall. That is, instead of large sections of blonde, try asking for your highlights to be in smaller chunks (think paper thin). Doing so creates a more natural look for fall.Another option is to try lowlights. In other words, you'll keep some of your hair the current blonde color, but you'll change some of it to a darker, light brown color. That will keep you from looking washed out., Light brown hair can start to look dull if you leave it to its own devices through the fall. However, if you add some warmer highlights, it can help to create a look with more dimension and color., With damage from the summer, dark brown hair can also start to look flat. To help transition to the fall, consider adding in some variation in color with both lowlights and highlights. Adding variation gives your hair dimension., To give red hair more dimension, try asking for your hair to be darker at the roots and lighter at the tops. To help transition from summer damage, ask for a gloss to help brighten up your hair., Dying black hair can damage hair that is already damaged from the summer. Instead, ask for a clear gloss at your salon. It can brighten up your look without having to damage it with more dye., In the summer, you have a tendency to go lighter with your hair color. The sun also naturally lightens up your hair color. However, the fall is the time to go a bit darker. You don't have to make a huge change, but you can try a shade or two darker then what you've been wearing., If you've always thought about becoming a ginger, fall is a great time to do it. A soft auburn color is reflective of the changing fall colors. Ask your stylist to help you choose an auburn that's right for your complexion., With ombre, you use a darker color at the roots and transition to a lighter color at the tips. The benefit of this look is it works well in both summer and fall, so you can just touch it up at the end of summer as you head into fall.