 Children have not yet fully developed the same skills as adults. It may take them more time to learn and make decisions about what was asked of them. If your child doesn't immediately respond, don't immediately react as if it's an affront to you or your instructions. Understand that inappropriate or disrespectful behavior by your kids isn't about you. It's about them.
Focus your energy on what behaviors you'd like to see changed, both in your kids and yourself. Avoid focusing on changing their emotions or attitude, and instead address their behaviors. Do your best to educate your children about reflecting on their emotions instead of immediately reacting to them. Teach them to identify how they are feeling and why before responding to their feelings.
For example, if you're asking them to put away toys, and you become more annoyed as you ask them repeatedly, they may have an outburst of anger. Focus more on the behavior of putting away toys, rather than the end result of an outburst. Giving attention to an outburst, even if it is negative attention, will only reinforce the outburst.
 Shouting and yelling will likely make your child and you feel frustrated and helpless. Usually yelling or shouting happens when you feel at wits end, so you are finally taking action and setting limits. Don't let yourself get to this point.Focus on boundaries and how to take action before you become upset and angry about the situation.
Understand the yelling or shouting will likely lead to the child pulling away further. They may be more focused on your anger than the instructions you gave in the first place.
 Kids can sometimes push parents' buttons. You may feel yourself getting upset. Learn to step away from the situation briefly if you feel that you're getting worked up. By giving yourself some breathing room, you'll likely be able to handle staying calm better.


Step away from the room if you're able and the child is safe while you're away for a few minutes. Find a quieter space where you can close your eyes and clear your head for 30 seconds.
Do a brief breathing exercise. Slowly inhale your breath. Hold it for a few seconds. Then slow exhale your breath. This can help to calm you and clear to head for a few minutes.
Return to talk with your child when you are less upset.
 Set a tone that makes it clear that you are calm but firm, so that your child doesn't assume they can get away with things. Showing warmth and understanding will more likely lead a child to obey your requests and instructions in the long term without resentment. Teach them for feel empowered in making their own decision. While you want to give the instructions with consequences, it's important that they feel it's their decision to make. This helps to teach them better skills of self-discipline over time.
Show warmth in your tone by stating things like, "I can understand that you'd like to continue playing with those toys. How about we put them aside for now, and you can come back to them later? I know you're good at following directions." Even a simple "I'm very proud of you will suffice."

