 Sometimes, a child can get hung up on certain words, never able to remember exactly how it goes. It can help to make up a silly little phrase or saying as a reminder. For instance, some people use "there's a rat in the middle" to help them remember how to spell "separate."Anything that helps her reminder the word is fine--the sillier, the better.
For instance, try something like "That person is named Ali Ty" for "personality."

, Another way to help a kid remember is to use the letters to make a sentence with each word in the sentence starting with one of the letters. This method is a common mnemonic or memory device. Once again, sillier phrases can help a child remember better.For instance, to help her to remember to spell "dessert," try "Debbie eats strawberry shakes every Tuesday." The strawberry shake should also help trigger her memory.
For "trouble," try "Theresa rescued one unlucky beetle-like earmite."

, Practicing the spelling of a word helps commit it to memory. However, if she's not sure how to spell it, it's important to look it up. That way, she's sure she's not practicing it the wrong way.In addition, the process of looking it up can help commit to memory.
Try using an actual paper dictionary for looking up words. Sometimes, the physical act of looking up a word can help solidify it., One way to learn more words is to keep a journal of interesting words you come across. Have your child create one. She should write words down that she comes across that are interesting or she doesn't (spelled correctly). If she doesn't know the spelling, have her look it up.


Writing the meaning down can help her remember it, too.
 Once she starts learning words, try to help her make connections between similar-sounding words. You can help her along by grouping similar words together, then try to help her find other words that fit the pattern.


For instance, you might work with "television," "telephone," and "telekinesis." While the words all have different endings, they have the same basic pattern at the beginning.

