 Trips are ideally planned for it to go well. Take your time, a day or a week ahead to initiate a plan for your trip. A check list is helpful, making sure you got your needs assemble.;
, Bring what you need. Trips are short journeys and belongs to the sub-level of traveling. Pack only the things you need. It is easy to get exhausted if you have too many things in your shoulder and back.
 It’s an absolute fact that a trip is more fun and memorable if your friends are with you. However, choose a suitable friend for the occasion. Everyone has different idea of what is fun. If you feel the need to entertain a friend for your entire trip, then your trip no longer is an adventure.
 It is essential to brief your friends about the trip, sharing plans, and making sure that everybody is on the same page. Miscommunication can cause delay and sometimes awkward situation. Make sure you and your friends discusses information about your trip

, What is a trip but an adventure. This is when you’re supposed to find excitement and feel unusual experience. Venture to the unknown and create a feeling of thrill. Your trip is not a normal day; you don’t get to do this every day so I suggest doing something that is not part of your norm.
 The time where you can challenge yourself. If you see something that excites your mind, then by all means chance it. Do something that scares you and feel your heart!

, To be cautious is smart. No matter what you are up too, surfing, cliff diving, snowboarding, scuba diving… it is always recommended to be safe. It is important to wear protective gear when advisable. Don’t be stubborn and put yourself in harm when there are precautions.
 If it falls, pick it up. If something didn’t go according to plan, do not stress out. If you can function despite fall backs, then charge forward. You can delay your trip but never stop. Enjoy what you came there for and make the best out of it.
 Take pictures! Seize the moment by taking pictures. This is not one of those regular day so you oath to capture the moment. It will make your trip more enjoyable when after all that craziness; you got something to review the good times.

