 Non-verbal communication is often underrated but is just as important as verbal communication, if not more.

Good body language goes beyond simple eye-contact. When you are talking with your partner, listen with your whole body. Reflect on what non-verbal cues you may be putting out there, and what you can change that can show him you are really listening., Men seem to prefer a side-by-side conversation position, such as standing or sitting next to each other.Therefore, it might be helpful to initiate a conversation during a walk with your guy, or while you are doing chores side-by-side. However, if your eyes are diverted, your partner may think that you are distracted by whatever you are looking at and not fully focusing on what he is saying.Therefore, in some situations, it might be best to face your guy, such as when you have something important that you need to discuss with him.

If you decide to face your body towards your guy, try to find a natural balance in your eye contact, too much and not enough blinking may make him nervous.
When you are the one talking, making eye contact about 1/3 of the time.
When your guy is talking to you, you want to increase the eye contact to about 2/3 of the time.For regular conversation, or if you find that eye contact makes you nervous, try 3 to 4 second spurts of eye contact.
 If your guy is upset and needs your full attention, then it is important to stop what you are doing and just listen. Along the same lines as maintaining eye contact, remove any distractions. If you have a phone, put it away. If you are by a computer or a TV, turn it off. Especially if it is a difficult conversation, it may be tempting to have something to distract you, but fight against it. Even if it is uncomfortable, your guy is more likely to open up if he knows he has your undivided attention and that you are really listening.
 You can also use your body language to help make your guy feel heard when he is feeling upset. As simple as this sounds, it can make a huge difference in a conversation. Body posture like crossed arms or leaning away, signals disagreement or distance to the other person. Instead uncross your arms and lean towards your partner which signals your interest and engagement.You can also try tilting your head while you are looking at them which can show sensitivity and engagement.

