 Knowledge can be an incredibly powerful tool when it comes to helping endangered species. Use social media to educate your friends and family members. If people understand the necessity of immediate action, they may be more likely to help.


Post relevant articles on social media websites. You should both news stories that talk about abstract facts and lists that give people specific instructions on how to help. For example, you could post a list of small changes you can take to reduce your carbon footprint. You could also post recipes and articles and how to makes your favorite foods vegetarian or vegan.
Encourage people to sign petitions. Online petitions do not often result in direct action right away, but they can help raise awareness of an issue. If politicians, other leaders, and corporations see many people care about something, they may give it more attention.
Encourage people to call their congressperson when a vote is coming up regarding laws about animal welfare and sustainable environmental practices. If enough people call in expressing concern, you could have a real impact on how your representative votes.
 Express your concerns to others. Education can be a powerful tool when it comes to social change. You do not need to be preachy or get insulting with people. However, you can kindly suggest small changes when the opportunity comes up. For example, propose you and co-workers car pool to work. Mention what a positive impact this might have on the environment., Volunteering your time to organizations in need is one of the best ways to help educate the public. Some of the organizations listed above often do public awareness campaigns. You can see if you can donate your time to running a booth at an event, for example, or handing out flyers on the street.


If you're looking for a new job, consider seeing if you can work for an organization like National Wildlife Federation. If you have editing experience, for example, you could help write press releases and news stories informing people on issues related to animal welfare and the environment. You would be able to make money while fighting for a cause you're passionate about.

