 Once you make the decision to transition, think about how long you want the process to last, or how much time you have to dedicate towards it. At first, you may think you want to transition for a year, but after three months, you may get tired of dealing with two different textures, and simply cut all your relaxed hair off.


If you want to keep both relaxed and natural hair, develop a go-to hairstyle to combine the two textures of hair.
Try a bantu knot or the twist out to more easily blend two very different textures of hair into one.;
, There are many different reasons people decide to transition back to their natural hair, and one of the biggest is because of hair damage. Once you know the state of your hair, you will know what step to take next in your journey. For example, you may need to get a major hair cut, or maybe you just need to do a deep conditioning treatment while your hair grows out.


If you aren't sure, ask a stylist or hairdresser to examine your hair. They will help lead you in the right direction.
 One of the most important things in transitioning hair is properly moisturizing it. Naturally curly hair usually requires deep moisturizing treatments to stay healthy. Start using protein treatments once or twice a month and begin using moisturizing deep conditioner treatments. Maintaining moisture will prevent breakage. Some products require you to wear the treatment for five minutes while others need thirty minutes to work. Wear the conditioners while you do chores around the house to save time.
 Detangle you hair when it is wet and slippery with a leave in conditioner and a wide-toothed comb. Start at the ends and work your way up to the roots. When you force a brush from the top to the bottom, tearing through hair knots, you are essentially pulling hair out from the roots. This is very hard on your hair and scalp.Brush your hair at night to move your natural oils out of the root area and through the hair shaft. Take finer sections while brushing to ensure that you are incorporating all of your hair.Be extra gentle where your natural texture meets your straight hair. This area is called the line of demarcation and it is the most fragile part of you hair. Take your time when you detangle and style your hair., Treat your edges with the same care as your ends because they are very delicate and will break off more easily than the rest of your hair.The edges and nape need just as much attention as your ends do. Be diligent about moisturizing and sealing the ends of your hair first. Don't neglect the edges and nape area when you apply moisturizer and conditioner, especially the area behind the helix of the ear. Fold your ear down and be sure to care for that area.


Avoid any style that puts too much tension on your temples and the nape of your neck.
Use a natural oil serum that will keep your edges smooth and protected.
 Trimming your ends regularly can help you transition to your natural hair more quickly. Trims prevent split ends from traveling far up your hair strand, causing more drastic cuts. Sometimes it can seem as if your hair isn't growing, but the problem could actually be that your ends are breaking off faster than your hair is growing, which creates the illusion of stunted hair.


Keep up with regular trims every four to six weeks to keep your hair growing longer.

