 You can start this process by making a detailed list of your accomplishments, how you achieved them, and why you’re proud.


For example, you could be proud of graduating from college because you’re the first person in your family to do so, and you did it while working two jobs.
This will help you see that you truly have achieved things, and it will give you deeper insight into your accomplishment.
Many of us are kinder and quicker to give out praise to others than ourselves. To help you be more objective and overcome any reluctance you might have to praise yourself, think about your skills and achievements from an outside perspective. You can do this by writing down positive things about yourself in the third person, as though you were writing a letter of recommendation or endorsement about a friend or coworker.
 Arrogant, self-centered people (and people who are insecure) tend to go on and on about themselves and their exploits, even when the people they’re talking to have stopped listening.


Learn to spot body language cues like glazed eyes, glancing at the watch, or picking at fluff on clothing. These cues can show you that you're getting tiresome and you need to stop bragging. Stop talking about yourself and ask the other person about himself or herself.
Aim to listen and to give summary feedback that reveals that you understand what the listener has said. For example, "What I hear you saying is..." Doing so is both a compliment to them and an excellent reflection on your character. Listening will always impress people, especially when you make it clear you understand.
Be concise. If you can get your idea across in a 1 or 2 sentence statement, what you say is more likely to stick in people's minds. If you ramble on about yourself for 15 minutes, then people are going to run away from you the next time they see you coming down the hall because they'll think you're arrogant and annoying.
 At the same time that you acknowledge your accomplishments, do not ignore areas you want to improve. Ignoring your potential areas for improvement can make you appear like a braggart.


Acknowledging areas that you can improve can actually give your positive statements more credibility and make you sound even more knowledgeable about a field.
 While the accomplishments of men tend to be attributed to skill, the exact same accomplishments of women are more likely to be attributed to luck. Women who boast are often judged more harshly than men who boast. This means that if you’re a woman who is trying to demonstrate her positive accomplishments, you should be sure to promote your skills in addition to your accomplishments.


You can do this by elaborating more on what you did to earn your achievement: for example, if you won an award or a scholarship, spend more time describing the work you did to win that award than the award itself.
 If you struggle with low self-esteem, depression, or social anxiety, you should seek out the assistance of a mental health professional. These issues can make it difficult or impossible to be able to speak positively about yourself to another person.


For example, individuals who suffer from extremely low self-esteem can find it impossible to find anything positive in themselves, and as a result can be filled with sadness, anxiety, or fear.
Mental health professionals can give you tools to build confidence and work through social anxiety or depression issues and help you to examine ways you can change your thoughts and behavior in order to improve your life.
 Compliment people often for the things they do that you genuinely admire. Never give a compliment that is phony.


When a person compliments you, don't launch into a discussion of how great you are. Be humble, accept the compliment and say "thank you." If you need to say more, say something such as, "I appreciate that you noticed. This is something I've really been working on in my life."
You don't always have to return a compliment if you don't have anything sincere to say. A simple "thank you, I appreciate you saying something" is sufficient.

