 One of the easiest ways to get your party started is by listening to some music. You can listen on an iPod, CD player, MP3 player, or a radio. Take turns with your friends acting as DJ and let everyone pick their own music.
 If you or your friend(s) have an electronic device that has the internet, try doing karaoke. YouTube has a lot of karaoke tracks that you can use. It’s a fun and free way to do karaoke at home., One of the best parts of sleepovers is staying up late watching movies. Set up a mini movie theatre by stacking the movies you want to watch next to the biggest screen in your house. Set out snacks that you’d normally get in a movie theatre – like popcorn and candy – and spread cushions or blankets on the floor for somewhere comfy to sit with your friends.
 Ask your friends to bring their favorite spa stuff. This can include nail polish, facial products, and makeup. You can also ask them to bring their own favorite robes and slippers. Then set up an area with small mirrors for each of your friends. Give each other facials, paint each other's nails, and do each other's hair and makeup. Having some relaxing spa music playing in the background makes it feel even more like spa., Craft stores often have small jewelry-making kits for not a lot of money. Get one for each of your friends and spend some time making your own jewelry. You can make bracelets, necklaces, and earrings with most jewelry kit. Suggest to your friends that you make something that matches., You could play video games, board games, or card games; any game will do. You could also play kiddie games like hide-and-go-seek, if you and your friend(s) want to. You can make it even more exciting by using flashlights to play in the dark (as long as it’s okay with your parents).Truth or Dare is a fun game to play, and you don't need anything special for the game.
You can also try Twister! It's a fun game that's sure to make everyone laugh.
 It can be a lot of fun to sit in a dark room and tell scary stories. If you're going to do this, make sure that your friend(s) like scary stories. You don’t want to make anyone feel uncomfortable or like they want to go home.