 Don’t be afraid to try something different during your family time. In addition to encouraging suggestions from your kids and partner, you should be flexible and willing to do something totally different if your family wants to switch things up a bit. The more fun everyone has, the more likely they will be to make family time a centerpiece in their own lives., You probably already have an idea of what your family enjoys. But hobbies and tastes change over time, and your kids or partner might have a new hobby that you could all enjoy as a family. Maybe there are even some things your kids or partner would like to do but haven’t had the opportunity to try yet.You could ask your family, “What would you like to do during our scheduled family time?”

, Your family is interested in what you have to say. You should feel that you can offer suggestions for family time activities, too. But don’t foist your choices on others. Ensure that you and your family have a pleasant conversation about possible options, and arrive at a consensus afterwards. You might suggest:Going to the park (For instance, you could ask your family, “How about going to the park?”)
Taking a walk (For instance, you could ask your family, “Would you like to take a walk?”)
Playing a game (For instance, you could ask your family, “Does anyone want to play a game?”)
Canoeing (For instance, you could ask your family, “How about taking the canoe up the river?”)
Hiking (For instance, you could ask your family, “How about hiking in the woods?”)
Visiting a local museum (For instance, you could say, “There’s a new exhibit at the museum. Let’s see it together.”)

, Don’t get stuck inside. Spending family time inside watching movies and playing games has its place. But, weather permitting, you should head outside and enjoy a walk, bike ride, or other outdoor activity with your family. For instance, you and your family might enjoy:Swimming at the lake
Mountain climbing
Parasailing
Hang-gliding
Spelunking

, Stay in bed for a bit longer instead of waking up in the morning as soon as possible. You might also enjoy a sit-down pancake breakfast with your family. Take a meandering stroll together after brunch. Those extra few minutes you spend with your family will add up in the long term, giving you and your family a stronger bond.