 A capo clamps down on all six strings, allowing you to play these chords anywhere on the neck. Basically, wherever the capo goes becomes the new "0" in your chords. This allows you to keep the same shape and play songs in any key.









The following songs have a capo in them, but you can still play them without one. Note, however, that the songs will sound off-key from recorded versions.
 This great little riff sounds good electric or acoustic. It has a fast rhythm to it -- one strum on the first and third chords, two on the second and forth. If you can throw in some muted notes, even better.










Capo: 9th

Chord Shape Progression: Em - C - G - D

, A slower tempo song, this sounds great on acoustic. Simply strum down four times on each chord. It is just a slower version of the Boston song.










Capo: 11th

Chord Shape Progression: Em - C - G - D

, Simple and easy, play four strums on the first two chords. Then strum the third chord twice, once coming up with the pick. Then play the final chord four times.










Capo: 11th

Chord Shape Progression: G - D - Em - C

, Play eight driving, quick strums on each chord, or four sets of up/down strumming. Keep this consistent beat (these are eighth notes) going.










Capo: 8th

Chord Shape Progression: Em - C - G - D - Em - C - D

, This requires a simple reggae "up-stroke" pattern. Only play the chord by picking upwards, towards your face. As your hand comes back down, lift your fingers slightly off the chord so you get a muted "chick" as you strum down the guitar, towards your feet.










Capo: 5th

Chord Shape Progression: G - D - Em - C - G - C - G - D

, Just like Bon Jovi's song, you just need gentle, calm strums. For each measure ("1 and, 2 and, 3 and, 4 and, 1 and..."), you want to strum on the "1," pause, the strum twice for the "2 and." Play the "3," pause, then strum twice for the "4 and."










Capo: 5th

Chord Shape Progression: Em - D - C - G - D - C - G

,: Simple and easy, strum it like normal for the entire bar, but hit the last chord, right before you switch, harder and louder.










Capo: 5th

Chord Shape Progression: Em - C - G - D

, The strumming is simple and basic -- three up/down strums for each chord.










Capo: 2nd

Chord Shape Progression: G - D - Em - C - G - D - C.
 Another simple, folksy strum pattern. At the beginning of every measure, just strum the top string of the chord to get a nice, bouncy feel to the song.










Capo: 2nd

Chord Shape Progression: G - D - Em - C - G - D - C - G

, This final song has a few nifty tricks in it to push your guitar skills, but you can skip them if you're still practicing. To get the intro riff, you use all the same notes in your normal chords. When transitioning chords, simply keep the last three strings in place for 1 measure. So, going from the D to the Em, leave the bottom three strings as a D for the first strum of Em, then lift them.










Capo: 2th

Chord Shape Progression: D - Em - C - G - D - Em - C - G - D