 Use the pot of the plant’s size to determine the size of the hole you’re digging. The hole needs to be approximately 18 inches wide and 18 inches deep.Position the hole near the center of the climbing fence or wall to give the clematis something to grow up against.
If you notice that the ground has poor drainage, consider making a larger hole for the plant., Line the hole generously with some backfill of the mixture. Replenishing areas of the soil with fertilizer and compost moisture helps facilitate the growth of clematis by giving them cool soil to grow within., As with planting any plant, watering it before the actual planting is imperative. It’s especially crucial with clematis plants because they need a lot of water to grow and to keep cool. Prep it for planting by watering it deeply.
 Push up on the bottom of the pot and slide the clematis plant out sideways into your free hand. Avoid pulling on the training stake in the pot or the clematis’s vine to remove it from the pot.If you find yourself having a hard time with sliding the plant out, roll it gently one half turn on the ground while lightly pushing it down to loosen up the sides.Be gentle with the roots of the clematis. Most of them will be at the lower half of the flower pot. If you must, tease the roots away from the sides, but do so gently.
 Place the clematis in the hole, situating it at about two inches lower than the ground. It is important that the roots stay cool. Fill the remainder of the hole and the area on top of the pot’s soil line with the compost, fertilizer, soil mixture., If some vines are left exposed by settling soil, cover the areas with some more of the extra soil mixture. Mulch the clematis carefully after the filling and watering of the plant is completed.Mulch helps soil retain moisture which is important for clematis plants. Use mulch, stone, or pine bark to help soil keep its moisture.
Water new clematis plants regularly in their first growing season so that their growth is off to a successful start.As much as four watering cans per square meter may be required to water the plants appropriately.