 Although many carnivorous plants look very exotic and look like they come from a remote part of the rain forest, many are actually temperate perennials native to North America. Carnivorous plants are generally divided into two groups: hardy perennials that need to be grown outdoors, and tropical or sub-tropical plants that cannot tolerate frost and must be grown indoors during cold weather. It is imperative that you know which type you are dealing with, so you will know where to grow them. For hardy perennials, i.e., Venus Flytraps, Sarracenia pitcher plants, and temperate sundews, grow them outdoors year-round in a place where they will receive at least 4-6 hours of sunlight per day. For tropical plants such as Nepenthes and tropical sundews, grow them indoors in a window that receives at least two hours of direct morning sun, and bright ambient light for the rest of the day.;
, Place the potted plant in a shallow tray or dish and make sure that the dish always stays filled with mineral-free water, but avoid letting the water level rise above half-way of the pot. For Nepenthes, keep only a small amount of water in the tray, or avoid the tray altogether and keep the plant watered well. (Nepenthes' roots may rot if kept in standing water. A good method to make sure the plant is not sitting in water is to put a plant pot in a tray and put the pot with the plant in on top of that, then the water will go into the tray, thus not affecting the roots) Make sure that the water you use is either rainwater, distilled water, or water that has been through a reverse-osmosis filter. Minerals, salts, fertilizers, and chemicals will harm your plants. If you live in an area of soft water, you can use tap water, as long as your house is no older than about 10 years, as newer houses use more plastic pipes for sinks, stopping chemicals.
 If it is a hardy perennial, you will need to place it outside in bright shade for about a week with the dome partially removed. The second week, it is safe to take the dome all the way off and move it to a location that receives part sun. The third week, it will be ready to endure full sun and wind. Tropical carnivorous plants can be done the same way if it is warm outside (for nepenthes, above 5 degree Celsius for highlanders all year round, and above 18 degree Celsius for lowlanders all year round, and for tropical sundews over 5 degree Celsius all year round) if you are planning to grow them there. This process will also work for tropical plants you are going to grow indoors. Simply follow the same steps indoors.
 Also, peat moss can begin to break down into potting soil after too many seasons and harm the plants. You should never use potting soil or fertilizer on them, as fertilizer and chemicals will kill them.
 For some plants that require faster draining soil, such as Nepenthes, use 1 part peat moss and 2 parts perlite, or you can use pure sphagnum moss.
 Generally, make sure the white or light colored growth is below the soil as it was before. Be careful not to set off more of the Venus Flytrap's traps than you have to, as each false alarm cost the plant energy. This can be reduced by re-potting just as it is coming out of dormancy. It is also a good idea to be careful not to get too much dirt stuck to the leaves of sundews, for appearance's sake. Be sure to water in well, and be careful not to wash the plant out of the soil.
 Many carnivorous plants, because of their cold winters and higher activity levels than normal plants, must "hibernate", or go dormant, during the winter. Make sure that you leave your Venus Flytraps, Sarracenia pitcher plants and other temperate plants outside all winter. They produce important enzymes that allow them to grow properly and flower the following spring. Don't be tempted to bring them in if they begin to loose leaves, as it is natural for them to shed frost-bitten leaves. The only time you should worry about your plants is if the temperature drops below 20 °F (−7 °C) for more than a week at a time, or if there is dry freezing wind overnight. If these cases arise, you need to move your plants into an unheated shed or garage until the temperature rises above 20 degrees, otherwise they could become dehydrated. Come spring, they should emerge from dormancy with vigor. If the soil in the pot expands, don't worry, it is just expanding due to ice.


Tropical carnivores do not require dormancy, and may be grown indoors all year. If you have been growing them outdoors during warm weather, bring them in before the temperature falls below 55ºF. Because of lower light conditions in winter, many tropical plants may slow down dramatically in growth. This is normal, and you should continue to keep water in their trays.

