 A drug or alcohol detox program should provide an individualized assessment for each patient. This evaluation and assessment will take into consideration your specific needs and concerns.The evaluation will cover a medical and physical assessment, along with a social and behavioral one.
 Detox programs are a medical removal of the substance from the body. Because of this detox process, withdrawal symptoms can occur. These withdrawal symptoms may be severe or life-threatening. The withdrawal symptoms should be managed by medical personnel to make them more manageable.The detox program should have medical and clinical staff on site with access to the patients around the clock.
 While you are going through a detox program, you should have someone monitor your condition closely. This means a medical team should be there around the clock to help with any severe withdrawal symptoms or complications.Medical personnel, including physicians, nurses, and clinical and technical staff should be 24 hours a day to provide patient care.
 Counseling is an important part of the detox and addiction recovery program. The counseling portion generally occurs after the detox portion, when the withdrawal symptoms have subsided.People who suffer from substance abuse commonly have underlying problems that lead to their drug or alcohol addiction. A good detox program will provide counseling for their patients.Counseling provides a way for the patient to identify and work through the issues that led to the problem.
Counseling also includes education about the dangers of substance abuse, and teaches skills that help prepare the patient to face stressors and triggers when out of the program.
 A good detox facility will provide support for their patients. The aim will be to help make you comfortable and provide you with compassionate and supportive care through the program.A detox program is not easy, but it should not be a painful or bad experience. Going through a detox program will be challenging and take work on the patient’s part, but being in extreme pain or being sick is not necessary. A good detox program with qualified medical personnel can help manage the withdrawal to help eliminate some of the more severe side effects.
 Sometimes, the detox program is held in a separate location than the inpatient treatment program you will go through after the detox is over. By making sure these two things are close together, you can eliminate a long disruption of your treatment while you travel.You will have to go from the detox program to the inpatient treatment, which means there will be a span of time when you are not under supervision or in a facility. If you spend too much time travelling or away from the treatment before you have been fully treated, you could have a relapse or give into temptation.
 Detox programs focus on removing the substance and harmful toxins from the patient’s body. Because of this, the duration of the detox program can vary from person to person.Look for a program that allows you to have the proper time you need to detox. This means it should be tailored to as little or as much time as your body needs to remove the substances.
If a program tries to force you into a predetermined amount of time for the detox, consider another program.

