 If your cat is fertile and has recently been in heat, it’s possible that she may be pregnant.


Female domestic cats become sexually active as the days get longer and the weather gets warmer, typically between spring and fall.
A female cat may start her estrus cycle (go into heat) once the weather becomes warmer and she has reached about 80% of her adult weight. This means a cat may go into heat as early as four months of age in unusual cases.;
, When a cat goes into heat, she displays clear behavioral changes meant to attract a mate that will last about four to six days.A cat about to go into heat will initially display signs of restlessness, become more affectionate, begin making low calls, and have increased appetite.When a cat enters into heat, she will begin “calling”--meowing or mewling frequently and insistently--and may lose her appetite.
A cat in heat will become much more affectionate towards people, will roll around, and will prop her hind quarters up in the air while treading her back paws and holding her tail to the side., If your cat has gone into heat, the effects can extend much further than odd behavior--your cat could have gotten pregnant.


If you determine your cat has recently been in heat, pregnancy is a definite possibility.
After being in heat, a cat will enter into a “quiet phase” lasting about 8-10 days, during which her behavior will calm down. Following the quiet phase, however, your cat will go into heat again and continue to go into heat through the period between April and September.To prevent your cat from going into heat and/or inadvertently getting pregnant, have her spayed as soon as it’s safe to do so.
 About 15-18 days into the pregnancy, a queen's nipples will “pink up,” or become red and enlarged.


Her breasts may enlarge, and she may express a milky fluid.
Enlarged nipples are also signs of being in heat, so bear in mind that growing nipples are not exclusively indicative of pregnancy.
 From the side, pregnant cats frequently look somewhat swaybacked, with a slightly round and bulging abdomen.


Many female cats assume this burro shape later in pregnancy.
If your cat is merely overweight, she’ll be heavier all over, including her neck and legs, and not just in her abdomen.
 A few days before she’ll give birth, your cat will begin showing nesting behaviors as she prepares for the arrival of her litter.


Your cat may go to a quiet place like a closet and start arranging blankets, towels, or other fabric to create a place to give birth to her kittens.
If you notice nesting behavior and you hadn’t previously realized your cat was pregnant, take your cat to the vet as soon as possible for a prenatal checkup.
 The vet can confirm the pregnancy and advise you on caring for the cat. Ask your vet about caring for the queen and preparing for the birth.


Have the vet examine the queen’s stomach; after about 17-25 days, an experienced veterinarian can usually feel the embryos.
Leave feeling for embryos to the vet--your prodding could lead to a miscarriage., If the vet is unsure after feeling your cat for embryos, they can instead use an ultrasound to determine whether or not your cat is pregnant and, if so, with how many kittens.The vet will be able to detect fetal heartbeats by 20 days into the pregnancy with an ultrasound.
 At approximately 45 days of gestation, the skeletons of the kittens can be seen with an x-ray, which will confirm the pregnancy and the number of kittens in the litter.The vet will typically take two x-rays in order to get views of the abdomen and count kittens while also looking for potential problems.
These x-rays will not hurt the queen or the kittens.
An X-ray is better for counting fetuses than an ultrasound, though it still isn’t 100% accurate.
 Vaccines in particular may be dangerous to the queen or her kittens during gestation.


Consult your vet before giving the any medications, including dewormer, to the queen or, after she gives birth, to the kittens.
 You may notice your cat consuming more food and gaining weight as she gets closer to giving birth.Because the kittens are developing rapidly during the last third of pregnancy, you should feed your cat a growth (kitten) formula diet to provide sufficient calories.
 As your cat gets closer to giving labor, be careful to keep her inside so that she won’t find a place outside to give birth to the kittens.It’s best if you prepare a nest or whelping box for her inside the house. Place a box in a warm, dry, quiet place in the house and line it with newspaper or an old towel or blanket.
Set your cat’s food, water, and litter box near by and encourage her to sleep in the box in the days leading up to the birth.