 Having immediate male family members (such as a father or brother) with prostate cancer significantly increase your risk of developing it yourself. In fact, the risk is more than doubled! It's essential that you notify your doctor of any family history of prostate cancer so you can work together to build a comprehensive preventive program.Note that the risk is high for men with a brother diagnosed with prostate cancer than a father. In addition, the risk is increased for those men who have multiple relatives with prostate cancer, especially if those relatives were diagnosed at a young age (e.g., before 40).Ask your doctor to test to see if you have mutations of the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes, which may increase your chances of prostate cancer., These include erectile dysfunction, blood in your urine, pain when you urinate or have sex, pain in the hips or low back, or always feeling like you need to urinate.However, prostate cancer is often asymptomatic, at least until it has spread to affect other parts of the body, such as the bones. Patients diagnosed with prostate cancer rarely report the above symptoms of incontinence, blood in the urine, impotence, etc.
 The American Cancer Society recommends getting screened for prostate cancer beginning at age 50 (or age 45 if you have any risk factors for prostate cancer). Screening involves the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test. PSA is a substance made by both the normal and cancer the cells in your prostate that is found in a small amount in the blood. Most men have PSA levels of 4 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood, and the higher the PSA leve, the higher the chance of cancer. The gap between screenings depends on the results of this test. Men who have a PSA of less than 2.5 ng/mL need retesting every 2 years, whereas men with higher PSA levels should be tested annually.A digital rectal exam (DRE) may also be included in the screening. In this exam, a clinician will feel for a nodule on the back side of the prostate.Neither the PSA nor the DRE is conclusive. You will likely need a biopsy to diagnose prostate cancer.At present, the American Cancer Society recommends that men should make an informed decision about prostate screening after detailed discussion with their primary care physicians. Screening can help locate cancers early, but there is no conclusive research as to whether screening actually saves lives. That said, catching the cancer earlier increases the chance that it can be treated successfully.