 Visit your doctor to get more powerful treatments for your cold sores. If you have cold sores that recur frequently, visit your doctor to see what your treatment options are. The doctor may ask you a series of questions in order to diagnose the severity of your case, such as:


When did you first notice the current cold sore?
How painful is the cold sore?
When did you first get cold sores?
How frequently do you get cold sores?

, Some medications are thought to contribute to cold sore outbreaks. Ask your doctor if these might be contributing to your current cold sore outbreak.Medications that are in question include:


Depo-Provera birth control
Steroid-based medications
Nasal sprays such as Fluticasone and Nasonex
Flu shots or vaccinations (rarely)
Medications that weaken your immune system

, Prescription anti-viral creams containing penciclovir and acyclovir are highly effective treatments for cold sores.These are creams that you will apply directly to the cold sore.


Apply the cream as soon as you feel the cold sore coming on. If you catch it early enough, the cream might prevent it from becoming a blister.
The cream can be applied to open sores, too. They should go away within a day or two after application.
 Acyclovir (Zovirax) or valacyclovir (Valtrex), both anti-viral medications, are available in pill form. These can help clear up cold sores more quickly and may also prevent future outbreaks.These medications can reduce symptoms considerably if taken within the first day or two after you first notice the cold sore or accompanying symptoms., A cortisone injection is a steroid injection that is injected at the site of your cold sore. It will cause the site to swell but then the cold sore should disappear within a few hours. Visit your doctor to get an injection of diluted cortisone to quickly get rid of the cold sore.This can be painful, as the cortisone shot is injected into the cold sore itself.It may also be costly. Check with your health insurance provider to see if this procedure is covered by your insurance.

