 Holidays, summer vacations, and other family events can become complicated when your child and their spouse have to divide their time between both families. Be understanding of logistical issues, and consider having your family celebrations at less traditional times to avoid scheduling conflicts and squabbles.For instance, maybe you could have your family’s Christmas get-together on Boxing Day instead.
 Don’t try to outdo your son- or daughter-in-law’s parents in terms of personal qualities, favors, or gifts. You and they are different people, and there’s no point in comparing yourself to them. Instead, be yourself and focus on maintaining the best relationships you can with your child and their in-laws.It’s particularly important to avoid competing over any grandchildren you have. Love and quality time are more important to kids than expensive presents or trips.
 Don't take it personally if your child spends more time with their in-laws. Sometimes it’s not practical for a young couple to split their visits between their families equally, especially if long distances and travel costs are a concern. Your child became part of their spouse’s family when they got married, so try not to feel hurt if they visit their in-laws frequently.If you feel like your child makes more of an effort to see their in-laws than to visit you, have a heart-to-heart with them about the situation. Be honest about your feelings, but avoid accusing them of not caring about you.
Say something like, “We miss you, and it bothers us that you come to see us so rarely, especially because you see Jane’s family so much. What can we do to make visiting easier for you?”

, When you have a family conflict, work with your child and their in-laws to come up with a solution that’s acceptable to everyone. Take everybody’s personality and needs into account as you look for a resolution.Your child’s in-laws will be more likely to work with you if you take a positive, proactive approach to finding a good solution.
Remember that you can only control your own actions. If your child’s in-laws refuse to cooperate, it’s natural to feel disappointed, but you should still take the high road to avoid damaging the relationship.

