 The most basic tool you need to blow out your hair is a good hair dryer with a nozzle that will direct the heat in a concentrated stream. This will result in a smoother blowout than one done without a nozzle. Most hair dryers come with a nozzle attachment, but if yours didn't, you can purchase one separately from a beauty supply store. In addition to a hair dryer, you'll need the following:








Wide-toothed comb
Large round brush
Heat protectant product
Hair oil or anti-frizz serum;
, Shampoo and condition your hair in the shower as normal. Since you're planning to blow it out straight, consider using a straightening shampoo and conditioner to reduce the volume before you even start your blowout.
 As soon as you step out of the shower, use a towel to gently blot the excess water from your hair. Don't squeeze it, rub it, or twist it up, since this could make it frizzy. Just use the towel to absorb the water that's dripping from your hair.
 Use a wide-toothed comb to comb your hair smooth and remove any tangles before you start your blowout. It's much better to start your blowout with tangle-free hair, since the brush you'll be using could damage your hair if it catches on tangles.
 This is an important step to take to protect your hair from heat damage. Heat protectant products contain polymers that bind to your hair and keep it from getting fried by the hair dryer. Squirt a nickel-sized amount into your palm, rub your hands together, and smooth the product into your hair from roots to tips.









If you don't have a heat protectant product, apply leave-in conditioner or anti-frizz serum. It's better than drying your hair with no product at all.
Avoid using too much product, since it could leave your hair looking limp and even greasy instead of shiny and sleek.
 Humidity causes curly hair to frizz up, so blow drying your hair in the bathroom just after you've taken a hot shower is not ideal. To get the best out of your blowout, blow dry your hair in the bedroom or a different room with a good mirror and no humidity.

