 Longer dresses tend to give off a country vibe. Look for dresses that are longer cut. You can have a dress that flows down to your feet or a dress that goes past your knees. Choose a long dress without a lot of beads, lace, or other embellishments, as this gives off the simple, rustic feel.If your footwear is important for your big day, choose a dress that shows off your shoes. If you plan on wearing, say, cowboy boots, do not wear a dress that covers your feet.;
, Embroidery can make your dress look more rural. If you want something fancy, but do not want to go overboard with embellishments, an embroidered gown may work for you.Embroidery can be great if you want a splash of color. Some gowns have small embroidered designs in colorful shades like red and blue.
 Ribbons are a great addition to a wedding dress. However, very fancy ribbon patterns may kill the rustic vibe. Instead of opting for perfectly positioned ribbons, look for dresses that have ribbons strung in asymmetrical patterns throughout your dress. This can add some decoration to your gown while keeping the country vibe intact., Long, flowing sleeves can give off a country girl feel that's perfect for a rustic wedding. Look for a gown with longer sleeves that are a little puffier than average.However, there are no hard and fast rules for what constitutes a rustic dress. If you have your heart set on sleeveless, your dress can still be rustic if you keep it on the longer side and minimize embellishments.
 If you want to give off a rustic feel on your wedding day, make sure you wear rustic shoes. Instead of fancy footwear with lace and sparkles, go for played down shoes made from simple materials.If you want a really simple look, go for a simple pair of laced brown shoes made out of a material like suede or leather.
If you want heels, find a way to give heels a rustic vibe. Have bows attached made from burlap fabric or pick a duller color, like dark gold, instead of a sparkly, vibrant shade.
Shoes with a crocheted pattern can also give off a rustic vibe. Consider getting a pair of white flats with a nice crocheted pattern.
 A long, lacy veil helps give your wedding a rustic feel. You should also minimize embellishments. A veil with a lot of beads or ribbons may not exemplify the simple, rustic vibe., Instead of using a flashy headband or hairpiece to hold up your veil, use a floral crown. A floral crown will help give off the nature vibe a rustic wedding needs.Use flowers that are native to your area in your floral crown. This will make it look like you picked the flowers for the crown yourself, contributing to the no frills feel of a rustic wedding.
 The cowboy look is one way to give your outfit a rustic feel. Cowboy boots can help give off a rustic vibe, as well as cowboy hats and jackets.You can go for shorter cowboy boots, that do not reach your knees, or knee-high boots. Take your dress's length into account when choosing boots. Pick boots that will be easy to see while you wear your dress.
Wear a denim jacket over your dress. This can work well for sleeveless dresses, especially if you're having an outdoor wedding on a chilly day.Try wearing a cowboy hat in place of a veil if you want a cowboy look.
If you want to add a little color to your outfit, use your boots, hats, or jacket to do so. You can, for example, wear blue boots to add the "something blue" to your wedding day theme.
 A hat can be a great accessory for your wedding day, especially if you're forgoing a veil. To pick a rustic hat, go for small hat with a tiny brim in a neutral color like white. A hat with a small embellishment, like a tiny ribbon, can add some extra decoration without killing the rustic vibe., A shawl can give off a county feel that's perfect for a rustic wedding. If you don't mind throwing something over your wedding dress, consider wearing a knit shawl over your shoulders. If you want something a big more intricate, you can try a crocheted shawl.A shawl can be a good way to add color to your outfit. If you're looking for "something blue", for example, wear a blue shawl.
 If you're carrying a bouquet down the aisle, opt for wild flowers. This will give off a rustic vibe as the bouquet will look like it's taken straight out of nature. This is fitting with the simple feel of a rustic wedding.Do not go with elaborate patterns for your bouquet. Simply bundle the flowers together in a casual, somewhat haphazard arrangement to keep things looking rustic.
 Use your jewelry to help showcase your wedding's rustic vibe. Jewelry that's somewhat casual and clunky can help your wedding dress look more rustic.Wear thick bracelets made out of rural materials like wood.
Go for big, clunky earrings made out of casual materials like beads or feathers.
Wear beaded necklaces in bright colors like turquoise.

