 Your county government should notify you that it will be holding a tax sale. The county does not need a court’s permission to hold the sale, but it typically must notify you of the sale and give you a deadline to pay your back taxes to stop the sale.


At the sale, the starting bids will be for the value of the unpaid taxes and any unpaid interest or penalties., There are generally two different types of tax sales involving property. You need to identify which type of sale is about to take place:Tax deed sale. In this situation, the county sells the deed to your house. The person who buys the property gets the deed and title to the property. Of course, you still have a right to redeem the property.
Tax certificate sale. In some states, the county government doesn’t sell your house at the tax sale. Instead, it sells a tax certificate. This certificate is basically the lien on your property. The person who buys the certificate has the power to go into court later and start the foreclosure process if you don’t pay off the unpaid taxes.
 After the county holds the auction, it should notify you of the sale. You should receive notification in the mail. If you don’t receive anything, then call your county tax office.


Ask them how long you get to redeem either the tax certificate or the deed.
 After the sale of the tax certificate, you continue to own the home. You will have a limited amount of time to pay off the lien and any interest and penalties.This is called “redeeming” the tax certificate. If you do, then the lien disappears and you’ve saved your house. If you don’t, the owner of the lien can begin foreclosure.


The deadline for paying off the lien should be spelled out on the notice you receive after the tax sale.
 Most counties give you the right to redeem property after a tax deed sale. Although the new owner now owns title to your property, the law still gives you a certain amount of time to pay the new owner the amount that they paid at auction (plus interest). Once you pay off that amount, you get the deed back.Typically, the redemption period lasts one to three years after the sale. However, you should contact a lawyer to double check.
Realize that in some states the redemption period ends before the sale.
 In some situations, you can invalidate a tax sale. You should meet with a lawyer and discuss before filing suit in court. Generally, you can set aside a tax sale for only the following reasons:you paid the taxes
you never owed the taxes
the tax lien or sale process was defective, e.g., leaving off the name of one of the property owners or failing to give adequate notice of the saleexcusable neglect, such as mental illness or incapacity

