 Wipe a damp dryer sheet or Mr Clean Magic Eraser over the mineral stain and it may come off directly.This won't always work, but is often a quick and convenient option to start with. Either way, rinse off the door afterward to remove the cleaning product.


Be aware that some dryer sheets may leave scent on the shower door.;
, Light stains from hard water or soap scum are typically easy to remove with white vinegar. Warm ½ cup (120 milliliters) of vinegar in the microwave for 30 seconds, use it to dampen a sponge or clean rag, and scrub it over the scum. Let soak for five minutes, then rinse off with warm water.The vinegar may leave an unpleasant smell, but this should wash away after a shower or two. If your bathroom has poor ventilation, dilute the vinegar with equal parts water to prevent irritation of your eyes and sinuses.
The soft side of the sponge is usually sufficient. The abrasive side is more effective, but can scratch some types of glass, especially if used repeatedly.
 If vinegar alone won't cut through the mineral deposit, try mixing warm white vinegar with an equal amount of dish soap.This should remove just about any stain in one or two scrubs, rinsing with warm water after each one.
 A glass cleaner spray is typically less effective than acidic cleaners such as vinegar, but some specialized "shower scum removal" products may be worth a try.Most of these contain ammonia, which produces toxic and irritating fumes, so use only in small quantities and in well-ventilated areas.Spray on, scrub hard with a sponge, and rinse off thoroughly.


If your bathroom has poor ventilation, use an eco-friendly citrus-based glass cleaner. These tend to be less harmful to the eyes and lungs., Use this as a last resort, since baking soda is abrasive and can scratch some types of glass, especially when used repeatedly. Pour about ¼ cup (60 mL) baking soda into a cup and slowly mix in white vinegar one tablespoon (15 mL) at a time until a thick paste is formed. Scrub this onto the glass with a sponge, let it sit for 15 minutes, then rinse off.The two ingredients will fizz when they come into contact with each other, but the gas produced is harmless. Don't pour the vinegar directly into the baking soda, or it could messily spray out of the container.
 Available at drugstores, hydrogen peroxide is an effective way to kill mold. Spray it onto the mold with a spray bottle and let sit for a few minutes, then dry with a clean towel. No scrubbing is necessary, but you may need to apply it up to three times., Bleach is another effective mold killer, but can irritate the skin, lungs, and eyes if used in poorly ventilated areas or when mixed with other cleaning products. Spray on a cleaning product that contains 4 to 6% bleach, let sit for a few minutes, then wipe off.


You can dilute concentrated bleach yourself, but wear gloves and eye protection, and work in a well-ventilated area., If the mold on your shower caulk cannot be scrubbed off, it has most likely penetrated the surface. Remove the caulk with a putty knife or utility knife. Clean the area with more hydrogen peroxide or bleach, then again with a cloth dampened in rubbing alcohol.Ventilate the bathroom for 24 hours to ensure completely dry surfaces, then put in fresh caulk using a caulk gun.


A caulk removal product will soften the caulk and make it easier to remove.
 A shower squeegee is an excellent prevention tool, wiping water and soap off the doors before water spots, soap scum, or mold can get established., Open the windows or turn on the fan during a shower, to speed up drying and minimize the time available for mold to take advantage of the moisture. Wring out washcloths and towels after use, and spread them out on the rack to dry evenly.


If ventilation to the area is poor, consider installing a heat lamp in the bathroom.
 Typically sold for use on car windows, glass shield protectors or rain repellents will repel moisture on your shower doors as well.Wipe on a light layer with a paper towel or microfiber cloth, let dry to a slight haze, then rub on in circular motions. Depending on the product, the type of glass, and the humidity in your bathroom, this may provide protection for anywhere from two weeks to several months.


Read your product's label and follow the specific application instructions if they differ from these.

