 DSLRs have many advantages over point and shoot cameras that are crucial in sports photography, including: high ISO capability, fast shutter speeds, no shutter lag, faster auto-focus, interchangeable lenses, increased battery power, and higher frame rates. Professionals almost invariably shoot Canon or Nikon cameras, but this is not an excuse to wait until you buy new gear before getting out there and shooting if you have a digital SLR from some other brand.;
, There are many factors you'll want to consider, detailed below, and probably some compromises you'll want to make depending on your budget.



Focal length: Obviously, a larger zoom range is better, all else being equal; if your zoom range doesn't cover a good part of the track or field and you are limited as to where you can stand, it'll mean there are some shots that you just can't get. Of course, they're also more expensive (once again, all else being equal), so depending on your budget you may think this is a worthwhile tradeoff.
The following figures will tell you at what distance you will be able to fill a 1.8-metre (6 foot) high subject using a lens of common telephoto focal lengths, while holding your camera horizontally. Adjust them accordingly for what you think your shooting scenario will be.These numbers are for cropped-sensor digital SLRs, so multiply them by about 1.5 to get a figure for a full-frame digital SLR. You'll also want to multiply them by about 1.5 if you're holding the camera in the vertical position.


85mm: 8.5 metres (28 feet)

200mm: 20 metres (65 feet)

300mm: 30 metres (100 feet)

400mm: 40 metres (130 feet)

600mm: 60 metres (200 feet)



Maximum aperture: If you're planning on shooting in daylight, then don't worry about this; a lens that is f/5.6 at the long end will allow you to get a shutter speed of 1/250 on even a heavily overcast day, at ISO 200.If you want to be able to shoot in any light at all, though, you probably want a professional f/2.8 telephoto lens, for much more money.

Vibration reduction (Nikon)/image stabilisation (Canon): The fast shutter speeds you'll be using for sports will allow you to hand-hold reasonably-long telephoto lenses, which renders VR partly unnecessary. On the other hand, as Nikon and Canon's vibration reduction is built into the lens, it helps stabilise the image in your viewfinder while you are composing a shot, which is very useful for telephoto lenses. So VR is a nice feature to have, but if you're shooting from a monopod, or if buying a non-VR version of a lens will get the lens you need within your budget, then you can live without it.
 You can have the best camera in the world and all it would be is an expensive paperweight if you don't know how to use it. In order to increase your knowledge of cameras, you can attend classes or workshops that teach about cameras, or you can spend time online looking at different tutorials, tips, and examples of people's work for free. Understanding camera exposure is the most important thing to learn. The internet is a valuable resource when learning about photography or solving problems.


Learn how to set your white balance.
Learn about photographic exposure.
Learn what the ISO setting is and how to use it.
For Nikon SLRs, see How to Use Every Nikon Digital SLR.
 Action doesn't come to you, you go to the action. You can find sports almost everywhere; try going to high school or little league games, or try to step it up and get into professional games (see Warnings).

