 A dog with transient diabetes will have temporary hyperglycemia. This temporary rise in blood glucose may be due to a stressful disease or medications that inhibit insulin function.Telltale signs of diabetes include increased water intake and urination, increased appetite, and weight loss.Signs of advanced diabetes can include anorexia, depression, and vomiting.The signs of diabetes seen with transient diabetes are not different than those associated with other types of diabetes (type 1 and type 2).;
, Transient diabetes can also occur in intact female dogs when they are in heat (ready to mate).A female dog in heat will have a bloody discharge coming from its vagina. The vagina may also be swollen, but the swelling might not be detectable.Pregnancy can also cause transient diabetes. During pregnancy, levels of the sex hormone progesterone increase. Progesterone inhibits insulin function, allowing blood glucose levels to rise., Certain medications, such as steroids, can inhibit insulin function, leading to hyperglycemia. Transient diabetes caused by steroids can cause a serious condition called diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA).Along with the common signs of diabetes, DKA can cause anorexia and vomiting. Powerful, short-acting insulin is commonly used to treat DKA in dogs.Because of the risk of transient diabetes, vets usually do not keep dogs on steroid medications for long periods of time.
 Pancreatitis is inflammation of the pancreas. It is a serious disease that can prevent the pancreas from functioning normally, and can lead to transient diabetes. Pancreatitis can make dogs very sick, so take your dog to your vet if you see signs of this disease. Below are some symptoms you may notice:Anorexia
Vomiting
Weakness
Diarrhea

, Having your dog examined by your vet will be the best way to confirm a diagnosis of transient diabetes. Even if you see signs of diabetes, it may be hard for you to know whether these signs indicate transient diabetes. Your vet will perform a physical exam and run various diagnostic tests to confirm the diagnosis.


During your dog's appointment, provide information to your vet about what you've noticed at home. For example, let your vet know if your dog is in heat, and if you've noticed signs of diabetes.
 As with other forms of diabetes in dogs (types 1 and 2 diabetes), transient diabetes causes hyperglycemia. Your vet may take a small blood sample to test the blood using a blood glucose monitor. Or, your vet will take a larger sample to perform a more thorough analysis of your dog’s blood.


Full blood work will allow your vet to see if there are any other underlying diseases causing the transient diabetes. These diseases would cause changes in different components of your dog’s blood.
If you have a female dog, your vet may want to test the levels of sex hormones (estrogen, progesterone) in your dog’s blood. Increased progesterone levels could suggest transient diabetes if other signs of diabetes are present.
 Glucose in the urine (‘glycosuria’) is a classic sign of diabetes in dogs. Your vet will likely take a sample of your dog’s urine to look for glucose. They may also look for ketones in the urine, which is a sign of DKA.Ketones are substances that end up in the urine when a dog is using fat instead of sugar for energy., Once your vet diagnoses transient diabetes in your dog, you can begin treating your dog for the condition. As with type 1 or type 2 diabetes, you will give your dog insulin to reverse the hyperglycemia.Your vet will prescribe insulin and instruct you on how often to give the insulin.


Several insulin products are available for dogs.
Insulin is a liquid medication that you will inject in the subcutaneous space (area just under the skin). After you draw up the prescribed amount of insulin into the syringe, create a skin tent just behind your dog's neck and stick the needle into the tent., If your vet identified an underlying condition, such as pancreatitis, pregnancy, or being in heat, they will recommend a treatment plan for that specific condition.For example, if your dog has pancreatitis, treatment will be vigorous and include fluid therapy, nutritional support, pain medication, and anti-nausea medication.If your female dog is pregnant or in heat, your vet will recommend spaying your dog.This surgical procedure involves removing the ovaries and uterus. Spaying will lower your dog’s progesterone levels, which should help your dog’s internal insulin start working again.
 If steroid medication caused your dog’s transient diabetes, your vet will start slowly reducing the steroid dosage. Steroid medication should not be stopped all at once. A sudden stop of steroid use can cause a dog to develop Cushing’s disease. Your vet will taper your dog’s steroid dosage over several weeks.Cushing’s disease occurs when the adrenal glands, located near the kidneys, produce too much of the hormone cortisol.

