 This program helps those who can’t afford a cell phone by providing both the phone and the wireless coverage plan for free. The program funding comes from Universal Service Fund fees on telephone bills. Despite the nickname “Obama Phones,” the program actually began during the Bush presidency. The phones are often refurbished and come from different providers and offer different plans which are outlined in the subsequent steps.Each state has its own requirements, but they don’t vary by much. If you qualify for federal assistance programs like Food Stamps or Medicaid you’re very likely to be eligible for a free phone.
 This is the oldest and largest provider in the program. Although it isn’t available in all 50 states, it does cover citizens in Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Connecticut, DC, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin.Safelink plans offer up to 250 minutes and 1,000 text messages. For the first two or three months, however, the minutes are doubled to 500.
Eligibility depends on enrollment in other federal aid programs, but households with low enough income may be eligible as well. This varies by state.
Remember that Safelink phones are often very small, cheap or hard to use and that most smartphones aren't compatible with the Safelink service. Many Safelink phones are also from Tracfone, of which many phones accept the Safelink program.
 Assurance Wireless offers phones in 40 states, with unlimited talk and text in California. Otherwise, they service the following: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin.


Like Safelink, Assurance offers 250 minutes, although they provide unlimited text messaging and double minutes in the first four months.
Based on your state residence, you may be eligible depending on your income in relation to the poverty line., Budget offers unlimited minutes and texts for California and Oklahoma, with Oklahoma users receiving 500MB of data as well.


Budget provides a free phone with 250 minutes to qualified citizens in Arkansas, Arizona, California, Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nevada, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Washington, Utah, Texas, West Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.