 If something is bothering you, it's important to let your loved one know so you can tackle the problem together. On the flip side, your communication shouldn’t exclusively revolve around discussing issues. Spend time sharing your opinions, ideas, and dreams, too.Set aside time daily to chat with your significant other. Pick the right place and time to talk, somewhere free of distractions.
If discussing an issue, stick to “I” or “we” statements. These minimize any fault-finding and allow you to take ownership of your feelings.
 The healthiest relationships are undermined when partners listen to respond rather than listening to understand. When your partner is talking, make them feel like they are the most important person in the universe. Turn to face them. Make eye contact. Nod or encourage them to continue.Use a few techniques to become a better listener. One helpful technique is paraphrasing, which involves retelling your partner what they said to be sure you got the right message. It may sound like, “So, it sounds like you’re saying…”
Because you and your partner have an emotional relationship, it’s also good to attend to their feelings when communicating. Validate their emotional experience by saying something to the effect of “I can see that you’re hurt.”

, Although the truth is sometimes painful to hear, the only way to preserve trust and integrity in your relationship is by being honest. Admit it when you’re wrong. Apologize when you make a mistake. Your partner will appreciate your truthfulness and see you as more trustworthy., Personal boundaries define the line where your partner ends and you begin. Even though the two of you are close, you will still have different needs, wants, and limitations. Each of you should take time figuring out what your boundaries are, and then communicate them to your partner.


Share your boundaries in a calm and polite manner. For example, you might say, “I have been thinking about my personal boundaries and I wanted to share them with you…”
Boundaries can be any principles you want to live by. These may include making sure your partner respects your privacy, allows you time to yourself, and acknowledges your values and spiritual beliefs.