


It's important to have your visa and passport to legally travel as an American in foreign countries to ensure that you're permitted entry into the country. Apply for your visa a few months before your trip, since the process can take up to 8 weeks to complete. Be sure to carry your visa and passport on you in case any luggage gets misplaced or lost so you have it with you for identification at all times.;
,


Get all the required vaccinations and immunizations prior to traveling in developing countries as an American. Check with the health department or Centers for Disease Control to determine what immunizations are required in specific parts of the world and what diseases are prevalent where you're traveling so you can safeguard against them.



Plan your travel itinerary after your immediate arrival and keep the name of your hostel, hotel or the person meeting you readily available. This will keep you from looking like easy prey to pickpockets and swindlers looking for unsure foreigners to rob or overcharge for a taxi.



Travel safely as an American in developing countries by educating yourself beforehand about the politics and cultures of the countries you visit. Be aware of any political or military current events that could cause certain areas of the country to be unsafe, as well as any cultural practices you should observe to avoid offending anyone.



There's always a chance of being the victim of theft or lost luggage when traveling abroad, so travel as light as possible and leave any valuable jewelry or other items you don't want to lose at home. Pack only the essentials and consider buying travel insurance to safeguard against theft.



Electrical outlets in developing countries are different than American ones, and finding electricity in certain areas could prove challenging. Be prepared to charge your cell phone or digital camera by investing in a universal adapter, available at most electronics stores, that will adapt foreign electrical outlets to be able to charge all your devices.



Take any prescription or over-the-counter medications with you to avoid the possibility of not being able to obtain them where you're traveling. Consider taking medications to prevent diarrhea or malaria and water-purification tablets, available at your pharmacy.

