 A female should be at least 8 - 10 weeks old before mating, and males 10 -12 weeks old. Once a hamster reaches 12 months of age, it should no longer be bred, as health risks skyrocket.


The average hamster lifespan is 18 - 24 months.;
, Hamster pregnancies are very short, lasting just 15 - 18 days. When you know your female is expecting, look for the following signs that she's preparing to give birth:


Restlessness
Nest-building behavior
Conscientious grooming
Eating more than usual

, When you see the signs that the mother is close to giving birth, make sure the babies have an adequate cage to be born into. The cage should be cleaned and prepared before birth, but not too close to the mother's due date. It is important not to disturb the mother in the last few days of pregnancy, as it raises the odds of her cannibalizing the babies.


A few days before her due date, put her in a clean cage by herself and leave her undisturbed. If you don't know exactly how far along she is, isolate her when you notice her belly swelling.Remove toys from the cage. The mum might hurt or kill the babies if toys get in the way.
Don't use cotton wool or other materials that could form strands on the cage floor, as they could tangle around the babies. Also avoid straw, as the sharp ends could hurt them. Safer alternatives include aspen, paper flakes, Carefresh, or wood fiber pulp.
Provide the mother with nesting material - something warm she mother can burrow into. Recommended materials include un-dyed tissue paper, toilet paper, or kitchen paper.
From 2 days before the due-date to 10 days after birth, do not change anything in the cage or handle the mother.
 When the mother is almost ready to give birth, she will build a breeding nest. Thus, there is no need for you to add any extra housing or move the babies to a separate location. In fact, disturbing the nest after birth could be disastrous. Hamsters are known for cannibalism, and stressing the mother in any way could endanger the babies. This risk is highest the first week after giving birth, and in first-time mothers.