 This step allows you to proofread your paydata entries. You can correct any errors before submitting your payroll for calculation. Always take the time to complete this step.


From the Payroll Cycle page, click on the “Verify Payroll” icon.
Click on the “View” box and select “Paydata – Full.”
Click on the “Within Batch” box and select the batch you want to review.
Click on the “Search” button, and the paydata for this batch will be displayed. You can see complete payroll information for all of the employees in this batch.
If you find any errors, go back to the paydata grid and correct any entries. Then repeat the verification process.
Once all of the entries are correct, click on the “Go to Payroll Cycle” button.
 Go to the Payroll Cycle window. Click on the “Calculate Preview Payroll” icon. This sends your paydata to ADP for calculation.


In the popup window, verify that the pay period number and pay date are correct. If everything looks okay, click “Continue.”
You will be returned to the Payroll Cycle window. Once the calculation is complete, an icon that says “Done” will appear under the “Calculate Preview Payroll” icon.
 This step allows you to verify the accuracy of the payroll once it’s been calculated. In the Payroll Cycle window, click on the “Preview Results” icon. You can review total payroll information for the entire company. Also, you can drill down to verify payroll information by department or for individual employees.


If you find incorrect information, click “Make Corrections” and edit the payroll batch. Then you will have to go back to the previous step and recalculate the payroll, and then run “Preview Results” function to verify the payroll once more.
Once you are sure everything is correct, click on “Accept and Finalize Payroll.” A popup window will appear asking you to confirm. Click “OK,” and your payroll information will be sent to ADP for processing.
Return to the Payroll Cycle homepage. You can see that the payroll for this pay period was accepted. Also, the “Start New Cycle” button is green once again. Now you are ready to start a new payroll cycle.

