 Turn on the shower and imagine cleaning yourself with love (namely, the water). Think of the mantra "Love". As you express the mantra, massage yourself from your head to your toes. Rub away all tensions and stress from the body.
 Draw a circle of love around you. Think "Love" several times as mantra.
 Visualize a friend and say a positive word. What is your positive word? Imagine that the word reaches your chosen person. Think your word several times as a mantra: "My word for... is... (I love you.)"

, Who do you feel in this moment is an enemy? Who is your opponent? Give this person a positive word. What do you say to him or her? Forgive him or her and gain inner peace.


Move a hand and send this person wisdom and love. Think your word so long as a mantra, until you are at peace with your enemy.
 Is there a thought that blocks your inner peace, your happiness and your love? Which positive word can overcome it? "My negative thought is... My positive thought is... (Forward on the way of all-embracing love.)".
 A good relationship is based on teamwork, whether it's with your spouse, your little league coach or your work colleagues. A good team has a common goal. It knows its way to success is dependent on acknowledging the skills and abilities of each person, not insisting on things being done one way only.;
, Find a suitable name for your chosen higher principle. Call it love, truth, or spirituality. Connect with your higher principle regularly and in all beautiful or difficult situations. Live in the center of your relationship, guided by your higher principle.
 Constant criticism of another suggests superiority and disdain; this condescension destroys love. When there is a place for criticism, provide it factually, sensitively and at the right moment. The basic rule for each relationship is least two thirds praise and less than one third constructive critique.



Compliment each other. Men love admiration. Women love gestures of affection.
Look in the mirror. There are plenty of things that you know aren't promoting the best of yourself. Work on those aspects of yourself and learn from what others have to say too.
Avoid cutting off your partner too often from his or her wishes. Say "Yes" as often as is possible.
 Every relationship requires effort. It isn't as simple as meeting someone, hitting off and hoping it'll stay strong. It requires a commitment from both parties to care, nurture and work through issues that assail the relationship from time to time.


Marriage is work. It is a false way of comprehending the purpose of marriage that you can completely let go of yourself at home. It takes some effort to make a relationship succeed, and you have to decide if you're willing to put in that work.
Spend regular time undertaking certain activities that make you and your partner happy. For example, sex, dining, travel, excursions and a common hobby.
 Do not demand too much from a partner, life or even from yourself. Anyone who cannot limit his or her wishes risks being permanently unhappy. If you do not know the point of satisfaction, you will never be satisfied. Where is your end point?

, Clarify the precise factual situation. Think about different solutions. Find the good common ground.


Put boundaries on the negative behaviors from partners and others in your life. Tantrums, violations of positive life principles, etc. are not acceptable ways to interact. Do not reward negative behavior––stay neutral or say a firm "No".
If you are an aggressive person, find a way to tone this down before interacting. Come to peace within yourself before communicating with others. Love grows on the basis of non-violence, wisdom and gentleness.
 Live in truth. Truth is the basis of every good relationship.


Take your partner as she or he is. Everyone has strengths and weaknesses. No person is perfect. Love means to love the other person, along with his or her weaknesses. Accept the smallness in you, then you can take it in your fellow person.

