 Do not swing your club until you know that others in your group are at a safe distance. Likewise, keep your distance when others are swinging. When practicing your swing, never swing in the direction of another player. There may be pebbles or twigs or other matter in the grass that could fly up and injure a playing partner.


Do not hit the ball until you are certain that the group ahead of you is out of range. If your ball appears headed toward another player or another group, give them a warning by yelling out, "Fore!" (an internationally recognized alert).
Also, observe the safety suggestions posted in golf carts and drive carefully. Golf etiquette requires keeping your cart off the grass as much as possible.
Another important rule is to never throw clubs in anger. In addition to being rude and childish, it could also be dangerous to fellow players.;
, Keep the round moving by being prepared to hit your shot when it is your turn. You probably don't like waiting on other groups, so don't make other groups wait on you. The player who is furthest from the hole hits first in a group. However, in friendly matches (as opposed to tournament play), this rule can be ignored in favor of "ready play" - players hit as they are ready. All players should agree to "ready play" before it is put into effect.


Do not spend too much time looking for a lost ball, particularly if there is a group behind you ready to play. If you insist on taking the full five minutes allotted in the rulebook to look for lost balls, golf etiquette says wave up the group behind to allow them to play through.
Always try to keep pace with the group ahead of you. If space opens in front of you, allow a faster group to play through.
When two players in a cart hit to opposite sides of a hole, drive to the first ball and drop off that player with his club, then drive to the second ball. After both players hit, meet up farther down the hole.
When walking from your cart to your ball, take a couple of clubs with you. Taking only one club, then having to return to the cart to retrieve a different club, is a huge time-waster.
Always leave the putting green as soon as your group has finished putting.
 Observe cart rules. Some courses will post "cart path only" signs; others will ask you to observe the "90-degree rule." Do as you are told. Keep carts away from greens and hazards. The wheels on carts can damage these sensitive areas.


Always remember to repair your divots in the fairway, and ball marks on the green. Avoid taking divots on a practice swing. Be sure to always rake sand bunkers after hitting to erase your footprints and damage to the area where your ball was.
 Shirts should be collared, and men's should be tucked into their shorts or pants. Women's shirts do not need to be collared, but tops with plunging necklines, bare backs, or anything revealing should not be worn.


Shorts are acceptable but they should be rather upscale. No gym shorts or cut-offs. Shorts should be no shorter than just above your knees. Conservative skirts are acceptable for women, or skorts (a combination of shorts and skirt). Men should wear pants or shorts with belt loops, but no cuffs since they trap dirt. Men should wear a leather belt.
Wear proper golf shoes. Running shoes or sandals are not appropriate. Also be sure that you wear soft spiked golf shoes, since most golf courses do not allow metal spikes.
Hats are a good idea. They shield the sun from your face and may improve your vision.
If playing in cooler weather, a jacket or sweater is appropriate.
 Good sportsmanship is demonstrated by shaking hands with your opponents at the end of the game and congratulating both the winner and those showing great improvement. Any disagreements should end at this point and a drink or meal to talk over anything in a civilized way is a fine way to end the game.

