 While you can hire an attorney to draft your franchise agreement, it often is cheaper and more effective for you to use online templates to draft the agreement yourself.There are many templates available online for free, or that you can access for a small fee. These templates are fairly versatile and can be adapted to the requirements of your business and the states in which you plan to sell franchises.
You also can look at samples from other established companies that have multiple franchises operating all over the country.
The benefit of drafting your franchise agreement yourself is that you know your business, and know what aspects of the business's operations and production you want to control in the franchises to avoid a negative impact on your brand and reputation.
Cost is another benefit, considering a transactional attorney with experience creating franchise agreement could charge upwards of $20,000 to draft your agreement.
Since the law governing franchises is relatively stable, you can create a general franchise agreement to use for many different franchisees nationwide without worrying too much about its enforceability.;
, To create a franchise agreement, you need a good understanding of what it is that makes your business successful and how that would translate into a franchise location.Think about what your brand is known for and why. Apart from your trademarks, signage, decor, and product presentation, other aspects of your business may come into play.
For example, if you are drafting a franchise agreement for a restaurant, consider the quality of your ingredients and your standards for food preparation. You need to be able to scale these for multiple franchises.
Customer service and personnel standards also come into play. As a franchisor, you not only have the ability to control the products at a franchise, but the training and expertise of the people who make and sell those products.
Review the details of running your business on a daily basis and determine how your business plans and procedures can be scaled into general guidelines for franchisees and standards they must meet.
 Typically you're drafting a franchise agreement with the idea of having several different franchisees, so you may want to provide blanks for the name and location of the franchisee on the original document.Provide a generic name for each of the parties that will be used throughout the contract, so that as you acquire new franchisees you don't have to change the entire contract, you can simply fill in the blanks.
Typically, you can use the label "Franchisor" for yourself and "Franchisee" for the person purchasing the franchise license from you.
 While not strictly necessary, most franchise agreements begin with a number of introductory clauses known as "whereas" clauses that describe the nature of your business and the purpose of the agreement.You can use these clauses essentially to brag about your business, because you'll be describing your success and how valuable your brand is in your industry.
While these clauses typically don't contain any legally enforceable language, they operate to establish the value of your brand in the eyes of the franchisee and justify the licensing fees and level of control you exert through the substantive provisions.
 Under the standard rules for contract interpretation, words are given their commonly understood meaning unless otherwise specified. Any words for which you intend a specific definition should be included in a section towards the beginning of your agreement.Often, these are words that are intended to refer to something specific, and may be capitalized to differentiate them from the generic definition of the term.
For example, you might define "Location" to mean the business site authorized by you for the operation of the franchise during the term of the agreement.
You also may want to define such a word for use throughout the document to refer to the business. For example, if you're creating a franchise agreement to enable others to operate a franchise of your bakery, "Christi's Cupcakes," you might include a definition of "Bakery" that indicates that word refers specifically to your trademarked bakery brand, and not to any other bakery.
 This section specifies the right and license you are granting to the franchisee and describes the limits to that license, as well as listing any rights that are reserved and identifying the license as nonexclusive in nature.You want the license to be nonexclusive because ideally you want to sell multiple licenses so franchises can be opened in different locations. Include an agreement and acknowledgement from your franchisee that additional locations will be opened and operated, maybe even at nearby locations.
The grant of license typically gives the franchisee the right to operate only in a designated location that you have authorized. This enables you to spread the franchises out so as to avoid direct competition.
In most cases you and the franchisee will already have agreed on the location, and the address will be listed at the top of the agreement where you identified the parties.
You may want to include a deadline by which the new location must open. This deadline may vary depending on whether the new location is a free-standing structure or is located in a shopping mall or other retail space.
Your grant of license section also will include the amount the franchisee must pay in licensing fees and when fees are due. A franchisee typically pays an up-front licensing fee plus royalties, either weekly or monthly, that usually are a percentage of the franchise's gross sales.
 As your intellectual property, you must safeguard your trademarks by specifying how the franchisee may use that trademark and how the franchise must be identified.Include a statement that the franchisee acknowledges and agrees that you own the trademarks and have licensed their use only, subject to the conditions set forth in the franchise agreement.
Typically the franchisee will be restricted to using only your trademarked name to identify the business in signage and in advertisements. You may create a separate document that outlines your guidelines for internal and external signs, including size and locations.
At the same time, the franchisee must identify themselves as a franchise or license holder, and cannot hold themselves out as the owner of the trademarks. You can provide language that must be used in connection with the trademarks to identify ownership.
The franchisee is not permitted to make any alterations to your trademarked name or images, or to deviate from the guidelines regarding the display and use of the trademarks.
 You must set an initial term for the agreement and provide the procedures for renewing it. While you can enable automatic renewal, you also may want to require certain conditions to be met.Define an effective date for the agreement to begin. This may be the date the agreement is signed by both parties, or it may begin the day the franchise location opens.
Since franchise agreements typically last a period of years after the starting date, it's important that the effective date the agreement begins is defined specifically so there can be no doubt as to when the agreement ends.
Provide a deadline for the franchisee to give you notice if they wish to renew the agreement. If your agreement has a duration of 10 or 20 years, this notice may need to be as long as six months prior to the end date.
Set the standards at which the franchise must be operating to be eligible for renewal. You may include sales obligations or refer to goals or obligations listed in a separate documents.
In this section you also want to indicate the amount of the renewal fees and when those fees are due if the agreement is to be renewed.
 To protect your brand, you want to set specific standards regarding the type of facility that can be used, its maintenance and condition, and where it can be located.You may create site selection criteria and communicate that information in a separate document. The franchisee is responsible for buying or leasing a location for the franchise that meets your criteria and getting written approval from you after you or your designated agent has evaluated the site.
Set pre-opening standards regarding the quality of the construction of the facility and procedures for inspection of the site for approval prior to opening. This way you can ensure that each franchise projects the right image and enhances, rather than diminishes, your brand.
You also want to detail specifications for the construction or interior layout of the facility, including size and seating areas, if applicable. The franchise location should comport with the atmosphere and image of your original business.
Typically you'll want fixtures and furniture to be identical, or virtually identical, across all franchises. You can indicate where these items may be bought or establish other design parameters as you see fit.
 Operations standards are another way to protect your brand and its reputation by requiring your franchisees conduct business in particular ways and to certain quality levels.You literally have the ability to control any aspect of operations that you want to control through a franchise agreement.
However, keep in mind that every specific detail you require is something else you'll have to monitor later for compliance. Decide when you're drafting your initial agreement to what extent you want to micro-manage franchise operations.
Typically once you set these requirements, they are not negotiable among different franchisees. The goal of franchises is a high degree of uniformity, which means not only that customers know what to expect when they walk into a different location, but also that employees can move from one franchise to another and be assured the same training and procedures are in effect.
Franchisors usually scale and streamline the training of new employees and provide their franchisees with branded training materials that teach employees your standards.
 While you may have set significant standards for the control and operation of the franchise, you won't in fact be the person running it. An indemnification clause protects you from liability if your franchisee runs into problems.The franchisee is required to comply with local law and obtain all necessary licenses and permits to operate the franchise. The indemnification clause shields you from liability if your franchisee fails to meet any of these state or local requirements to legally operate the business.
At the same time, you should include a provision requiring the franchisee to notify you promptly if they are cited with any violations of state or local law, or if anyone files a lawsuit against them for injuries or losses sustained on franchise property.
You also may want to require the franchisee to send you documentation regarding liquor licenses and health code inspections, if applicable to the business.
The indemnification clause typically includes a waiver of any claims the franchisee may have against you for losses or injuries connected with the operation of the franchise.
 Most franchise agreements require the franchisee to purchase liability insurance up to a specific amount of coverage to protect both you and the franchisee in the event of an accident on the property.Set the minimum coverage amounts for different types of liability, including total and per-occurrence limits.
Require the franchisee to deliver proof of the existence of all required insurance on the effective date of the agreement and at every period thereafter when insurance coverage must be renewed.
 Through the process of opening a franchise and complying with your operations standards and other requirements, your franchisee will be receiving a lot of confidential information and trade secrets from you.Require the franchisee to guarantee confidentiality of any trade secrets or methods of operation and to promise that this information will not be used for any purpose other than to operate the franchise.
You also want to include a covenant from the franchisee not to purchase, own, or operate another business in direct competition with yours for a set term of years.
In states where noncompete agreements are restricted, this covenant typically cannot last beyond the term of the franchise agreement itself.
Provide a specific amount of damages to which you are entitled if the franchisee breaks the noncompete or confidentiality covenant.
 Since franchise agreements typically last 10 or 20 years, your agreement should account for the fact that at some point your franchisee may be bought out by someone else or no longer with to continue operations.Typically you want to have the ability to evaluate and approve of the individual or business potentially taking over the franchise.
Since you evaluated the franchisee's financial and managerial qualifications, skills, and experience before entering the agreement, you want to be able to ensure that anyone taking over the franchise meets those same standards.
You may want to require the payment of a transfer fee from the franchisee if a transfer is approved. This fee would be designed to cover any costs and expenses you would incur as a result of the transfer process.
In contrast, if the franchisee incorporates, their franchise would be transferred to that corporation. This situation typically wouldn't require the same process or fees as transferring the franchise to a someone else.
 There are circumstances that could affect either you or the franchisee in which carrying on the franchise agreement would no longer benefit either party.This portion of the agreement typically includes a "force majeure" clause, which automatically terminates the agreement with no liability on the part of either party if a catastrophic event such as a hurricane or a tornado occurs that was outside the control of either party.
Define default and give yourself the right to terminate the agreement if you notify the franchisee of a default and they do not cure the default within 10 days of receiving such notice.
You may want to include severe breaches, such as failure of a health and safety inspection or loss of license, that will result in immediate termination of the agreement with no opportunity to fix the problem.
 In the event a dispute arises under the franchise agreement, you want to specify how that situation will be handled. This may include a requirement to participate in alternative dispute resolution (ADR).You may specify arbitration or mediation as the preferred method of resolving disputes, and identify specific providers to be used.
This provision also should include a notice requirement if either party intends to submit a dispute to arbitration or mediation.
Identify which state's law governs the franchise agreement. For simplicity's sake, you typically ;want this to be the state where you live and have your principal place of business.
You also have the ability to choose the forum – the court in which lawsuits under the agreement may be brought. In most cases you'll want to choose a court near you that has jurisdiction.

