 Divorce impacts every family differently. But almost all families go through significant changes during the process. If your parents are divorcing, it's important to know that your life might change in big ways. It's likely that one of your parents will not longer live with you.It is possible that you might have to move to a different house, and maybe even a different town. Often, when parents split up, one or both choose to move to a new location.
You might have to switch schools. Depending on whether or not you move, be prepared to attend a different school than you are used to.
These changes can be intense. Remember that it is normal to feel scared and frustrated about your new situation.
Remember that things will get better. You will get used to your new home, your new school, or your new routine. You will have to be flexible for awhile while you get used to these changes.
Keep doing the things you enjoy. For example, if you've also enjoyed soccer, you can join the team at your new school.;
, Living with only one parent can be a tough situation. One of the best ways to cope is to make an effort to keep in touch with the parent that you don't see every day. Depending on your parents custody arrangement, you might not get to choose how often you see your mom or dad. But there are other ways to keep in touch.If your dad has moved out, set up a communication schedule with him. Make it a point to connect with one another every day. This will help you feel more in touch.
Use technology. In addition to talking on the phone, you can text, e-mail, Skype or Facetime.
Remind your parents that you are not divorcing either of them. Make sure they understand that you still love them both, and that it is important to you to spend time with each of them.
 Your parents divorce is an emotional experience for you. Try to remember that it is a really tough situation for your parents, too. While it is not your job to solve their problems, there are some things you can do to facilitate compromise. This can make the transition easier for all of you.Sometimes parents going through a divorce are uncomfortable being around each other. This can make it difficult for you, since you want both of them to be part of your life. Offer suggestions that work for everyone.
Maybe you have a big soccer game coming up. If your mom and dad can't handle being in the same place at the same time, ask one of them to come to the first half and the other can come to the second half. Remember, they're both on your side.
Ask your parents to help you facilitate the compromises. Tell them that you need both of them to remain active in your life, and ask them to come up with suggestions on how to do that.
 Part of what makes a divorce scary is that it can make things seem more uncertain. Maybe you're worried about how this will affect your annual vacation in the summer. Or maybe you wonder who is going to help you pay for college. Sit down with your parents and make a plan.It is perfectly normal to wonder about how the divorce is going to affect your life. Make a list of future events you are concerned about and share the list with your parents.
Ask your parents to help you figure out how to plan for each event on your list.

