 The free trial version of the plugin can be used with Adobe Photoshop (Windows and Mac), Paintshop Pro (Windows), Photo Impact (Windows), and Irfanview (Windows).
 Enter your e-mail address and choose an account password, then click “Download Now.” Scroll down to “Topaz DeJPEG” and choose your operating system (Windows or Mac). The download will begin, and your trial license key will be sent to you via email.



Close Photoshop. If you use Adobe Photoshop, you’ll need to close it before running the DeJPEG installer. This step is not necessary for users of other programs.

Run the installer. Double-click the downloaded installer file to start the trial. Enter the trial license key (sent to your email) when prompted, then click “Install” to begin the installation.
 Before you can use the plugin, you’ll need to add the DeJPEG filter folder to your program. The full path to the DeJPEG plugin folder is Program Files >> Topaz Labs >> Topaz DeJPEG 4.



Photoshop: Photoshop users can skip to the next step, as DeJPEG automatically installs to the Photoshop plugins folder.

Paintshop Pro: In the File menu, select “Preferences,” then “File Locations.” Choose “Plugins” on the left side of the screen, then click the “Add” button. Navigate to the DeJPEG plugin folder, then click “OK.”

Photo Impact: Open the program and press F6 on the keyboard. Choose “Plugins” from the list, then click the “…” button at the end of the first empty plugin folder on the list. In the folder list, select the DeJPEG plugin folder, then click “OK.” Restart Photo Impact before attempting to use the filter for the first time.

IrfanView: Open the program, then expand the “Image” menu. Click “Effects,” then “Adobe 8BF Filters.” Choose “Add 8BF filters” from the menu. Now, navigate to the DeJPEG plugin folder, then click OK.
 Open your JPEG in your typical photo-editing software, then launch the DeJPEG tool:



Photoshop: In the Filters menu, choose “Topaz Labs,” then “DeJPEG 4.”

Paintshop Pro: In the Effects menu, choose “Plugins,” then select “Topaz DeJPEG.”

Photo Impact: Open the Effect menu, then select “Topaz DeJPEG.”

IrfanView: Open the Image menu, click “Effects,” then “Adobe 8BF Filters.” Choose “Topaz DeJPEG” from the filter list.
 Click the magnifying glass (+) to zoom in to a portion of your image where compression artifacts are apparent.
 The DeJPEG default presets are located on the left side of the screen. Click each default preset to have its settings applied to the preview of your image. Notice how each preset improves or disrupts the quality of the image. Choose the preset that best perfects your JPEG image. It’s okay if it’s not perfect, there are still more settings to tweak.
 Select “Luminance” from the options beneath “Preview Display mode.” Now click “Main” to view several options to fix the details left out by the preset.



Reduce Artifacts: First, move the slider all the way to the left. Now, gradually move the slider the right while examining the detail in the preview pane. As you move the slider to the right, the edges may soften, but noise and checkerboarding will disappear. Keep moving to the right until you’ve found a pleasing balance.

Sharpen: This slider should help redefine the edges softened by the Reduce Artifacts slider. As you move this slider to the right, the sharpness will increase.

Sharp Radius: This slider should be used in conjunction with Sharpen tool. Experiment by moving this slider to the left and right until the edges look clear and the artifacts are gone.
 If the colors in your image seem to have been affected by the previous tools, switch to Color mode by selecting "Color" under Preview Display Mode.



Smooth Color: Move this slider to the right and left until you are satisfied with the image in the preview pane.

Clear Edge Radius. If you want to adjust the detail of the colors at the edges, click to the "Advanced" settings, then raise "Clr Edge Radius" slider. Use this tool with the Edge Threshold slider until you’re happy with the image.

Adjust Saturation. If the colors appear weak, move the "Saturation" slider to the right to increase color levels.

Add grain. Try using the "Add Grain" slider to make the image appear more natural. Move the slider to the right to increase the amount of grain.
 Before saving your work, click the magnifying glass (-) until you can see the entirety of the image in the preview pane. If you don’t like the results, continue working with the presets, luminance and color settings until you’re satisfied with the entire photo.
 You may need to wait a few moments for the filter to apply.

