 High-quality allergy masks will be lightweight and equipped with a particle filter. The filter on the mask will prevent you from breathing pollen and plant spores. You can easily obtain an allergy mask online for about $50., Don’t go out to work in the garden in the clothes you want to spend the rest of your day in. Instead, put on a different pair of pants – some heavy gardening jeans, for instance – an old pair of shoes, and an old shirt that you don’t care about soiling. Don’t wear it again until after you launder it.Always wear long sleeves and pants in the garden if you have seasonal allergies. This will minimize the amount of skin is exposed to atmospheric pollen., Gardening requires using your hands to interact with plants and grasses. But if you have seasonal allergies, even brief contact with these natural elements could produce an allergic reaction. To protect yourself, wear gardening gloves.You can easily obtain thick gardening gloves from your local home and garden shop.
Don’t touch your skin with the gardening glove.
 If you have seasonal allergies, wear safety goggles/glasses, sunglasses, or regular glasses (if you wear them) while you garden. This will reduce the likelihood of you getting itchy, burning eyes due to your seasonal allergies.If you frequently experience burning eyes despite covering them with glasses, consider using ski goggles or diving goggles while gardening.
Don’t touch your face or eyes without removing your gardening gloves when gardening., Additionally, check your local TV or radio station for high pollen count alerts in your area. You can also obtain pollen counts online at the Weather Underground.Rain helps clear pollen from the air. The best time to garden if you have seasonal allergies, generally, is right after it rains.
It’s also smart to garden in the afternoon, as this will reduce your exposure to pollen., Once you’ve finished your gardening for the day, remove your gardening clothes and shoes. Put them in the laundry bin, and then take a shower. This will reduce the likelihood that pollen or mold spores that may have hitched a ride on your clothes or hair will go on to contaminate the rest of your home.