 Don't avoid the topic when you write a consolation letter to someone who lost a job. That individual may have had their heart set on staying with that employer, which can be very upsetting. Not acknowledging the situation and its impact on that individual in a consolation letter would be pointless.Don't avoid the subject, but don't dwell on it either in the letter.
Acknowledge that it happened and that it's unfortunate, then move on to consoling your friend.
Offer a simple but genuine "I'm so sorry" or "I'm very sorry to hear."
Resist the urge to try and console your friend by saying that things happen for a reason. Many people find this insulting, and at the very least it won't be very comforting to hear.
 While not getting what you want is frustrating, not getting what you need can be devastating. The job may have been necessary to make rent, pay for an expensive procedure or repair, or rebuild a dwindled savings account. If you know the person you're writing the letter to, you may want to consider if there are any ways you could help and support that person during this time.If you're close with the recipient, you may want to consider offering to let that person stay with you if necessary. However, this is only really necessary if that person is facing eviction.
You may want to offer some type of financial assistance if you're close with the individual. You'll need to offer this tactfully, though, as some people may be insulted by an offer of monetary assistance.
You can offer assistance tactfully by planning how you phrase your offer. For example, "I know how hard it can be to be unemployed - let me take you to the store and pay for your groceries" sounds a lot kinder than "Do you need any money?"

, The person you're writing to may be feeling very sad if they believed they would get the job. If you know the individual, you should offer to spend time together in your letter.You can offer to get together socially for coffee, drinks (if you're both old enough to drink), or a meal. You should offer to pay since the person you're consoling may be on a tight budget.
Offer to help revise the individual's resume or practice interviewing skills if you're good at those things.
 Someone who got rejected from a coveted job may be feeling tremendously insecure, either professionally or personally. Giving a compliment to this individual would go a long way towards making them feel better about their situation.If you only know the individual professionally, focus your comment on that person's professional skills. For example, you might say that they're the best editor you know.
If you know the individually personally (as a friend or relative), you might want to compliment that person's personal skills, talents, or even appearance (if you're close friends and you're comfortable doing so).

