


Go to https://plus.google.com/pages/create and then select the category that is suitable for you business.
Choose from Local Business or Place, Product or Brand, Company, Institution or Organization, Arts, Entertainment and Sports, and more. Then, select the sub-category depending on the type of business you run (e.g. Food and Beverages, Fashion and Beauty, etc.).
Remember to tailor your Google Plus profile specifically for your business. Choosing the appropriate category is crucial to keep your business looking professional and to allow customers to find you when they search for your brand, products, and services.
Use your company logo as your profile picture and a custom background cover image that's designed for your brand. Add all the information necessary to represent your business (e.g. about the company, certifications, contact details, etc.) and your company tagline (the 10 best words to describe your business) so customers can immediately identify you and distinguish you from the competition.;
,


It's important to keep your page active to keep your customers engaged with your brand, products, and services. Attract the interest of customers with quality and professional posts to achieve marketing objectives such as developing brand awareness, announcing a special season discount, or launching a new product or service.
Update your page with relevant posts and determine the frequency of your updates based on the needs of your business (e.g. daily news and monthly newsletters). Keep in mind customer expectations and feedback to know how you can improve and better manage your posts.



Keep your customer base growing by inviting and encouraging users to add you to their Circles. The key to attracting customers is to make sure you post quality, worthwhile, and interesting content. When customers like your business, it makes it more likely for them to put in a good word for your brand, products, and services to friends, family, and even people they just met.
Moreover, it helps to organize your Circles to easily and conveniently disseminate information to a selected audience or specific group. You can also opt to manage your Privacy Settings so you can control which posts are visible to your Circles.

