 The best tabletop decisions are ones where you use things you already own and work around that. You can try a tablecloth for a traditional look or a runner for a more modern take.Avoid bright colors in favor of neutral or darker shades inspired by fall. They’re easier to complement and tend to read as more mature.
If you found your tablecloth in storage, be sure to wash and iron it before laying it out.;
, Use this opportunity to ensure that you have space for your entire guest list. If you do combine tables and they don’t align perfectly, try balancing it out with blocks of wood.


If you don't have a spare table, put a piece of plywood on sawhorses (those traditional stands used to hold wood to saw).
 Add personal items if they fit your theme and don't overwhelm the table. Remember that this is a day to thank those around you, but also to appreciate everyone who can’t be.


Did you inherit some jewelry you don’t see yourself wearing? Try using it to wrap napkins.
Antique saucers work well as candle holders.Use vintage books to add charm, height, and depth. Each guest will see it differently, as well.Artists who frequently get art supplies as gifts might consider a paper table runner with pen and marker "bouquets" displayed in nice pots., Be strategic about where you place them, however. If they are tall, they could interrupt your guests' view of each other.


Use odorless candles so the smell of the dinner will shine through.
 Everyone wants to feel that they are worth your time, and this is a good time to get that message across creatively. Lettering or calligraphy are popular methods to do this, but an easier alternative is to use a strand of simple multi-colored yarn to create each guest’s first initial on their plate.When deciding the seat layout, be aware which personalities might clash and which might benefit from disparate personalities (e.g. a talkative guest near a shy guest).If you know which guests are left-handed, consider seating them near the end of the table. This helps people stay focused on meaningful conversation instead of apologizing for interruptions.
 Cloth napkins tell the guests that dinner is going to be a special event.They are a good investment if you intend to have other dinner parties in the future, so don’t be afraid to purchase some new ones if you don’t have any.


Add whimsy to the table with patterns or different colored napkins.
 Once you have your menu planned, set out all of the plates that will be used through the course of the meal. Don't include dessert plates.


Don’t worry if you haven’t got a matching set for every guest. Some of the most interesting displays can come out of a mismatched set.Check thrift stores for similar styles to what you already own, or call on friends to loan you some.
 Arrange the fork on the left of the plate, the butterknife on the right (facing left), and the spoon to the right of the knife.


If you have antique cutlery, now’s a fine time to break them out. Along with their personal importance, antique silverware can show your guests how much you appreciate them., Place a water glass and a wine glass at the top-right side of the plate, arranged in the order that they will be used starting at the outside and working in.Mismatched glasses, especially for wine, can bring a lot of charm to the table.
 Arrange the empty dishes around the table, taking care not to encroach on any one guest’s personal space. Pair each dish with its serving utensil at this point, too.


If any guests are bringing food, transfer it to a dish that you already own and account for it in the table setup. Leave nothing to chance.
 Each guest should have easy access to salt, pepper, butter, gravy, cranberries, and other condiments. The general rule of thumb is to provide one condiment for every six people.Also include a pitcher or two of water if you have room.
 You shouldn’t incorporate any plates or silverware for dessert, nor cups for coffee or tea. Instead, keep that collection of things separate but within easy access for a post-dinner pick-me-up.
 Now that you aren’t running around the table as much, set up the chairs.


If your chairs don’t match, arrange them in a way that balances out the eye when you’re looking at it from afar. Place chairs that don't fit in among the everyday chairs.
 After you dress your table, use the style choices to determine how your centerpiece will look. You will also know what space you have available to work with.


Keep your centerpiece low to keep it from your guests' lines of sight.Take note of the minor colors in your linens so you can incorporate them subtly.If you opt to go monochromatic with your centerpiece, use texture to make it pop., Take advantage of the season and use colorful leaves and in-season fruits, vegetables, and berries to decorate. Combine them with antique bowls or tasteful, theme-appropriate gifts.


Add flair to items you've foraged with some gold acrylic paint.Display pine cones with fruit to easily add texture., A small set of tea lights can enhance the candles already on the table. Try to spread out the tea lights to provide equal lighting across the table.


Use battery-powered LED candles for more freedom in your display.Try to avoid using the overhead lights. Your guests will feel more cozy if light comes in at an angle instead of straight down.

