 Preferably a place with high ceilings and a soft flooring (cheerleading mats, carpet).
 (n.d.). Retrieved October 7, 2015.

Identify members of your stunt group. You'll need 4 members:

Flyer: usually a shorter and lightweight person
2 Bases: 2 average height people that are relatively the same height as well
Back Spot: the tallest member of the group

, (n.d.). Retrieved October 7, 2015.

Create your formation.

Flyer: Stand in the middle with arms at your side
2 Bases: Stand facing each other in front of the Flyer with arms at your side
Back Spot: Stand behind the Flyer facing the same way as Flyer with arms at your side

,

Flyer: Place hands on the Base's shoulders with elbows pointed as high to the ceiling as possible while standing on the balls of your feet
2 Bases: Keep eye contact with your other Base, with arms still at your side
Back Spot: Place hands on your Flyer's hips

,, (n.d.). Retrieved October 7, 2015.

Transition into Load.

Flyer: Places feet into each Base's hands, point your bottom as far up into the air as possible with your knees still bent, and straighten out your arms while keeping them on your Base's shoulders.
2 Bases: Move your arms up so your forearm is creating a 90 degree angle with your body, while keeping your elbow tight to your side. Hold Flyer's feet in your hands by touching your pinkies together and keeping your entire hand on the bottom of Flyer's shoe.
Back Spot: Move hands from Flyer's hips to ankles.
, (n.d.). Retrieved October 7, 2015.

Transition from Load to Extension.

Flyer: Push off your Base's shoulders, straighten legs and tighten all muscles in legs and bottom, straighten arms in air in a "V" shape.






2 Bases: Bend at the knee, and simultaneously extend arms above your head and straighten legs.
Back Spot: Lift up on Flyer's ankles as you straighten your arms to help out Bases.
 Retrieved October 7, 2015.

Transition from Extension to Cupie.

Flyer: Keep your muscles tightened and with the help of your Bases, bring your ankles together.
2 Bases: Push your Flyer's ankle to the opposite ankle.
Back Spot: Keep your eye on your Flyer and assist with bringing ankles together.
,

Flyer: As soon as the Bases let go of your feet, ride the throw they give you for as long as possible. After, bring your legs together and tighten your body into a "V" shape, with your palms touching your knees and arms straightened. While keeping your arms straight, bring them out to your sides and wait for your Back Spot to put her arms under yours.
2 Bases: Shrug your shoulders while keeping your arms straight and throw the flyer as high as you can. Once she starts to fall, keep your arms straight and above your head while looking up and catch her.
Back Spot: Let go of the flyer's ankles and keep your arms straight above your head while looking up and upon catching the flyer, put your arms under her armpits

,


Flyer: While keeping your legs squeezed together, take the throw from your bases and back spot and land on your feet. Make sure to bring your arms up and around your base's heads
2 Bases: Bend at the knees, and give your flyer a push out of the cradle onto the mat standing up.
Back Spot: Bend at the knees, and give your flyer a push out of the cradle by removing your arms out from under hers

,

Flyer: Slap your hands onto your front thighs while keeping your arms straight. Then turn your hands into fists and bring them up onto your hips
2 Bases: Turn to face the same way as your flyer, slap your hands onto your front thighs while keeping your arms straight. Then turn your hands into fists and bring them up onto your hips
Back Spot: Slap your hands onto your front thighs while keeping your arms straight. Then turn your hands into fists and bring them up onto your hips

