 Don’t assume what you can do for your friend. Instead, just ask her. The thing that may help her the most could be something you never thought of.


You could say, “I would love to help you right now, but I’m not sure what I can do. Please just tell me what you need and I’d be happy to do it.” You may be the first person to offer your help since she’s had the baby, and your help could be a relief for her.If your friend resists your help, then try saying something like, "I insist on doing something for you, so it might as well be something you need!" Keep in mind that your friend may need some time to become comfortable with the idea of accepting help, and she may never ask for help at all.;
, Having a new baby is demanding enough on your time. Experiencing postpartum depression at the same time can make it impossible. A mother who is thinking about everything she has on her plate in addition to taking care of the baby can make her feel overwhelmed and like she is drowning.


Help her out by cleaning her house and running errands for her. Do her laundry and fold her clothes a few days a week. These small gestures will make a huge difference in her life and give her a moment to breathe. If you cannot offer physical help to your friend, then you might suggest pooling your resources in different ways, such as by sharing the cost of housekeeping services, childcare, or meal-drop offs.
 New moms don’t even have time to take a shower most days. Offer a few hours of your time each week so that she can get a break. Having someone to come over and simply hold the baby for them can provide a break they greatly need.


Tell your friend you will come over at a certain time so that they can do whatever they want. Even if they simply want to read a book, take a nap, have a bubble bath, or veg out in front of the television. Let her know that she can have a few hours to herself, even if she doesn’t even leave the home.Keep in mind that she may not feel comfortable leaving her baby in your care right away. It might take a few visits before she feels confident in your ability care for her baby on your own.
 Women with new babies can feel like prisoners in their own homes. Women with PPD may feel trapped in their homes and are desperate to find a way out. You can give her this opportunity for a break. Find a sitter for the baby and invite her to spend some time with you, away from the home and children.


She may not be able to spend much time away from the baby, particularly if she is nursing. Find an activity that doesn’t take very long, like getting manicures and pedicures, going to a movie, or simply taking a walk. Accompany her on longer trips if she can. Spending the day at the spa or taking a day trip somewhere may help her to feel like her old self again.