 Look for about four three-inch pieces of ginger. Remove the peel carefully using a metal spoon, vegetable peeler or small paring knife. Cut the ginger into half-inch pieces.Use downward motions, peeling the skin of the root away from you and towards the cutting surface.
If you’re having trouble reaching a spot with the peeler, break off a knot of the root for easier access.;
, Put ginger chunks into the food processor’s bowl. Run the processor until the ginger is minced well but isn’t mashed. Use a small rubber spatula to move all of the minced ginger into a heat-safe bowl.If you don’t have a food processor, you can use a garlic presser or a grater., Wash the scallions and pat them dry. Cut scallions into one-inch pieces and add them to the empty food processor bowl. Run the processor until the scallions are in pieces that are alike in size to the ginger pieces. Combine the scallions in the bowl with the ginger.Use one to two large bunches of scallions to achieve the appropriate measurement.
Instead of using a food processor, you can finely chop the scallions using a large chef’s knife.Use the green and white portions of the scallions, trimming off just the rooted ends. Remove the outermost layer of skin from the white ends., Add kosher, regular or sea salt to the bowl with ginger and scallions. Stir it well.Use 3/4 teaspoon of salt if you want to add soy sauce to the recipe.Use up to a tablespoon of salt if you want to omit soy sauce from the recipe., Heat peanut oil, grapeseed oil or vegetable oil in a pan over medium to high heat, until it just starts to smoke. Turn off the heat. Pour the hot oil over the ginger mixture and stir it lightly with a cooking spoon.Make sure the bowl is on a heat-safe surface.
The mixture will sizzle, so add the hot oil in a well-ventilated area such as under a range fan, and don’t get your face too close to it. Alternately, you may want to put the bowl inside a clean sink basin while you’re pouring on the oil., Mix sherry vinegar and light soy sauce into the bowl with the ginger mixture. After stirring, taste a small bit of the mixture. If it is not salty enough for your liking, add more salt a little at a time.Light soy sauce (or “usukuchi”) is not the same thing as low-sodium soy sauce.
You can use white vinegar, mirin or rice wine vinegar in place of the sherry vinegar.
Optionally, you can leave out the soy sauce; for example, if you’re sensitive to MSG., If you prefer the sauce to be on the sweeter side, add sugar. For an extra spicy kick, mix in a bit of spicy Chinese red chili paste., If you’re serving the sauce over meat, cut the meat into pieces before pouring the sauce over it, so that each piece can absorb the flavor. For noodles, rice or salad, you can pour the sauce over the top or mix it in. Use small serving bowls if you want to present the sauce as an optional dipper.For example, you may want to serve multiple dipping sauces, such as ginger scallion sauce in one ramekin and soy sauce in another.
 Add a seafood or meat to your meal. Make a tasty pairing using noodles or rice, with or without meat. You can also add this sauce to vegetables.For example, try ginger scallion sauce with poached chicken, pan-seared duck, or steamed fish.
Try this sauce with a tossed salad or roasted cauliflower. If you like spiciness, put some red jalapeno pepper or sriracha on the side.
 Compliment ginger scallion sauce with a red wine. Choose a fruity wine with a rich flavor that isn’t heavily tannic. For a non-alcoholic beverage, try a dressed-up sparkling water.For example, try an Australian Grenache.
For sparkling water, try adding mint leaves, lime, and honey to taste. All of these flavors blend well with ginger.

