 Denial is one phase of trauma. Sometimes an event is so unbelievable or so horrible that it is hard to process that it has happened to you.What is done cannot be undone, however, so cope with it by accepting that it happened. The sooner you accept it, the sooner you will be able to feel at peace again.


Write about it in your journal or share what happened in some other creative way so that you can come to terms with it.
If it was a public event, don’t avoid talking about it with people that also went through it and those that didn’t.
Stick with the facts. Refrain from going into what-if scenarios of how close a call it was, or dwelling on what might have been, if only… Focus on processing only what actually happened.
 You may feel a combination of emotions related to the traumatic event. In order to begin coping with the traumatic event, you’ve got to recognize what exactly you are feeling and accept that it is a normal response.Common emotions include: anger, grief, fear, anxiety, depression, restlessness, fatigue, etc.
Doodle emoji-style faces showing your different emotions.
Make a list of your feelings about the event. Don’t judge any of the feelings as good or bad.
 Although every day is full of uncertainty and change, a traumatic event can make you even more aware (and fearful) of how quickly things can go from great to horrible. The best way to cope with the fear of uncertainty that a traumatic event can raise is to accept that change happens.Recognize that uncertainty is a part of life. It may or may not rain, you may or may not miss the bus.
Say to yourself, “I accept that life is uncertain and I will not be afraid of what might happen.”
Keep a journal about the things you are uncertain about and why they scare you. Be sure to document how you begin to embrace uncertainty.
 Truly coping with and moving past a traumatic event will not happen overnight. It will take time, so be patient with yourself.Understand that you will have days where you are coping well, and other days that you aren’t.


Don’t set a time limit for when you need to be over the traumatic event. Don’t try to force yourself to hurry up and get over it.
When you have a bad day, do not feel like you are starting back at square one. It is normal for the number of good days to slowly surpass the number of bad days until you feel mostly normal.

