 Make sure that you always have a few pads or tampons in your bag or in your locker.


For some girls, a makeup case is something that they already carry around. For other girls, you may want to use a pencil case.;
,


Your period kit should have a few pads, about 4 tampons and backup clothes in it. You don’t need to have pants in your locker (although you might want to keep some in your gym locker).
Use a ziplock bag or other plastic bag. It will keep your items safe and together.
 If you are caught unawares, know that some schools have tampon vending machines in their bathrooms. You might also have a very-well-prepared friend that can lend you one.


Nurses' offices often have supplies. Even some female teachers may have a supply.
 Pads and tampons can come in noisy wrapping. When you’re searching for them in your bag, move the rest of your bag around to create noises that will disguise the sound of you hiding your pad or tampon.


The clatter of pens and keys are a good distraction from the sound of plastic.
 You will find that there are many places on your body that you can hide something small.


Tampons, especially applicator-free ones, are discreet when your fist is closed. They might be more difficult to keep in your sleeve, but you can usually hold them in place with a finger or two.
 Since your feet are under your desk, this is more discreet than putting it in your pocket.


Slide your bag or whatever your items are in between your legs. Reach inside and slide your pad or tampon into your shoe or sock.
It might be a good idea to bend down to put something away when doing this, or else come back up with an item, so that you have an excuse for reaching into your bag.
 If you keep your items in your locker, you won’t have to worry about taking them out of class.


Try to keep your emergency supplies for emergencies, and bring new supplies to school when you know that you’ve started your period.
 Bringing a bag might be more visible, but you may just not want to deal with digging around for your hygiene products in the middle of class.


A pencil case can work as well.
 If you need to come back for your items, take something else with you, like a water bottle or a wallet. That way, you can pretend that you are refilling your water bottle, or getting something from the vending machine.


Some people actually keep pads or tampons hidden in water bottles. Panty liners and applicator-free tampons will also fit easily inside of a wallet.
 If you have a phone case with a flap that closes, you can squeeze your pad into that spot.


Reach into your bag with your phone in your hand, slide the pad in, and put your phone in your pocket.
 This way, you will be able to bring items in a backpack or bag without it being noticed.


Even if you think you don’t have to change, stop by the bathroom anyway. There’s nothing worse than sitting in class and feeling you’re having an emergency.
 All you have to do is empty them.


Menstrual cups are great for the environment as well as your hygiene.
 Most pockets are big enough to fit a pad or tampon.


If you come to school with items already hidden on your person, you don’t have to worry about sneaking them out of class.
 Put on two in the morning and when one is saturated, go the bathroom and peel off the first one and throw it away and presto - fresh pad underneath.


Be careful not to let the adhesive stick too much to the pad underneath, as it might rip off some of the absorbent material. It’s best to stagger them a bit, with one in front and one in back.

