 Sometimes people are simply unaware of the fact that a problem exists, so do not assume that your neighbour is thinking about the problem. If it is settled in your mind that something should be done, you should schedule a face-to-face meeting to communicate your concerns. There is a possibility that your neighbour will promptly resolve the problem after hearing what you have to say.Before scheduling a face-to-face meeting, you need to assess whether or not the situation is safe. Not everyone is neighbourly and sometimes having a face-to-face conversation is not prudent. It could even be dangerous. It is particularly unwise to just show up on a person’s property uninvited. You may decide to handle the situation with anonymity to avoid physical harm or any type of retaliation.
If you decide to move forward with a meeting, be prepared to say exactly what the problem is and provide a reasonable date by which you think the issue should be resolved. Here are a couple of examples: "I have always appreciated you as a neighbor, but I am concerned about the current condition of your property," and "I think 30 days is a reasonable amount of time to resolve the problem. What do you think?"
There is an old saying that “good fences make good neighbours.” If you would prefer to avoid interacting with your neighbour about this situation and future matters, consider putting up a fence that blocks your view of your neighbour’s property. Not having to look at your neighbours unsightly property could resolve the problem from your perspective and keep the peace altogether.
If the neighbours are renters, contact the homeowner directly. You can find the homeowner’s information through the county assessor’s office.;
, If you are trying to sell your home then it is perfectly fine to communicate urgency, while also communicating that the problem may affect the value of your home. You may want to remind your neighbour that this matter also affects the value of their property, which can be a financial incentive for them to solve the problem.Consider telling them that you want prospective buyers to know that they are good neighbours and then offer assistance to expedite the resolution so that it does not affect the sale of your property (this could mean actually helping to clean up the litter).
 When communicating with someone regarding a difficult subject, it is important to be polite to avoid escalating the situation. It is possible to address a sensitive topic without being confrontational or hostile. A gentle approach is generally best.


Prepare yourself for a counterattack and reconcile in your mind that you will remain diplomatic and calm if your neighbour becomes angry.
If the situation escalates, walk away and plan to discuss the matter at a later date.Being cordial prior to a problem arising will sometimes go a long way towards resolving conflict down the road. A kind “hello” over the years can make a big difference.
 Do not use language that is accusatory or disrespectful. For instance, words such as “nasty” or “disgusting” are offensive and can quickly escalate the matter.


Refrain from threatening your neighbour. Most people do not respond kindly to threats and it is best to remain respectful., Before engaging in any conversations, make a decision to respond calmly during your communications with your neighbour. Reacting without thinking about the consequences could create a far worse outcome than is necessary.