 When picking out a pair of sunglasses, how they feel should be one of your main concerns. It’s important that your glasses fit properly and conform to your face so that you can wear them for extended periods without discomfort. Try to find a pair that wear naturally without any painful protrusions, awkward gaps or slipping.Ideally, your sunglasses should fit close to your face and have large enough frames to keep light from straying into your vision around the top and sides.
Look closely at the material of the temple arms (the part that goes over your ears). Certain materials like silicone and molded acetate will be much more comfortable than rigid plastic.;
, Think about why you’re in the market for new eyewear and what kinds of things you’ll be doing in them. Are you searching for a good all-around pair? Does your occupation require them? Or are they purely for fashion purposes? Keeping in mind your reasons for wearing sunglasses will help make sure you end up with the right pair.


Someone looking for an all-purpose set of sunglasses will have the most luck with a basic pair of Wayfarers, aviators or Browlines. Those with fashion in mind should look at classic styles like Persols or other timeless designs, especially those with visually interesting frame shapes and materials. Outdoor enthusiasts will likely gravitate toward brands like Oakley and Zeal Optics that manufacture durable, functional eyewear for active use.
Collect a few different pairs of sunglasses over time. That way you’ll have a pair suitable for any occasion.
 Try on many different styles and see how they look on your face. Just like when you’re trying a new shirt or pair of pants, fit is important. While the “best” pair of sunglasses is the one you like the most, they’ll each frame your face in a unique way, so once your functional needs are met, go with what looks best on you.Generally, it’s best to stick with sunglasses that offset the shape of your face. For instance, if you have a thin, angular face, you’ll want to wear a wide, curved pair of glasses, whereas people with rounder faces will be able to better pull off squared, linear frames.
In the end, go with what you think looks good. Picking out the perfect pair of sunglasses is mostly a matter of personal preference.
 Once you’ve settled on a style and fit for your sunglasses, you can weigh your options for the materials they’re constructed from. Glasses that are made with basic materials such as plastic and lightweight metals will obviously be less costly than premium artisan ones like wood and tortoise shell. Pay attention to any particular frames that catch your eye.Try to find a material with a desirable balance of good looks, durability, comfort and price.
Set a budget for yourself and keep that number in mind when shopping for sunglasses in various materials. Frames made from tortoise shell or buffalo horn can cost upwards of $20,000 in some instances, while even the highest quality plastic frames will be no more than a few hundred dollars., Break out your sunglasses when it’s bright outside so that your vision remains unimpaired. High concentrations of UV rays are damaging to the eyes, and they can also be a nuisance while driving or performing other tasks. Since this is the primary intended use of sunglasses, their level of protection should be something you consider when selecting a pair.Make sure the sunglasses you buy are polarized. This means they’ll eliminate the glare of reflected light.Keep your sunglasses somewhere close at hand, like in the glove compartment of your car or in a case that you can slip in your pocket. That way you’ll have them when you need them.
 Find a pair of sunglasses that will hold up to the rugged use of sports or outdoor activities. In addition to blocking out the sun, they’ll also provide a barrier between your eyes and whatever dirt, debris or tennis balls that might be coming at you. Brands like Oakley, Roka and Spy Optics are well known for their sport-inspired eyewear, especially in “shield” and wraparound styles.When buying performance sunglasses, decide on the depth and color for the lens tint that will be the most beneficial for the activity.
 Complete your look with a pair of shades that accentuates your clothing. Sunglasses are a visual aid first and foremost, but when worn correctly they can also fulfill the role of other accessories like hats, belts and watches. Look for glasses that are consistent with the style and colors you’re dressed in. If you only plan on owning one pair, make it a neutral design that will go with a wider variety of wardrobe choices.Keep your eyewear consistent with the rest of your clothes. It would be silly to wear a pair of brightly-tinted cycling goggles with a suit.
Match your sunglasses to your outfit the way you would your shoes or belt—brown frames go with dusty earth tones, navy and olive; black or metallic frames go with black, white or gray attire; brightly-colored frames shouldn’t clash with the other colors in your clothing, etc.
 Those who wear eyeglasses can have the lenses of their sunglasses formulated for their individual prescription. That way, you’ll never be forced to choose between seeing and shielding your eyes from the sun, and you’ll look dapper to boot. Prescription sunglasses will be the most useful for people who spend a lot of time outside and frequently wear sunglasses as part of their daily ensemble.You can also get prescription sunglasses with photochromic or graduated lenses, offering a middle ground between normal eyewear and stylish flair., It’s hard to go wrong with a classic full-frame model of sunglasses like aviators or Wayfarers. These are versatile styles that can be worn with anything from a t-shirt and jeans to resort casual getup, but they serve best as a laid-back, casual accessory. They also tend to be constructed from simple materials like plastic and lightweight metal, making them readily available and inexpensive.Full-frame glasses are the most durable because the lenses are enveloped and secured on all sides by the frame.
Aviators should be reserved for less formal appearances, and won’t go as well with nicer attire as something like a Wayfarer or Persol.
 The lenses of half-frame glasses are attached to the frame at the top and open at the bottom. They are a more vintage frame style and have a considerable business and fashion-savvy appeal. Glasses like the Browline/Clubmaster and semi-rimless complement a suit and tie or shorts and flip flops equally well.These should be handled with care since most of their lenses are exposed.
Half-frame glasses are versatile and make a great alternative to the same old humdrum styles you see everywhere., Slip on a pair of sunglasses that can hang with you while you’re shooting hoops or mountain biking over rough terrain. Performance sunglasses are typically made with composite materials that are lightweight, flexible and specially treated to minimize glare. A pair of a shield, wraparound or sport half-frames will ensure that you look good while taking part in your favorite pastimes.For high-impact activities, get a strap to go along with your sunglasses so that you don’t lose them.
 Since almost every part of a pair of sunglasses comes in many different designs, you have a lot more options to choose from than just what’s on the rack. Play it cool with some timeless Persols, or experiment with more unusual frame shapes and colors, like John Lennon’s trademark round pair. Use your shades to show off your unique personality. The number of possible combinations is virtually endless.If you really want to shake things up, wear a pair of specialty frames. These come in all sorts of shapes like rectangles, ovals, triangles, and even stars!
You can have your sunglasses tinted almost any color for an extra splash of character.

