 Now that your convention has ended, you can relax, right? Well, not exactly. The smarter approach would be to make some notes to assist you (or the next lucky individual who will take this responsibility over from you) in planning your next convention. Make notes about what worked, what didn’t work, things you liked and didn’t like about the venue, and what recommendations you have for improving next year’s event. Have a debriefing meeting with your committee members – they will have additional input for you, as well as from conversations they had in the field during the event.
 Hopefully, you were able to collect participant information electronically, which eliminates the need for data entry. If not, it pays to get forms entered sooner rather than later after your event – this way, you are building your contact list for next event’s “save the date” mailing.
 Review, summarize and analyze the responses from your participant surveys. Pay attention to what worked, what wasn’t as well received, and what suggestions were made by participants for improving the process and experience. Include this information with your notes from the previous step. Additionally, review your budget – did you meet it? What funds were spent that could be avoided or omitted going forward? Where would funds have been better spent (for example, your participant surveys may show that additional signage was needed to avoid confusion and manage traffic flow – knowing this, you can add funds to next year’s signage budget).
 This would include committee members, volunteers, staff, sponsors, speakers, vendors who donated funds or items (flowers, decorations, beverages, publicity, etc.) to the event. Never underestimate the power of a thank you – when you take the time to express sincere gratitude, these same individuals and vendors will be even more receptive when you approach them for assistance next year.
 You can begin making some key decisions about the next event (venue, location, speakers, even the date and duration) based on the feedback received and the overall experience of this event.

