 Worry on its own won't solve the problem you are faced with: no amount of worrying about darkening clouds will stop an approaching rainstorm, for example. However, this stressful emotion can lead to positive outcomes if harnessed in a productive way. Over time, sweating the small stuff can be turned into dealing effectively with the small stuff.


Worry can focus your attention. Worrying about what an approaching storm will do to the clothes you just hung out to dry won't stop the storm, but if it compels you to bring in the clothes before they blow all over the yard, the worry will have had a positive result.
Worry can lead to action. Stressing out about the approaching due date for an essay won't make the essay write itself, but it can lead you to get down to work and finish it in good time.
Worry can help you be prepared. On its own, worrying about your old car breaking down won't fix its engine; however, if this leads to a visit to the mechanic for a tune-up, the worry will have been transformed into something more productive.;
, Concentrating on what matters most and working towards a balanced life will help you to deal with common stresses and take more control of each day.


Making to-do lists each day helps to put responsibilities in perspective, and can help you to concentrate on the most important tasks. It is a good idea to organize daily responsibilities from most important to least important, and to break down larger tasks into smaller, more manageable parts.
Focus on quality of work, not quantity. Spending too much time on your work or daily tasks can lead to frustration and even lower productivity. Aim to do something well, rather than several things half-heartedly.
Avoid procrastination. Putting off responsibilities only increases stress, so make every attempt to tackle problems in good time., If you find yourself stressing out over small matters for an inordinate amount of time, allow yourself five minutes of worry for each problem and time it. This will help you to calm down, focus on the problem, and quickly find a reasonable solution.


For example, a computer suddenly freezing in the middle of a project will naturally be stressful - if allowed to fester, such stress could ruin a day. However, set aside exactly five minutes to worry about the computer; before those five minutes are up you will most likely have found the technicians number and taken a positive step toward solving the problem. After five minutes, move on to other work., Our words are intertwined with and affect the parts of our brain that control both the reward system and unhappy, sad and angry thoughts. Speaking positively in an annoying or stressful situation triggers the reward system, and will in fact lead to more positive thinking.


For example, if you feel slighted or disrespected by a co-worker who isn't impressed with your work, don't sweat it - instead, tell them you love their new shirt, or comment on the beautiful summer day. Speaking positively in such situations will lead to less stress and more positive thoughts., Forgiving small slights and annoyances (as well as larger offences) can diminish their effects, relieve stress and anger, and allow you to focus on the positive aspects of each day.


Forgiving can be very difficult, and it will take an active commitment on your part to learn to do so.
Thinking about the importance of forgiving and its potential impact on your life, as well as the effects of holding grudges on your well-being, will help to provide perspective and allow you to release pent up stress., Research has shown that the simple act of writing down negative thoughts on a piece of paper and then throwing the paper away diminishes the hold these thoughts have over a person. When you become annoyed, frustrated or stressed over a small matter, try writing the thought down and disposing of it by throwing it into the wastepaper basket., Set aside time every day to write down all of the friends, events and ordinary things that you feel grateful for that day. Often, gratitude must be developed and practiced, and a gratitude journal is the perfect place to start.


Research has shown that practicing gratitude (such as keeping a daily journal) has a number of positive effects, including increased optimism and joy, and can make you more compassionate and forgiving.