 Traditional birria is made with goat meat, but you can make the dish with beef, lamb, or pork instead if these types of meats are easier for you to find or more palatable to your family or dinner guests. Regardless of the type of meat you select, look for a hindquarter cut.


The meat can either be bone-in or boneless. Bone-in meat can take longer to cook, but cooking the stew while the bones are still in the meat can result in a more flavorful sauce. On the other hand, boneless cuts of meat are usually easier to work with and often cook to done in less time.;
, Use a sharp knife to cut the fat off the meat. Cut the meat into two to four chunks.


You do not need to cut the meat into serving portions at this point. You simply need to cut the meat into smaller portions so that it will be easier to brown. Note that smaller portions will also take less time to cook.
 Add 2 Tbsp (30 ml) vegetable oil to a large Dutch oven or skillet. Heat on medium-high, then add the meat and cook it in the hot oil until all sides have browned evenly.


If you plan on cooking the stew on the stove or in the oven, you should use a Dutch oven for this step. Once the meat has browned, cover the Dutch oven and temporarily remove it from the heat until the rest of the stew is ready.
If you plan on cooking the stew in a slow cooker, you could use a large skillet for this step, instead. After browning the meat, remove it from the heat source and temporarily set it aside.
Browning the meat is not an essential step, but doing so can enhance the flavor of the dish, so it is strongly recommended nonetheless.
 The types of chile most often used for this dish are guajillos, pasillas, anchos, and cascabels. You can stick with just one chile type if you strongly prefer its flavor, or you can add further dimension to the flavor profile of the dish by using a combination of these peppers.Guajillos are medium-hot chiles. When used fresh, they are known as mirasol chiles.
Anchos, also called mulatos when dried, have a mild heat profile and are known as poblanos when used fresh.
Pasillas are sometimes confused with anchos or even marketed as such for their similar appearance and flavor profile, even though the two are technically separate varieties.
Cascabels are medium-hot chiles, as well, and are known as bell chiles when fresh.
 Add the chiles to a separate dry, heavy saucepan. Toast them on medium heat for 3 to 4 minutes, stirring frequently, or until they become more fragrant and begin to look puffy or enlarged.


For an even stronger, hotter sauce, wait until the chiles begin to darken. This may take 6 to 8 minutes.
 Pour the broth into the saucepan with the chiles. Reduce the heat to low, cover the pan, and let the chiles simmer in the broth for 20 to 30 minutes.


The broth should just barely be at a simmer. If you notice rapid bubbles forming as the chiles sit, you may need to turn the heat off completely for a few minutes before switching it back on to low.
If you do not have broth, use water instead.
 Remove the chiles from the broth using a slotted spoon. Transfer them to a cutting board and slice them into pieces, removing both the seeds and veins as you work.


Reserve the cooking liquid after you remove the chiles. You will still need it for the sauce.
Note that if you want more heat in your birria sauce, you can actually leave the seeds and ribs. Simply cut out the tough stems and use the rest of the chiles as they are.
Use food-grade gloves when handling the chiles. When the chile juices get onto your hands, they can cause mild burning and discomfort. Even worse, if you accidentally touch your eyes while the juices are on your hands, you can experience an extreme burning sensation in your eyes.
 Place the chopped chiles, cooking liquid, pepper, garlic, salt, tomatoes, onion, cloves, cumin, thyme, and apple cider vinegar in a large food processor. Process on medium to high speed until the entire mixture appears thick but smooth.


If necessary, you can add fresh broth or water to thin the sauce some if it appears too chunky or heavy. The sauce should be thick, but it definitely needs to be a sauce and not a paste.
Use a blender if you do not have a food processor or if your food processor appears too small.
 Place the browned meat in your slow cooker and pour the sauce over it. Stir gently to coat all sides of the meat, then cover the appliance with its lid.


If you want to add the bay leaves for more flavor, place the leaves into the sauce before covering the slow cooker.
A slow cooker uses lower heat than any other cooking method and, therefore, requires the greatest amount of cooking time. As a result, though, the meat will be the most tender when this method is used.
 When done, the meat should be extremely tender.


If you used the bay leaves, fish them out of the sauce as soon as the dish has finished cooking.
Do not open the lid of the slow cooker at any time during the cooking process. Doing so will release the steam that has built up inside, dropping the cooking temperature as a result and lengthening the final cooking time by another 15 to 30 minutes.
 Use two forks to shred the tender meat into the sauce. Mix well with a serving spoon to spread the meat out evenly into the sauce.


Note that if you used a bone-in cut of meat instead of boneless meat, you will need to remove the bones from the dish after shredding the meat.
Hold the meat still with one fork while shredding portions off the sides of the meat with the second fork.
 Ladle the stew into large bowls and enjoy.


You can serve the birria with lime wedges, if desired. Squeeze the juice over the stew before eating it for a zesty twist of flavor.
You could also garnish the dish with additional chopped onion, chopped cilantro, or chopped radishes.
Consider serving the dish with a side of tortillas, as well. You can fill the tortillas with the meat and dunk them into the broth as a different method of eating the stew.



If you want the meat to be even more tender, preheat the oven to 275 degrees Fahrenheit (135 degrees Celsius) instead. Note that the lower cooking temperature will require you to cook the stew for an additional 30 to 60 minutes longer than specified in the remaining instructions.
 The meat should already be in the Dutch oven if you browned it. Pour the sauce over the meat and stir well to coat all sides. Cover the Dutch oven with its lid.


Add the bay leaves to the sauce at this point, if desired.
If you do not have a Dutch oven, you could use a roasting pan or any other oven-safe dish that can fit all of the stew. This dish should preferably have a lid, but if it does not, tightly wrap aluminum foil over the top to cover it.
 Place the dish into your preheated oven and cook until the meat begins to fall apart. Check the dish after the first 2-1/2 hours, then check every 30 minutes after that.


Remove any bay leaves from the broth before shredding the meat.
 Use two forks to shred the meat. Mix the shredded meat back into the broth until evenly spread out.


If there were any bones in your cut of meat, remove them from the stew before serving it.
To make the shredding process easier, hold the meat still by sticking it with one fork. Use your other fork the remove bite-size shreds of meat from the sides of the roast.
 The birria is now ready to eat. Ladle it into separate serving bowls and enjoy.


Garnish the dish with lime, chopped onion, chopped cilantro, or chopped radishes, if desired.
You can eat this dish as you would eat any other stew, or you can spoon the meat into warm tortillas and dunk the filled tortillas into the broth.
 Pour the sauce over the meat already in your Dutch oven. Switch the heat on your stove to high and stir the contents of the Dutch oven until the sauce begins to boil. Immediately reduce the heat to low.


If you want to add a bay leaf or two to the sauce, now is the time to do so. Add the bay leaves after the sauce boils and just before you reduce the heat.
If you do not have a Dutch oven, use a large, heavy stockpot with a tight lid.
 Stir the contents of the dish occasionally as it cooks.


If you decided to use bay leaves, you will need to find them inside the sauce and remove them now. Do not shred the meat or serve the stew with the bay leaves still inside.
 Use two forks to shred the tender meat into fine pieces. Use a serving spoon to thoroughly stir the pieces into the sauce.


Strip the meat off the bones, if applicable, before shredding it.
Hold the meat still with one fork and use the other fork to shred bite-size pieces off.
 Scoop the stew into large, individual serving bowls and enjoy while still hot.


Eat the birria like a standard stew by spooning out the broth and meat with your tablespoon.
Alternatively, you can eat the birria by spooning the meat into warm flour or corn tortillas. Dip the filled tortillas into the sauce of the stew as you eat them.
For a bit more decorative flair and flavor, consider garnishing the dish with chopped onions, chopped cilantro, chopped radishes, or lime wedges.

