 We may talk to God as to Dad or recite the prayer given to us by Jesus through His disciples. "Our Father in Heaven, Holy be your name. Your Kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us today our daily bread. Forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. Do not bring us to temptations, but deliver us from all evils.' Please recite, and then follow that as a pattern of one kind of prayer.;
, God always want us to live happily and successfully. Cultivate good habits of reading Christian books, watching spiritual programs and helping each other.
 Attend Sunday services or masses to give thanks to our Lord, for saving us from all troubles and hardships.
 He is all powerful, all knowing and present everywhere including His Spirit being in you. We should thank Him for what we are today. God is Love. He invites us to live at all times in His kingdom life. It is our choice to accept or reject.  Kindly accept His open arms.
 Everyone is a part of oneself, even though each lives in a different physical body: we are together in Christ. God's gift of Love brings happiness, success, patience, harmony, peace, integrity, honesty, friendliness and hope.
 Failing to be righteous asks oneself to be a failure. We shall overcome all unrighteousness through Jesus who strengthens us. Our Lord has already conquered the world forever.
 Meditate on the word of God. Our God lives in us. We should only discover Him in us through Jesus Christ, not by wishing and just by ideas but by His perfect principles.
 We shall share our blessings, wisdom, wealth, out of our little or much -- and so, share your faith in many areas and ways. What we give is what is multiplied unto us, pressed down and running over.
 Do the same, at least to one who is not family or a loved one, but someone who may live close to you, in turn God brings many, even millions, to inspire you.
 What you speak may be different to what you hear. So we should consider and co-operate to understand each others viewpoint to live enthusiastically.

