 When starting therapy, go to a specialist. Work with someone who specializes in eating disorders so that you have the assurance that your therapist can and will help treat your eating disorder.It’s important to work with someone who has worked with eating disorders before, as treating eating disorders can be complex. There are different types of therapy and therapists you can choose from. Find an option that suits your needs.


Ask for a referral from your medical doctor, or call your insurance provider for a recommendation.;
, Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) has long-term success in reducing binge eating disorder.CBT helps you identify and address the negative thoughts and behaviors that lead to binge eating. The therapist will work with you to help you change those negative thoughts and behaviors.CBT can help you feel more control over your behaviors and cope with negative feelings about your body, and help you regulate your eating patterns.CBT is good at gaining control over a disorder that can make you feel out of control. This systematic approach can put you back in the driver’s seat and help you feel like you can handle the disorder.
For more information, check out How to Use Cognitive Behavioral Therapy.
 Interpersonal therapy focuses on your relationships and how the issues in relationships can influence your eating habits.The goal of interpersonal therapy is to help you improve the way you interact with others and increase your skills in dealing with other people.


Interpersonal therapy can help reduce triggers that are caused by poor relationships and poor communication.Interpersonal therapy may be beneficial for you if you tend to binge eat around relationship problems.
 DBT is skills-oriented and focuses on how negative feelings can lead to binge eating. The therapist will help you learn skills to focus on the present moment to help you to control the emotions and as a way to cope with distress.DBT can help you recognize that feelings are fleeting, and it’s okay to re-focus your attention when you have an urge to overeat. Instead of focusing on urges, you may learn to focus on your senses as a way to bring you into the present moment.


Skills focus on tolerating stress, improving your relationship with others, and regulating your emotions as ways to cope with urges to binge eat., A support group or self-help program can help you connect with other people and learn from them.Sometimes, you can find a group therapy program for binge eating that focuses on CBT, DBT, or interpersonal approaches.Unlike support groups, group therapy is led by a psychologist or therapist. Support groups and group therapy are good options if you want to learn from other people’s experiences, feel less isolated, and meet with other people who have similar struggles.


Groups can also be more cost effective than individual therapy.
 Sometimes, binge eating can be triggered by a disorder such as depression or anxiety. When you begin to feel depressed, you may turn to food and binge eating. A therapist can help you work through the underlying causes of your binge eating and help you recover from the psychological disorder.Your therapist may focus heavily on relieving symptoms of depression (for example, lack of energy, low mood, feeling hopeless, irritability) and ask how these symptoms relate to your binge eating triggers.Binge eating disorder and depression are strongly linked.To fully address binge eating disorder, depression must also be addressed.
 Low self-esteem is often tied to binge eating disorder.You may have negative feelings about yourself, especially after you binge eat. The shame of binge eating can lead you to have negative feelings about yourself. You may find yourself isolating as a result of shame or low self-esteem.Tell your therapist you feel ashamed of your disorder, or maybe even of yourself. Therapy can help you improve your self-esteem by teaching you to focus less on or to change your negative thoughts.
Your therapist may help you discover where you lack self-esteem (for example, self-esteem related to your body or body-image, your abilities, or comparing yourself to others) and challenge whether these feelings or beliefs are accurate. Your therapist may also help you build skills to improve self-esteem, like positive self-talk.
 You may eat as a way to manage or cope with stress. Finding new, healthier ways to deal with stress can help you recover from your binge eating disorder. When you feel stressed you will have skills to deal with the stress in healthier ways apart from food.You may feel like you don’t have any coping strategies apart from food. Ask your therapist to help you discover different ways to cope outside of food.


Your therapist may have you practice deep breathing exercises, or encourage you to try different activities such as journaling, listening to music, doing yoga, or meditation.
 A therapist may help you set up a notebook for you to track your moods. If you feel the urge to overeat, reach for a pen and not a pancake. Write down what triggered you, what emotional state you were in, and what contributed to the urge. You can talk about this notebook weekly at your therapy sessions.


Use your journal to backtrack as well. If you binged, work backwards to see how you were feeling before the binge. What triggered the binge? How were you feeling? What happened right before? Write down what you ate (or wanted to eat), how you felt before, during, and after the binge. You may begin to see a pattern emerge that can help you with treatment., You may see binge eating improve and worsen. It’s very common to experience relapse when treating binge eating disorder, especially early in treatment.Even if you relapse, stick with treatment.


If you relapse, make sure you tell your therapist and work through relapses together.
 It’s recommended to start a weight-loss program after treating the symptoms of binge eating disorder, as dieting can trigger binge eating behaviors. Choose a program that is monitored by medical professionals. You may choose a binge-specific program that can help continue the work from therapy as you aim to lose weight.You can also do a weight-loss program as you go through cognitive behavior therapy. CBT can help you cope with triggers as they occur.
 Some people are prescribed SSRIs as part of binge eating disorder treatment. SSRIs can boost your mood and help curb bad eating habits.Make an appointment with a prescriber to discuss options regarding medication.


As with all pharmaceuticals, side-effects are common when using SSRIs, including feeling shaky, diarrhea or constipation, dizziness, blurred vision, insomnia, and low sex drive. Carefully consider taking medications prior to beginning treatment.
 Support your body by treating it well. Aim to get consistent sleep each night to adequately rest your body and fight cravings. When you don’t get adequate sleep, your body craves sugars for a quick energy boost. Make time for daily exercise to boost your mood and energy levels. By boosting your mood, you can help curb emotional eating.Move toward making your health your priority, and balancing those different aspects of health, including nutrition, sleep, and exercise.
 If you feel isolated or lonely, this can trigger binge eating habits.Surround yourself with friends and family and build a support network. Make time for people, both in person and on the phone. You don’t have to meet over a meal, instead, consider going bowling, having a game or movie night, or going on a hike.


Plan to meet with friends regularly. If you have family that lives far away, plan phone calls, video chats, or emails to keep in touch. Surround yourself with support so that you have a network that keep you from isolating.

