 Do this by entering your pass code. In case you’ve haven’t set any pass code to your Samsung Galaxy simply press the Power button and swipe the screen horizontally.


The Power button is located at the top right edge of the Samsung Galaxy.;
, To find the widget, touch and hold any blank area on the Home screen. Choose “Widgets” that appear in the bottom then tap on “Kids Mode.”


Read the instructions shown there carefully.
 Do this by tapping the “OK” button.
 After the download is complete, tap the “Install” button that appears on the screen.
 Once the installation is complete, open the Kids Mode widget again (Step 2) from the list of available widgets.
 This is to ensure that your child cannot enter or exit the Kids Mode environment without your PIN.


Tap on the “Set PIN” tab that appears at the bottom of the screen then set a 4-digit PIN.
Enter the PIN again when prompted for confirmation.
 Enter the alternative password again to confirm.


In case you forget your PIN, you can access the Kids Mode using this password.
 Do this by entering the name and date of birth of your kid on the fields.


Tap the “Next” button located at the bottom of the screen, and a disclaimer will appear then tap on “Accept” to continue.
 Your kid will have access only to the applications you select in the Kids Mode. You can select various game apps for the kids that are already downloaded in your mobile or tablet.
 Tap “Finish” that appears at the bottom of the screen. The Kids Mode Home screen will appear in the background along with its various apps.


Note that the two icons “Close Kids Mode” and “Go to Parental Control” are highlighted.
 The Kids Mode home screen will appear. Certain default apps that are exclusive to Kids Mode, such as Voice Recorder and Camera, will be displayed on the home screen along with the apps you had selected in the setup.


It is to be noted that the Back button, Home button, and Menu button present below the touchscreen will not work in Kids Mode. This ensures that your kid’s activity is restricted to Kids Mode.
 Tap on “Parental Control,” the icon that is located at the right bottom corner of the Kids Mode home screen. Here you can monitor and manage your child’s activities in Kids Mode.


Enter the PIN when prompted. This keeps the Parental Control function inaccessible to your kids.
Tap on the Activity tab at the top left corner of the screen, and a list of options will be displayed, which can be modified according to your needs.


Change the profile information — This is where you change the profile information of your child.

Daily playtime limit — A certain limit for playtime can be set. Once your child exceeds the limit, the phone goes into a sleep mode.

Applications — Here you can add or remove apps that your child can enjoy.

Media — Video files can be added and played in Kids Mode here

General — This menu has options for changing your PIN, among others.

Kids Store — Open the menu for more kid-friendly apps that are available for purchase or for free.
 Once your child has finished playing with your Samsung Galaxy device, tap on the “Close Kids Mode” button situated at the right bottom corner of the Kids Mode home screen, to the left of the Parental Control icon.


When prompted, enter the PIN to exit Kids Mode.

