 Just as you’ve been getting used to the cold outside, you should be making an effort to get acclimated to the cold inside as well. People most often keep the temperature in their homes in the low- to mid-seventies, as this is most hospitable to the body’s equilibrium. Try turning yours down a few degrees at a time until you can stand living in a cooler space.Toughing out a cold house is also a great way to save on the cost of utilities during the winter. Just check with your family or roommates first if you don’t live alone.
 The next time you get chilly and you’re tempted to grab a cozy throw blanket or pair of house shoes, don’t. Instead, bear it, and do something to take your mind off the chill if you need to. The idea is to break yourself of the need to always be covered up with warm layers when it’s cold and instead learn to cope with it on your own. If you’ve gotten used to living in cooler temperatures and have been taking cold showers routinely, this step should be a breeze.


If you find yourself having a hard time resisting that comforter or quilt, fold it and put it away on the top shelf of a closet. You’ll be less likely to reach for it if it’s put away and you have to go to the trouble of getting it out again.
Your body temperature naturally drops slightly when you sleep, so if you want a crash course in developing willpower, train yourself to sleep without a blanket!, Make ice water your go-to drink of choice, even in the dead of winter. Ingesting an icy beverage lowers your internal temperature ever-so-slightly, which will force your body’s adaptive responses to compensate for the change. Whereas most people turn to coffee or hot chocolate in the colder months to get warm, you should be doing the opposite. Eventually, you’ll no longer even feel the need to warm up.In addition to being a useful tool for building up your cold tolerance, ice water is also usually free and can be found almost anywhere.
 Desensitizing yourself to the cold doesn’t have to be all stern-faced discipline. Take up an outdoor winter sport like sledding, skiing or snowboarding and give yourself a fun way to get outside while everyone else is huddled up indoors. You’ll become one with the cold much faster, and you’ll also have an enjoyable way to pass the cold months instead remaining cooped up.Take a camping trip in the late fall or winter for a head-first approach to dealing with cold. Once you’re in the wild, you’ll have no choice but to sleep on the cold ground out in the elements, and your body will thank you!
Chances are, you’ll begin to get overheated after a few hours of intense skiing or snowboard, demonstrating just how much heat your body is capable of generating on its own. This should give you a confidence boost for your own ability to overcome the cold.