 Unlike women, men tend to show more physical symptoms regarding depression. Although there are some similarities between the genders, men tend to experience more unique signs. The need to hold in emotions can actually create physical pain. Some of the main physical signs include:


Headaches
Backaches
Joint pain
Stomach pain (digestive issues)
Chest pain

These are just some of the physical symptoms that men experience while suffering from depression. What's more, these physical symptoms can easily be associated with other issues, making it hard to recognize that depression is even at play.

;
, Women tend to gain weight when they're depressed, while men are more likely to lose weight. However, some men do wind up gaining weight due to overeating. Either way, look for a change in their weight. It will likely be due to a change in appetite over a change in physical activity.


Someone who typically eats ravenously may no longer feel like clearing their plate. A man who often would not eat large meals may start eating all day, often on junk food.Ultimately, how the weight change manifests is determined by the individual.
 A common sign of depression in men is self-medicating, either through drugs, alcohol, or any other form of abuse. It is a way to further mask what is really occurring. These substances temporarily block out how the man feels, but ultimately bring on the emotions with a renewed fervor once they wear off – leading the man to self-medicate over and over in a vicious cycle.


Addiction can actually exasperate depression, too. Both disorders (addiction and depression, that is) affect neurotransmitters, making it hard to see which disorder came first.
Unfortunately, depression and alcohol, when combined, can create violent behavior. 40% of violent crimes involve alcohol, which is a prevalence that should not be ignored. , If you think a man in your life is depressed, pay attention to his impulsivity and reckless behavior. Has he been taking more physical risks? Has his driving became increasingly more aggressive? These risky behaviors may be a sign of depression.


Remember, if this man is an aggressive driver, that does not automatically mean that he's depressed. Men who are suffering from depression will show multiple signs. These types of behaviors are common signs, and are generally paired with emotional and physical symptoms as well.
 A man who's depressed will often display a loss of interest in work, family, and once-pleasurable activities, including sex. This often is easiest observed in a refusal to go out and do normal activities that he once enjoyed. Instead, he would rather stay at home and keep to himself. This is a symptom that is constant and applies to all environments – at work, at home, and with friends.


A lack of interest in spending time with others can result in someone who is withdrawn from friends and family, putting stress on their relationships, ultimately worsening the problem. The individual may also have trouble going to work or continuing their productivity at work, putting their job on the line, too., A man with depression will often feel extremely tired or fatigued. He will likely sleep a lot (or try to) and stay at home doing nothing – yet despite this staying home and doing nothing, he's still tired.He'll likely be so tired partly because he has trouble sleeping. This includes falling asleep, staying asleep, or waking too early. This is often readily observed in him tossing and turning while trying to get to sleep. Every night is a restless night filled with unfulfilling sleep, resulting in him being tired all day, every day., Depression in men is commonly displayed through anger. It is not uncommon to lack sleep and energy when depressed, which can ultimately have a significant effect on his mood. If your loved one has been displaying random fits of anger, this may be an underlying symptom of depression.


Women tend to show emotional symptoms in the form of tears, and communicate their need for assistance. Men on the other hand tend to act out, typically in a more aggressive, angrier fashion.
 A man with depression will likely display trouble concentrating, remembering details, or making decisions. He'll be unable to concentrate and make decisions, be it important or minute.This will greatly affect his home and work life.
 If he has depression, he likely feels sad or empty. If he's unwilling to open up about it, you may observe him being generally down about life. He may not get excited or feel happy about things that would normally be pleasurable, which is another way to determine if he's feeling blue.Men generally have difficulty expressing sadness. Sometimes this emptiness manifests as feeling hopeless, irritable, anxious, or angry. He may seem pessimistic, easily annoyed, worried about things out of his control, and will display a short temper., If this person displays 4-5 of the symptoms listed above, he is most likely dealing with depression. However, one or two symptoms do not indicate a depressive episode – we all feel down and blue at times. What's more, depression will last for more than two weeks; mere sadness goes away sooner and is often only in certain environments.If depression does seem to be the case, know that it's highly treatable. In fact, most people will experience at least 1 depressive episode at one point in their life. It's incredibly common and nothing to be ashamed about.
 This is often the hardest symptom to observe because people often do not want to talk about suicide. However, this can be observed through speech patterns. People who are depressed may make comments about just wanting to get away, go to sleep, or go to sleep and not wake up.


Unfortunately, this is not something that can be shrugged off. Between depression in men going undiagnosed and rates of successful suicide being higher in men, signs of suicidal ideation need to be addressed immediately. Consider seeking out a therapist as soon as possible if your loved one displays this symptom.
 If you begin seeing signs like him apologizing, saying goodbye, or giving away his favorite possessions, he is likely planning a suicide attempt. If you notice these signs bring it to their attention and let them know you know what’s going on. Be gentle when approaching the subject but also frank.


Ensure that he does not have access to any way to hurt himself and try to find out as much as you can about his suicide plan. Try to get them to agree to not harm themselves without calling for help – you are a suicide hotline first. If they refuse, then it may be best to contact the local authorities. The police will be able to temporarily commit him to a psychiatric facility to receive the treatment he desperately needs., While depression has the same underlying features in both sexes, there are some gender based differences. Men tend to blame others for their problems while women blame themselves. This difference has been theorized to be based on the tendency for women to internalize their feelings while men often externalize their feelings.


When someone externalizes their feelings they can act out in angry, aggressive, and reckless ways. Someone who internalizes (often women) will engage in distorted thought patterns and blame themselves for things they may not have any control over., During depression men tend to create conflict while women will often avoid conflict. Men typically need to feel in control while women have trouble setting boundaries and feel out of control. One way a male might try to cope with depression is by reasserting their control over the situation. Women will often lose control through their depression and feel helpless.


This goes back to the nature of internalizing and externalizing emotions, with women internalizing and men often externalizing. Women get lost inside of themselves with their emotion, while men take it out on the world.
 Both men and women will try to self-medicate, but by using different “medicine.” Women will use food, friends, and love to self-medicate while men typically use alcohol, TV, sports, and sex to self-medicate.All these differences are due to the fundamental difference between externalizing and internalizing emotion. Men externalize which results in self-medicating with alcohol and sex. While women that internalize will seek out emotional support in the form of friends and food., For some reason, depression is more commonly associated with women. This is likely because there is a stigma associated with men who show their feelings. This traditional view needs to be broken, as men do not always need to be "tough." Men tend to think that they'll be perceived as weak, which simply isn't the case. Showing emotion is not only natural, it's important. Because of this, millions of men will go undiagnosed, which only creates further problems.


What's more, when women are depressed, they're much more prone to cry. Crying and displaying feelings of hopelessness are quickly associated with symptoms of depression, which lead the women to getting or seeking help. This disparity is another reason why depression in men continues to be highly undiagnosed; their main symptoms are outside the classic signs of depression.
 Men tend to show their depression in less traditional ways. As we just discussed, largely due to these unique symptoms, many men are not being treated for their depression or do not get recommended for treatment. This is a very serious issue, especially because suicide rates are higher amongst men. Women are more prone to attempt suicide when depressed, yet men are more successful in terms of following through with the suicidal act. This is why we need to recognize that depression within men is unique, real, and desperately needs more attention.Don’t ignore remarks about suicide. Call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 if you are concerned about his suicidal thoughts or behavior.
 In a recent study, it was found that a gap in prevalence of depression between men and women may not exist. When looking at data from a national survey, it was found that men did in fact report higher rates of risk taking, substance-abuse, and aggressive behavior.When they viewed male-symptoms within the data, they found that a higher proportion of men were seen to be depressed compared with women. When both male-like symptoms and classic symptoms were combined, depression rates were fairly equal.


Throughout the sample, 30.6% of men met the criteria for depression, while 33.3% of women did.Depression, by no means, is just a female issue.
 Because men may experience depression as constant irritability or angry reckless behavior, you may want to avoid using the term depression when first broaching the subject. Try describing his behavior as seeming stressed or tired. This could encourage him to open up. Point out any changes in his behavior without being critical. This is less presuming and allows him to open up at his discretion.


For example, you could say you've noticed that he hasn’t been working out with you in the past month. Suggest a general check up with a physician. Many men are less resistant to see a family doctor than a mental health professional.
 If you believe that your loved one may be suffering from depression, it's important that you encourage them to go see a doctor or psychologist. Due to the high risk of suicide, men need to seek immediate attention if they have been having suicidal thoughts.


As you can see, the signs that men display are not your classic depression symptoms. It is important to be familiar with these signs regarding the mental state of a loved one. If you're unsure, talk to your own psychologist or doctor for advice on what your next step should be.
Offer to help him find a mental health provider and go with him on the first visit. Finally, encourage him to make an honest list of symptoms to discuss including physical, emotional, and substance use., Depression, when episodic, is especially treatable. For example, symptoms of depression can be helped by eating a more nutrient-rich diet. Encourage your loved one to eat healthily by eating healthily with them and cooking together at home.


Foods that are high in amino acids help improve neurotransmitter balance. Try to incorporate more omega-fatty acids into his (and your) diet, which are easily had in salmon, mackerel, and tuna. If he's not a fan of fish, turn to flax seed oil or supplements.
 Becoming more active has helped a lot of people with their symptoms. Once again, that's because exercise plays a role in neurotransmitters. Although his energy levels may be low, help him start being more active by being more active with him.


Some have found great success in yoga, as it helps relax the mind and body. If cardio and other more vigorous activities aren't on the table, know that less intense workouts (yoga, walking, etc.) are also helpful.
 Supporting a male in your life with depression requires understanding and patience. Engage him in conversation and listen carefully. Don’t disregard his feelings he expresses, but do point out realities and offer hope. Invite him out for walks and other activities. Know he’s not going to feel like going, so be gentle but insistent. Encourage participation in activities he once enjoyed, including hobbies and sports.


However, be careful not to overwhelm him. Do not accuse him of faking feelings and do not expect him to “snap out of it.” Instead, reassure him and yourself that with time he will feel better.
You may also need to monitor therapy attendance or medication usage. Encourage him to follow orders about the use of the therapists and doctors. Professional recommendations are going to be the most helpful throughout treatment.