 Draw a thermometer near the left edge of the page, with 10 equal levels. Next to the top of the thermometer write "Name" and then "Feeling Clues" at the top and to the left of the thermometer. See the picture below for a sample you can copy.;
, The most common problem feelings are sadness, anger, fear, worry, and stress.

Remember a time that feeling got you into the most trouble ever. Make that time your number ten.






Give that time a very specific name. Here are some examples of names other people have used: For the end point of anger, people have used these terms – "Howling despair" or "Pounding the wall" or "Cursing"; for depression, people have used these terms – "Crying too much" or "Wishing I were dead" or "Can't do what needs doing".
 A feeling clue is anything that alerts you to the fact a feeling is visiting you. Tears are feeling clues, self-talk is a feeling clue, and imagining what you want to happen is a feeling clue.
 The opposite of anger, fear, and stress is calm; the opposite of sadness is happiness. That is your number one.

Name that time and note at least one feeling clue.






Think about the times you first realize the feeling is visiting you. That is your five.






Name and note a feeling clue for that time.
, Once you have created your feeling thermometer, you can take your feeling temperature. Here's how to do that:

Take a deep breath in.






Hold and as you do this, ask yourself "What am I feeling now?" and "Where is that on my feeling thermometer?".






Breathe out and as you do, the answer should come into your consciousness.
 See the image for another idea of actions to take in response to the feeling level on the thermometer.


If your feelings are in the okay or better range, do nothing.
If your feelings are in the middle, practice the one minute meditation and then go about your business. But keep alert to what you're feeling.
When your feelings begin moving toward the extreme end of your feeling thermometer, slow down, and use calming self-talk to stay cool. If possible, take a time-out.
If your feelings have hit the danger zone, do as little as possible while thinking about how to best handle the feeling.

