 Once you’ve identified the point at which the ants are entering your home, there are many substances that you can use to discourage them from doing so. For instance, sprinkling a thin line of salt or talcum powder across the crack where the ants are coming in can force them to abandon that particular area.Other powdered products that might help include:baby powder
cornmeal
black pepper
baking sodacinnamon
chalk powder
diatomaceous earth
dried mint

, Ants are averse to several strong scents, including vinegar, perfume, and lemon juice. Fill a small ramekin with one or two tablespoons of one of these products. Place it near the area where the ants are most active. Place another ramekin of the product near the crack where the ants are coming into your home.Alternately, dab a cloth with one of these products and wipe down the areas with significant odorous ant activity.You could also create a solution by mixing equal parts water and vinegar (or water and lemon juice), then spraying it in the area where the odorous ants are.You could use white or apple cider vinegar.
 Slice the skin off the cucumber. Use a vacuum to suck up any odorous ants that you see, then drag a few cucumber slices across the trail they were using. Place a handful of cucumber slices near the odorous ants’ entry point.Repeat every few days, or when you see the odorous ants return.
 If you drink mint tea, place a used tea bag near the cracks or gaps through which the odorous ants are entering your home. Place a few others along odorous ant trails., Like strong-smelling lemon and vinegar, odorous ants despise many essential oils. The most effective essential oils are cinnamon, lemon, and peppermint. Simply spray a mixture of water and essential oil on the areas where the ants are entering your home and along the areas.While the exact amount of essential oil you will need depends on the concentration of oil you’ve obtained, you can generally mix the essential oil of you choice with water in a 1:99 ratio. In other words, you might mix half a teaspoon of cinnamon essential oil with 49.5 teaspoons of water.
Some essential oils are not appropriate for use around pets and children. Consult the manufacturer instructions on your essential oil bottle before use.

