 You’ll know what’s coming, because the song starts by repeating the words, “Cupid Shuffle.” Get to a good spot on the dance floor where you have a little bit of space to showcase your moves. Typically, this dance works best when people are lined up in rows.









Use the musical intro to find your groove. Shake off any self-consciousness you might have and get ready to have some fun.;
, Step your right foot out to the side, and then bring your left foot to meet it. You will be doing this four times total. If the dance floor is pretty crowded, you may only be able to take baby steps. If you have lots of space, feel free to take large steps. By watching the crowd around you and listening to the music, you will easily be able to step in the correct rhythm.
 Like you did on the opposite side, you’ll be bringing your left foot out, planting it, and bringing your right foot to meet it. As long as you are moving to the left, feel free to add a little pep to your step. You can add a little hop, a smooth slide, or maybe sway your hips to the music.
 There isn’t any choreography for your arms, so you can play around with this. Don’t lock your arms to your side, or you’ll look uncomfortable and robotic. Try snapping your fingers, shimmying your shoulders, or placing your hands on your hips. Just do something! This gives you an opportunity to make the dance your own.
 Once you’ve finished stepping to the right and the left, bring your feet back together and stand up straight. For the next move, you will be staying in one place and facing forward. Make sure you have room in front of you to extend your leg.
 Bring it down so that the side of your heel taps the floor in front of you. Your toes will be pointing slightly to the right, never hitting the ground. As your right foot comes out in front of you, your left leg will give a slight bend. 







, Once you get comfortable with this basic step, you can really make it your own. Try giving a little jump as you switch out your feet. Don’t forget to stay bouncy on bent knees, so that you don’t look stiff and uncomfortable throughout the dance. Repeat a kick on each leg, so that you kick to the front a total of four times. 







, As your right leg kicks out, try popping out your left arm, like in a swimming stroke motion. Then alternate, swinging your right arm out as your left leg kicks to the front. You can also try forward punching motions, or rolling your wrists to the music. Again, you really can do anything with your arms as long as you’re doing *something* with them!








, Once you’ve completed all four kicks, get in this stance immediately. Just like the steps and the kicks before this, you will be alternating going from right to left, twice. You won’t need much space for this move. Lift your heels up a bit, so most of your weight is on the balls of your feet.
 You should be turning on the balls of your feet. Picture it as if you were getting into a running stance toward the right, then swiveling to the opposite wall and getting into a runners stance to the left. This is called “walking it out” and you can have fun with this move. 








Keep your arms bent, as they would be if you were actually running.
As you swivel, you can get lower and lower to the floor.
 In other words, you’ll be “walking it out” while slowly turning your whole body to the left. When you restart the dance from the beginning, you will be facing a different wall. You’ll continue to do this dance and doing a quarter turn each time, so eventually you will have made a complete circle.







