 Greet the patient and explain that you are going to help him use the bedpan. Show patience and compassion, as this can be an uncomfortable and embarrassing situation for the patient. Assure the patient that you know what to do and will make the experience as pleasant as possible.
Explaining this to the patient beforehand can help calm your patient and reduce his fear and uncertainty.;
, Wash your hands thoroughly with hot water and soap. When finished, dry your hands and put on a pair of disposable gloves., Provide the patient with as much privacy as possible, now and throughout the entire procedure.Close the door and cover the windows with curtains.
If the patient shares a room with someone else, draw the curtain separating the two beds.
Keep the patient's legs covered with a blanket or sheet until you are ready to position the bedpan.
 If possible, cover the sheets beneath the patient with a waterproof protector.


If you do not have access to a waterproof protector, cover the sheets beneath patient's buttocks with a large, clean bath towel.
 Fill the bedpan with very warm water. Let the water sit for several minutes, then dump it out and dry off the bedpan.The heat from the water should transfer to the bedpan itself, warming it up. A warm bedpan will be more comfortable for the patient to use than a cold one.
If it is a metal bedpan, make sure it is not too hot.
 Sift a thin layer of talcum powder over the edge of the bedpan.The powder will make it easier to slide the bedpan beneath the patient.
Only do this if the patient does not have any bedsores or cuts on her buttocks. Do not use talcum powder if the patient has any open wounds.
 Alternatively, you can place a few squares of toilet paper in the bottom of the bedpan or coat it with a little vegetable oil spray (if you are in a home setting).


Any of these practices will make the cleanup process easier.
 Now that the supplies are ready, instruct the patient to remove clothing from the bottom half of his body.


Assist the patient if he is unable to do this alone.
If the patient is wearing a gown with an opening in the back, you can leave the gown on. If the gown has no opening, you will need to lift it above the patient's waist.
You will also need to pull the top sheet or blanket back at this time.
 Lower the bed as far as possible to reduce the risk of injury if the patient falls during the procedure.


You should also lower the head of the bed at this time, since doing so may make it easier for the patient to lift or turn as needed.
 The patient should lie on her back. The knees should be bent and the feet should be flat on the mattress., Set the clean bedpan directly next to the patient's hips on the side of the bed.


Positioning the bedpan as close as possible before moving the patient will cause less strain to the patient.
 The patient will need to raise his hips. If the patient does not have the strength to do so, you will need to turn the patient to his side instead.If the patient can lift his hips:

Instruct your patient to raise his hips on the count of three.
Support the patient by placing your hand beneath the lower back. Do not do any serious lifting with this hand. You should only provide light support.


If the patient cannot lift his hips:

Gently turn the patient to the side facing away from you. Work carefully to prevent the patient from rolling onto his stomach or off the bed.
 Slide the bedpan beneath the patient's buttocks with the curved edge of the bedpan facing the back.If the patient can lift her hips:

Slide the bedpan underneath the buttocks and instruct the patient to ease down onto it, using your support hand to guide her.


If the patient cannot lift her hips:

Slide the bedpan directly next to the patient's buttocks. Keep the open end pointing toward the patient's feet.
Gently roll the patient back onto her back and over the bedpan. Hold the bedpan close to the patient's body as you work.
 Carefully raise the head of the bed, bringing the patient's body up into a more natural toileting position.
 Ask the patient to spread his legs slightly so that you can verify proper bedpan placement.Essentially, you need to make sure that the bedpan is positioned securely beneath the entire area of the buttocks.
 Place toilet paper within the patient's reach. Let the patient know that it's there.You should also provide sanitary wipes for the patient's hands.
Keep a signal cord, bell, or similar device near the patient, too. Instruct the patient to ring the signal when finished.
 Give the patient privacy as she uses the bedpan. Let her know you will be back to check in a few minutes, but instruct the patient to ring for you if she finishes before then.Do not leave the patient if doing so would be unsafe.
 As soon as you leave the patient, you should remove your gloves and wash your hands.


Several minutes may pass before you return to the patient again. Before doing so, wash your hands once more and put on a new, clean pair of disposable gloves.
 Return to the patient's side as soon as you receive a signal from him.Bring a basin of warm water, soap, toilet paper, and sanitary cleansing cloths with you when you return.
If the patient does not signal to you within five to ten minutes, check on his progress. Continue checking every few minutes.
 Lower the head of the bed as much as possible without making the patient uncomfortable.This position will make it easier for the patient to move off the bedpan.
 If the patient lifted herself onto the bedpan, the patient should also lift herself off. If you need to turn the patient onto the bedpan, you will need to turn the patient off.If the patient can lift herself:

Ask the patient to bend her knees.
Instruct the patient to raise her lower half. Place your hand beneath the lower back to offer gentle support.


If the patient cannot lift herself:

Hold the bedpan flat on the bed so that it does not spill.
Simultaneously roll the patient to the side facing away from you.
 Slide the bedpan from its current position and allow the patient to rest.Work carefully and avoid sliding the bedpan against the patient's skin while removing it.
Cover the bedpan with a towel and set it aside for the time being.
 Determine whether or not the patient was able to clean himself. If not, you will need to clean the patient.Clean the patient's hands with a wet, soapy washcloth or sanitary wipes.
Clean the patient's bottom half with toilet paper. For female patients in particular, wipe from front to back to reduce the risk of contaminating the urinary tract with bacteria from the rectum.
 Once the patient is clean, remove the waterproof covering or towel.If a spill or other contamination occurs, you will need to change the bed linens and the patient's gown or clothing immediately.
If there is an odor in the room, consider spraying an air freshener.
 Help the patient shift back into a comfortable resting position.If necessary, raise or lower the entire bed or the head of the bed to keep the patient more comfortable.
 Take the bedpan to the bathroom and check its contents.


Look for anything unusual, like streaks of red, black, or green, as well as mucus or diarrhea.
If necessary, measure and record the output.
 Empty the contents of the bedpan into the toilet and flush them away.
 Unless the bedpan is disposable, you will need to clean it thoroughly before storing it.Flush out the contents of the bedpan with cold water. Pour this water into the toilet.
Scrub the bedpan with cold, soapy water and a toilet brush. Rinse it with additional cold water, and dump the water into the toilet.
Dry the bedpan and return it to its proper storage position when done.
 Remove your gloves and wash your hands thoroughly with hot water and soap.You should wash your hands for a full minute, if not longer.
Once everything is clean, you can return the room to its standard condition by opening curtains, windows, and doors that were closed for the procedure.

