 Not doing this can lead to ineffective skin care and may even contribute to aggravated skin issues. Five major skin types are generally recognized — normal, dry, oily, combination and sensitive. When purchasing products, check their labels to find out the skin types for which they are best suited. Additionally, conditions like acne, rosacea and inflammation should be addressed when choosing products.


Normal skin features an occasional blemish, but most of the time it feels smooth, supple and firm. There are no areas that are obviously oily or dry and flaky. Pores appear to be small or medium sized.
Dry skin feels tight and uncomfortable. Some areas will appear visibly red and flaky or bumpy.
Oily skin looks slick and shiny. If you touch it, it will feel damp. Pores are usually larger and breakouts more frequent.
Combination skin features oil around the nose, chin and forehead. The cheek area tends to be dry and flaky. Other areas are normal.
Sensitive skin shows inflammation and irritation when in contact with chemicals from cosmetics and products. The sensation is usually a burning one, and the skin turns red. Sensitive skin can react to changes in weather and even to different foods, depending on the person.
 Opt for cleansers and toners that are alcohol-free. Check product labels for terms like “mild” and “unscented.” If you’re acne-prone, look for skin-care products that won’t clog pores — these will have labels like “non-comedogenic” and “oil-free.”


As skin ages, it grows more sensitive. You can minimize unnecessary skin irritation by selecting gentle skin-care products.
Since skin loses its elasticity over time, be sure to apply skin-care products gently, as well. Avoid aggressive rubbing, pulling and stretching, which can damage it., Apply a retinoid product every third day for two weeks until your skin gets used to it. Eventually work your way up to a nightly application. Retinoid products can be obtained by prescription through a dermatologist and also over-the-counter.


OTC products contain smaller amounts of retinol — look for one that contains 1%, which is the highest OTC amount available.
Once your skin has adjusted to a nightly retinoid application, substitute an AHA product twice per week, which will increase anti-aging benefits., Choose a gentle formula — your skin should not be red or painful to touch after exfoliating. You should exfoliate after cleansing, or use a cleanser that has exfoliating properties. Toner and moisturizer should be applied after exfoliating.


Exfoliation also helps the skin absorb products better.
Limit exfoliation to once per week. Too much exfoliation can be damaging to mature skin.
If you have sensitive skin, consult a dermatologist before beginning an exfoliation regimen.

