 Does he/she remind you of a person, character, object, or s personality. Is there an activity he/she loves to do? Is there a character trait that he/she reminds you of? Any of these could suggest a good name. For example, is Star Wars a popular thing in your family? Maybe name your pet after Chewy or Leia!;
, Lets take a dog for example. The dog is dark and reminds you of something you like. You may name him/her Smoky or Stormy. Maybe he/she smells a lot, so you could name him/her Stinky. If you like cartoons, you may name him Pluto.
 If you are naming a puppy or a kitten, pick a name that can grow with the pet as he ages. Names such as Baby, Pups, or Bae for a child animal seem cute at the time, but when they grow to an adult, no so much. Is your dog skinny or fat? Just because it is at the time you name it, does not mean in the future it will not loose/gain weight, so don't name a pet Boney or Chubs. Also avoid names that might alienate people, such as "Cujo," which could remind others of the killer dog from the movie, "Cujo." It's also smart to nix names that are tongue twisters and that can be confused with training cues or everyday words. "Mo," for example, can be confused with "no," "Tom" can be confused with "come," and "Trey" can be confused with "stay."

, Maybe you think a common, usual, name will work bets for you dog. Think of some names like Grace or Riley. Max or Macy. Jack, Tina, Biscuit, Kipper, Skipper, Noddle, or Bubbles.
 A name book that is used to help pick baby names can help you find a name! Search through some names in the book. Hey, who knows, you could find some very interesting names!

, Maybe name your pet "Joker" if you like comic books. Do you collect or have interest in coins? Maybe name your pet Lincoln after the penny.
 Example, the name Princess Peanut Butter is cute, but to long to say to your pet every minute or two. Unless you plan to call the pet with the long name some quirky nickname like PPB, choose a name that is simpler that you could call the pet.

