 Label them a, b, and c. Recommended ones include:


Standard Bench Press
Incline Bench Press
Incline Dumbbell Bench Press
Dumbbell Flyes;
, Label them a, b, and c. Recommended:


Pull Down
Cable Row
Barbell Row
Pullups (or assisted pull-ups)

, Label them a, b, and c. Recommended:


Military Press
Arnold Press
Dumbbell Shrugs
Dumbbell Shoulder Press

, Label them a, b, and c.


Recommended for Biceps:

Standing Dumbbell Curl
Barbell Curl
Concentration Curl
Preacher Curl


Recommended for Triceps:

Overhead Triceps Extension
Press Down
Skull Crushers
Triceps dips



, Label them a, b, and c. Recommended:


Squats
Leg Press
Deadlifts
Dumbbell Lunges

, On Mondays, all 'a' exercises will be performed. All 'b' exercises will be performed on Wednesdays, and 'c' exercises will be performed on Fridays. Low to medium intensity cardio is optional on non-weightlifting days.
 Before exercising, you should always perform a warm-up. This usually consists on 5-15 minutes of light cardio like jogging or stationary bike, and light stretching (nothing intense!).
 You should perform 2 to 4 sets that should last 40-120 seconds each. Research has shown that the length of time the muscle is under tension is what increases endurance, rather than a number of repetitions.
 Part of what makes lifting for endurance different from lifting to build muscle is the shorter rest periods between sets. You should be working more than you are resting.

Correct form should be used at all times. No cheating!
Try some advanced techniques such as “running the rack.”

, Write down the weight used for each exercise every time you go to the gym. If possible, also write down the approximate amount of time performing each set.
 Your muscles improve by adapting, so every workout must put a little more strain on your muscles for continual improvement. If you cannot increase the weight safely, add one more set than last week.
 As a beginner, you should take a 9-12 day rest period of no weightlifting after four to five weeks of training to allow your body to recover fully. When you begin working out again, you may not want to start with the same weight you previously ended with; depending on how much you have improved, you will probably want to decrease the weight from your last workout.
 Your body will need proper nutrition for your muscles to recover optimally. A balanced diet containing carbohydrates, fats, and protein is recommended, but in general you will need to increase the total amount of food you eat to compensate for the increased demands you are placing on your body.


There are countless resources concerned with nutrition.
 Supplements are never necessary as long as you are eating a balanced diet. However, there are some supplements which may help your muscles to improve quicker and recover faster. Do your research before trying any supplements. There are many sites, but examine.com is among the most accessible and reliable for supplement information. Some common supplements are:


Whey Protein Powder
Multivitamins
Creatine
Caffeine

, After some time, your body will have adapted too well to this program to make optimal gains, so it is important to change things up every now and then. Try changing some of the exercises, and try grouping the exercises differently (for example, try doing the chest, back, and triceps exercises on Monday and Thursday, and perform the legs, shoulders, and biceps exercises on Tuesday and Friday).

