 If you're going to spend a year alone, you'll want to be as comfortable as possible. Get furniture that you like and make your residence a place that you enjoy being! Decorate it your way! One of the big advantages of living alone is the fact that you can do what you want!;
, Another big perk of living alone is that you can be as active as you want. If you're feeling homesick, go for a jog. It will freshen your mind. Do sit-ups in front of the TV. Just because you're living away from your family/friends doesn't mean that you should be a couch potato.
 Have a computer and a TV so that you know what's going on around you. Sometimes, living alone can make you feel like a hermit, so give yourself easy connections to anywhere in the world. Watch the news from your hometown to see what's going on there.
 There are many different ways to stay in touch with your loved ones! You should be able to find a way to do at least one of these things:


E-mail. As long as you have a computer, this is probably the easiest way of staying in touch. There are email services such as Hotmail and Yahoo that give you an email account for free.
Facebook, Myspace, or other social networking sites. Again, this is a free way to see what your friends and family are doing, even if it's as simple as "Eating breakfast".
Skype or a web-cam. Sometimes words aren't enough and you need to see your loved ones faces and hear their voices. What better way to do this then to chat with them over a web-cam?
Call them. You can't see their face, but you can hear their voice! Calling is the best thing to do if you want immediate answers/advice, or if you just want to talk for hours on end.
Text them. This is a good way to get instant answers/advice, however, depending on your cell phone plan, it could be costly!
Write them a letter! For some, this seems old-fashioned, but you can still do it! It's very useful!

, Even if you're living away from your family/friends, it doesn't mean that you should be totally anti-social. Go to parties, clubs, dances, etc. to meet other people. You might develop great friendships/relationships!

, You don't want to be moping around constantly missing your family. Keep yourself busy by doing some activities! You can broaden your horizons and learn how to do new things, or do things that you already know about, such as:


Speaking/learning a foreign language
Painting
Yoga
Aerobics
Belly Dancing
Drawing
Sculpting
Ceramics
Cooking
Sewing
Swimming
Reading
Writing
Playing/learning a musical instrument
Playing a sport
Gardening
Singing
Dancing
Jogging
Weight-lifting
Photography etc.
 If you really feel the need to have someone around, get a pet. A pet is a great thing to talk to and socialize with (don't worry, many people talk to their pets). If you don't like a huge amount of responsibility, try a fish or a rodent. If you like moderate responsibility and socialization, try a cat. If you like lots of responsibility and socialization, try getting a dog.
 Don't be depressed! Do things that you enjoy, whatever they may be. If worse comes to worst, remember that it's only a year, and soon enough, you'll be back with your family.

