 When you first enter the chat room, listen for a few minutes to figure out what people are talking about. Feel free to join in, but don't push your topic. Wait for it to come up naturally.
, If you are just talking with one other person, that could be annoying to the other members of the chat room. Take those conversations to email, Facebook, Twitter, another social networking site, or even text.
 You may already know what you have done, so think about whether your choice was a good or bad one. Remember, you're the one who is responsible for your actions.;
, Take the punishment into account, and respect the operator's decision. Avoid logging in with another account, period. You may be banned from the channel forever just for doing this once. If you want to know exactly what you did wrong, try messaging one of the operators. Don't bother network staff unless they are also ops for the particular channel (listed by name on access list), they won't deal with you. Preferably message the op that banned you, although if they are abusive feel free to at least report their misconduct to another.
 If you don't understand, follow the previous step. You will obviously lose and be permanently or if lucky long term banned if you argue with an operator or physically threaten to harm them. This can even include an implicit threat such as saying you'd like them to suffer. This is also the crime of a malicious communication / harassment if done repeatedly in some countries e.g. the UK so don't even consider it especially in these countries!

,


If you are an enemy with the ops in a channel, you most likely will not get unbanned. If you are friends with an op, on the other hand, you may get unbanned from the channel. You can easily make friends with an op by being respectful of their decisions, being kind to them, and being on your best behavior.



Promise that you will never do the action again, and ask for forgiveness. You will be untrusted and banned again, quite possibly permanently, if you do it another time.



If the ban stays, or you get yelled at for asking for mercy, then let it go and don't ever go back. It's not worth the ire of the IRC operators you may get from harassing the OP's.

