 You could use your sewing skills or dress the part instead. You might even be able to find a green bodysuit where you can add little details. Another way you could dress the part is by wearing the same color for the top and bottom., If you are sewing savvy, sew together a green jumpsuit. Add felt back scales cut into large triangular shapes down the back of the jumpsuit. The felt can be in green but using a contrasting yellow is far more effective.


If you're not sewing savvy, just dress in green. Add paper scales by tape or glue onto a green ribbon and pin it to the back of the collar to flow down the back of the body., For the tail you can essentially use anything you like. Tape together two to three cardboard rolls. Paint them green or wrap green crepe paper around the long roll and stick it to the roll at each end with tape. Attach the tail to the pant’s rear with several safety pins or use velcro. The latter option is safer just in case the crocodile sits on a pin accidentally. If you sewed a costume, glue a piece of ribbon onto the tail and sew the ribbon end onto the costume you have already made.


Get an old stocking and stuff with newspaper. Paint green or wrap with green crepe paper. Attach in the same way.
Sew a tail. Use old scraps of green colored fabric and sew a long tail shape. Make sure to leave it hollow, so that it can be stuffed with newspaper, scrap pieces of fabric or rolled up pantyhose. Finish sewing the end up and attach to the costume with stitches., Don't forget to add claws to the shoes. Make the claws from foam and paint them brown. You could also make claws from spare pieces of the cardboard used to make the crocodile mask. Cut the material into claw shapes. To attach the claws to the shoes:


Make a felt "wrap-over." Cut a piece of felt into the shape of your shoe, so it covers the top half of each of the shoes to be worn. Sew or staple two pieces of elastic on the underside of the felt; each piece must be long enough to go around the base of the shoe. Attach one piece of elastic at the ankle end of the foot and one piece of elastic near the toe end of the foot. Attach the claws with glue to the felt and slip the whole piece over the shoes.