 You'll never know what you need unless you look!


Take all of the clothes out of your closet and immediately throw away anything that has holes or rips.
Don't forget shoes! These should be sorted through too.;
, Even if you know or think it will fit, it's always better to be safe than sorry., Give away clothes that you haven't worn for a year, that are too small or that you can't stand anymore. This will give your wardrobe a nice, fresh start.


You can use your extra clothes you don't want to sell to places like Plato's Closet to get extra cash.
Be ruthless when getting rid of things, you don't need those pants with the rips in them!

,, Now that everything is sorted, make a list of what you want to buy. Try to make an overall general list and specifics because it'll make your shopping trip less stressful.



Undies: ten to twenty pairs is a good amount. Include boyshorts or briefs for everyday, a few pairs of seamless and one or two prettier pairs.
Bras: one or more sports bras if you do sports, two to four everyday bras in nude, white, black or pastel shades, one strapless bra and one or two push up bras.Try to stay away from darker colors as they can show through tops.
Camisoles. Camis are definitely a major fashion staple in any teen girl's wardrobe. They are great for layering and almost every clothing store has them. Choose neutral colors first - white, black, grey, neutral. Once you have finished your wardrobe, you can go back for colors.
Tank tops. Have a couple of tight or loose tank tops - sugar lips are a great brand.
Socks: Have around ten pairs of everyday ankles socks, a few pairs of trainer liners and a few pairs of knee high or over the knee socks. You may also want some fluffy or slipper socks.
 Own two to five sets of comfortable PJs. Think about the weather and time of year. In summer, some people prefer to wear just a baggy t-shirt or cami, or if you get cold in winter, sleep in a big sweater or hoodie with pyjama pants.
 Every girl should have a nice floral skirt for the summer months. High waisted and low rise shorts are great as well. A pair of dark wash skinny jeans and a pair of embellished jeans will make perfect additions to your wardrobe (have a few pairs). Don't forget leggings! Try to find fancy sweat pants and of course, regular baggy sweats too!


Sweatpants: two to three pairs will be perfect. Make sure they are good quality, have a good fit (not too baggy or tight), and match with at least two of your outfits.
Jeans: Try to buy mostly dark or medium washed jeans as these are the most versatile, but don't be afraid to buy a colored, patterned, faded,embellished or stonewashed pair if you love them.
 For example, have three pairs of jeans, one to two pairs of pants, three to four skirts and two pairs of lounging sweatpants.
 Basically any tops that suit your style will do. Stay away from baggy t-shirts. Flowing tops are nice as are sweaters. Get a variety of colours and styles and don't get into the habit of buying the same shirt in every single colour just because you like it that much.Ten to fifteen tops would be ideal. Aeropostale has a great selection.


Jackets and seasonal wear. This depends on where you live. If you live in the North or Midwest, get one or two ski jackets, one to three everyday coats, one light coat, and one vest. If you reside in the west or south, one heavy jacket, one light coat, and (optional) one vest will do fine.
 For example, have three to four tunics/smart tops, five to six graphic tees/everyday tops, three camis, three long sleeved tees, two lounging tees, 3 cardigans, and four hoodies (zip-ups too).
 Own two to six different dresses, one black dress and about five other dresses. A longer dress looks great on tall girls.Try to get them in different styles and colors that suit you well. Some should be for partying, some less casual, like church.
 For example, have one or two formal, three semi formal, and four to five casual. This includes sundresses.
 You could either hit it or miss it with shoes. Make sure your shoes are cute and match your personality, and do not overload your credit card. Here are some pairs to get you started:


Athletic Shoes: You should have at least one pair of athletic shoes. It also depends on how many sports you play, but you should have at least one pair running shoes. You may also need football or hockey boots if you play.
Sneakers: You will need at least one pair of non-athletic sneakers such as converse, vans or Nike blazers. These are great for the mall, park or a friends house.
Sandals: Have one or two pairs of cute, comfortable sandals, for the beach and for walking. Moccasins are also fabulous.
Boots: This also depends on where you live, but for anybody, have one pair hiking boots. Also, you should have a pair of long black boots, for warm or cold. Black are good, but no bright colors. Uggs are very popular.
Flats: It's good to have a couple of pairs of flats because they go with a lot of outfits. Bright colors or pretty patterns always complete the outfit, and make your whole look change. Have back up always, and maybe a pair of regular blacks or greys in handy.
Heels: Have one or maybe two pairs. One should definitely be in black, and maybe some others in stylish colors, but make sure they match with your dresses/formal clothes.
 Some basics are pearls and faux or real diamonds. Necklaces are pretty and come in a variety of different styles and colours. Try to avoid necklaces and bracelets that say "Best Friends" on them. They are nice when little kids wear them, but for teens, they are a little much. They also may make your other friends feel bad. Buy all accessories last because they are meant to accent the outfit.


Scarves: Scarves are good for the winter on in the fall, spring and even the summer. It is good to have bright colors, and cool patterns, rather then the browns and ugly colors. Go with the flow and have fun with them.
 For example, if you live in a hot country, you might want a pair of capris. Or maybe, you might like jeans/pants more than skirts, so you might want three pairs of jeans, three pairs of pants, and one skirt.
 Whenever you enter a store, head to the clearance rack first, even if you see other things that catch your eye. They have the best deals especially at the expensive stores.
 In order to save money, you have to hit the sales just right, especially if you wish to buy things from an expensive store. The easiest way to do this is to subscribe to numerous catalogues and ads. It also keeps you up on the latest trends and styles.
 That includes thrift stores! Some discount stores carry name brands that were unwanted by the store. Everything is brand new and never worn. They also have cute clothes themselves. The best part? They even say how much money you save right on the price tag!

, Even if it's a bargain, it's of no use to you unless you will actually wear it. Stuffing clothes at the back of the wardrobe is a recipe for clutter and wasting money.

