 Go through referrals and see what prices are being quoted. Look through their real portfolio first before deciding on your cake (not the 3-ring binder of flawless images). A supermarket could offer a wide range of cakes at a lesser cost than your bakery. However, you should note whether their cakes are made on the spot or produced elsewhere and shipped in. Many supermarkets get their cakes in frozen, baked in a central commissary. Freezing cake doesn't necessarily damage it, but thawing and refreezing cake and holding them an extra long time, does damage them. In addition you will have to provide your own delivery to the reception. Make sure someone has an SUV that is clean. Do not allow someone to hold the cake or place it in a seat, both are a disaster waiting to happen.;
, Avoid over-decorating the cake. It is not necessary to have a five-tiered cake. Your baker will help you determine what size cake you need for your guest count.
 There are disposable pillars available with your local baker or rental companies which are a better alternative than those crystal pillars if you want to cut down on the cost of the pillars. Let the baker or your local rental company help you with the disposable pillars instead of the crystal ones.
 Students have baking and decorating cakes as part of their curriculum. This may be a way to save a substantial amount of money, but you should be aware that your cake is being made by students and may not have the same quality as one made by a more experienced pastry chef.
 Often relatives and well-wishers ask what you need as a gift. Ask them for a wedding cake topper.
 If you want flowers on your cake but the cost of the sugar flowers isn't fitting in your budget, let your florist put real flowers on the cake. Just make sure that they are non-toxic. Check the price of the organic edible flowers. Silk flowers may be a better cost-saving solution.
 Even though it can be tempting to supplement with sheet cakes from the grocery store, consider kitchen cakes for your extra servings. A kitchen cake is an undecorated cake that looks exactly like your wedding cake when cut and is cheaper than a decorated cake of the same size. This way you can save a little and all your guests will get the same beautiful slice of cake and some will not feel like they got shafted with a grocery store sheet cake. Not only that, but many bakers won't provide a cake if you will be serving other cakes for insurance purposes and to protect their reputation.
 This will be priced comparably to a tiered cake, and you can avoid the cutting fee since there is no cutting and plating involved for the venue's staff. Note that some reception sites call it a "cake service" fee because it covers plates, silverware, and the server/dishwasher for the extra time involved thus may apply to cupcakes or table cakes as well.
 Find out things like: do they charge a delivery fee, what is the rental on cake stands, do they charge a setup fee, do they charge extra for fillings or which fillings are included in the price, if you find out your guest list is smaller than when you booked can you change the size of the cake (thus reducing the cost of the cake in many cases), what is the payment structure and is there a discount for paying cash up front, is the cake price locked in for X amount of servings or will the price go up if there is a price increase for the baker (minimum wage hike, ingredient cost hike, etc.), etc.
 A baker that uses a fruitcake slice is a different portion size than a baker using a party slice than is a baker using a wedding slice. The same counts for cupcakes as there are mini, regular, muffin, and Texas sizes available. When figured inch per inch regular cupcakes can actually be more expensive than having a tiered cake since the portion is different. A baker charging $5/slice with a fruitcake slice vs. a baker charging $5/slice for a party slice is a significantly different value for the money.
 Just as you have a specialty in the job you perform daily so does each individual baker. Keep it easy on them it'll keep it easy on your pocketbook.
 A little open communication goes a long way. Thursday through Sunday are your baker's busiest days of the week giving other brides the same attention you want given to your cake, don't expect immediate replies to your email or calls during those days. Stay easy to work with and your baker will be more likely to do the little extra on the value side of your cake than you otherwise may have gotten. If you have to send a check, make sure it's sent before your deadline and use a service like priority mail with delivery confirmation so you can send your baker the tracking number and help avoid any problems involving "the check is in the mail" potentially losing your deposit if it doesn't arrive in time.
 Refer to the above: A little open communication goes a long way!

, This can also help you avoid extra fees such as "late fees" if the cake is booked last minute (2 months or less from the event).

