 Awkward and sad run-ins after a breakup make moving on difficult. Fortunately, when people live far away from each other, that likely won’t happen. They also may have fewer memories of spending time together at certain places, so they don’t need to worry as much about avoiding specific restaurants or other date locations., Living in different time zones can make communication difficult. People in long-distance relationships often have to plan their days around their significant other’s schedules, which can make living their own lives difficult. Pointing this out can help your friend see they are no longer tied down by their ex-partner’s schedule.


You could say, “Now you don’t have to worry about getting up extra early or staying up late so that you can talk. You don’t have to miss out on hanging out with your friends so that you don’t miss a call from your ex.” Pointing out this new-found freedom may help your friend to move on., Talk about how your friend doesn’t have to deal with the ex’s insecurities. When you’re not in close proximity during a relationship, insecurities you never knew you had can pop up all over the place. Unfortunately, this is also true for the other partner. If the ex was constantly projecting their insecurities on your friend, the break up can actually come as a relief. For example, you could say, “Now you can do what you want, and see who you want without any worry.”
Avoid bringing up negative things about your friend's ex or dwelling on their insecurities or bad behavior in the relationship will not help your friend move on. You want to help your friend focus on the future, not on the past.
 Perhaps the hardest thing about long-distance relationships is that you aren’t able to see your partner much. This makes for a particular kind of loneliness that can be worse than what you feel when you’re alone and single.


Make sure your friend is aware of this by saying, “If you started dating here, think of all the fun activities you two would be able to do together all the time. You could see each other as often as you like.” This may give them the nudge they need to start moving on.Again, it's not necessary to point out how your friend was always miserable and lonely in the long-distance relationship. Instead, talk about all the new possibilities that are now available to your friend.

