 Schedule it. Block the time. Put it on the family calendar. This proves you are organized and planning ahead. Tell your parents you will do this work yourself, but want them for 20 minutes at the end to "go over" your work and give their input. It reassures them you won't just throw everything out to get more stuff.


Tell them you plan on trying things on and you might need "second opinions" about anything being too short/tight, especially if you're still growing - this shows that you've been aware of the work they've always done in managing your clothes and getting you new ones as you needed them, and shows you're sensible and conscious about your clothes fitting appropriately. (By the way, you'll be doing wardrobe weed-outs for the rest of your life: it's a good habit every 2 years once you're adult sized to avoid being a pack rat);
,
things that have rips, stains, or broken zippers or fastenings and should be discarded.
TO STAY: things that fit, and can still be used in the coming season (example: layering a summer t-shirt under a sweater or over a long-sleeved shirt gets more months out of it in cold weather) 
To PUT AWAY:  things that were loose or over-sized this year and can be put away for next year at the same time (winter coats or bathing suits are examples of seasonal things that might still be good next year). Even though you are sorting your clothes into piles, keep them folded and nicely organized. The stuff you donate or give away is going to be somebody else's and should be treated with respect and care. Doing the weed-out in an organized manner are actions that prove your maturity and consideration for others.
If your parents ever tell you "actions speak louder than words," this is a huge way to show it.
 Make sure the "TO STAY" clothes all get put away as neatly as if you were seeing them in a store: hung on hangers, folded in drawers. Seeing you take excellent care of your existing things tells parents you will take excellent care of new things. (Also, and this is kind of a sneaky secret: hanging everything back up according to type (shirts, then skirts, then long pants then dresses) and putting everything away neatly will leave a lot of visible empty space - your parents will see that you need new stuff!) Clean up the whole room after the job is done. It's a lot of work, but it shows how adult you are to take on a job like this.
 This is a great break to do immediately after the weed out: sit on your bed and list the things that you need to replace while they're still fresh in your mind: "2 pairs jeans, 1 pair of boots, one pair of converse chucks, one pair dress shoes, 3 tops, a belt, 5 pairs of underwear.."


Try typing this list up on your computer, because then you won't lose it and you can go online to the websites of your favorite stores and window shop. You can check out prices and sales. You can save the links in the document so you know which stores you saw what things in, and you can show your parents what you like before you go shopping. You can compare value (a pair of black skinny jeans for $25 is not as good as two for $35!) Besides that, there are things you NEED (shoes, jeans, coat) and things you'll want (accessories, bling!), so you need the "must haves" before the "fun stuff" - having that list, "doing the homework" adding up the total for the Must Haves shows your parents you are making decisions based in realism and practicality. You really ARE thinking and acting like an adult - and not just any adult, but someone with good judgement and shopping savvy.
You are not just skipping off to the mall in a buying frenzy of materialism and consumerism and impulse purchases, you are making a planned trip, and conscious, well-thought out choices. (Besides, this way, you can get the BEST new stuff. You won't buy a so-so outfit and then see something fabulous only after you've run out of money. It's another sneaky way to really make this situation really work for you.)

