 It is an essential part of any race. Depending on the terrain, you'll want to get specific running shoes for that environment. If you will be running on cement or gravel most of the race, then take the spikes out of your racing flats and if your serious about running invest in a pair of road racers. If most of the course is sand, dirt, grass, etc. then you use racing flats with screw-in spikes on the bottom. These help you grip the loose dirt or sand much easier, especially if the course has hills. If you have run on the course before, a watch with a stop timer on it can also be very helpful for knowing when you should start running faster. If it's your first time on a course then this isn't as essential, unless you have a specific time you want to beat.;
, Drink lots of water the day before to stay hydrated. "Do not" eat fast food the night before. It can weigh you down and make you feel very sluggish and slow, which can carry over to the following morning. Pasta is the best thing to eat before running. It has sugars that are not only healthy, but gives you energy that will last through the race. If any part of your legs hurt, apply an ice pack and rest. Also stretch the night and morning of the competition. It will help any tightness you feel in your legs and helps prevent injuries.
 Eat a bagel or a egg and no dairy products with water. It won't slow you down and gives you a bit more energy.
 During the race you may feel terrible and very tired. Keep going. You feel a lot more tired then you really are. If you feel yourself slowing down scream in your head "Don't Slow Down!" and pick up the pace.
 If you want to win you obviously need to pass other runners. If you see someone ahead of you, make an effort to catch them. If your approaching a turn, make sure to hug the inside of it. If this doesn't get you ahead, it will definitely get you closer to the person you are trying to catch. Your competitors will be thinking the same things as you are; trying to pass you; but don't let them. Don't slow down, or fail to try to keep up because you feel tired. Keep pace with them. Stay at the same speed (preferably a little faster) than them and somewhere along the race try to pass them.
 Hills can be a huge challenge. If the course contains hills do not walk up them! It can add 2-5 min on your time depending on the size of the hill. Take small steps and pump your arms. Your legs will feel like they're on fire, but ignore it and don't stop. Many of the runners will choose to walk up the hill, so it's a good place to gain ground if you are falling behind.
 If it's a course you are familiar with sprint for 15-20 seconds whenever you get to landmark (or at least something that looks important). It will not only help you get farther in the race, but it will give you a confidence boost. If you still have enough energy to sprint you have enough energy to finish the race.
 You're at the end of the race and the finish line is in sight. It's obviously not the time to slow down, so use the rest of your energy to sprint the rest of the way to the end. Don't stop immediately after you cross the finish line. While it may be hard, keep running past the finish line for a few seconds. If you stop right at the finish line, the people behind you might run into you and that wouldn't be good for anyone. Also it can injure your legs if you don't take it slow stopping.

