 If it says Copyright to the left of the shiny square then the card is fake.;
, If that is blurred then the card is fake.
 On the back next to the Konami sign there should be a small ®, if this is blurred then the card is fake.
,, If this feature is on a card, it will always be a fake. (EDIT: This is not actually always the case. There are card rarities known as Parallel Rare. They feature this coating over the entire card. The sparkles can be rubbed off with excess handling, but the film will remain. Many fakes do in fact employ this effect to make a card appear rare, however, the only real cards that have this feature are certain video game promo cards, so if you encounter something that is supposed to be out of a pack, or is any other way represented as not one of those promos, then it will be fake. Use all of these steps together when evaluating a card, as this step alone is not guaranteed to weed out all fakes, and may weed out some real cards.)

, logo at the bottom-right.


If it doesn't have this it means they are fake.
 If it is not solid or is slightly faded, they are most likely fake. Also, the backs shouldn't be different colors unless they are god cards; Obelisk is blue, Ra is yellow, and Slifer is red.
 If the card has a different name than the original cards then it is most likely a fake card

, in it. Silver squares represent unlimited edition, and gold represents 1st edition//limited edition. Below the lower left-hand corner of the card image and the upper left-hand corner of the card lore area, if it says 1st edition or limited edition, then it should have a gold hologram in the lower right-hand corner of the card. If there is no writing in that area, then it will have the silver hologram. Note: Look closely at this hologram, as it should have Yu-Gi-Oh! in it as well as an eye of Anubis sign. If it is just a reflective piece of silver or gold, then it is fake. Be sure to look at it from different angles, as sometimes those little images aren't visible from one or more angles, depending on the lighting. If the box is not there or is not exactly in the corner it is fake. Note: It is possible that, as a production defect, the printing press was misaligned and the hologram could be askew, or even partially off the edge of the card. Also, the hologram may be the wrong color (silver instead of gold, or vice versa). However, this is very rare, so follow this step closely in conjunction with the others. If the card is real but has one of these defects, it is not a misprint but a manufacturing defect, and adds no value to the card, other than to an avid collector, so do not let someone talk you into an uneven trade based on a claim that it is worth a lot.
 If it doesn't look exactly the same it is fake. If it's shiny look at the shiny parts, see if the shiny part is circles everywhere then it's a fake. (EDIT: The card rarity Prismatic Secret Rare does in fact have the dots in the holofoil for the writing. However, this is also coupled with a special perpendicular holofoil effect. Normally, the lines in the image of a secret rare are diagonal and parallel, and the card name is printed in silver writing. However, in Prismatic secret rare, the lines in the image are straight up and down and left to right, making an effect that looks like boxes, or plaid. However, this effect is only present on certain video game promo cards. The newer video games have normal super rare cards, rather than this prismatic secret rare, so any card with that effect is going to be old. You may want to look on yugioh.wikia for a list of some of the video game promo cards that have been released in this rarity, because this is also a technique scammers use to make fake cards look real.)

, In newer packs there is a rarity known as ghost rare. You should google an image of such a card, to see what they look like. Their pictures are almost completely without color, or have only two colors and are very washed out. These are very rare and very valuable, but that also makes them a target for scammers trying to trade fakes. Generally if a card has an odd image, it is fake. Sometimes the words will not be grammatically correct, this is a dead give away.
 If it doesn't have this it is most likely a fake. Remember though some cards may not have this so check with guides online.
 If there is any strange wording or misspelled words, or the font is different from a normal card, it is a fake.
 If it is not there it is most likely fake.
 There are a lot of fakes of Exodia on the market because newbie players don't know any better, and are likely to buy or trade for them, thinking they are getting a good card. "Exodia the Forbidden One" features only the head of Exodia, and part of his shoulders, and has 1000 Atk/Def. Then, each of his limbs is a separate card, making a total of five cards to a set. Any "Exodia the forbidden one" or just "exodia" that has a picture of the entire assembled Exodia is fake. If it is coming out of the frame of the image area, it is fake. Often, these will have Atk/Def listed as infinity, or other insanely large numbers. There are cards, like exodius the ultimate forbidden lord and exodia necros that look similar to exodia, but they are very different. Educate yourself on Exodia and its similar partner cards, so that you don't fall victim to this common trick.
