 Also remember the following when planning curriculum:


Large group time. There should be time for the whole class or group to have time to talk, interact, sing, and do activities with each other. Put time for this (15-45 minutes) in the curriculum each day.
Small group time. There should be time each day (15-45 minutes) of time spent with small groups: 4-5 children doing art projects together, playing games, going through centers, talking, playing, and singing. Provide time for this each day as well.
Independent time. There should be time for the teacher to work with each child independently for 5 minutes each day.
Quiet activities. Naptime, story time, circle time, and writing or coloring are all examples of quiet time that should be in your curriculum or schedule each day. Provide 40-60 minutes of this each day.
Active activities. These are very important for health, fitness, learning, and preventing behavior problems. Provide time for recess, active games, and action songs each day for at least 90 minutes.
Transitions. The time children come in in the morning, dismissal, lunch preparation, nap preparation, snack preparation, moving to different activities, and extra time all should be considered. How are you going to teach children during these times?
Everything should move from simple to complex. That means that they may make sets and learn about two numbers before addition. Make sure that your whole curriculum does this.
The curriculum should support the whole child. How will the child grow physically, emotionally, socially, and intellectually? Make sure that the arts don't go over academics, and that there is enough room in the curriculum for the child to be fully supported.
Free play is a vital part of preschool. Through free play, children learn how to share, take turns, and cooperate. Language is fostered and self-esteem is fostered. Free play prevents behavior problems, can teach children academic skills, and teaches responsibility and caring for toys. Therefore, at least one hour out of every four hours that children are there should be free play.;
