 A social media position will require you to have knowledge about all the working functions and features of one or more social media platforms.


Use social media platforms on a regular basis to engage with friends and family or to promote your favorite business or hobby. Examples of social media platforms are Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn.
Explore the menus and features of each social media platform to become knowledgeable in each. For example, if you are using Facebook, review every option under the privacy settings menu to learn about the application's privacy limitations.;
, Writing blog posts, updating your Facebook status, and posting updates to Twitter on a regular basis will help establish your online presence and demonstrate to employers that you know how to gain a following.


Update and post new content to your social media profiles several times per day or on a daily basis.
 Employers will most likely review your content and measure your skills in regards to creating content that is original and relevant to the business or hobby you are promoting.
 Your knowledge of the social media industry will demonstrate to employers that you are genuinely interested in and passionate about the social media field.


Subscribe to the blogs and news updates from your favorite social media platforms. You will then have the ability to stay abreast of new features, new competition, and new applications being used in social media.
 This will help develop your marketing skills in regards to using social media for promotion.


Consult or network with other individuals in your social media niche to see if they can feature your content on their profiles or blogs. For example, if your hobby involves reviewing books, network with individuals who have book review blogs to see if they can feature a book review you wrote on their blog.
 This will help expose and promote your social media skills and content to potential employers.


Search for contacts on professional social media platforms such as LinkedIn, or search for individuals on Twitter by entering keywords such as "social media" into the search field.
Reply to articles, comments, or posts written by professionals in social media to establish a rapport and relationship.
 Employers will post available social media jobs on their company websites or to job websites such as Monster, Indeed, or SimplyHired.


Browse social media jobs on the website of the company you want to work for, or go to any major job website and search for jobs using keywords such as "social media."
Provide explicit details in your resume or application about the social media experience you have gained, as well as the ways you can use your experience to help support and promote the employer you want to work for.

