 OS X (10.2 and on) automatically decreases the potential for file fragmentation by writing the new data to the largest block of free space on the hard drive. However files can still become fragmented depending on how many times they are opened and if there is not a large enough amount of space to fit the complete file. These are some additional conditions in which Mac OS X will automatically defragment files and reasons that your computer could benefit from defragmentation:


Files that are less than 20 MB in size.
Files that have more than eight fragments.
Files that are not in use.
If you've downloaded many large files (such as video files) over time, your Mac may benefit from defragmentation.
If your hard disk is over about 90% full, defragmentation may help as well.
If your computer meets neither of these criteria, it's a safe bet that disk defragmentation won't speed it up, though it doesn't ever hurt your computer to defragment it.
Computers running System 9 and older may or may not benefit from defragmentation, but it is very difficult to find programs for them these days.;
, If you're defragmenting your hard disk because it's nearly filled to capacity, this is a good time to clear up some of the clutter. Consider investing in an inexpensive external hard drive for media files, or store some excess files on a cloud storage service such as Apple's iCloud or Microsoft's SkyDrive.


SkyDrive, iCloud, and similar services typically offer anywhere between 2 and 7 gigabytes of free storage. To get more, you'll have to pay a yearly fee, which varies but always works out to less than $10 per month.
Hard drives will work with any computer they can plug into. The computer will automatically offer to format the drive so that it can be read the first time you hook it up. There's no need to spend extra money buying a special hard drive “for Macintosh computers.”

, Since most OS X Macs, most of the time, don't need defragmenting, no defragmentation tool is included in the computer's Disk Utility program. To “manually” defragment your disk, you'll need third-party software. A commonly used utility to defragment and optimize your hard disk is Coriolis Systems' iDefrag, which costs about $30. Another software option is Prosoft's Drive Genius 3, Genius 3 addresses both free space and data fragmentation on a hard drive. Is also offers a graphical window that gives you a color coded preview of how fragmented your hard drive is, as well as several other features to maintain the health of your hard drive.


There are other options available. Be sure to thoroughly check reviews and user ratings before paying for any of them, and be sure to download them from a clean site.
Unfortunately, Macintosh computers running System 9 and earlier are now considered so outdated that software for them isn't widely available anymore, even online. To find a defragmentation utility (such as Norton Utilities or Alsoft PlusOptimizer), you'll probably have to get in touch with other longtime Mac users about purchasing or trading for a used copy.
 If you bought your program online, it should download as a file you can double-click to open. Follow the instructions on the screen until the program is successfully installed, and then launch it. In most cases, the available options from this point are self-evident. Choose to defragment your hard disk and allow the program to run until finished.


Generally speaking, you shouldn't move the computer while your hard disk is being de-fragmented. Choose a time to defragment when you won't have to lift, drag, or otherwise move the computer for a while.
