 With a decreasing number of stores and restaurants accepting checks, a debit card provides you the convenience of not carrying cash and enables you to spend only money you actually have in the bank. Use caution when paying with a debit card, though, because these little plastic cards can, like a credit card, make it easier to spend more money than if you were actually counting out the cash or writing a check.;
, People tend to make more frequent and higher-priced impulse purchases when paying by credit card than if they are paying with cash or with a debit card. If paying with cash in your wallet or bank account, you have a greater tendency to stop and think, "Do I really need this, or do I just want it? Is it worth what I'm going to have to skip in order to get it?"

, In a report released by MIT's Sloan School of Management, consumers tend to spend much more for an item when they are paying with a credit card than paying cash for the same item.
 Divide the money between envelopes you have marked for dining out, groceries, gas, tolls, extraneous items and entertainment. Using this method, you're giving careful thought to each dollar you spend while also setting spending limits each week.
 These payment services are generally free or carry very small transaction fees, which in the long run are much less expensive than the fees charged for credit card usage. And, the accounts are conveniently linked directly to your bank account. No credit needed!

, This requires a little planning, but more retail stores are bringing back the old layaway plans that allow their customers to "pay out" an item without having to use a credit card. Yes, you don't get to take the item home until it's paid for, but for "nice to have" items or gifts, you're able to pay for them as you have money and with little or no user fees involved.
 Set money aside every month or out of every paycheck to an account you've established for that purpose so when holidays come around or you want to take a trip, you have money set aside to buy what you need rather than relying on a credit card.

