 Gathering as much food or resources will benefit you and anyone else with you greatly. Make a hoard of non-perishable items (canned foods) before the fall of law and order.;
, We are all reliant on the supermarkets for food these days, but as the population increases, demand will rise and farmers will struggle to meet it, causing costs to increase - supply and demand, just like anything else. For example, hyperinflation in Zimbabwe meant that even a loaf of bread rapidly grew too pricey for the average Joe to afford. Learn to grow your own food; even if it starts with growing vegetables in your back garden and having a greenhouse. You won't need to pay through the nose when you can just grow your own inexhaustible supply of food. Though you'll need to grow more than you'd think.
 Related to the above. Rabbits will be a nearly inexhaustible meat supply. They reproduce rapidly and in large numbers (hence the term "going at it like rabbits." They are cheap to keep, also. Chickens are a good one as well, though more for their eggs than for their meat.
 When food in the supermarket becomes either scarce or too expensive, this will apply doubly to meat. If you can learn to hunt or trap game, you will have an advantage over everyone else who will be spending their life savings on chicken breasts at the store.
 If you can, move out to the country. The more rural you are, the fewer people there will be, which means less competition for food. It also makes it more likely for you to have the space to start growing your own food - if you live in an apartment in the city or a semi-detached house in the suburbs, you're not going to have the space available to grow enough to live on. Move somewhere rural with a lot of lands, and start farming.
 Although our ancestors survived without power we have a difficult time doing that. Using solar panels and windmills you can have your own power source for things such as refrigeration and cooking.


Electricity is a luxury really. Though if you must have it, set up solar panels, wind turbines, or even have a generator connected to an exercise bike (giving you power while also staying in shape!)

, People who did not take precautions will need food and shelter. Purchase small handguns and large long guns and hide them through your house.


Know how to use the weapons and how to assert yourself without actually having to fire them. It is one thing to own a weapon; it is quite another to know how to use it, how to read people accurately and how to avoid conflict as much as possible, etc.
 Have bags ready so you can quickly pack essential equipment. Leave things that don't fit in a bag or backpack such as ovens and beds.

