 Being more in touch with your senses is an important way to live in the moment. Your senses help you stay grounded and connected to physical reality. What you see, hear, taste, smell, and touch is the moment. Becoming more aware of your senses and taking measures to sharpen them will help you appreciate the present.


To sharpen your sense of smell, sniff your favorite essential oils every day. You'll awaken receptors and be able to pick up on subtler smells after awhile.
To heighten your hearing, listen to music with distinct sounds, like jazz music with several solos. Concentrate on learning the sounds of different instruments, and name them out loud when you hear them.
To start seeing more clearly, pay more attention to details you wouldn't normally notice, like the color of people's eyes.
To tempt your tastebuds, use spices and herbs you don't normally use. Try cuisines that are new to you.
To enhance your sense of touch, learn more about textures. Notice the differences between cotton and polyester, or satin and silk.
 When you're in a beautiful place, or experiencing a wonderful event, do you find yourself imagining it as a memory while it's still happening? How many wonderful moments have been spoiled by the knowledge that they'll soon come to an end? Use your senses to help you practice enjoying moments for what they are right now.Think of savoring moments in terms of gratitude. Let's say you're on a sailboat sharing a six pack of good beer with two of your best friends, and the sun is starting to go down. Be grateful for the water, the sun, your friends, the beer, and everything else about the moment. Being upset that it'll soon be time to return to shore is a way of rejecting the moment while it's happening.
Practice savoring food. Eat your favorite foods slowly, savoring every bite. Once you decide to eat a certain food, free yourself from guilt and anxiety and just enjoy the taste on your tongue.
 Almost every type of physical activity can lead to feelings of being in the moment. Running, swimming, biking, yoga, walking, team sports, and other forms of physical activity tend to require full attention and concentration. Your mind and your body act as one to propel you over land and through water. It might hurt or it might feel good, but either way you remain aware of the present moment the whole time you're moving.



Dancing is a wonderful way to practice being in the moment. Moving your body to a rhythm requires you to be one with the music. You have to block out your inner critic and shed worries about what other people think.
Having sex is another good way to be in the moment. Focus on your lover's body, the smell, the sounds, the way he or she feels. Dismiss your worries and just be present.
Getting a massage can help you become more aware of your body. After a massage, you might reenter the world with a renewed sense of awareness that you are physically connected to all that's around you.
 Whether your preferred medium is painting, sculpture, making music, writing, knitting, or photography, making art is a wonderful way to connect your thoughts to the present, becoming more mindful. Let yourself get lost in the strokes of your brush or the characters you're creating. Making art requires such intense focus that it's unlikely your worries and troubles will intrude on the moment.
 When all else fails, taking several deep breaths can help you return to the present moment. During those times when your thoughts are jumping from problem to problem and you can't seem to focus on the present, stop and breathe. Take five deep breaths, inhaling deeply through your nose and exhaling through your mouth. Focus on your breath as it enters and leaves your body.

