 Speak clearly and loudly enough to be heard, but don't shout.Don't wave your hands or otherwise make unnecessary gestures when you are speaking to the judge.Always speak politely and respectfully to the judge and all other court officials.Do not use any phrases that criticize the judge or anyone in the courtroom. Avoid using any words that can be interpreted as threatening toward anyone in the room. Do not use obscene language or slang.When answering questions, respond to “yes” or “no” questions with appropriate honorifics. In most cases it is important to say "Yes, your honor" or "No, your honor." Using "your honor" is the easiest way to show respect and avoid offending your judge.Do not simply nod your head to answer a question.
Maintain your composure. If you start to lose your temper or get angry, ask the judge for a brief recess. Taking a few minutes to gather your emotions outside of the court's presence is better than yelling or getting angry in front of the judge.
Remember, a judge can hold you in contempt of court, meaning they can give you a fine or even put you in jail for speaking disrespectfully.However, even if they do not, disrespectful behavior can tarnish your testimony and case. In extreme cases, a judge might even dismiss your claim.;
, When it is your turn to speak to the judge, rise from your seat. After you are finished talking, sit back down.This protocol shows that you are being respectful and also lets the judge know when you are done speaking.
 Maintain eye contact at all times while the judge is speaking to you. This lets the judge know that you are paying attention to what he or she is saying.Also look directly at the judge when you are addressing him or her., When you get a chance to speak to the judge, use a form of address that conveys your respect for the judge. Judges should addressed using specific titles that convey the importance of their role.


If you did not get the opportunity to speak to the courtroom staff to get the judge’s preferred name, address the judge as “Your Honor.”, Do not interrupt or "speak over" anyone in the court, including the judge, other court officials, and other attorneys.If you continuously interrupt the judge, he or she can excuse you from the courtroom.


Wait until you are invited by the judge or a court official to speak. Always stand when speaking.
When you address the court, begin by saying, “May it please the court, my name is ___” and then state your business., The judge is a representative of the court. Courts act on their own authority, so do not word your questions or statements as though you are making a demand or giving an order.For example, do not say things like "The court's attention is directed to" or "The court should note." This sounds like you are giving directions for the judge and court to follow, which is not your place.
Instead, use phrases such as "May it please the court" or "The court's attention is invited to." This shows that you are asking to be heard, not making a demand.
 If you do not understand a question that the judge or other court official has asked you, politely explain that you did not understand. Do not answer a question until you understand what you are being asked.Make sure to keep any requests for clarification “I”-focused. For example, do not tell the judge that s/he did not explain something well enough. Instead, say something like, “I’m sorry, I do not understand that question. Could you explain , please?” Always be respectful and polite when asking for clarification.
 When you are done speaking, briefly thank the judge for his or her consideration of your remarks.