 Scooter Braun is Bieber's talent manager and founder of the record label he's signed to. If you want to contact this record label, you can do so online using the online form: http://scooterbraun.com/about.


Include your name and email on the form.
Keep your comments to 150 words or less. Also, don't bombard him with comments! Remember he has a busy life, too.
You will need to specify a topic of discussion on the form. The options are:

Potential corporate partnerships
Potential technology or consumer product ventures
Potential new clients for SB Projects (artists, producers, writers)
Potential involvement of SB Projects with charities/non-profits
Potential job opportunities with the company
Other


This option is better to use if you are trying to contact the record label concerning Justin Bieber for professional reasons. Fan letters may not be delivered to Justin Bieber if submitted via this method.;
, You can also contact the record label that Justin Bieber is signed to by mail at the following address:


Scooter Braun, c/o Island Def Jam Group, Worldwide Plaza 825 8th Avenue, 28th Floor, New York, NY 10019
Justin Bieber is signed under both the Raymond Braun Media Group (RBMG) and School Boy Records labels. These record labels are both divisions of Scooter Braun, which is smaller label under the Island Def Jam Group.
As with the digital form, this option is better to use if you are trying to contact the record label concerning Justin Bieber for professional reasons. Fan letters may or may not be delivered to Justin Bieber if submitted to the record company, but if you plan to go through the record label, writing by mail is a better bet than writing via the Internet.
 If you have a general question or an inquiry related to membership with the Justin Bieber fan club, you can email them at: memberships@bieberfever.com.


You can email the admin about include questions on membership packages and membership benefits, as well as problems you might have while logging into your account, while renewing your membership, or with recurring billing.
Also contact this email address if it has been eight weeks or longer since you joined the fan club and you have not yet received your membership packet. When contacting them, include your full name, the date you joined, and your shipping address. Also explain the problem to them within the body of the email.
You will not be able to contact Justin Bieber through this email address, but you can find out more about how to keep track of all the latest news and opportunities through the fan club.
 Learn more about Artist Arena at the company's website: http://www.artistarena.com/.
You will not be able to contact Justin Bieber through the fan club address, but you can find out more about how to keep track of all the latest news and opportunities through the fan club.
 To become a member of the official Justin Bieber fan club, you must do so through the app Fahlo. It is available for both iPhones and Android devices. It's an app that lets you get exclusive access and information to things related to a list of artists who've collaborated with the app. Justin Bieber's official fan club has recently moved off their own website and onto Fahlo.