 During extreme winter weather, take caution and stay at home. This keeps you off potentially dangerous roads and out of extreme weather.Move work or social plans until after the bad weather has passed.


Roads that are not well-traveled or in busy areas are more prone to ice. They may not have been treated as well as roads in more populated, busy areas.
Roads may be narrower and lanes decreased because of snow piles, fallen snow, or standing water.
In blizzards, squalls, or heavy snow, visibility can be extremely limited. Fog, rain, or spray from vehicles can also lower visibility. This makes driving and walking extremely dangerous.
Extreme wind chills can cause frostbite and hypothermia if you are exposed to them for long periods of time.
 When there are wintery conditions, make sure to drive slowly. This not only protects you, but others on the road. Slippery roads and low visibility makes fast driving reckless and potentially life-threatening. Concentrate on driving and remove any distractions, such as talking on your cell phone.Use your headlights. Make sure to use low-beams in dense fog or snow.
Don’t use cruise control during slippery conditions.
Start slowing down early for red lights and stop signs. Remember that stopping on the bottom of hills may be difficult and dangerous.
Bridges ice before roads, so take caution when driving over bridges.
If you can’t see due to sudden fog, dense snow, or heavy rain, pull off the road and wait for it to pass., Always give yourself extra time to get anywhere you need to get in wintery conditions. Leave 15 minutes to an hour earlier than you usually would.Check local traffic conditions as you decide how far in advance you should leave. You should leave early regardless of traffic, but you can factor traffic delays into your start time.
Never try to rush anywhere during wintery weather. If you are running behind, take it slow and just accept that you will be late.
 If you have to stop suddenly, slippery roads or low traction may make it difficult. Some vehicles take longer to stop than others. Because of this, you should refrain from tailgating or driving too close to others.Make sure there is space between you and the car in front of you in case you have to suddenly stop or lose control of your car.
Keep distance between your car and plows or salt trucks. Those vehicles have very low visibility, so the driver may not see you. Conditions ahead of a plow or salt truck may be worse than behind it if they haven't treated the roads yet.
4x4 vehicles don't stop faster than other cars. They may get going faster, but you still should take caution when braking and stay farther behind other cars.
 To help protect passengers on roadways, some states may institute a traction and chain law. This means that vehicles must have snow tires, chains, or a traction device, or be four-wheel or all-wheel drive. These are last measures taken before transportation departments close roads and highways.Failing to adhere to these laws result in fines.
You can find out if these laws have been instituted in your area through local news sources, your state’s Department of Transportation, or by signs on the highway.
 Try adding some extra weight to the back of your car to help driving on snowy and icy roads. This is helpful if you don't have a 4-wheel drive car, and especially helpful if you have a rear-wheel drive car.Try putting blocks, bags of sand, or 2-liter bottles filled with sand or rocks.

