 You don't have to dress "preppy" but you should make sure your pants, shirts and shoes are of good quality and in good repair. Gentlemen don't wear things that are scuffed, stained, ripped, ill-fitting, or otherwise in bad shape. Wear only clothes in which you feel confident. But don't try to be something you're not, women can always tell when you're faking it.;
, Make conversation, but let her do at least half the talking. Look her in the eyes. Don't stare at other parts of her body, and don't lean in too close unless you're about to kiss her.
 (Shake hands with your friends until you get this right.) You should reach out, grasp the other person's hand firmly but without crushing their fingers, give two up/down shakes, and then release. Shake hands immediately upon being introduced to someone new, and say "How do you do?" which is a greeting and not a question. Never ever say "Pleased to meet you." It is very middle/working class manners to say that. This also applies to girls, but do not squeeze their hand. Hold her fingers and gently shake up and down. If someone does not hold out their hand to shake, simply nod your head and proceed as if nothing has happened. Make sure that when you're shaking someone's hand that you look them in the eye. Eye contact shows respect and confidence. 

, A foul mouth is not gentlemanly at all. Try to speak clearly, with your head up, and use correct grammar. Don't use big words if you don't know what they mean. If you don't know much about the subject of conversation, you can keep silent, ask what someone else thinks, or make neutral remarks.
 If someone else brings such a subject up, listen politely but don't say anything. (Of course, there are exceptions depending on how well you know someone, and what they would or wouldn't find offensive and disturbing.)

, Gentlemen can appear at ease without slouching, you know!

, and yourself neat and clean. Don't leave trash lying around or dirty dishes in the sink. Shower daily, wear deodorant (but not too much, cologne or deodorant you can smell from a mile away is off putting) and brush/floss your teeth.
 Don't touch a person until you have gotten to know them well first.
 You can let the girl talk you into splitting the bill in half if you want, but don't let her pay for the entire thing.
 Offer to help wash the dishes.
, If you're with people you know well, you can have up to two, but don't have more than that. A simple drink of a high-quality liquor is usually better than a mixed drink with cheap ingredients.
,, Women can always tell if you are secretly a sleazy slime ball hiding behind the appearance of a gentlemen. If all else fails, simply remember this - being gentlemanly is about being courteous and respectful.

