 Sign in, if prompted.


Click My Library.
Click Upload Photos & Video in the upper-left corner of the window. Navigate to and select the files you want to upload. Click Select to open the Upload Photos and Video dialog box.
In the Upload Photos And Video dialog box, select an upload location: Upload To Library Places files in your Library. Upload To New Album Places files in a new album, named with the current date.
Upload To Existing Album Places files in the album you select from the pop-up menu; optionally, click Upload More to add more files to the upload. Note: To remove a file from the upload queue, click the red “x” icon to the right of the file’s name.;
, Use the Photoshop.com Uploader (AIR) application. The Adobe Photoshop.com Uploader is an Adobe® AIR® application you can use to create and delete albums, and upload, sync, and browse photos and videos. An AIR application is based on Adobe Flash® technology and runs on your desktop instead of in a web browser. The Adobe Photoshop.com Uploader AIR application makes uploading your files quick and easy. The added advantage is drag-and-drop support between your computer file system and the Photoshop.com Uploader AIR application. The Photoshop.com Uploader can upload files up to 2 GB (whereas the uploader built in to Photoshop.com can only upload files up to 200 MB)., Click Online Tools on the Photoshop.com home page to open the Photoshop.com online Organizer Sign in, if prompted.Click the home button. Click Check Out The Uploader under News in the left column and follow the installation instructions. To uninstall the AIR application, do one of the following:(Windows) Choose Start > Settings > Control Panel > Add Or Remove Programs. Select Adobe Photoshop.com Uploader and click Remove. (Mac OS) Drag the Adobe Photoshop.com Uploader application folder to the Trash.
 The Photoshop.com Uploader lets you upload files to Photoshop.com, and download files from Photoshop.com to your desktop.
 Start the Adobe Photoshop.com Uploader.
 Do one of the following: drag the files you want to upload onto the top pane of the Photoshop.com Uploader window.
 Click Upload, and then click OK.
 Select the album you want to download. Click Sync.


Albums download to the following locations:operating system, default download location.
Mac OS :Users//Pictures/Photoshop.com Sync//Windows XP : C:\Documents and Settings\\My Documents\My Pictures\Photoshop.com Sync\\Windows Vista: C:\Users\\Pictures\Photoshop.com Sync\\, To make sure the Photoshop.com Uploader and your Photoshop.com account contain the same files, click the update button in the Photoshop.com Uploader.


A. Update button B. Conflict warning button

, Click the icon to open the Sync Conflicts dialog box. Indicate how you would like to resolve the conflicts, and then click Done., Organize your photos and videos in albums. Albums can be either public or private. You determine who can view your albums, and what viewers can do with an album’s contents. With Group Albums, you can collaborate on albums with others.
 Sign in, if prompted., Do one of the following: Click the green plus icon to the left of Group Albums or Albums in the left column.
 In the Group Albums: Create Album or New Album dialog box, enter a name for the album in the Album Name field. Choose a privacy setting for the album: Private Only the people you invite can see and add photos to the album. Public The album is public, but only the people you invite or share with can see the album’s contents.


Note: If a regular album is Public, you can optionally select Also Show On My Gallery Page to display the album in your Gallery. For Public albums, determine which actions a viewer can take with the album’s contents:

Allow Viewers To Print Viewers can print photos.
Allow Viewers To Save Viewers can save copies of the photos or videos.
Show Comments To Viewers Viewers can see comments that are added to the photos or videos in the album.
Organize albums.
, Sign in, if prompted. Click My Library.
 Choose Create > New Album Category from the toolbar at the bottom of the window.
