 Take advantage of olive oil's bright, pungent flavor by using it as the base for a salad dressing. Most dressings mix oil with acidic items such as tomatoes, citrus juices, or vinegar to "cut" the fatty-ness of the oil and give the dish a tangy quality.


Tart ingredients in the salad itself also tend to pair well with olive oil. Try using it in the dressing for a salad containing slices of sour apples, strawberries or sharp cheeses for interesting flavor combinations.
 Marinades are mixes of ingredients that foods are soaked in before cooking for extra flavor. In this role, olive oil tends to complement foods with earthy flavors, such as meat, poultry, mushrooms, legumes, nuts, and whole grains. Olive oil marinades can also be enhanced by fresh herbs - thyme, savory, basil, tarragon, and dill work very well.


Like salad dressings, most marinades also have an acidic ingredient in addition to the oil to keep it from tasting too greasy or heavy.
 Sometimes olive oil's smooth flavor is best enjoyed on its own. A small bowl of olive oil works great for dipping appetizers like bread, bruschetta, vegetables, and many more. Add acids or herbs like garlic, thyme, and sage to the oil to give it a more complex, interesting flavor.


One common example of this is the mix of olive oil and balsamic vinegar that is often served with bread at Italian restaurants. The bread is used to soak of some of the oil mixture and carry it to your mouth for a satisfying (but not overly heavy) appetizer.
 Olive oil isn't an extremely common ingredient in baking — its flavor is more suited to meats and vegetables than it is to pastries and desserts. However, olive oil is great for adding an extra dimension to certain breads and rolls that are designed to have a savory flavor. Baking recipes that contain ingredients that traditionally go with olive oil (like this rosemary bread recipe) tend to be the best choices.If you're adventurous, you can even substitute olive oil for vegetable oil or canola oil in ordinary baking recipes to give them a new flavor. You may want to add a few more ingredients that go well with olive oil to complement the flavor. For example, try substituting olive oil for vegetable oil in your favorite pancake recipe. Mix a few minced cloves of garlic and some caramelized onions into the batter for a savory treat.

