 Beef is the classic type of meat for stew. Chuck roast, which comes from the shoulder of the animal, is arguably the best cut for this type of dish.Since the shoulder is constantly used when the animal is alive, the muscles that make up this cut of meat are initially very tough. After stewing, however, pieces of chuck roast will be especially succulent and flavorful.
 You want to cut your meat into individual pieces yourself for two reasons. First, it will be easier to trim away the gristle from a larger cut of meat, as opposed to small pieces. Further, by doing it yourself, you can ensure that the size of the individual pieces are uniform.As a rule of thumb, shoot for cubes of meat that are a bit larger than 1x1in (2.5x2.5cm).
 Lamb meat will be sweeter than beef, and will pair well with especially savory herbs and vegetables. Lamb also pairs particularly well with red wine. Almost any cut of lamb will work in a stew, but shoulder is the best.Buy a piece of shoulder with the bone removed and cut it into evenly-sized pieces yourself.
For a slightly cheaper but comparable option, look for arm shoulder chop or cut of meat from the neck.
 Pork can be used in stew as well, and has a relatively mild flavor compared to other red meats. The best cuts include those around the shoulder, commonly referred to as the "butt."This area of a hog is referenced by many slang terms, but anything that includes the terms "Boston," "butt," or "shoulder" will work.
 There are all sorts of other meats that can be used in a delicious stew. For instance, venison and bison are both especially enjoyable, not to mention lean. Fortunately, the rules for selecting a cut of beef are the same for these animals as well. Go for cuts from the shoulder, neck, or rear end.
 If you’re making a chicken stew, the rules are somewhat different. In particular, you’ll want to get a whole chicken instead of processed cuts of breast of leg meat. This way, the different parts of the chicken will provide a wider range of flavor.Watch a video online to learn how to cut up a chicken's body for stew. There are a few tricks, such as how to hold the body, that will make cutting the chicken easier.

