 Want to get in trouble real quick? Just talk when your teacher is talking, or when you're supposed to be quiet. Here are a bunch of ways to talk when you're not supposed to:


Wait until you've just been given a test, then start raising your hand and asking questions about the homework.
Interrupt other students when they're reading out loud, or if they're presenting their Science/Biome Projects. Start by saying inappropriate phrases to make their words more funny. After those students are finished, yell out, "BOO!" or "You suck!".
Wait until you've got silent work time and start talking to your neighbor, or laughing loudly.
When another student is answering a question, yell out, "Wrong!" or "Fake!", even if it's right.
Just start talking without raising your hand. Instead of waiting to be called on, launch into your question or comment.
During a video, start responding to everything the characters say as if they were in the room with you. Or, say inappropriate phrases at any part of the characters' sentences to make them more funny.;
, Your teacher will give you a detention if you're just being an irritating presence in the class. Want to get on your teacher's nerves quickly? Try out some of these:


Call the teacher by their first name, a nickname, or someone else's name all through class.
Argue with a teacher, claiming there is a test today and you know it. Or, claim there was no homework.
Write a fake note saying you're excused from class because it is boring. Teachers will automatically know it's fake. Say it's true and deny everything. When the jig is up, consider bursting into tears or screaming, whichever one you'd prefer.
Correct the teacher whenever you can. Make sure all of your corrections are completely off-topic or incorrect. Always pretend you're right and never let the teacher speak.
Ask a lot of personal questions about the teacher. Be as annoying about this as possible. Give them suggestions about their love life, driving skills or their teaching. If they mention anything at all related to LGBT, ask them if they are gay, then start telling everyone about how we need to be nice to gay people.
When the teacher asks a question to the whole class, reply loudly, "Your Mama!", "Your Mom!", or "Your Grandma!"
Every ten minutes, ask when class will be over.
In class, yell out "BORING!" There's a definite detention for you.
 If it's quiet, or your teacher is talking, just start making a ruckus without saying anything at all. Here are some good ways to get your teacher annoyed with noise:


Try imitating someone with brain damage, pretending to have a seizure and twitching a lot.
Beat box loudly. Beat box in the middle of a test when the teacher has asked for no talking.
Tap your fingers on your desk for the whole class.
Click your pen or tap your pencil on your desk.
Keep a phone or iPod hidden and play random animal sounds. Start acting scared, because you hear lions.
 Start quiet, and then get louder and louder as you go, trying to turn your class into a school musical. Almost a guaranteed detention awaits any of these ideas:


Sing random songs you know almost everyone hates - like "Friday" by Rebecca Black or "Baby " by Justin Bieber. Better yet, do it right in the middle of the lesson.
Compose a rap about how bad school is. To be as annoying as possible, sing it near the principal's office or the detention room very loudly.
 While this might get you into more grade trouble than you want, it also might be a good way to get a detention if you use it to start a general distraction in class. Here are some ways to come to class unprepared and be a nuisance:


Ask to get your supplies one at a time when you need them. Turn to one neighbor and ask loudly, "Can I borrow a pencil?" Five minutes later, turn to another and ask, "Can I borrow some paper?" and so on.
Spend a good ten to fifteen minutes trying to get a hoodie on or off. Make sure it has some rude slogan on it you might get in trouble for.
Behave well all day, then volunteer to read aloud. As you read, start stammering on every word and read like a 4-year old, or add inappropriate phrases to make the sentences more funny.
Read as loudly or softly as possible, or make everything you read a run-on sentence.
 At your school, there will be all kinds of different ways you can get into trouble. Find out the policies that you can break that are detention-worthy, and make sure to avoid the ones that are suspension-worthy.


Most schools will have "strikes." If you do something once, you'll usually get a warning. If you do it twice, you may get a detention. More times might get you into more trouble, so know when to quit.
Other more serious offenses shouldn't be done if you're just trying to get a detention. You don't want to end up suspended. Pulling fire alarms, stealing, robbing, and other methods will actually get you into trouble with the police.

