 Most major supermarkets, discount stores and gas stations that sell prepaid credit cards accept checks. However, some retailers are phasing out checks as newer, more convenient technology replaces them. If you are not sure, ask a cashier or someone at the customer-service desk whether or not the store accepts checks as a form of payment.


Many retailers require you to show identification before they'll accept a check. Be prepared to provide your driver’s license or other picture ID.
 Since other, more convenient payment methods are so widely available, some people are not sure how to write a check. In order for the check to be valid, it must be filled out correctly. Write the date in the upper-right-hand corner. Enter the complete month, day and year. You can write out the date (e.g., October 8, 2017) or use numbers (10/8/17).
Enter the name of the recipient on the line next to “Pay to the order of.” Write the name of the retailer on this line. For example, if you are purchasing the prepaid credit card at Walgreen’s, you would write “Walgreen’s” on this line. If you are not sure what name to write on this line, ask the cashier.
Write the exact amount of the check on the right-hand side of the check next to the dollar sign. For example, if you are paying $106.71, write this exact amount. Do not round up or down.
Write the check amount in words on the line under the recipient’s name. Write the dollar amount in words and the change as a fraction. For example, if your check is for $106.71, write “one-hundred six and 71/100 dollars.” If "dollars" is already printed on that line, you don't need to write it.
If you're dealing with another currency, the procedure remains the same.
Fill out the memo space in the bottom-left-hand corner. This is optional. It's a note explaining the purpose of the check.
Sign the check in the bottom-right-hand corner. Use your full legal name. It should be the same name you used to open the checking account. Sign only the front of the check. Don’t sign the back. (That's for endorsing the check later.)
Enter the information in your check register. Record the date, recipient and amount of the check, along with any memos, in your check register. Deduct the amount of the check from your available balance in the register.
 Before writing a check, verify that you have enough money in your checking account to cover the check. Many banks have online services where you can check activity in your account, including your balance, on your computer or mobile device. You can also call your bank’s customer-service line to verify your account.


Be prepared to provide your account number, or enter a user name and password. You may also have to answer a previously arranged security question to gain access to information about your account.
If you don’t have enough funds to cover a check you've written, you will have to pay an overdraft fee. Your check might be returned instead. This means that instead of an overdraft fee you will have to pay a returned-check fee to the retailer.
 Once you have written the check, monitor activity in your account. You can use your computer or mobile device to access your account information online. Verify that the check has cleared.

