 Use pure beeswax pellets or shavings into a microwave safe glass jar or dish. Add almond or coconut oil as a “carrier oil” to help balance out the mint and make the lip balm smooth.


Use pure almond oil or coconut oil based on preference and availability. You can find these in grocery stores and natural beauty suppliers.
You can purchase beeswax online or in some health food or beauty supply stores, either as a block or in small pellets. Add pellets directly to your glass container, or shave off small pieces of a block with a knife or grater before adding.
Add more beeswax if you prefer a firmer, longer-lasting lip balm, or less if you like your lip balm softer and smoother., Put the glass container with your ingredients into the microwave. Heat for about one minute or until melted.


Microwave heat and settings vary, so you may use more or less time to melt the ingredients to a liquid so you can pour the mixture later. You can microwave in 10 second intervals and stir in between to help ensure that the beeswax melts into the oil.Use oven mitts to remove the glass container from the microwave, and use caution with the hot dish and its contents. Children should have help from an adult for this step.
 Start with just a few drops of peppermint or other mint essential oil that’s of a pure, food grade quality. Then stir and add more drops of essential oil to preference.


A small amount of peppermint essential oil can go a long way to create a scent and tingly flavor. However, too much can actually create a burning sensation on your lips, so add it carefully, especially if you are only making a small batch of lip balm.
If you need to test the consistency or amount of mint in the balm, you can transfer a small amount to a piece of wax paper and let it set in the refrigerator. Test it once solidified, and if you need to make adjustments to your main batch, just reheat it before adding anything.At this point, you can also add powder from eyeshadow or blush if you’d like your lip balm to contain a tint of color. Stir it in until combined evenly.

