 It will be easier to set trends if you have many friends who are popular and well-liked in their own right. This gives you more social capital and influence on the rest of your peer group.


Trends are a powerful demonstration of how social influence motivates people. In general, people follow trends out of a desire to fit in.Trends are typically started by the rich and the famous because on some level people think looking more like them will give them some of that prestige.
Don't make friends with popular people just to be a trendsetter. Make sure your friendships are genuine.;
, If you are confident and fun to be around, people will want to be more like you. Be conscious of how you present yourself, and try to be as likeable as possible.



Maintaining good posture is often overlooked when thinking about charisma. Always try to keep your back and neck straight.
Avoid being overly serious. This doesn't mean you have to be the class clown, but more laidback people tend to be more universally liked.
 Being kind and compassionate will go a long way. Express genuine interest in other people by paying them thoughtful complements. Ask them about their lives and interests. Doing these things will make others feel good about themselves and they will attribute these good feelings to your presence.


Once you're known as a likeable person, others will want to be more like you. Without even noticing it, they may adopt some of your style, preferences, and habits. In other words, they will follow the trends that you set.
 This may seem counterproductive if you're trying to be stylish. While you may want to shake things up when it comes to your appearance, your personality shouldn't also change drastically. Don't be consistent in how you dress, but be consistent in how you act.


In general, popular people are known to be reliable. People like to know where they stand with a person and are put off when someone is completely unpredictable.If you try to be a chameleon and change who you are depending on who you're with in a bid to make everyone like you, people will catch on. You may develop a reputation as being inauthentic, causing your popularity to plummet. Instead, be your best true self wherever you go.
 You won't be able to set a trend if other people don't see and follow it. Start by trying to be more "seen." Make people notice you and cultivate a presence. Talk louder if necessary, make jokes, and learn how to be the center of attention.


If you want to start fashion trends, try to dress well in general. Your peers will start to think of you as a person who knows style and will be more likely to attribute an unusual look to a new trend rather than a fashion faux pas.
While positive attention is great, don't be too loud or obnoxious. People who try to be cool rarely are. Make your outgoing persona seem effortless. If you have trouble being extroverted without it seeming forced, focus more on other methods of securing popularity.

