 Know that others who have insecurities about their own size or appearance are the ones to criticize or bully and create a problem out of your size that you would not otherwise have.


Understand that other people may treat you badly about your size because they have also been mistreated, they think it is normal or acceptable because of their other interactions with peers or family, or because they see smaller size as being less desirable from TV shows, movies, or the internet.Imagine that no one made comments about you being small or otherwise mistreated you for it. Would you still have a problem with your size? This may help you to see that it is other people creating the problem, not your small size. Are there things about your small size that you like?;
, Let people know when they say something about your size that you don’t like, rather than quietly accepting it.


Deal with bullies or other criticizers as kindly as possible, without resorting to calling them names or getting angry, as this may only encourage them to repeat their insults.For instance, to someone who pats you on the head and makes comments about your size, you can kindly ask them to stop. To anyone who says negative things about how small you are, you can calmly explain, “Actually, I really like being this size” or “Actually, I’m small because of a medical condition, so please don’t make fun of me for it.”
If you feel you cannot safely talk back to a bully, or someone threatens you with physical violence or other serious attack, go to a parent, teacher, guidance counselor, police officer, or any person you trust for help right away.
 Ask for help from someone you trust if you cannot get through to someone who is offending or hurting you with speech or actions regarding your small size. Always notify the police if someone physically harms you or threatens to do so.


If you are a child, go to a parent, teacher, guidance counselor, or other adult you trust and explain the situation to them.
If you are an adult, talk to a friend, a mentor, a therapist, or the HR department of your job if it is an issue with a colleague.Find a friend or even a celebrity or other role model who is also small as another source of inspiration, guidance, or even an example to use when talking to others.
 Avoid negative comments from others by showing confidence in your actions. Stand tall with your chin up and don’t be afraid to take up space in a room when you’re walking, standing, or sitting.


Showing physical confidence has the additional benefit of adding size to your appearance. Averting your eyes to the floor, feeling dejected, and not wanting to take up space all manifest in your body appearing even smaller with drooping shoulders, head, etc.
Make and hold eye contact with other people, stand still with your feet squared toward someone you’re talking to, and walk and speak slowly and steadily. This is all subtle body language that communicates confidence.