 Although the living conditions for both types are frogs are similar, it is crucial for you to keep ADF and ACF frogs separate from one another. When ACFs grow to be full-sized, they will actually eat smaller creatures like ADFs., The only major difference between tanks for ACFs and tanks for ADFs is the size of the tank and the amount of water it holds. For ACFs, a good rule or thumb is to have ten gallons of non-chlorinated water per frog. For ADFs, the rule is to have only one gallon of non-chlorinated water per frog. This is quite a big difference!A filtered tank is your best option.
You can get away with an unfiltered tank if you clean it thoroughly every two weeks.
Be sure to secure the lid on your tank. These frogs are known for trying to escape., Both types of frogs enjoy either a substrate made of rocks or a bare-bottom tank. Be sure to use rocks too large for the frogs to eat. (For ACFs, you’ll want large river rocks and for ADFs, medium sized rocks). Bare-bottom tanks may not be as pretty too look at, but they are much easier to keep clean., ACF and ADF frogs thrive in similar temperatures. When they are froglets, you should aim for temperatures between 74 -78F (23-25C). When frogs are adults, aim for temperatures between 70-75F (21-24C ).


As long as you maintain a warm temperature in your home, you should not need to use a fish tank heater (although that is an option).
Frogs can survive as long as the temperatures stay between 65F and 80F (18 and 26C).
 Both types of frogs need hiding places in their tanks, such as terracotta pots, caves, driftwood, and silk plants. Without adequate places to hide and recharge, frogs can actually become stressed to the point of death.Avoid both real and plastic plants. Both can be toxic to these frogs.
Stick to silk plants.
 In order to keep your frog habitat healthy, you will need to do some daily, weekly, and monthly maintenance. Each day, you must check the filter, water temperature, and any other equipment. Each week, you must check the overall water quality. Finally, and most importantly, once a month, you must remove 10-25% of the total water volume and replace it with fresh water.