 You can access your contacts from the Gmail website. Make sure you're signed in with the account you want to add the contact to.


Note: Gmail may redirect your to Inbox, which is a streamlined version of Gmail. You can still access the Contacts page from Inbox.;
, There are two ways to do this, depending on whether you're on the traditional Gmail page or the newer Inbox:


Gmail - Click the "Gmail" menu in the upper-left corner beneath the Google logo and select "Contacts." This will open the Contacts page in a new tab.
Inbox - Click the menu button (☰) in the upper-left corner to open the menu if it isn't open already. Click "Contacts" in the second section of the menu. This will open the Contacts page in a new tab.
You can open this page directly by typing contacts.google.com into your address bar.
 This is the "Add new contact" button.


If you are using the traditional version of Google Contacts, the "New Contact" button can be found in the upper-left corner.
 As you enter the name, suggested Google+ profiles will be displayed. If the contact you are adding has a Google+ profile, selecting it now will fill out the contact information automatically. Clicking "Create" will open the "Edit contact" form.


If you're using the classic version of Contacts, clicking "New Contact" will open the New Contact form. You can then fill out the fields on this form and save the contact.
 This will open a new window allowing you to select a photo from your Google Photos or upload a photo from your computer.


If you have Google Photos connected on your Android device, you'll be able to browse the photos on your phone that have been backed up to Google Photos.
Click the "Upload" tab to and either drag the photo into the window or click "Select photo from your computer" to browse for it.
If you selected the contact's Google+ profile while typing in their name, the photo will be their Google+ photo.
 You'll find these fields about halfway down the list. When you select the field, you'll be able to click "Email" or "Phone" to select the type (Home, Work, Mobile, etc.).


Adding an email address or phone number is not required to create the contact.
 You can fill out the rest of the fields as necessary. Click "Show all fields" to see additional fields for less common information.
 A notification will appear that the contact has been saved, and you'll see a summary of the contact details.
 If you use groups to organize your contacts, you can click the "Add to group" button to see a list of available groups. You can also create a new group for the contact.

