 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out three muffin pans and place paper or foil liners in each hole. Set the pans aside while you make the batter., Measure 3 1/2 cups (437 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon of baking soda, 1/2 teaspoon of baking powder, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt into a mixing bowl. Whisk the ingredients for about 30 seconds. Set the dry ingredients aside., Get out a large mixing bowl and place 1 cup (226 g) of softened unsalted butter in it. Add 2 cups (400 g) of sugar. Use a hand or stand mixer and beat the butter and sugar on medium-high speed. Cream the mixture for a few minutes, so it becomes light and fluffy.You may want to scrape down the sides of the bowl occasionally.
 Crack one egg into the creamed butter and sugar. Beat the mixture on medium speed, so the egg is incorporated. Add two more eggs, one at a time. Stir the sides of the bowl and add 1 teaspoon of watermelon flavoring oil., Turn the mixer to low and add about one third of the dry ingredient mixture. Once the dry mix is incorporated, stir in 1 cup (230 g) of the sour cream until it's just combined., Add another third of the dry mixture and stir it on low. Stir in another 1 cup (230 g) of sour cream. Stir in the rest of the dry mixture until it's just combined. If you want to color the cupcakes, stir in pink or green food coloring according to your preference., Divide the cupcake batter among the lined muffin pans. You should fill 30 of the holes to make 30 cupcakes. Bake the cupcakes in the preheated oven for 20 minutes. If you poke a toothpick into the center of a cupcake, it should come out clean. Place the cupcakes on a wire rack to cool., Soften 6 tablespoons (84 g) of unsalted butter and place it in a large mixing bowl. Get out 5 to 6 cups (625 to 750 g) of powdered sugar. Place about one third of the powdered sugar into the bowl with the butter. Use a stand or hand mixer to beat the butter and powdered sugar on low speed for about 30 seconds., Pour in 3 tablespoons of milk and turn the mixer on to medium, so the milk is incorporated. Add another third of the powdered sugar and beat the frosting on medium speed until the sugar is combined., Pour in 1 tablespoon of lemon juice and 1 teaspoon of watermelon flavoring oil. Beat the frosting for about 30 seconds and then beat in the remaining third of powdered sugar. Beat the frosting until it's light and fluffy. If you'd like to color the frosting, beat in pink or green food coloring.If the frosting is too wet, just mix in more powdered sugar until it firms up.
 Once the cupcakes have completely cooled, spread some of the watermelon frosting onto each cupcake. If you prefer, you could use a pastry bag to pipe the frosting. Get out 1/2 cup (90 g) of semi-sweet chocolate chips and arrange several chips on top of each frosted cupcake, so they look like watermelon seeds.Store leftover frosted cupcakes in the refrigerator for a few days.
You can store unfrosted cupcakes in an airtight container for up to a week. Frost and decorate the cupcakes right before you're ready to serve them.

