 The doctor will administer a 25 hydroxy-vitamin D blood test.


This test is a good idea for anyone who is homebound, has dark skin or is at risk for osteoporosis. Lighter skin produces more vitamin D after extended exposure to sunlight. Darker skinned people need 5 to 10 times more sunlight to produce healthy vitamin D levels.
For adults, the recommended daily value of vitamin D is 600 International Units (IU) or 15 micrograms (mcg). It is likely that a doctor will recommend between 400 and 1,000 IU per day to supplement your diet for a short period of time.;
, Generally, you just need to spend a bit more time in the sun or eat more vitamin D-rich foods. However, some medicals conditions can affect how your body absorbs vitamin D, which means that you might need to take supplements to keep your vitamin D levels normal. These conditions include:


Cystic fibrosis
Crohn’s disease
Kidney disease
Celiac disease

, It is important to keep in mind that supplements are just that—they supplement your diet if you cannot get enough of the nutrient by eating vitamin D-rich food. Before you begin taking vitamin D supplements, try altering your diet a little to increase your vitamin D intake naturally, rather than through supplementation.


A cup (237 ml) of fortified milk provides about 30 percent of your daily value.
3 oz. (85 g) of salmon or mackerel provides about 100 percent of the daily value.
3 oz. (85 g) of canned tuna provides about 40 percent.
Eggs, liver and fortified cereals can provide about 10 percent of your daily value.
 As mentioned in the previous step, it is advisable to try to alter your diet before you begin thinking about taking supplements. One of the more efficient ways to get the vitamin D you need is by consuming vitamin D fortified foods and beverages.


The most commonly fortified product is milk. Look at your carton of milk to make sure that it is enriched with vitamin D before you buy it.
Other foods that are commonly fortified with vitamin D include cereals, orange juice, and some yogurts.
 In fact, many people meet their vitamin D needs simply by living in places that are sunny.


However, it is important to keep in mind that UVB radiation cannot go through glass, so if you sit in the sun while inside, your body will not be absorbing any vitamin D. For this reason, try to spend at least 5 to 30 minutes outside in the sun without any sunscreen on. After this time, you should put sunscreen on to protect yourself from skin cancer.
 If you take too much vitamin D each day, you could actually cause the calcium levels in your blood to skyrocket. However, it is important to keep in mind that vitamin D overdoses are rarely caused by staying in the sun too long or eating too much vitamin D-rich foods; most overdoses come taking too many vitamin D supplements. Signs that you are taking too much vitamin D include:


Being very constipated.
Experiencing nausea.
Feeling confused.
Developing kidney stones.
Developing an abnormal heartbeat.
 Vitamin D supplement absorption can potentially also be dangerous for people with lymphoma, sarcoidosis or histoplasmosis.

