 As with parades, fireworks can be upsetting and even dangerous for dogs. Dogs who are startled by them can run off and escape, and, even if they have an up-to-date tag and microchip, are not guaranteed to be found or returned. Optionally, you can consult a veterinarian for information on drugging your dog, but in general, bringing your dog is discouraged, and should only be done if your dog:

Has heard fireworks before and did not strongly react to them;
Has an up-to-date tag and microchip;
Has basic obedience training; “come” in particular must be rock-solid; and
Is calm around crowds, playing kids, other dogs, and various other features of fireworks.
 These are the same as in the section on parades., If your dog appears anxious, do not reassure him – this will reward him for bad behavior, as in essence he is receiving a yummy treat when he is afraid, telling him that he should be afraid. Instead, give him attention and a treat whenever he is calm; you are now telling him that being calm is good. Use small treats easily swallowed with a strong scent to distract the dog.
 Signs of anxiety include the dog licking his lips, whimpering, a tense position, and showing the whites of his eyes; if these occur, quietly and calmly remove the dog from the situation. Keep your dog hydrated; bring along a collapsible water bowl and bottles of water and offer water to your dog occasionally. Keep in mind that he may be too stressed to drink – if this happens, the best option may be to remove your dog from the situation. If your dog is calm, you can distract him with treats, a Kong toy stuffed with peanut butter, a favorite toy, or any other desirable object.
 If your dog is too stressed by the fireworks, the best option is to immediately leave for your home. If you’re attending the fireworks with others, tell them in advance that you may have to leave if your dog becomes too anxious. At home, have a crate set up in the same manner described in the section on parties. Keep in mind that a car is not a safe option for putting your dog in, as the heat levels can kill him/her; instead, the safest option is to leave with your dog and place him in the crate. Once he’s settled in, you can return to the fireworks and have fun.

