 Also remember your goal. If you feel sorrowful about leaving your friends, don't be, because you can always meet after school, and will most likely meet in middle/junior high school.;
, Accept that you will get more homework and be subject to more rules. While this may make you upset, understand that it is for your own good. At this point, you are only in elementary school. If you choose to apply them correctly, the skills from magnet will make you a superb student, allowing you to excel for the rest of your life.
 Unfortunately, some people do spread rumors, with several different intentions. It is important to keep your goal in your mind and never forget it. Most of what you hear from others could be false. You may hear things such as, "You get a ton of homework there. All the teachers are mean!" These are most likely rumors or on developing good study skills. This is essential in surviving the magnet program. Learn how to work without distractions. This includes switching off the TV, cell phone, Game Boy, etc while doing homework. If you do not understand something, clarify it as soon as possible and study the concepts at home. Start studying for a test the moment you find out about it. Don't procrastinate, leaving off your work until the last minute. While you may be compelled to blow off Friday and Saturday and save off homework to Sunday, imagine how nice it would be to finish it all on Saturday, to have Sunday free and worry free?

, Many magnet programs implement extra rules to yield obedient students. Unfortunately, many students still fail to act obediently. However, if you follow the rules, it is better for you. If the teachers request that students be quiet, it is best that you do so. If the teachers ask, "All students report to the door", or something such, then make sure you do so. Even if other students persist and talk, don't talk, just hold up a hand to signal silence.
 Imagine going to magnet and working extra hard, if in the end, it has no effect on you, making you no smarter? It |Laziness]] is not an answer. You can have fun, but do your best. Knowing that you did your best really helps.
 In magnet, there is often a lot of homework given, with harsh consequences for undone homework. While an occasion forgotten assignment is not the end of the world, a constant report of undone homework can have its effect on depends on how you apply yourself. This has a direct correlation to the group you hang out with. At lunch, sit with people who tend to get good grades, listen in class, and are used as examples by teachers, and who generally don't get in trouble. Most likely, they are good kids and their influence will rub off on you, making you smart in turn, giving you the ability to apply your skills. How you use your skills in magnet decides how the skills help you throughout school.
 Help people if asked to, and answer questions. Do your best. While you do not need to be perfect, do the best that you can do. [[Overcome Laziness you. You came to magnet to become smarter. By not working hard, you are ruining the effect. If you need help on homework, e-mail your teachers, call up friends, or ask your parents. Your parents must understand that you going to magnet is a commitment on their part too.
 There will be several group projects. Try to be the leader. Make sure that each group member really understands what is expected and assign work to each person. Be reasonable, but firm. Simply asking a person what they want to do does not come out as firm and people will take advantage. Say something like, "Here is the work assigned. If anyone has problems, list them now." Deal with them, and if you need help, the teachers are available. You do not need to be the leader, but if the leader is being irresponsible, take charge, or ask a teacher to intervene.
 If you have a social studies research project, research more than what was asked. If you must make a poster in science on electricity, conduct a small, live electrical experiment during performance. Write extra paragraphs in language arts. In your article log for current events, make a creative cover with home-made dividers. Magnet can be all about creativity. Always be neat with your work. Poor handwriting, crumpled papers, and bad punctuation are not tolerated. Make it a practice to proof-read your work and have a parent help you. If you have bad hand writing, work on making this better. Work on keeping your papers better organized.

