 Redecorating a room can take a lot of work. You don't have to follow all the suggestions in this article but if you do, it'll probably take you awhile. Try to be patient.;
, Small drawers and dividers can make it easier to be organized and quicker to put stuff away.
 Look around your house and see what materials you already have on-hand. Cool holiday lights, lengths of fabric, paint, unwanted furniture, bulletin boards, pillows, and mirrors can all be fun additions to your room that your family might have sitting around unused. Pick out some items that you might want to include in your new room.  ** Throw away stuff you DO NOT need. **

, A theme can be as simple as a color or a mood, or it can center on a certain time period or fictional character. Whatever you choose, it should make your room feel like your own, individualized space.
 Changing the positioning of your room can help it feel different and more unique in very little time. Think about ways to maximize your space and leave more room open in the middle. (If you're out of ideas, check out Ikea or other department stores, and pay attention to how they arrange furniture to maximize space.)

, If your parents or landlord will allow it, try painting your walls to change the look of your room. Here are some ideas to consider:


If you want your room to look bigger, use light colors. Dark colors will make the walls look smaller and more confining.
Some people think that the color of a room can influence your mood. If you want a calming space, try blue, green or purple; for an area that's energizing, look into red, orange and yellow.
Try putting chalkboard paint on one of your walls. Chalkboard paint turns your wall into a literal chalkboard, where you can draw with chalk and erase when you're ready for a change. It comes in several colors beside black. While you might not want to paint all four walls in chalkboard paint, one wall (or a small wall that's by a door or closet) could be fun.
Brighten up your baseboards, window frames and door frames. For some fun contrast, consider painting your frames and baseboards a different color than your walls. Stark white is popular, but you can always try other options.
Use stencils. If you want to put a favorite phrase on your wall, or just fun patterns and designs, buy stencils. They're sold online and at most home décor stores.
Use stickers. If you don't like the permanency of painting with stencils, buy wall stickers. These are usually fun phrases or flourishes that you can put on your wall temporarily and peel off when you're over it.
Look into stick-on wallpaper. Stick-on wallpaper can be expensive, but it's a fun way to decorate one wall. Search online for fun patterns.
 Another quick and dramatic way to change the way your room looks is to alter the lighting. Try these things:


Find a new lamp. Consider changing up your desk lamp or the lighting on your bedside table.
Buy colored light bulbs for your lamps. While these might be a bit much for your main overhead light, they can be a fun way to change up your smaller light sources.
Use Christmas lights to punch up your room. If you have old Christmas lights sitting in your house, use them to liven up your room. Pin them up around the border of the ceiling using thumb tacks, or wrap them around your headboard.
Buy fairy lights. Fairy lights are strings of dainty, clear-colored lights that are often used at restaurants or special events. Get help festooning them across your ceiling from one side to the other, pinning up the middle of the strand.
 If your walls are bare, liven them up with some new wall-hangings. Here are some suggestions:


Purchase a fun print and have it framed. Or, look through thrift and consignment stores for retro prints.
Hang up a bulletin board. If you don't like the cork board look, try stretching fabric over it and stapling the edges of the fabric to the back of the board. Either way, pin fun pictures, magazine clippings you like, or other memorabilia on the board. You can also hang your jewelry on it.
Tape glow-in-the-dark stars to your ceiling or walls. They'll absorb the light that comes into your room during the day, and glow at night.
Make CD wallpaper. Basically, it's CD covers you hang on your wall. You can use it to show off photos, stamps, CDs, tickets, or anything else you can think of. Disco Ball's are also a unique way to liven up your bedroom.
 Change the way your bed looks by finding a different comforter and some new pillows for it. Shop online or at a store, or browse through a thrift store. If you're feeling industrious, you can even sew your own.
 Find lots of differently shaped mirrors. Circles, rectangles, or random shapes. Hang them up at different angles and levels around your room. This can make you room seem bigger, more fun and maybe like a mirror maze at the fair.
 You can use old wrapping paper, wallpaper, or specially-made drawer liners to give your desk or dresser drawers a fun touch.
 Swap out your old curtains for something new, or hang up little things that catch the light in your window or even stained glass your window. Make a reflective mobile out of some of those old CDs.
 Even if you already have carpet, a rug can add a unique touch to the room.

