 Organize your life more clearly by keeping a schedule so that you will know where and when you are supposed to be somewhere. This will prevent last minute decisions and keep you active and on track.Keep track of your exercise routine, when you are meeting family or friends, or even when the dog needs groomed. Everything can be organized to keep you moving forward.
Take advantage of time-management web applications (or mobile apps) like Google Calendar to schedule out your daily activities, pay bills, or making appointments. The best part is you can adjust reminder settings so that you the calendar can alert you to do something.
Calendars are available just about everywhere nowadays, even on phones. Take advantage of these services and become familiar with them so it becomes routine.;
, Routines are generally good because we do things – brush our teeth, get a shower, comb our hair – because they are good for us and you don’t have to think about doing them. Unfortunately, the same is true for bad habits. It is a good idea to reevaluate the habits in your routine and remove them from your life and replace them with more positive ones.It is easier to create goods habits than trying to quit bad habits. Therefore, think of any bad habits you have in your routine and replace them the exact opposite habits. That way, your daily routine stays familiar and your new, good habits naturally (over time) replace the bad ones.
The benefit of a routine is maintaining the type of lifestyle you want without all the added pressures in making the right decisions. So, you will want to practice healthy and productive habits to make sure your life stays on track.
When thinking about the habits of your routine take time to visualize what you want your life to look like on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis and take the necessary steps to make it part of your healthy routine.
 Skipping important dates, extending deadlines, and finishing tasks at the last second creates havoc. This type of lifestyle leads to missed opportunities to grow as an individual and miss meeting friends and colleagues for work and social functions. You will also see work piling up at your desk at work.Try not to miss even the small things. Of course, it is okay if you slip up once in a while but if you continue to miss many small things it adds up quickly and you get derailed once again.
When a routine or activity cannot be fully completed, try to do as much of it as you possibly can so that it remains part of your schedule.
For example, if you cannot exercise, then walk fast to wherever you going; not enough time to write an article, then write a paragraph; and no time to cook dinner, then just make a salad.

