 Do not turn up in rumpled clothing, your tracksuit or flip flops. Get some style! Wear really smart casual, or even a suit/professional outfit. Your luggage should also be in excellent condition, neat and of good quality.;
, Carry yourself with a sense of entitlement. Hotel staff (and anyone) will respond immediately to someone who "fills the space" with self-confidence and assurance. Note that this does not mean arrogance - that will put them offside immediately.
 You need to think about what you are going to ask of hotel staff. If you want an upgrade, be open and concise about it. Make suggestions as to how they might be able to accommodate your wishes and how these can make your stay a little easier. Gentle reminders of your continued patronage, former patronage and the patronage of your firm, family and friends can assist. Being friendly, understanding of their limitations and paying a little extra can also assist.
 It isn't about people kowtowing to you and having them clap their hands for instant service just for you. VIP service is about service staff wanting to give you treatment that goes beyond the normal, including access to special packages or bonuses that the hotel has on offer. You will be treated as a VIP if you make others around you feel like VIPs too.
 If you want good treatment, treat people well. Give them decent tips. Not only that, give them compliments and notice things about them that they appreciate being acknowledged - tell them they have a great smile, that their service is above reproach and that they have been a total help to you. People like to hear that they are helpful, good and special.
 You are more likely to get VIP treatment if you are using more than just their accommodations service.
 VIP treatment at your average run-of-the-mill budget hotel just doesn't feature. Why should it? These places are no-frills and your expectation of getting VIP treatment as such places would be really unreasonable. Choose the right hotel where you know that VIP treatment is part of the deal.
 Being sullen, angry and irritable won't win you any prizes. Be gracious if things aren't quite the way that you expected but the hotel staff do their best to try to accommodate you. A small room tonight can turn into the palatial suite the next night if you have shown to them that you are good-natured, ready to forgo a little now for something better tomorrow. Your helpfulness will be remembered and rewarded; just as any difficult behavior will be remembered and acted upon.

