 It's impossible to determine with absolute certainty what the time signature of a song is just by listening to it. This is because a song can have the same sounds written different ways. But you can find what the most likely time signature is, which will work fine for the purpose of counting rhythms.First listen for the pulse of the song. Tap your foot or hand along with the song until you find what feels like the beat. This beat is what you will count as quarter notes.
Then try to recognize a repeating pattern in the song, such as a chord progression or a drum beat. These are the measures of the song.
Then count how many beats are in each measure. That will give you your time signature. For example, if you hear seven beats in every repeat of the chord progression you've got a time signature of 7/4.
 You can only realistically count the rhythm of one instrument at a time. If you're going to count the drums, you'll have to listen to all the different parts of the drums when you're counting. For most other instruments, you'll just count each note that's played.


For example, if you hear a bass drum hit followed by three snare hits, and each hit takes up one beat, you'll count that as "1 2 3 4".
 Different notes cover different lengths of time. The standard note is the quarter note. For most time signatures, the beats are measured in quarter notes.A half note is the length of two quarter notes.
A whole note is the length of four quarter notes.
An eighth note is half the length of a quarter note.
A dotted quarter note is the length of one quarter note and one eighth note.
A sixteenth note is 1/4th the length of a quarter note.
 Rhythms are commonly counted out loud as numbers, with each number representing a beat. For notes in between the beats, other words and sounds are used.For example, eighth notes in between beats are counted by saying "and". Eight eighth notes in a row would by counted as "1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and".
Sixteenth notes in between beats and in between eighth notes are commonly counted by saying "ee" and "ah". Eight sixteenth notes in a row would be counted as "1 e and a 2 e and a".
Use this information to count the rhythm that you hear in the music. If you're listening to a guitar melody, and you hear three quarter note long sounds followed by four sixteenth note long sounds, you'd count that as "1 2 3 4 e and a".

