 You don't want your hair to get horribly greasy between washings but washing your hair too often can also do a lot of damage. A healthy scalp is key to healthy hair growth. Shampoo strips the natural oils from your scalp, damaging one the key elements of a healthy scalp.


There is no need to wash your hair every day unless you have extremely high rates of oil production on your scalp.Consider skipping a day between washings to start. Ideally, you would take a few days off between shampooing.
If you want to shower every day, consider only shampooing every other time and just giving your hair a rinse with plain water the other time. This will allow the oils on your scalp to do their work but will also rinse any toxins from your hair.;
, We all want our hair to look nice and attractive but most people can do that without using a ton of hair products. Putting too much product in your hair can limit air flow to your scalp, lessening its ability to produce hair.


Some hair products come in a variety of thicknesses, for instance pomade. Try finding a thinner, lighter version than the one you are currently using. It will give you a little less hair control but will help your scalp get more air flow day to day.
 Brushing or combing will stimulate your hair follicles, as well as keeping your hair tangle free. However, it can be a huge cause of hair damage, thinning the hair you have.


Be sure to be gentle when brushing or combing your hair. Careless or vigorous brushing or combing can brake the strands of your hair.
Try to avoid brushing or combing you hair when it's wet. Your hair is weaker when it's wet, and so it can break much more easily. Brush your hair before you take a shower, so that it is detangled even before you wash it., You may think your hair is not growing fast but really it's that you are damaging the hair you have too quickly.


Avoid physical damage, for instance ironing and blow drying. This kind of physical damage can really impact the health of your existing hair and can deter new hair growth by damaging the scalp.
Avoid chemically damaging your hair. Try not to use cheap hair care products or hair coloring. Consult your hair care professional to find products that will give you the look you want but will not damage your hair. For instance, there are some "natural" hair dyes that are designed to be easier on hair.

