 It’s best if the whole family can be involved – mom, dad, sister, brother, even your dog. It’s the most fun if it’s in the evening because kids will think they are getting to “stay up late”. However, if you have young children or children with busy schedules, perhaps the movie shouldn’t run late into the night. Ending at 7:00 or as late as 8:30 is a good choice.;
, It doesn’t matter whether it’s the media room or living room. It should be a comfortable space with room for everyone to sit – preferably on a couch together. You don’t have to buy a huge TV; just something bigger than an iPod screen will work.
 Popcorn, by itself, is a light snack that everyone will enjoy. It’s good with M&Ms, but it’s up to you to decide what goes with it. You could even try cinnamon-sugar popcorn by first putting melted butter over the popcorn and then liberally sprinkling a container of cinnamon-sugar over it all. Eating snacks while watching a movie may be lazy, but it makes the evening 100% better. If the children are prone to fighting, you can give them individual bowls of popcorn. If kids are eating too fast, tell them there is plenty and that they need to slow down.
 (See “Tips” for suggest movies.) Ask for movie suggestions. Make sure it is age-appropriate. Your teenager may suggest a movie you aren’t comfortable with your kids seeing. It is perfectly fine to deny your teen that choice in a nice way. You can suggest that she make a more family-friendly selection, indicating that she gets another shot at choosing. If your children don’t agree on a movie or can’t choose one, make a few family friendly suggestions, preferably rated G or even PG, depending on how old your children are and how well they could handle a slightly more mature movie. Family movie night, with children, should not go above PG. You don’t want your child to have nightmares! Try to encourage a movie that none of you have seen before, or you haven’t seen in a long time. Films rated PG however, might not be suitable for children below age 10, so its recommended to see a G rated film if you have children under 10.
 This gives a sort of movie theatre illusion and makes the entire atmosphere much more fun. In addition, the TV screen is a lot brighter.
 Laugh with your children during hilarious scenes, but try not to talk to anyone during the movie; it’s distracting.
 Did they like it? Was it scary, sad, funny? Who was their favorite character? What was their favorite part? Children will enjoy talking about this and reviewing their favorite scenes – even reenacting them!

, You can simply talk about it or dig deeper into the subject – whatever you and your family is comfortable with.
