 Recovery from surgery can be a long process full of ups and downs. By focusing on positive things and not worrying too much about the negatives, you will build confidence in yourself.Each night before bed, have your parent or guardian remind you to write down in a journal at least one way you felt better or stronger that day. Keeping aware of progress in this way will help you to wake up the next day feeling more positive, and ready to build on yesterday’s successes.


Ask your doctor for a timeline of how you should be feeling and when you should start feeling better. Be aware that it can take time to start feeling better.
 Regardless of the reason for your brain surgery, you may have the thought that the operation was needed because of something you did. It is normal to feel sad and confused about what has happened, but there's no reason to feel that you are responsible for what led to the surgery.If you have epilepsy or had a brain tumor, even the doctors don’t know why you have this disease. If you had a traumatic brain injury, remember that accidents are never your fault.


Telling yourself that you could have done something differently to prevent what happened won't do anything good for you. Try to accept what happened just as part of who you are, and keep a positive attitude about your recovery.
 You may be prescribed steroids to bring down brain swelling. A common side effect of medicines such as Dexamethasone is feeling moody and acting up around your parent or guardian.Tell your parent or guardian that this inappropriate behavior should go away as you take less and less of the medication. If it continues after you're off steroids, have them contact your doctor, since this could be a sign of problems with your recovery.


Make sure your parent or guardian understands that if you're being moody or disobeying them, the medication could be the reason for it.
To help you calm down, talk about how you feel to an adult or a friend. Bad moods come and go, and talking about your feelings can help you feel better sooner.
 It might be tempting to want to hide away during your recovery because you feel awkward about your appearance, or just aren't feeling up to hanging out. But remember that your family and friends care about you and aren't going to judge you. They know you've been through a difficult experience, and want to help you in any way they can to get better faster. The best thing they can do is just spend time with you to cheer you up, so try to take advantage of any family gathering or visits from friends.
 If you notice anything from the following list of behaviors lasting for more than two weeks, or keeping you from doing everyday things, have your parent or guardian call your doctor about beginning mental health therapy: sleeping too much or not enough; feeling hopeless, afraid, or angry about the injury or illness; changes in weight or appetite; low energy; crying frequently, or being unable to cry; loss of interest in fun activities; or not wanting to talk about the illness or injury.Tell your parents right away, and have them seek help for your right away if you feel that life isn't worth living, or if you think about hurting yourself or others.

