 The aperture is the opening through which light enters your camera lens. Most cameras allow you to adjust your aperture in the settings.For photographing mountains, opt for a smaller aperture setting. This helps both mountain peaks and foregrounds to stay in focus.Aim for an aperture setting between f/11 and f/16.
Every camera is different. Consult your instructions manual to figure out how to change the settings on your camera.;
, Many people's instinct is to use the widest lens possible when shooting mountains. However, this is not necessary. A very wide lens avoids focusing on one mountain, which can fail to capture a mountain's size. This can also magnify the foreground over the mountain itself. Go for narrower lenses when shooting mountains.You can always experiment. If you're curious to see what a wide shot would look like, use a wider lens and then take a few shots with a narrower lens.
 Adjust your camera's polarizer between shots. Play around and experiment a little, opting to shoot the same scene through different lenses. This way, at the end of the day, you will have multiple pictures to choose from.If you know photoshop, it's easy to blend two exposures together to get the image you want.
 A small, lightweight tripod is necessary for the best mountain shots. You do not have to use it for every shot you take, but it can help steady the camera. Bring a tripod with you on a hike if you're going to be shooting mountains.Make sure the tripod is adjustable so you can shoot mountains from different angles.
 Before setting out to shoot mountains, do some basic planning. Check the weather forecast for that day to anticipate any conditions, like overcast skies, that can affect lighting. You should also look up how long a certain hike takes. If you want to shoot a particular mountain at sunset, for example, see how long it will take you to reach that mountain. This way, you can time your hike accordingly., Just before sunrise and sunset are known as the golden hours for mountain photography. They tend to provide the best light, as well as interesting colors and textures. Try to hit one of the golden hours when going out to photograph mountains.You can check online to see when the sun rises and sets in a given area. Try to be around the mountains during these times.
Keep in mind, tall mountain peaks sometimes block out sunrises and sunsets. Try talking to other photographers about the ranges you're photography and ask them about the best peaks to shoot during golden hour.
 Cloudy days do not mean you have to quit and go home. Clouds can add an interesting background. They can also provide a foreground when reflected through water. Experiment when you see clouds by taking some photographs that include them. You may find you like what you see., The one weather condition to avoid is wind. Very windy days will affect your ability to shoot lakes, often found in front of mountains. You will not be able to get any reflection unless the water is still. In general, opt out of shooting on windy days., If you're able to hit a mountain during a sunrise or sunset, you can get an array of colors this way. Sunrises and sunsets provides colors in the sky, which may be reflected in bodies of water or the mountains themselves. For the most colorful imagery, seek out light provide just before morning and just before nightfall., When hiking during the day, stop and notice the sun. Turn 90 degrees from wherever the sun is in the sky. The scene you see will be lighted by what is called side lighting. Shoot whatever scene is here. Side lighting generally solid and crisp lighting for mountain photographs.Experiment with different filters and lenses when shooting scenes using side lighting.
You may not get the exact shot you wanted relying on side lighting, but you may be surprised by some of the stunning images you find.
 If you're looking to convey the shape and form of mountains, opt for back lighting. Back lighting is provided when the sun is directly behind the mountains. This generally emphasizes the mountains themselves rather than the color of the scene. Often, you end up with a silhouette when leaning on backlighting.If you want to shoot with backlighting, aim to be in the mountains just before morning or just before sunset.
 Midday photographs provide overwhelming light as the mountains will be front lit. The color is generally neutral and the texture is not as intricate. Spend the midday hiking to the peaks you want to shoot around nightfall rather than taking pictures., Do not take the same pictures everyone takes. Lots of people shoot big landscapes or popular peaks in a particular range. Try to look for unique imagery. For example, focus your photo on something interesting in the foreground, like a plant, and use that to demonstrate the size of the mountain.Before going to a mountain range, look for amateur photos taken of the range online. You can find these on places like Flickr and Instagram. These will allow you to see what peaks, ranges, and angles have already been extensively photographed.
 A lower angle can make for an interesting perspective. Lower yourself and your tripod to the ground and angle the camera upward to capture a mountain. This can also help you find interesting foregrounds or frames for your photo.For example, you can shoot a mountain range through blades of grass.
 If you're hiking with others, include them in your photographs. This can show those viewing your photos how big the mountains are. Try, for example, photographing a few hikers as they approach a large mountain.