 You'll need cobblestone and a stick in order to make a switch. Sticks are made from wood, so you'll need that first. These are some of the most common materials in the game, so you are in luck!


Sticks are made by crafting planks (place one wood at the center of the crafting grid) and then placing two planks in the crafting window. One will be at the center and the other in the center-bottom position.
You can find cobblestone really easily in mines and often near lava sources as well.;
, Open your crafting table and place the cobblestone in the center-bottom position.
 Next, place the stick in the center position.
 The lever should now be showing in the completed item box. Take the lever by left or right-clicking on it and then placing it into your inventory.
 Right click with the lever selected in your inventory in order to place the lever. You will need to place the lever next to redstone, since the lever is used to control the current of the redstone.


Levers can be placed on the ground, wall, or a ceiling. They cannot be placed on snow, ice, or glowstone.
The orientation of the lever effects which position is considered on and which is considers off, so you may need to adjust the orientation to suit your needs.
 There are lots of different uses for a lever and much like the rest of Minecraft, you're mainly limited by your imagination. As long as you can find a use for the function of a lever, activating or deactivating a redstone current, then you can find a good use for a lever.


A lever provides a stable charge. It remains on or off until you actively press it again, unlike buttons, which switch themselves off. Levers are therefore useful when you need the switch to stay on, such as on a minecart track or for a lock you wished to keep locked.
Levers are usually used for controlling lights in houses or other buildings. You can also use them to control doors from afar.
Levers can be used in place of redstone, if you're running short (really only good for replacing one redstone). This is also helpful for letting you control the power current as well.
It is important to remember that mobs cannot activate levers unless you have some kind of mod that allows this.

