 If you do plan to tease your hair, you should do so in small sections to create the most volume. Depending on the amount of hair you have, you should plan on dividing the bump section into three or four layers. You will tease the two to three bottom layers of this hair, but leave the section closest to your face un-teased.You may want to separate the front section of your bump (the part that won't be teased) now in order to avoid accidentally pulling it into one of the other sections. You can twist it off to the side and secure it with a bobby pin to keep to separated.
 Hold the bump section of your hair straight up and separate the bottom layer of hair for teasing. You can let the other layers of the bump fall forward or to the side, but keep holding the layer you are working with straight up. To tease, use your other hand to comb your hair backwards from the ends to the roots with a fine-toothed comb. Before letting go of your hair, spray underneath this layer with some hairspray.It's best to allow your hairspray to set for approximately five to 10 seconds before you release your hair. Then you can gently flip the portion of hair back toward the back of your head.
Once you're done teasing, your hair should have quite a bit of volume to it. If you want it to stand up even higher, tease it some more. Don't worry if it looks messy, as you will be combing un-teased hair on top of it.
You shouldn't need to use very much hairspray. A quick spray should be fine.
 Once the first layer of your bump has been teased, continue using the same method to tease the remaining layers. (You will have one or two more layers, depending on the thickness of your hair.) Remember to keep the front section of your bump separated and un-teased.Keep in mind that the more you tease your hair, the sturdier your bump will be, but your hair will also be knottier.
 This step is optional, but some people like to create their hair bump with the help of a bump tool. Bump tools are small pieces of plastic that you can place between the teased layers of your hair to add more volume to your bump hairstyle. They are available online and at many retail stores. They come in different sizes to create large and small bumps. To insert the bump tool, simply separate the teased section of your hair into two halves and place the bump tool on your scalp between the two layers, right near the roots of your hair. You may have to wiggle the bump tool a little to help the plastic teeth stick to your hair.
Use your fingers to spread out the top section of your teased hair so that it completely covers the bump tool. The bump tool should be hidden by your hair.
You can use a comb to lightly comb your hair over the bump tool, and spray a little bit of hairspray to keep everything in place. Your teased hair covering the bump tool doesn’t need to look perfect because you are going to cover it with your un-teased portion of hair.
 Whether you use a bump tool or not, when all of your teased portions of hair are flipped back, flip the smooth, un-teased section of hair over the teased portions. The teased portions of your hair will be poofed up and high. (That is where the bump look comes from.) Use your fingers to evenly spread your hair out, and lightly comb over your hair to smooth everything over.Don’t comb over your smooth portion of hair using a lot of pressure, or you may flatten out your voluminous bump.
 When you are satisfied with your bump, insert bobby pins at the base of the bump from both the right and left sides to secure it in place. You may want to use two or more bobby pins on each side to make sure your bump doesn’t move around.You can use an elastic hair tie to secure the bump, but bobby pins allow your hair to naturally fall down the back of your head, whereas a hair tie will put your hair in a small ponytail.
To get more height in your bump, consider pinching the base of the bump, and pushing the bump forward slightly, to give it more height.
Your hairstyle can be complete with a bump as is, or you can curl the ends of your hair to give your style a softer look.

