 Trusts are created with written agreements. Within the agreement, the settlor (i.e., the decedent) gives up title to assets to the trust. The trust is managed by the trustee (you) for the benefit of beneficiaries.When you become the trustee of a trust, read the trust document and work to understand your role. The trust agreement will have important information about your role as trustee, the role of other parties (e.g., lawyers and accountants), and the terms under which you will have to make distributions.For example, the trust might state that you will need to manage trust assets for the benefit of the decedent's children so the children will have income for life. In this situation, you might be required to invest trust assets so they can grow and last through the children's lifetime. In addition, under the terms of this type of trust, you will be required to make periodic distributions to the children so they have an income source.
 The decedent settlor cannot hold trust property in their own name. Therefore, when you become the trustee of the trust, you will have to make sure the trust assets have transferred ownership into your name, as trustee for the trust. Do not transfer title to yourself in your personal capacity. Different types of assets will have to be transferred in different ways. For example:Real property will need to be transferred using an affidavit of death and consent of the settlor. When you record these documents, along with a copy of the death certificate, title will transfer from the decedent to you as trustee. You might also need to fill out a preliminary change of ownership form with the county recorders office. This document will inform the county recorder that you are transferring title.
Other assets, including bank accounts and investment accounts, will need to be transferred into your name as trustee. To do this, you will need to take a copy of the trust document and death certificate to the bank where the funds are held. The bank will transfer ownership into a trust account in your name.
To open the trust account, you will need to provide the bank with a tax identification number (TIN), which is similar to a personal Social Security number. You can obtain a TIN by contacting the IRS. The IRS will ask you for your personal information as well as your reason for needing a TIN. Once you complete the application you will receive a TIN., Once all the assets have been transferred into the trust, you need to contact all the beneficiaries. Their names (or titles) will be listed in the trust. For example, the trust might state that the beneficiaries are actual people (e.g., John Smith, Sally May, and Trevor Walsh). On the other hand, the trust might state that the beneficiaries are a group of people (e.g., my children, my grandchildren, or my spouse).


Once you have ascertained to identity of the beneficiaries, send them a formal letter notifying them that an event has triggered distribution and that you, as trustee, are beginning that process., Before you start distributing property, make sure you know exactly what assets are in the trust. Asset values may have changed since you placed them in the trust. Each asset in the trust should have a value and status listed with it.For example, the inventory might be a spreadsheet with the assets identity, the value of that asset, where that asset is located, and where it will be distributed.
 When you officially transfer title to trust assets to beneficiaries, you will do so by transferring title from the trust to the beneficiary. To distribute a particular asset to a particular beneficiary, read the trust document to determine which beneficiary needs to get which asset. Once you know the decedent's wishes, you will transfer title in various ways depending on the type of asset you are working with.To transfer a bank account to a beneficiary, you will need to provide the bank with the beneficiary's personal information. When you do this, the bank will transfer ownership to the beneficiary.
To transfer real property, you will prepare a new deed with the beneficiary's name on it. You will give that deed to the beneficiary and make sure it gets recorded.
To transfer personal property you might have to complete a deed of distribution, which is a document you can give the beneficiary evidencing their ownership interest in the distributed asset.

