 The ripeness of your chosen orange will play a major part in how easy it is to peel. When selecting the perfect orange for peeling, look for one with a bright orange color, which is pretty firm and heavy for its size.Try to avoid older fruit with wrinkled or bruised skin, as it will be harder to peel and will not taste as good.
Oranges which are still slightly green or light orange in color may be slightly unripe and will be harder to peel as the skin will stick tightly to the fruit.;
, This step is completely optional, but some people claim that rolling the orange before peeling helps to loosen the skin, while also making the fruit extra juicy! To roll the orange, rest it on a flat surface and place an open palmed hand on top. Apply a light pressure and roll the orange for 10-15 seconds. Just don't press too hard - you don't want to squish your orange!








, Try to make the puncture near the top or bottom of the orange, rather than around the sides. This is because the skin along the sides of the orange is thinner and adheres more tightly to the fruit. The looser and thicker skin at the top of the orange will come away more easily and is less prone to breaking.









Some people advocate using your four fingernails to make the initial puncture, but this is more awkward and gets too much skin under your fingernails!
Letting the nail of your thumb grow a little longer than the rest of your fingernails may also help with your orange peeling.
 Work the nail of your thumb under the orange skin until you have a good grip on it. Try not to puncture the fruit, as the juice will escape and make your hand sticky!









Hold the orange over a plate in case you do happen to puncture the skin. This will make cleanup easier after you are finished peeling. Alternatively, a piece of paper towel will do the trick.
 The bigger the section you tear off, the quicker all the skin will be removed. You can work from top to bottom or around the sides. It's up to you.
 It should be much easier now that you have already taken some of the peel off.









Once you become really skilled at orange peeling, you may be able to peel an orange in one peel. This is achieved by tearing the skin off in a circular motion around the circumference of the orange, until you're left with the fruit in one hand and the twisted, snakelike peel in the other!

,,,