 It can be tempting to order take out at the end of a long day, or buy lunch out during a stressful work week. However, this can get expensive with time. You should work on eating most of your meals at home. Spending $40 to $50 on groceries for the week is much less expensive than spending between $10 and $20 a few days a week eating out.Try to plan meals for the week. On Sunday, for example, you can make a big batch of something like soup of casserole. You can eat this for lunch each week, bringing a Tupperware container to the office.
Plan dinners as well. If you don't like to cook, keep it simple. You can do breakfast for dinner, and make yourself a quick omelet. You can also make an easy, healthy sandwich with whole wheat bread, veggies, and lean proteins.
 Certain items may be cheaper to buy in bulk. Some warehouse stores specialize in selling certain items in bulk. At the beginning of each month, try stocking up on paper towels or toilet paper. You should also look into purchasing non-perishable foods, like beans and rice, in bulk. If you always have basic food staples and kitchen and bathroom supplies on hand, you'll save yourself an extra $5 to $10 making these purchases during your regular shopping trip.
 Many ATMs have a fee or surcharge when you withdraw money. While this is usually only $3 to $5, it can add up if you're using the ATM a lot. Try to find ATMs associated with your bank, which you can usually do with the assistance of a smart phone. You can also get cash back at the register when checking out at many locations, allowing you to avoid ATMs altogether.
 Oftentimes, people go shopping out of boredom. You may have a few hours to kill in the afternoon, so you head to your favorite store to browse outfits. Shopping for fun is a temptation it's better to avoid, however, as you'll end up spending on things you do not really need or want. A new shirt may seem like a worthy investment in the moment, but be honest with yourself. Do you really need another shirt? Is this really worth the extra $20?If recreational shopping is something you really enjoy, there are ways to fit it into a healthy budget. You could agree to shop recreationally once a month, and make sure you do not go over your clothing budget for that month. This way, you'll get to do something you enjoy without ruining your budget.
 Specialized products are probably best avoided. While it may be convenient to have an ice cream scooper, can't you save $10 and just use a spoon? You don't need to buy a special tool to peel an orange when you can just use your hands. These are the kinds of items it can be fun to get as a gift, but are probably unnecessary to buy for yourself., A list is a great way to cut down on spending at a grocery store. If you shop with a list, and do not deviate, you'll be far less likely to make impulse buys. Each time you go grocery shopping, write down a list on a piece of paper or on your phone. Do not purchase items that deviate from this list.

