 Some dogs are equipped for cold weather, such as Alaskan huskies. Other dogs, particularly small dogs, have more trouble in cold and snow. A vest can help keep your dog warm in bad conditions. You can also add reflective tape to the vest for visibility.Look for vests online or in your local pet store.;
, Not all dogs will wear a rain jacket, but it can help keep them dry when you're out in bad weather. Most pet stores sell rain jackets for dogs, and you can also find them online., Ice and snow can be hard on your dog's paws, especially if you're walking in areas where there might be salt on the ground. To protect your dog's paws, consider using dog boots or paw wax. Dog boots are exactly what they sound like, shoes for your dogs. For most dogs, wearing shoes will take some getting used to, so practice inside first by putting your dog's boots on at slowly increasing intervals.Try applying a bit of paw wax nightly. One way to make it easier is to wait until your dog dozes off next to you. Keep treats nearby, and put one in front of your dog's nose, then gently massage the wax into each paw. When your dog wakes up, it will be distracted by the treat, plus you can offer more as needed. You should build up a good layer to help protect your dog's feet, but you may need to work up to doing all your dog's paws., When it's raining or snowing, your dog will be less visible to traffic. A reflective collar, found at pet stores or online, can help. You can also simply add reflective tape to your dog's collar. Either way, making your dog more visible will keep it safer.You can also add a flashing light instead., Like your dog's collar, the leash should also be reflective, making it more visible in bad conditions. You can buy leashes that are already reflective or add reflective tape to make them more visible., In low visibility, such as when it's raining or snowing, you won't be able to see your dog as well. If it escapes the leash, you'll want to be sure your dog has information on it that will allow it to be returned to you.Reflective tags add another layer of visibility.
 If at all possible, stick to areas where there's less traffic. Cars can give dog some anxiety. Plus, if there are puddles, you and the dog will get splashed, which can cause chaos, particularly if your dog isn't a fan of water. Therefore, it's best to pick a less-traveled route if possible., Some pets have a hard time getting through big mounds of snow, so try to shovel a pathway if you think your dog will have issues. In addition, they may slip and slide if it's icy underneath (and so will you), so it's best to make a clear pathway where you can melt the ice., Just like you, your dog can slip on the ice. It's best to melt any ice on pathways and stairways around your house. However, you shouldn't use salt, as that can irritate your pet's paws. Instead, stick to pet-safe ice melts, which you can find in some big-box stores, pet stores, and online., It can be easy to think that your dog's waste will just disappear with the snow or rain. Often, though, it doesn't, leaving waste around when the snow melts, which is unsanitary and encourages cross-contamination of germs among dogs (who like to sniff what's around). Just like any other time of year, pick up after your dog by carrying plastic bags with you., If your dog jumped around in mud puddles, try rinsing your dog off outside with a hose if it's not too cold. If it is cold, try wiping your dog off with warm, wet towels just inside the door to get the worst of the mud off., Whether it's snowy or rainy, your dog is likely to get wet on the walk. Make sure you have towels ready by the door so you can dry off your dog the instant you get home. It will keep the mess out of your home and make sure your dog is dry and warm., It's a good idea to also have your dog's hairdryer by the door when you come in. That way, you can dry your dog off with towels, then finish the job with the hairdryer, making sure you dog is thoroughly dry., If your dog won't wear boots, it's a good idea to wipe off its paws when it gets home. In winter, you'll find there may be extra chemicals on the roads and sidewalk, and your dog could lick them off its paws. It's best to give your dog's paws a quick wipe down with a warm, wet rag when you get home., When out in extreme temperatures, your dog is at risk for frostbite (just like you). Frostbitten skin will be pale and cold (even after being inside awhile), though it may also swell and turn red. Check your dog's nose, tail, ears, and foot pads in particular.If you suspect frostbite, use warm (not hot) water on the area as well as blankets (not electric). Contact your vet if the condition seems severe.

