 It takes a lot of energy to bring water from rivers, groundwater, or whatever your local water source is into your home. Water must be pumped to a treatment plant, filtered and treated with chemicals to clean it, then pumped into your neighborhood so you can use it home. Saving as much water as possible reduces the stress this whole process puts on natural bodies of water in the environment.Here are a few ways to conserve water:


Use the low-water dishwashing method. Instead of having the water running the whole time, fill one sink with hot soapy water, then turn off the water and scrub the dishes. Dip them into a second sink filled with clean water, then dry and store them.
Install a low-flow shower head and take short showers. Long showers and baths use a lot more water.
Use water-saving appliances, like a dishwasher and washing machine.
Fix leaks in your pipes so water isn't constantly coming out.
Don't leave water running while you brush your teeth.
Don’t water your lawn. Let rain do the work instead of pumping clean water into your front lawn. If it's legal in your area, save grey water or collect water rain barrel to use. If you want a green lawn, plant native plants or low-water plants like moss instead.;
, Chemicals washed down the drain or applied directly to the grass can taint the water supply, causing problems for wildlife and humans alike. Figure out which chemicals you can replace with something else so you can avoid washing toxins down the drain.


Use alternative cleaning solutions. Try white vinegar and baking soda to clean your kitchen and bathroom.
Reconsider your personal body care items. Replace shampoos, conditioners and soaps with natural versions. Your body will thank you, too.
Try natural pesticides and herbicides. Instead of spraying for weeds, try planting native species that naturally take care of the problem.
 Paint, motor oil, ammonia, and other strong chemical solutions should not be dumped down the drain or into the yard, because they'll seep into the groundwater. These items need to be disposed of properly. Check your local sanitation department's website to find out how to dispose of hazardous waste. You may be instructed to take them to a toxic waste site for proper disposal.
 Changing your personal habits regarding water and chemical usage is a great first step. By conserving water in an everyday way, you're doing your part and setting a good example for other people. But to truly make an impact, consider taking your efforts a step further. Here are a few ways to do it:


Participate in a waterways clean-up day. If there's a local stream, river or beach that's littered with trash or polluted, there's probably a local water conservation group trying to clean it up. Next time there's a clean up day, join in. And if you can't find a group, organize one yourself!
Speak up against water polluters. Thanks to loose governmental regulations, our waterways are often polluted with industrial waste dumped by corporations. Oil and chemical dumping kills aquatic life and the surrounding environment, and it makes water unsafe for people to drink as well. Investigate to see if there's a campaign for clean water in your area, and sign up to help however you can.

