 You'll need to find out whether they prefer leather or canvas ballet shoes. It's also possible that the school requires a certain color, although soft pink is the standard color.


Do you want leather, canvas or satin shoes? Each has advantages and drawbacks and while the leather ones are likely to last the longest, all end up taking a beating from the dance work. Consider much care each shoe type requires, what your dance school recommends and your budget.;
, You can find sizing charts online, often on the website of the store you're purchasing from. It can be helpful to have checked there before going shopping. When in the ballet supplies store, they'll have a sizing chart for you to check and you can also ask the sales assistant for specific measuring help.


Usually ballet slippers will run one to three sizes smaller than the size of your street shoe. However, it varies from manufacturer to manufacturer, so it's recommended that you try on the shoes before deciding what your size is. The charts are an indicator, not the final word.
Buying online the first time is not recommended, unless it's a really good cheap deal on used shoes where you don't stand to lose much money if they're not suitable.
 Stand in your slippers and do a few pliés and some releves. If the shoes don't feel perfect when doing typical ballet movements, you will need to keep trying other pairs until you find the one that works.
 You must sew these yourself; this helps to fit the shoes to your foot.

There are two popular ways to sew on these elastics. One way is two have a single elastic straight across the top of your foot. Another is to have two elastics crossed over your foot.
 There is usually a drawstring to pull but don't pull it too tightly. There should not be any wrinkling of the shoe; the drawstring just neatens the look and forms to shape around your foot.
 You may get lucky, and no more adjustment to your shoe will be needed. But if the shoe fits generally but still needs some comfort shaping, proceed to the next step., If you feel your leather soft ballet shoes don't fit as well as you'd like them to, try this trick (do not' try this trick with satin or canvas shoes):

Fill a regular spray-bottle with rubbing alcohol, slightly diluted with water.
Whilst wearing your shoes, lightly spray them with the alcohol.
Start pressing all over the shoe with your hands, shaping them to your foot. Pay particular attention to the arch.
Do not take the shoes off until they are completely dry. When you do take them off, they will be better shaped to your foot.







