 If you have a personal Facebook in addition to your Page, be sure to regularly link to your Page from your personal timeline. This reminds your friends that you have that Page, and if they like or share content from it, their friends will see it, too., Facebook ads are not free, but people who have used them regularly claim that they can increase traffic to their Page in such a way that the ads basically pay for themselves. Creating ads can be pretty time intensive, though, so make sure you’re committed to this before you try it.You’ll need to consider what type of editing software you want to use for the ad, what your target audience is, how much you’re willing to spend, and what you want the ad to say. Facebook will ask you to input all of this information in the Ads Manager for your page., If you want your Facebook Page to become famous, you can’t just promote in on Facebook! Use other social media – Twitter, Tumblr, Instagram – to share your Page.


Linking to specific Facebook content – a contest, a video, a photo – can help generate traffic for that particular post.
You can also include your Facebook Page information in your other social media profiles by linking to it in your Twitter or Instagram bio. This gets more people to your Page in general., A good way to expose your Page to more people is by asking the followers you already have to share the Page. You can do this by promoting certain hashtags related to your current content, or asking followers to tag your Facebook Page in photos related to it (for example, if you hosted an event). This way you might be able to reach all of your followers’ followers., Most people who use social media to promote their businesses or websites or blogs are happy to help out other social media users. Share other Pages that you like or are interested in, and chances are they’ll share your Page right back.You can also make this arrangement more official by asking other Pages to do a share swap – specifically say “I’d love it if we could help each other out by sharing one another’s Pages! I’m willing to share two of your posts a week if you’re willing to share two of my posts a week. What do you think?”

, Some people might find your website – if you have one – before they find your Facebook Page. Embedding some of Facebook’s plug-ins on your website can help increase traffic to your Facebook Page and make it famous.


CTAs (calls to action) are a good place to start. A CTA plug-in allows your readers to like or follow your page with one click from your website.You can also integrate the comments feature using a plug-in on your website. This allows users to comment on a Facebook post about certain content right from your website, if you have one., You can also share your Facebook Page by kicking it old school. Make sure the url for your Facebook is printed on any hard copy media you have – posters, business cards, newsletters, etc. This way, even if someone hasn’t looked you up online, they still know how to find your Page on Facebook.