 Running or walking barefoot on an uneven, grassy surface can evenly strengthen and condition all five muscles in your calves and shins simultaneously.You should only do this when it's relatively warm outside. Keep in mind the ground is often going to be colder than the outside air temperature, and you lose a lot of body heat through your feet.
Make sure the surface is relatively well-maintained and free of debris. Athletic fields or golf courses can be good options.
Start slow, going no more than a half-mile (about 800 meters) to start. This will give your legs, feet, and ankles time to adjust to walking or running barefoot.
 Incline and hill work exercise your tibialis anterior to a degree that running or walking on a flat surface cannot, because your toes are higher than your heels. Since you're running or walking at a slower rate of speed, you also decrease your risk of injury because you have more control over your form.If you live in a relatively hilly area, adding incline work to your cardio routine can be as simple as making sure your walking or running route includes several hills.
In a gym, increase the incline on a treadmill to simulate walking or running on a hill.
Make sure you warm up your muscles by walking or running on a flat surface for 5 to 10 minutes before going into any incline or hill work.
 Jumping rope is a good conditioning exercise that works your entire body as well as conditioning the muscles in your shins and calves, including your tibialis anterior. A fitness jump rope is a relatively inexpensive exercise tool that you can find in any sporting goods store.You can add jumping rope to your overall regimen and do it for five to ten minutes, then rest for a minute or two.
Another option is to add jump-rope intervals of 30 seconds to a minute in between strength-training exercises. These can be especially beneficial to continue to condition the muscles in your lower legs even while doing upper body exercises.
 Walking or skipping on your toes works all the muscles in your lower leg, particularly your calves. This conditioning exercise also gives you a good cardiovascular workout, and can be used as a warm-up before lower-leg strength training or stretching.If you're adding this exercise as an interval to your workout regime, you can go for a set period of time (such as 5 or 10 minutes), or for a set distance (no more than 20 meters or about 65 feet per interval).
 This activity provides intense exercise for your tibialis anterior, as your feet are in the same position they would be in if you were doing toe raises to strengthen your shin muscles.As an interval, do this for 5 to 10 minutes in between other strength-training exercises. Try to place a heel-walking interval between exercises that don't focus on your lower legs.
You also can add heel walking to your regimen as an exercise in and of itself. Try to walk on your heels for about 20 meters or 65 feet to start, increasing your distance incrementally with each workout session.

