 Let them cool.;
,


Stack the squares on top of each other. This will give you the base of the cake.
Shape the base by shaving gently with the knife down each side of the layered squares. Shape the base as shown in the picture here:

, The cakes need to be the appropriate size to continue creating the narrowing shape that approximates the shape of the real Eiffel Tower.


After you cut the three squares, stack them and then shape them as shown below. Ensure that there is a gradual narrowing to the top layer, using the image as a guide:

, A crumb coat is a light coating of butter cream icing. Do this for both the base and the middle section. Only the base is shown below:

, Color and then roll out the gray fondant. Then cover the entire base of the cake with the fondant.


Cut out the gray fondant to make arches on all four sides as shown below.
Use a red fondant for the middle sections.
Use a model kit knife to slice through the fondant. Do not worry about matching the fondant edges to each other exactly as these will be covered with a border in the next step.
 This covers any gaps you have between the red and gray fondant.


It is important note at this time that you do not need to worry about any small bumps or blunders with the base. As the cake progresses, the small bumps and blunders will be hidden.
 You can use a different pattern and color for the border if you want.
 Using the gray butter cream, start with the base and pipe as shown below. You can use freehand when piping, however, you could also use a guide by using a straight edge pressing in on the fondant and then piping over the creases. Use the image below as a guide:

, Make sure you use dowels and cake pads between the two sections to ensure stability. As you can see now, the cake is starting to take shape:

, You could use Rice Krispie treats covered in fondant as well. Make sure you have a dowel protruding from the top portion so you can attach it to the middle section. After covering the Styrofoam in fondant, continue to pipe it with the gray butter cream as shown in the picture below.
 Finally, you will need to assemble the top section to the base and the middle section. Your final cake should look like the image below:

