


Each state is responsible for regulating cosmetic treatments like laser hair removal. Some states do not require a licensed doctor to perform the procedure or even oversee the treatment. Look for a clinic where a doctor is responsible for the procedures that are performed, even if an experienced technician is the one who actually provides the treatment.;
,


There are many types of lasers used for cosmetic procedures today. Ask if the clinic you choose uses an FDA-approved tool specifically designed for laser hair removal.



Laser hair removal providers should be willing to show new patients licensing documentation from the state where they work. Ask how long they have been performing laser hair removal and how many procedures like yours they have performed. Find out if the technicians participate in ongoing training to keep up with the latest advances in laser treatment.
Membership in professional organizations like The American Society for Laser Medicine and Surgery (ASLMS), the National Council on Laser Excellence (NCLE) or the International Aesthetic and Laser Association (IALA) is not required, but it does show the technician or doctor maintains standards of excellence in his work, as set by the association.



Many doctors that specialize in cosmetic treatments offer before and after photos of previous patients to prospective clients. This gives patients a realistic idea of the results they can expect and showcases the doctor or technician's work in this area.



A visit to the clinic or doctor's office provides the opportunity to ask the laser hair removal provider questions in person, visit with the office staff and receive and overview of the specific procedure you are requesting. Consultations are typically free of charge at most reputable laser clinics today.
When you go in for your initial consultation, take a list of questions that include the experience of the technician, the treatment you would receive, and how to prepare for the procedure. Beware of any clinic that promises "permanent" hair removal results. While this procedure does significantly reduce unwanted hair, it is not considered a permanent hair removal procedure by the FDA and subsequent sessions may be required to maintain results.



Ask about the cost of the procedure before you schedule your appointment. Since some laser treatments require more than one session, get a price estimate that includes all the sessions you need to achieve desired results.



Because laser hair removal is considered a cosmetic procedure, it is rarely covered by insurance plans. Doctors and clinics often provide financing options to make the procedure more affordable to patients.

