 Or simply go into Panama City or Penanome and watch one in progress; there are many impromptu events going on in Panama all over the country.


Do your research. Where are the parades? Where are the Tipicos? Do you have any Panamanian friends you can go with or a crowd of people you can go with to stay safer and more protected? If you do, take advantage of that and join a group rather than go alone. You are a greater target when you are alone, especially if you're female. This is simply a male based society so if you're female you have to be a bit more careful.;
, Make sure you can walk and stand in your shoes for extended periods of time without discomfort. It gets hot!

, There are people who wait as long as two hours to catch a bus.
 For families Penanome is great, for singles, Panama City as is the beach, consider visiting Coronado or Chame. For an LGBT friendly location go to Las Tables. The further in the Interior you go, the more celebrations you will find. The wealthy tend to go to the beach (it's very expensive and prestigious), the average person tends to go into the Interior.


Do not wear high heels all day. The roads and sidewalks are not smooth, they are uneven and bumpy and the perfect way to twist an ankle and fall or worse. Wear comfortable shoes that you can go anywhere in.
 When you have your wallet in your back pocket it's very easy for someone to grab it and run. Buy one of those belts or wrist bands with hidden pockets. And only carry a small amount of cash and one credit card.
 In Panama the police can stop you any time and ask for your passport; if you don't have it they can give you a very expensive ticket. Any photocopy of your passport must include your entry stamp, too.


This is especially important when you drive because you can only drive in Panama on a visitors permit for three months.
 Avoid wearing anything expensive, especially necklaces, which can be grabbed and broken while the thief passes by. And with the crowds so thick,  trying to find someone who robbed you can be impossible.
 If you're a woman, wear a purse that is small and a crossbody so that it can be worn so that it's tucked under your arm. If it has a metal strap all the better; that makes it harder to break or cut.
 It's very easy to get caught up in the dancing and excitement and stop drinking water. Drink more than usual because of the heat and increased activity. You will feel better, have less muscle soreness and just generally be able to be out longer.


Even if you're primarily drinking alcohol, because it is a party after all, switch out and make every other drink water. One glass of alcohol, one glass of water. It will help you stay hydrated, but it will also help you so that you don't get so drunk.
 It can be very peligroso, or dangerous, to be intoxicated in a strange place with people you don't know. It's important to stay aware of your surroundings and keep safe.
 As part of Carnival, people will randomly throw eggs, often mixed with water and dirt on you indiscriminately. It's not personal; it's a custom. And one you may not want to partake in. If you're aware of your surroundings you can often avoid being a victim.


Also, close your car windows in certain areas when you see people with eggs; they will throw them in your car. Be sure to duck if anyone throws something at you!
This custom is expected by Panamanians, Americans may not be quite so enthusiastic. However, if it appeals to you, by all means, partake!

, You may want to wear a swimsuit under your clothing, or consider wearing a swimsuit with shorts or a skirt. Many women wear them out during the day rather than regular clothes. At night it's more dressy, but still a tradition to be sprayed by water, so be careful!

