 Whether you’re writing the next Great American Novel or a scientific journal article, becoming familiar with examples of excellent writing in your genre will help you improve your own writing. Read and understand the works of great and influential writers to learn what is possible with the written word and what readers respond to best. By immersing yourself in works by good writers, you will expand your vocabulary, build knowledge, and feed your imagination.Look for different ways of organizing a piece of writing or presenting a narrative.
Try comparing different author's approaches to the same subject to see how they are alike and how they differ. For example, Tolstoy's Death of Ivan Ilych, and Hemingway's The Snows of Kilimanjaro.
Remember that even if you’re writing nonfiction or academic writing, reading examples of great writing will improve your own. The more familiar you are with the many ways it’s possible to communicate ideas, the more varied and original your own writing can become.
 You might not realize it, but books, movies and other media are filled with references and homages to great literature. By reading some classics, you will build a body of cultural knowledge that will better inform your own writing.
 It's possible to read a novel like The Catcher in the Rye and not "get it" or see its value immediately. If this happens, try reading an essay or two about the piece to learn why it was so influential and effective. You may discover layers of meaning that you missed. Understanding what makes great writing great is one of the best ways to grow your own skills.


This applies for nonfiction and academic writing too. Take some examples of work by well-respected authors in your field and take them apart. What do they have in common? How do they work? What are they doing that you could do yourself?

, Plays were written to be performed. If you find that you just don’t “get” a work of literature, find a performance of it. If you can’t find a performance, read the work aloud. Get yourself into the heads of its characters. Listen to how the language sounds as you read it.


More than a movie ever can be, a theatrical performance is like words come to life, with only the director's interpretation and the actor's delivery as filters between the author's pen and your ears.
 Literature isn't the only place to get ideas—the real world is filled with fascinating people, places and events that will inspire your writerly mind. A great writer is in touch with the important issues of the day.
 It happens all the time: you finish an awesome novel, and it leaves you fired up to get cracking on your own writing. But when you sit down at your desk, your words come out sounding unoriginal, like an imitation of the author you were just reading. For all you can learn from great writers, you need to be able to develop your own voice. Learn to cleanse your palate of influences with a free writing exercise, a review of your past works, or even just a meditative jog.

