 Clear the clutter and you may begin to find peace.;
, Not only will you start feeling more Zen, you will also most likely work at a more efficient level if your work isn’t strewn across your desk. Begin by creating small piles of work––items you're currently working on, items you've completed and items that should be archived. Create a pile for non-work related paperwork or items on the floor in your space to eliminate them from the work area.


Add an organizational system to your desktop. Purchase on your own or talk to your purchasing manager about getting an organizational system for your cube. Whether it’s file cabinets or an in/out box, address the amount of paperwork and other items housed in your cube in order to find each pile a specific home. Also, any extraneous items that detract from your work focus should be either brought home or placed in an area away from your immediate work space. Not only will doing so reduce clutter but it'll also help free yourself from the panic brought on by looking for lost information.
 The IBM Corporation has a clean desk policy where employees must clear and secure all paperwork and items by the end of the day. Whether your company mandates this type of policy or not, subscribe to having a clean desk by the time you leave work, so that when you arrive in the morning the tone is set for a peaceful day (what happens after you arrive, however, is anyone’s guess).
 Lighting can have a serious impact on overall mood. Harsh fluorescent lights may be “shining” down on you, but you don’t have to live completely with the imposed stark environment. To improve the lighting as best you can, here are some suggestions:

, Purchase a small lamp that is compatible with a low wattage bulb like a 40 watt. Place the lamp near your computer or workspace to create a softer flood of light. Angle it to fall where it lights your work but does not bother your eyes. After you've added a lamp, you'll wonder how you managed before––this personal light source will improve your sense of the lighting considerably and you may not even notice the fluorescent lights anymore.


It is not unknown for some workers to dress their cubicle with little fairy lights on a cord. These are for effect rather than useful light but they can look very effective, especially during the darker months.
Add a small real or fake fish tank with light. If you have room, a small fish tank or even a lava lamp can create a groovy, peaceful environment. Choose a warm colored light such as orange or red to bathe the area in soft, mood soothing lighting. Just be cautious in a conservative workplace though––lava lamps might not be viewed as compatible with taking the work seriously.
 It may be as simple as changing the angle of your cubicle, or it may be as complicated as shifting you somewhere else. But raising it is important if it matters to you––stewing about your sallow complexion and miserable positioning won't change anything. Ask nicely and you might receive.
 After you’ve cleared your space, consider re-populating it with a few choice, meaningful pieces from home. Make sure you have room for a few items and that any picture frames or toys from home won’t add more clutter to your space. When dressing up your cubicle sanctuary, remember that less is always more but a homely touch will increase your sense of belonging. Here are some sanctuary-inducing additions to your space:


Family and pet photos. One of the best ways to add warmth and personality to your cube is to place a few family and pet photos in your area. Consider adding your favorite photo next to your computer or workstation and then a few smaller framed photos on shelves. It'll cheer you to see these faces regularly and family members and pets always make great talking points with coworkers.
 If you have room, a nice green plant can remove the sterility from a cubicle environment. Select a plant that requires very little maintenance or go for a realistic silk plant. You'll also need a mist spray bottle for regular watering.
 Is the office chair uncomfortable or perhaps it feels cold in the morning? Add a small throw blanket or pillow from home to make your space more inviting. Choose a color that makes you feel peaceful or energized.
 Images of your favorite vacation spots, outdoor areas and beautiful scenes can brighten up a cubicle space and remind you to plan that next vacation!


Inspirational or motivational posters can create a sense of harmony too. Find a phrase or an image with a quote that brightens your day and let everyone else enjoy it too by pinning it up. A nice phrase is one from Dr. Jill Bolt Taylor that requests: "Please take responsibility for the energy you bring into this place." And, of course, you can't go past the perennial phrase "Think Outside the Box."

, Since you're working in a cube, be conscious that others can hear any sounds coming from your area and they deserve their own cube sanctuary too. Before you add anything that makes sound, check with your neighbors and the boss to ensure you have the “go ahead” to proceed. Here are some additions that might work for you:


Small fountain. Home decor stores sell small water fountains that can be placed on a shelf, providing the restful sounds of running water. Fountains range in size, with the smallest being able to fit in the palm of your hand, making it very unobtrusive.
Sounds of the ocean or other natural sounds. Numerous New Age or nature sounds CDs can be purchased to conjure up the sounds of the ocean, running water, birdsong or children at play. You could play the CD during stressful times during the day or while you are taking your break and need to relax. Bring along headphones if playing the sounds on low still irritates your neighboring coworkers.
Small rotating fan. Talkative neighbors or loud noises around your cube? Don’t let exterior noises add stress to your day––consider adding a rotating fan that provides white noise and a little extra air. However, if you plan to include a fan, point it toward the wall of your cube so it doesn’t blow papers across the room.
 Not every workplace will allow this suggestion, so it's for the more enlightened or creative place (in which case, you might have an open-space desk rather than a cubicle) but if you can, the addition of some fish in a tank can help improve your mood and create a sense of a sanctuary. However, this is not for the person who doesn't want responsibilities––you'll need to feed the fish daily (and rig up something for the weekends) and clean the tank or bowl weekly, as well as make arrangements for when you're away (are your coworkers up to it?). If you can't have fish, then try sneaking your cat in to work now and then!


Images of animals can help turn a cold cubicle into a sanctuary. Use images from your own photo collection, from old calendars (or hang a current calendar up with animal photos), and from print-offs from the internet.
 Spare the planet's resources and bring your own mug and bowls for constant reuse rather than using the Styrofoam disposables in the office. These will definitely add to the homely feel, they're a much nicer tactile experience and everyone will recognize your mug and bowl over the office eclectic mix in the kitchen cupboard.
 Bring along a tray, add a coffee pot or teapot to it, your favorite beverage in a tin or jar, your favorite cookies and any other treats. Make it so that it can be moved as one to make way for workspace and then simply transported back to where you're sitting to enjoy the drink and nibble, any time you take a break.


Some people join forces and create small tea or coffee drinking ceremonial spots somewhere central to their cubes or within a cubicle space where they open out onto one another. This can improve coworker bonding and if you love collectibles, can be a place to display teapots, samovars, coffee pots and accompanying spoons, cups, etc.
 Always keep it filled with your favorite treats, either for yourself or for you and everyone else too. If you're on a diet, switch it to carrot sticks and goji berries, or whatever else works for you!

, Having funny things on the cubicle walls can provide good relief from shuffling around in a little box all day long. Also, humor will be welcomed by your coworkers if it's displayed where they can read it too. Ideas include funny posters, cartoon strips, a joke-a-day or a joke-a-week, funny images (for example, LOL cats) and so on. Just make sure it's acceptable humor and doesn't demean anyone or any group of people.


Changing the humorous items regularly will keep them fresh and will have your coworkers flocking to your cube all the time to "check out the latest", creating a convivial atmosphere around your spot.
If you have any funny comic strips that you enjoy, print them out and pin them up on your pinboard or walls of your cubicle. (Make sure they're professional.)
Put googly eyes or stickers on things - staplers, tape rollers, even your monitor. They'll give you and your co-workers a chuckle even on the glummest of days.
 Hot desking is when you are given a desk a day, in anyone's cubicle. It's a lot harder to make this feel like a personal sanctuary because you're constantly being moved on. However, it is possible if you make yourself a carry-pack of sanctuary goodies. To a small bag or carry-box, add a photo or two in a standalone frame, your favorite teabags, a spray scent (if permissible––some people object to such odors), a battery tea light candle, headphones for your MP3 player and a small figurine or flower in a vase. Each morning you set up, quickly arrange these goodies out of their little bag or box and create your instant "my space." Perfect the art of whipping this up and packing it down in two minutes flat.

