 When you're in the sixth grade, some people judge you really fast. Even the teachers will not want to be near you. Remember to keep your nails filed and at a reasonable height. Brush your teeth, tongue, and even the inside of your cheeks (The tongue and cheeks hold on to most bacteria). Brush your hair and wash it. You could even put on a little bit of lip gloss if you want, but don't overdo the makeup. It can make you look kooky, which isn't a good thing. Put on fresh, ironed clothes and clean shoes. Don't wear clothes that are too revealing or tight. Wear clothes that represent you and fit your personality. Wash your face and body with nice smelling soap or body wash. Don't forget to use deodorant. If your on your period, wear cotton underwear and wear tampons or pads. If your flow is a bit heavier and you're not comfortable with bigger tampons, try a tampon and a panty liner. Also, if you feel you are about to start your period, keep pads in your locker and wear a liner everyday. In the sixth grade, people will also make fun of your weight. If you're overweight, try to cut down on the fat and get some exercise. Also, try to sleep early so you don't wake up with those unattractive dark circles under your eyes and so you can get more concentration at school.;
, Add a magnetic mirror and a couple of pictures if you want. Keep your books in order of classes. (If English is first, keep your English book on top) You need to keep organized because there is absolutely no time to goof around. Also put sticky note reminders inside of your lockers and on your books so you won't forget upcoming projects, homework, or assignments.


Keep pads in the back of your locker for emergencies, and make sure boys don't see it.
Don't start pack ratting, because when you start throwing your garbage and food in your locker, it will all add up to a big mess. Before you throw your banana peel and apple core inside your locker, think of the consequences. Your locker will start stinking, attracting bugs, and molding. Everything will fall out when you open it, and everyone will think you're a hoarder and not well organized. As said before, people judge you very quickly. Every week, spray some air freshener inside your locker if it's allowed. Some people are allergic to the smells. Every month, wipe your locker with Kleenex or just plain wet tissue. It will keep your locker clean and dust free.
Make sure you have a locker with a lock that has a combination you can remember, so no one can steal your stuff.
If you have a locker with a hook, you can hang your backpack or jacket on it. If you don't, then just buy the ones you can stick on with adhesive.
 Note-Taking is very important in the sixth grade. It keeps you ahead of class and refreshes your brain every time your look at it. Try to pay attention and take notes of only the important things, so you have all the information you need and not take up a lot of space. However, if you have a test, record every single detail, and anything the teacher says twice, make sure to underline, highlight, or bold. Make a Venn Diagram to show differences and make a chart to separate things. Here's how: ]

, You need to keep it clean. Keep neat from food and garbage. Keep your supplies in your pencil case and remember not to sharpen, put cut-up paper, or put eraser bits in your desk. Now, wipe your desk like how you wipe your locker. Don't write on your desk, it's thought of as vandalism and no one will trust you with their things after you do that.
 Don't just shove your homework in there. Get a binder and keep all important papers in it. Freshen your bag and maybe add some cute key chains or some stickers to make it match your personality. Remember to always bring your pencil case, lunch bag and binder home in your bag. Treat your backpack with care and respect. Wash your backpack to keep it clean and fresh every once in a while.
 Don't try to get involved in a group of popular girls unless you're keen to do so; there is no need to force yourself to be with people you don't feel comfortable with.


Try to be friends with someone nice and you can trust.
Don't lie because one day it will catch up with you and no one likes a lying phony.
Don't show off because people will think you're trying to be the best and they'll not want to hang out with you.
Don't let anyone intimidate you or get under your skin. Tell a teacher or someone you trust if you're being bullied.
Don't try the dating thing because you have your whole life to live and you don't want someone to break your heart when you're 11 or 12.
Try not to flirt or act like someone you're not. Everyone has crushes, so don't think having one is wrong. You don't need to have an intimate relationship. Being friends is good enough, isn't it?

, Say "hey" casually when you see him/her anywhere other then the classroom and "Hey, Good Morning" when you enter the classroom. Don't say things loudly and vibrant or too cheesy, it will creep him/her out and embarrass you. Teachers are human beings, defend your teacher and try to stay away from the class clown and goofballs of the class because they might influence you or get you in trouble. Don't talk when the teacher is talking and try to ask questions if you don't understand, people won't laugh at you if you have one.
 People will feel offended if you use them. Try to stay on the topic if you have a partner job and don't go off topic. Stay friendly and nice and try your best to be the best.
 Projects and Tests are very important.


When you have a project you need to have a partner with, choose someone you know you can work well with. Don't choose the same person over and over because you want to make friends and the teacher will see you can't work with anyone else.
Review your notes when you have an upcoming test and ask your teacher after class for some extra help. Start studying one or two weeks before a test, don't cram 'till 1:30 in the morning. Instead, have a good night's rest and a healthy breakfast so you're ready to handle the test.
 Try getting up at 5 or 6 a.m. so you can have a little time to prepare. Also, timing will help you in your adult hood too, so get practicing. It's also really nice outside when you get up. Get to school about 10 to 15 minutes early. When you go from class to class, don't stop in the hallway and chat. Get to class, people find this extremely irresponsible. Some people have a high amount of jealousy, so if the mean girls bump into you, don't worry about them, ignore any insults and get to class because usually, the mean girls main goal is to get you in trouble. Remember, anytime they act nice to you, think about it.
 The last thing you need is to be mentally corrupted. Determine how much time it takes you to get ready in the morning, for most girls, it takes about 1hr and 30mins-2hrs. So If school starts at 8am, get up at 6am or 6:30am, or if at 9am, 7am or 6:30am, as it's really helpful. Also, when you get home from school, if you have extra-curriculars (dance, karate, skating etc.) you should plan when you'll do homework or when you'll finish your projects, just figure it out.
 Lunch is a time to socialize and relax. Pack a healthy lunch with an apple or banana on the side. Eat with manners, otherwise people will think you're a slob/pig. Remember, you still need to have energy to get through the rest of the day. Try not to buy lunch, people can try to steal your money. Make sure that the mean girls don't sit near you. They'll try to embarrass you, and the whole school will be there to watch. Once the bell rings, get to class.

