


Open the View tab on the toolbar and click the Handout Master button located in the Presentation view group.
Click the Colors button in the Edit Themes group and select the Create New Color Schemes option from the pull-down menu. The Create New Color Schemes dialog box will open.
Use the menu boxes in the column on the right to choose different colors for each of the 8 categories listed in the column on the left. A preview of the new color will appear in the column on the left once a new color is selected in each category. Preview your custom color scheme in the display to the right of the Scheme Colors menu.
Enter a name for the custom color scheme in the color scheme name field located at the bottom of the dialogue box.
Click save to exit the dialog box.



Confirm that Handout view is selected and click the Background Styles option located in the Background group on the toolbar.
Click the Format background option located near the bottom of the pull-down menu. The Format Background dialog box will appear.
Choose Solid fill to fill the background with a single, solid color.
Select the Gradient fill option to create a custom gradient fill for the handout background.
Click the Picture fill option to use an image saved to your computer's hard drive as a background fill for a PowerPoint handout.
Click the Apply to all button to apply your custom background fill to the PowerPoint handout.



Confirm that the Handout Master view is selected.
Click the Slides Per Page button located in the Page Setup group on the toolbar. Select the desired number of slides per page from the options listed in the pull-down menu. The number of slides that will appear on each page has been adjusted.



Confirm that the Handout Master view is selected from the View tab.
Click the Handout Orientation button located in the Page Setup group on the toolbar. Choose from portrait or landscape.



Confirm that the Handout Master view is selected and locate the Place Holders group in the toolbar.
Place or remove a check from the checkbox labeled Header to add or remove a header from the handout.
Place or remove a check from the checkbox labeled Footer to add or remove a footer from the handout.
Place or remove a check from the checkbox labeled Date to add or remove the current date from the handout.
Place or remove a check from the checkbox labeled Page number to add or remove page numbering from he handout.

