 For this project, you will need cardboard, yarn, felt, scissors, thread, a needle, and a sewing machine.;
, You want it to be 4-6 inches (15-20cm) long. To determine the height, figure out how long you want the hair to be. The height of the piece of cardboard should be equal to the desired length of hair.
 What color do you want the doll’s hair to be? The felt should match the yarn, so make sure that you will be able to find felt in the color you choose.


You can choose any weight of yarn that you want. A fine yarn is closest to the thickness of hair and will lay more naturally, but you will need more of it to complete the project. On the other hand, you could use a bulky yarn and simply unwind the strands once the hair piece is sewn into place. It's completely up to you.
 Measure it against the doll’s head to make sure that it will be long enough. It should be long enough to form the part down the middle of the doll’s head. Eventually, you’ll use this to hold the hair together. Set the piece aside for later.
 You should be wrapping the yarn around the side that matches the desired hair length. After about 5 rotations, slip the felt under the yarn. Try to wrap it evenly over one edge of the piece of cardboard.
 Just be careful that you don't make it so thin that you would be able to see through to the doll’s scalp. Ideally, you probably should wrap the yarn along the length of the cardboard until it is at least three strands deep. The end product will probably look about the way it does on the cardboard, so if it looks thin there, then add more yarn.
 Use a needle and thread to loosely stitch the yarn in place down the center of the felt. If you have lined it up correctly, the edge of the cardboard should provide you with a guide to follow down the center of the felt. This seam will be the part down the middle of the hair. When you're done, each piece of yarn should be lightly secured to the felt. Don’t worry about small, tight stitches, since the sewing machine will take care of that.
 Try to cut in a straight line so that the hair on each side will be of equal length. Set the cardboard to the side.
 Set the sewing machine to produce a tight and narrow zigzag stitch. This time, you want to make sure that the yarn is securely fastened to the felt and will not fall out easily. Sew down the center of the felt, following the line of stitches that you sewed by hand. Don't backstitch when you get to the end--just sew off the edge of the felt and knot the ends of the threads., Use a needle and thread to stitch the hair into place. You can follow the line of the seam that you made with the sewing machine. But if the doll will be a child’s toy, make sure that you sew the felt securely. To that end, you can also do two seams, one down each side of the felt beneath the yarn hair.To adapt this process for a boy doll, simply make several wefts using shorter yarn. Attach them to the doll’s head in horizontal rows, beginning in the front and adding more close together until you reach the nape of the neck.If desired, you can lay the hair flat and glue it to the head of the doll. Or you might consider doing this with a few strands in the front, so that the doll has a fixed hairline. Just use a white craft glue that will be flexible when dry.
 If you like the chunky yarn hair look, you can leave it as it is. Otherwise, most yarn is easy to unwind. Just pick apart each strand and brush it out with a fine-toothed comb.

