 If you haven't already applied for an EIN from the IRS, you must get one for the business so it can pay taxes.You can apply for an EIN online for free by visiting https://sa.www4.irs.gov/modiein/individual/index.jsp.
Although you can apply by filling out an application and mailing or faxing it to the IRS, applying online provides you with several benefits, including the ability to get your EIN immediately.;
, You can choose a calendar year or a fiscal year as your business's tax year, which is the annual accounting period.If you choose a calendar tax year, you'll be reporting your income and expenses for the calendar year beginning January 1 and ending December 31.
A fiscal tax year is 12 consecutive months ending on the last day of any month except December. You also can choose a 52- or 53-week fiscal tax year, which doesn't have to end on the last day of the month.
Most small businesses will use a calendar tax year. If you weren't in operation for the whole year, you'll have a short tax year and your tax will be figured differently.
Keep in mind that after you've chosen your tax year, you may have to get IRS approval to change it.
 If your business is a sole proprietorship, partnership, or LLC, you must report your accounting method to the IRS.Typically you will choose either the cash method or the accrual method, with the cash method being the most common. You must use the same accounting method consistently.
With the cash method, you report income in the tax year that you receive it. If you use the accrual method, you report income the year you earn it, regardless of the date when payment is received.
 Most states require a business license or permit for any business operating within the state.Depending on the type of business you have, there may be other state or professional licenses you are required to maintain. These licenses may have separate taxes attached to them.
The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has a list of the licensing requirements for each state available at https://www.sba.gov/content/what-state-licenses-and-permits-does-your-business-need. Simply click on the name of the state where your business is located to find out what licenses and permits you need.
 All businesses with employees are required to pay workers' compensation and unemployment insurance taxes.In addition, you also must pay taxes for temporary disability insurance if your business is located in California, Hawaii, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, or Puerto Rico.
The SBA has links to state employment tax resources available at https://www.sba.gov/content/learn-about-your-state-and-local-tax-obligations.
 Depending on the state, you must pay sales taxes either quarterly or monthly for goods you sell.Generally, you must collect the appropriate sales tax from your customers when they purchase taxable goods or services from you. Then you pass those amounts on to the state.
Your state will have a special tax return that you must use for sales tax. You must report all sales, identify whether the sale is taxable or tax exempt, and calculate the amount of tax due.
 Nearly every state requires you to pay business or corporate income taxes.You can learn about the tax forms required for your state by visiting the SBA website at https://www.sba.gov/content/learn-about-your-state-and-local-tax-obligations. The page has links for each state's business tax registration site.
 The tax forms you need to file depend on how your business is structured.All business structures must file Forms 940, 941, and 944 for federal employment taxes. If you run an agricultural business, you must file Form 943 for agricultural employees.
If you are a sole proprietor, you generally will report your business income on a Form 1040, the same form you use for your personal taxes.If your business is a partnership, you'll need to report business income to the IRS using Form 1065.Corporations file Form 1120, the U.S. corporation income tax return.As an S corporation you can file Form 1120S, but you must first file Form 2553, Election by a Small Business Corporation, to ensure you qualify for S-corp status.If your business is structured as an LLC, it may be treated either as a corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship. You can file Form 8832 and elect to be treated as a corporation. Otherwise, the business will be treated as a sole proprietorship, or as a partnership if your business has two or more members., Generally, this is all the income you receive from operating your business.Take your gross income and subtract from that the cost to you of the goods you sold to arrive at your gross profit.
Once you have your gross profit, you'll deduct capital expenditures, vehicle expenses, employment compensation, and other business expenses to arrive at your taxable business income.
 Any expenses you accrue that are related to your business may be deductible.Business expenses such as supplies, travel and vehicle expenses, professional licenses and association memberships, and liability insurance generally are tax-deductible.
Capital expenditures are major equipment, vehicles, and machinery that your business buys for use over the course of several years. Generally, you don't deduct the entire cost of these investments in the year you purchase them. Rather, you take a proportionate deduction each year over the useful life of the item.
The IRS has specific rules for depreciation, which can be complex. Since it's difficult to determine the actual useful life of a piece of equipment, various standard accounting conventions are used.
 If you run your business as a sole proprietor, you must pay self-employment taxes on your net business income.Your net business income is the number you arrive at after you've subtracted all your deductions from your gross profit.
If your business is structured as a partnership, LLC, or corporation, this tax is computed using different rules.
If your total deductions end up being larger than your gross income, you have a net loss for the year. You may be able to deduct this loss from other income you have, carry it back to offset tax liability in a previous year, or carry it forward to offset future income.
 Any tax credits you can claim will directly decrease the amount of taxes you have to pay.Unlike deductions, which reduce your net income, tax credits are deducted from the amount of tax you owe.
For example, if based on your net income you owe $2,500 in taxes, but you can claim a $500 tax credit, then you will only owe $2,000 in taxes.
Depending on your industry, there may be a tax credit your business can claim. For example, tax credits are available for businesses involved in certain types of research and development, or for businesses engaging in alternative energy production.
The rules for tax credits can get complicated, so if you think you qualify for a tax credit you should talk to a tax professional before you claim the credit on your taxes.

