 It may be tempting to take the canary back to the pet store where you bought it, but there is a chance that the employees will not be able to correctly recommend a good treatment.If you find that you have an infestation, take your bird to the vet. The vet can correctly diagnose the type of mite and provide advice on proper treatments.


While your local vet may be able to handle birds, it is best to find an avian or exotic pet veterinarian.;
, Many common insecticides can harm your bird. Ask your vet for an insecticide that is safe for your canary. There are many brands available that are designed specifically for use on birds with mites. Spray the canary three or four times a day for seven days. Carefully apply around the plumage, and spray the insecticide into the dark corners of the bird house.Ivermectin is an ingredient that can kill lice and mites. You can find low concentrations of it for birds at your local pet store.You can also check for lice and mite medications that contain it as an ingredient.
Permethrin is another common type of insecticide used to kill red mite and lice in birds.These sprays typically do not kill mite eggs. You will have to clean the cage thoroughly to destroy the mite eggs.
 It is hard to treat the birds when there are hundreds or thousands of mites crawling around in their cages. Even if you kill all of the mites on the bird, they can be re-infected overnight. Spray a clean cage with insecticide, and lay down fresh shavings. After you have applied the insecticide, relocate your birds temporarily this accommodation. You may chose to place a paper towel on the bottom of this cage to catch any dead mites that are dropping off your bird. Replace this towel often., Young birds are especially vulnerable to the mites, and you should treat them separately from the adults. The older birds may pluck out the chicks' feathers in an attempt to remove the mites.Carefully remove nestlings from the infested nesting box. Treat them with a safe insecticide spray. Keep them in a clean nesting box separate from the adults with a lining of paper towels. Change out the paper towels every ten minutes at first, then every thirty minutes, and then every hour. The mites should fall off the baby birds after they feed, and you can remove the mite-infested towels. Keep changing the towels until no more mites fall off.Be sure to treat their new nesting box beforehand with insecticide.
Once both the adults and the babies have been fully deloused, you can reintroduce the chicks to the adult cage.

