 Locate the app on your iPad. It has a picture of a barometer on it. Tap on it.;
, Once the app loads, you will immediately see all the weather data via their widgets for the default location you’ve set. You can see data for temperature, map, forecast, rainfall, wind and gusts, pressure, sky conditions, and others.
 Swipe down to the bottom of the screen and you will see an empty box with a plus sign on it. Tap on this box, and a small window will appear containing all the available widgets. The widgets that you currently are using are marked with a green circle.


The widgets available include: temperature, map, forecast, rainfall, wind and gusts, pressure, sky conditions, UV index, solar radiation, and station webcam.
 Tap the widget for the data you want added. The widget will immediately be placed on the previous empty box on your screen. A new empty box will be added at the bottom for adding more widgets., Just press the back button of your device to view the default station after you have added widgets.
 All the selected widgets will be displayed on your screen now. Each widget will contain various weather-relevant data. For example, one box or widget will display data about the current temperature, while another box or widget will display data about rainfall.
 If you want to sort or reorder your widgets differently, tap the square icon on the top right menu bar. All the widgets on your screen will be grayed out, meaning you have entered its Edit mode.
 Tap and hold a widget and drag it across your screen to the position where you want it. Once you release your finger, the widget will be placed on its new position, and the other widgets will be adjusted accordingly. Continue this with all the widgets you want to rearrange.
 Once you’re done, tap the square icon on the menu bar again. This will save the changes you have made, and will take you back to the default station screen with the widgets displayed in the new order., All the selected widgets will be displayed on the screen of the default station. Each widget will contain various weather-relevant data. For example, one box or widget will display data about the current temperature, while another box or widget will display data about rainfall. Go through them to see which one you don’t need and would like to remove.
 If you want to remove certain widgets, tap the square icon on the top right menu bar. All the widgets on your screen will be grayed out, meaning you have entered its Edit mode.
 Each widget or box will have an X icon on the top left corner. Tap this icon to remove the widget you don’t want. Continue doing so for all the widgets to be removed.
 Once you’re done, tap the square icon on the menu bar again.