 Put on a pair of jeans or pants that you will wear frequently with a belt. These pants should not be too loose or too tight so that you will be able to get an accurate measurement of your waist.The most important thing is to choose a pair of pants that fit how your pants usually fit. You want to get a belt that will fit with the pants you normally wear.;
, While you are wearing the pants, thread a fabric measuring tape through the belt loops of the pants. Pinch the two sides together where they meet in front. This number will be your normal waist measurement.Breathe in deeply and out fully. The measuring tape should expand slightly. Let yourself account for a little extra wiggle room when you exhale so your belt doesn’t get too tight when you breathe.
Check to make sure that the measuring tape is in the middle or bottom of the belt holes, instead of flush with the top.
 Read the measurement in the mirror or mark the point where the two sides of the measuring tape meet with a safety pin. Remove the tape from the loops and read the measurement. Add two inches to the measurement. This is your belt size.For example, if the measuring tape reads 38 inches (96.5 cm), you want to purchase a 40-inch belt.
You need to add two inches because the measurement of your waist only accounts for the direct circumference of your waist. But the length of a belt does more than that – it includes additional length that must overlap to a certain extent at the buckle. The two added inches give you the wiggle room you need for a well-fitting belt.
 Since many belts are sold by size (small, medium, large, etc.) rather than measurement, it may be necessary for you to view a sizing chart that can help you determine the correct size. Men and women’s belts are typically sized differently since women are often more petite in size than men.Men’s small belts usually corresponds to a 30 inch (76.2 cm) waist, while a women’s small usually fits a 28 inch waist.
Men’s large belts usually fit a 36 inch (91.4 cm) waist, while a women’s large typically corresponds to a 32 inch waist.

