 Museums are great places to see science in action. Go to a museum and spend the day exploring new concepts.


Natural history museums are great places to find information about biology, ecology, and paleontology.
Scientific museums such as museums of science, museums of industry, air and space museums, and others often have hands-on exhibits that allow you to participate in scientific processes in action.
Planetariums allow you to explore the solar system, the stars, and universe beyond our earth.
Aquariums introduce visitors to underwater ecology as well as environmental and water conservation.
 Many communities have camps meant to foster students’ interest in STEM subjects. Day camp, weekend camp, sleepaway camp, and before and after school options are all available.There are different camps for different interests. There are camps dedicated to exploring engineering, ecology, physics, chemistry, and more. Explore a subject that interests you.
Contact your local community centers and organizations to see if they offer free or low-cost day camps or afterschool programs focused on scientific inquiry.
Check with local museums and scientific institutions to see if they offer summer programs and weekend programs.
Look at national programs such as Space Camp or Mad Science.
 Get involved with a program that aligns with what you are studying in school, and help contribute data to real scientific studies all over the world. Many of these are no-commitment required programs, so you only contribute when you feel you can.


Help NASA identify interstellar dust particles with Stardust@home, or work with Galaxy Zoo to classify galaxies.Learn about synthetic biology by playing games that build machines out of our DNA.Contribute to biological research about dogs simply by playing with your pup and reporting your findings to the Animal Ownership Interaction Study.Search online databases such as SciStarter to search for citizen scientist projects relevant to your studies.
 Technology is increasingly impacting the content and the ways students learn. Use new technologies to teach yourself scientific subjects in ways that make sense to you.


Programs like Crash Course, Khan Academy, and others have full subject content including videos, lesson plans, and assignments online and through social media platforms to help learners from the elementary school level up through college.
There are smartphone and tablet apps for almost any scientific subject you will study. Apps like Project Noah and Journey North allow you to participate in citizen science programs right from your phone. Others, such as NASA Visualization Explorer and goREACT, demonstrate concepts and allow for experiment simulations on the phone that would be too difficult in class.