 No, there isn’t a fruit shortage happening — both of these refer to exercises that can help you become more mindful. In each, you engage all your senses and focus on the activity and the moment. Transfer this lesson to your daily eating and snacking routines to make them more mindful.Eating (especially of the snacking variety) is one of the most common mindless activities, and one of the most unhealthy — mindless eaters tend to gain more weight and make less healthy food choices.
Try to reduce “multitasking” while eating, at least as much as you can. Turn off the TV. Put down your phone. Focus on your food — touch it, smell it, close your eyes and consider each bite. You will probably eat less but enjoy it more.
Connect you food to mental images or memories. Imagine the orchard your peach came from. Think of those Sundays of your childhood with your grandmother’s fried chicken. Create an experience in the moment.
Slow down. Put your fork down, or take a drink between bites.;
, It can seem a bit funny when you arrive at a destination but can’t recall driving there, but it should be terrifying. Distracted driving is one of the leading causes of traffic accidents. The physical act of driving is simple, but “real driving happens in the mind.”Familiarize yourself beforehand with the controls of the vehicle you are driving, and the route you will be taking. Don’t be fiddling with radio, looking for the wiper controls, or scanning for your exit sign when you should be focusing on the road around you.
Limit detailed conversations, with passengers or over the phone. If you must do something mindless, make it your conversation, not your driving.
Drive actively. Even if you drive the same route every day, it is a new ride with new conditions each time. Study the traffic and road conditions. Try to anticipate what will occur next. If it helps, think of yourself as a racecar driver, intensely focused on the task at hand — but minus the “need for speed.”

, “Zoning out” while exercising doesn’t just make you more likely to trip over an uneven sidewalk or crash your bike into a tree. Studies indicate that people who are more mindful of their exercise experience enjoy it more, and in turn are more likely to keep it up long term. At the same time, other studies indicate that aerobic exercises like running can help improve overall mindfulness as well.When exercising outdoors, soak in your surroundings. Don’t let your mind wander away to looking at the trees or the sunset. Instead, incorporate your experience of each footstep, each pedal, or each breath into the surrounding environment. Feel the pavement, smell the flowers, hear the rustling leaves (or honking car horns).
When exercising indoors — for instance, running on a treadmill — place extra focus on your breathing, your heartbeat, and your jogging motion. Instead of reading a magazine or watching TV to “kill the time,” embrace the chance to focus on your body in motion.
 Whether it’s washing the dishes after dinner, filling in spreadsheets, or repeating the same motion over and over again at the widget factory, we all face daily tasks that beg to be done mindlessly. Always try to remember, though, that each day, each task, and each moment are new and unique, if you take the time to notice them.


Play the “noticing game.” Spend your time while vacuuming or pulling weeds trying to notice as many new or different things as you can. Set a number goal (with a reward) if that helps.Create tasks within tasks. Give yourself new “mini-challenges” each day while completing your work tasks. Accentuate the reality that each day presents new opportunities and challenges, no matter how similar your daily tasks may seem on the surface.Make small changes. Set up your desk or workspace a bit differently each day. Try a new toilet-cleaning method or lawn-mowing pattern. Unique moments deserve unique efforts., Mindfulness practitioners understand that every moment is a unique experience. Every time you wash your car, fill out an expense report, or take your kids to the playground, it is never exactly the same as before. Make a point of watching for the subtle differences each time around, and you will train yourself to become more mindful of the moment.Make a game of it. Try to list five or ten things that are unique about this weekly meeting, this play date, or this spring cleaning. Help train yourself to assume that each experience will be at least subtly different and worthy of your attention.
 For all its benefits, technology is a gateway to mindless activity. Not only does it encourage multitasking, which in turn encourages mindlessness; it also tends to emphasize what has happened, not what is happening in the moment.Think about it — every time you check an email or a status update, or scan the news, no matter how recent they are you are dealing with the past. It may benefit your mindful self to take more frequent tech breaks and seek out activities with the possibility for a more immediate, tangible experience — taking a walk, having lunch with a friend, and so on.
Take extra care in regards to kids and technology. Kids are by nature more apt to focus on the present moment, but excessive use of technology can help “re-wire” them to think more about the past or future instead of the “right now.”

, Meditation is often seen as a great way to achieve mindfulness, as you focus intently on your breathing, for instance. The problem is that if you only experience mindfulness while meditating, it will not be so helpful once you are back doing your activities that can easily become mindless.Meditation needs to be a training ground for mindfulness, not simply the place where you go to experience mindfulness. Take the breathing, the calm, and the focus with you into your everyday life. When you catch yourself going into “autopilot,” take a moment to restore your mindful self.
 “Going through the motions” mindlessly while doing something is often called being on “autopilot,” and another flight-related analogy is also appropriate. You can picture a pilot, before takeoff, going through a checklist of buttons to press and levers to pull, all of which can be done reflexively and without a second thought. Some people go through their workday or daily tasks as if they are following such a checklist.The “checklist” approach to life stifles creativity, increases stress, and can reduce overall performance and enjoyment.
Instead of thinking of your tasks as items that need to be checked off, think of them as questions that can be addressed in the moment. Thus, "Make dinner" becomes "What can I create out of the things we have in the pantry and fridge?” Similarly, "Deliver the sales report" becomes “How can I connect the stagnant sales figures to the strategy changes I’ve been promoting?”

, People who act mindlessly can appear similar to robots, repeating programmed routines without awareness that no day, circumstance, or moment is exactly the same.Tempting as it may be, you shouldn’t try to “solve today’s problems with yesterday’s solutions.”Instead of assuming what has worked before will work again, look at each circumstance as a unique opportunity to combine your experience and creativity. Even a mundane activity like cleaning the house presents a new situation and new opportunities for changes in strategy and methods.
Think of routines and “best practices” as guides, not rules.
 Especially in workplace settings, people can fall into mindless task completion because they are afraid to deviate from the established patterns and produce anything other than the prescribed result. This may be necessary if you are doing precision manufacturing, but many businesses can benefit from permitting more autonomy in task completion.Not every mistake needs to be punished or corrected. See it as a learning experience, and a path to new insights. Doing tasks mindlessly can result only in either mindless errors or mindless solutions. Working mindfully opens you up to a wider range of mistakes and errors, but also to new, unique, creative, and thoughtful solutions that can have both short- and long-term benefits., At a very basic level, it is much more difficult to work mindlessly when you know someone else is watching you. This doesn’t have to mean having a supervisor, teacher, or parent hovering over your shoulder, identifying every little flaw in your effort. Rather, simply giving someone permission to watch you conduct your activities in a non-judgmental fashion is likely to spur you to focus on the moment and on the task.You can also try pretending that everything you think is visible to others. This exercise may help you become more open-minded and mindful of the moment., Habits — good, bad, and in between — by definition have a mindless component to them. There is a lack of conscious awareness, whether your habit is picking your teeth at the table or picking a fight with your spouse when you’re stressed out. If you’re looking to change a habit, becoming more mindful can be a big help. Try the following three steps:Identify the habit or vice you want to address — for instance, your tendency to mindlessly over-indulge in unhealthy snacks late at night.
Consider a “mindful” solution — in this example, perhaps making your eating habits more mindful through increased curiosity.
Apply the mindful solution. For example, build up your curiosity in the evening by reading something interesting, trying something new, etc. When you get the urge to snack, explore the foods with all your senses — be curious about each bite.

