 Turkey packagers choose packaging that is secure at keeping out bacteria and best retains the meat's freshness. Removing the original packaging and leaving a naked bird or replacing it with your own wrapping exposes the meat to bacteria and increases the potential for spoilage. The packaging must be leak-proof––check with the retailer prior to purchase.;
, Freezing the bird is the best way to retain quality and freshness if you do not plan on using it for a while.

Place the whole turkey in your freezer or deep freeze. The ideal temperature for your freezer is 0 degrees Fahrenheit, or -18 degrees Celsius. This temperature ensures the bird remains completely frozen.






The bird can safely remain in the freezer for up to 1 year. Fresh parts of the bird can be kept for up to 9 months in the freezer. Ground fresh turkey can be kept in the freezer for 3 to 4 months. After this amount of time, the quality of the meat will diminish., Allow for 1 day thawing in the refrigerator for every 4-5 pounds of turkey.If thawed in cold water, leave the turkey in its original packaging and refresh the water regularly to ensure that it stays cold.






Turkey can also be thawed in the microwave oven (if it fits). If you use this method, the turkey must be cooked immediately following the thawing, as the microwave will most likely result in uneven thawing and will start to cook some of the turkey., A whole, uncooked, thawed turkey can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If kept undisturbed in the store packaging, you can store store-bought turkey in the refrigerator for up to 5 days, or until the "use by" date marked on the packaging. The refrigerator should be at a temperature under 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius).

Secure a tray under the turkey to catch any juice that might escape from the packaging. This will keep the refrigerator and other food in it clean and free from the risk of germs from the raw juices.






Place the turkey in the coldest part of a refrigerator, which is at the far back on the bottom shelf.
 These turkeys do not require thawing, but instead are baked right out of the freezer, according to the instructions on the packaging.

