 Lay the sauerkraut in the slow cooker first, followed by the beef brisket.


If you use a corned beef brisket, you should receive a packet of spices, as well. Sprinkle the spices over the brisket in the slow cooker.
There is no need to drain the sauerkraut before adding it. In fact, the extra liquid helps the corned beef cook properly without drying out.



Do not remove the lid as the corned beef cooks. Doing so will release the heat trapped inside, altering the overall cooking time.
If you want to prepare this dish a little faster, cook on high for about 5 hours.
 Prepare a baking sheet by covering it with a sheet of aluminum foil.


If you prefer a cleaner taste, you could skip the foil and coat the baking sheet in a fine layer of nonstick cooking spray, instead.
 Bake it for about 15 minutes.


Do not leave the bread in the oven long enough to brown or burn. It should only be left long enough to get a little crusty.
 After the bread is cool enough to touch, use a serrated knife to cut the loaf into 12 separate slices.


Let the bread cool for about 5 minutes before trying to handle it.
Cut the bread at a 45-degree angle.
 Add the mayonnaise, chili sauce, sour cream, parsley, onion, relish, lemon juice, horseradish, and Worcestershire sauce to a small bowl and whisk until well combined.


Note that this will yield slightly more than you need for your sandwiches. Any extra can be saved in an airtight container and refrigerated for several days.
The dressing you are making for this sandwich is known as a Russian dressing.
 After the corned beef finishes cooking, remove it from the slow cooker and transfer it to a cutting board. Use a carving knife to cut the beef into small slices.


Slice against the grain instead of with it. Slow cooked corned beef is already tender, but if you slice it against the grain, it will be even tenderer. Slicing with the grain, however, can cause the beef to become a little tougher and stringier.
 Add roughly 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of butter to a large skillet and heat on the stove over medium heat until the butter melts.


Note that a griddle or wide griddle pan may work even better since it has low sides, making it easier to flip the sandwiches during the cooking process.
 Layer equal amounts of sliced corned beef, cheese, sauerkraut, and Russian dressing onto six slices of your toasted bread. Top each sandwich with another slice of rye bread.


Each sandwich should have two slices of cheese on it and as much as 4 Tbsp (60 ml) of Russian dressing.
Remove the sauerkraut from the slow cooker using a slotted spoon, draining as much liquid as possible from the sauerkraut before adding it to the sandwich.
 Add the sandwiches to the prepared skillet and cook for about 7 minutes on the first side, or until the sides are crisp and golden brown. Flip with a spatula and finish cooking for a few more minutes, just long enough for the cheese to melt and the other side to turn golden brown.


Note that you may need to prepare the sandwiches one or two at a time instead of cooking all six at once. You may also need to add more butter as you continue to finish the sandwiches.
 Transfer each finished sandwich to a cutting board and cut in half with a serrated knife before serving.

