 In Indian yoga, people usually pray to Shiva before starting with their yoga exercises. In so doing, they connect with the energy of Shiva when performing yoga and this energy transforms them. Modern yoga teaches the unity of all religions––this means that you can incorporate the belief you follow:


Find a role model that suits your belief. You can believe in the power of nature and pray to the sun. Many yogi perform the sun salutation and get by this into a life in the light. You can pray to God, to Jesus, to Buddha or to an enlightened Master if you want.
If you believe your role model is enlightened, your belief will activate the enlightenment energy within you. If your role model really is enlightened, he or she can help you with his spiritual abilities.;
, It helps to have a clear vision of what he or she looks like. Forming this picture can include reading or listening to the works of your role model regularly, reading yoga tales, praying or working with an oracle.


The energy transfer is known as "darshan". A real darshan consists of the three points seeing, hearing and touching. The energy of love can flow into you when you see a picture, statue or a real enlightened person who has significant meaning for you.
The teachings of your spiritual role model must touch you inside. You have to feel the love or trust. When this happens, the energy of love will transfer to you.
 Wish that all people be happy and that the whole world be happy. This selfless wish will allow the light of your role model to flow through you into the world. It fills you with love. You will feel consciousness of unity with all other beings, which is an essential state for enlightenment, inner peace and happiness.
 For example: "Om, all enlightened Masters. Om, inner wisdom. Please guide and help me on my way." "I send light to (name). May all people be happy. May the word be happy." You may formulate the mantras in your own words. Christians can pray to God and for all people. You can also connect yourself with a special enlightened Master such as Buddha, Jesus, Shiva and so on.
 Think or speak mantras. Do yoga for yourself and as a way to connect yourself regularly with spirituality, wisdom and love.


Draw the power for a life in love and truth from your daily spiritual exercises.
If you lack the time for yoga at any particular time, you can instead start or end your day with a prayer, mantra, reading or a puja (spiritual ritual).
 Yoga brings you health, beauty and happiness. If you connect with the enlightenment energy (God and the enlightened Masters), your life will be filled with light and love. Persevere––the grace will come to you by its own; it is only a question of time. Everybody on the yoga path will be filled with bliss, if he or she goes with the power of love.

