









Use 3 percent hydrogen peroxide, if possible.
For more stubborn skunk odors, you may need to up the amount of baking soda to 1/2 cup (125 ml) and the amount of soap to 1 Tbsp (15 ml).
Do not close the container after mixing the ingredients together. The gas that will be produced could build up and create enough pressure to destroy the container.
Do not store this mixture. Use it as soon as you mix it together.
 Dip a clean washcloth in the solution and use it to clean contaminated fur and skin.









This solution is safe for both dogs and human, but you should avoid getting it into eyes, ears, or mouths. While it is safe for skin, it can sting and damage eyes or other sensitive areas.
Saturate then scrub the skunked dog or human with this solution and let sit for five minutes before rinsing it off with clean water. Repeat as necessary until you can no longer smell the skunk.
Note that you may need to make more of the solution for a bigger dog or adult human.
This works best if done within an hour or two after contamination.
 This solution is safe to use on clothing and other fabrics, but the amount you make will depend on how much you need to deodorize.









As far as fabrics are concerned, this solution is recommended over the stronger hydrogen peroxide solution used to clean pets and people. Strong concentrations of hydrogen peroxide can damage clothes, but when diluted with water, it should be safe to use on normal fabrics.
Avoid using this solution on delicate fabrics or "dry clean only" clothes.
 Dip contaminated clothes in the diluted hydrogen peroxide and let soak for one or two hours.









After removing the clothes from the solution, place them in the washing machine and run a normal washing cycle.
 If you feel uncomfortable dunking your clothes in hydrogen peroxide, add 1/2 cup (125 ml) baking soda to the washing machine at the beginning of your washing cycle.









You can also add the same amount of baking soda to a load of clothes treated with hydrogen peroxide for maximum deodorizing power.

