 This app is green with horizontal black lines on it. If you're already signed in on your computer, doing so will open Spotify's "Browse" page.


If you aren't signed in, enter your email address (or username) and password to do so.
 By default, the "Browse" tab in the upper-left corner of the window displays the "OVERVIEW" section of Spotify; this is where you'll see featured playlists, friends' activity, and different genre categories.


You can scroll down to see all of the different genres on Spotify.
Clicking a genre will open a page with featured, recent, and popular examples of your selected genre.
 Listed across the middle of the "Browse" page are the following options:



CHARTS - View the top 50 songs both in your country and in the world, as well as viral songs.

GENRES & MOODS - View the different categories of music, from standard classifications like "Pop" to non-traditional categories like "Gaming".

NEW RELEASES - View newly released music. You can also click the New Music Friday box at the top of the page to see a playlist of each week's new releases.

DISCOVER - View up-and-coming music and genres that are tailored to your Spotify listening habits.

CONCERTS - View upcoming concert events in your area.
 It's below the Browse tab in the top-left side of the Spotify window. This is where you can view any radio stations you've created or to which you subscribe.


To create a new radio station, you'll click CREATE NEW STATION and type in an artist's name.
You can also scroll down on this page to view different suggested radio stations based on your recent listening history.
 It's the white text field at the top of the Spotify window. This is where you can type in the name of an artist, song, album, or playlist.


A few seconds after you finish typing, you should see results begin to pop up below the search bar. You can click a result to navigate to its page.
If you search for a song, for example, clicking it will take you to that song's page, which will likely include information about the artist and the song's album (if applicable).
 This column of options is on the left side of the Spotify window, below the Browse tab. It includes the following options:



Songs - See all of your saved music on a per-song basis.

Albums - See all of your saved music on a per-album basis.

Artists - See all of your saved music on a per-artist basis.

Stations - See any followed or created radio stations.

Local Files - View any audio files Spotify has retrieved from your desktop.
 It's directly below the last entry in the "YOUR MUSIC" section on the left side of the page. You'll see any playlists that you follow or have created listed here.


You may need to scroll down on the "PLAYLISTS" area to view all of your saved playlists.
 Regardless of your preferred search method, doing this will open the item's page.
 This green button will be either at the top of the page or on the left side of the page, depending on your selected item. Doing so will prompt the song, album, or playlist to begin playing.


If you opened an artist's page, you may have the option of selecting a specific album; otherwise, clicking PLAY will usually play the artist's most popular songs.
Clicking the three dots to the right of the PLAY button and then clicking Go to Radio will begin playing a radio station that includes the song, artist, playlist, and/or genre you're viewing.

