 Projectors can often be checked out from school libraries, or bought secondhand if you don’t already have one. You can use any large, neutral-toned surface like a big sheet of canvas or a garage wall as a screen, though there are portable projector screens that are easy to set up. , Ideally this will be a movie that benefits from projection onto a larger screen, the kind of spectacular movie people like going to the theaters to see. Since you’re hosting outdoors, you’re likely to have more guests, and a crowd-pleaser is desirable to put butts in seats and keep them there.
 If you aren’t hosting it in your backyard, you’ll want to make sure you have legal access to the space at the time you host the movie night. Use permits for public parks and the aggressiveness of local police and park rangers vary depending on your locality. If you run into trouble, stay calm, have your ID ready, and be prepared to leave.


Make sure the weather permits for your event. No one wants them and their movie equipment to get rained on. Pick a day with a low change or precipitation and that isn’t going to be too windy so as to disrupt your screen. You can secure your screen with a well anchored frame against most normal wind activity.
 Consider that outside you won’t be able to prepare additional food and that drinks should be kept simple. Outdoor litter is difficult to manage and should be kept to a minimum, and depending on your area it might be a crime to litter. You will want to have materials for cleaning up with you and handy.
 Make sure they know the time, location, and are available and know whether or not to bring snacks and/or drinks. Make sure your guests know about any dietary restrictions other guests might have. An event page can help, especially if your location is out of the way or more difficult to locate.
 Mosquitoes, ticks, and moths will be an issue at night between the light source and large gathering of people outside, likely with food. You will want mothballs near your projector to keep them away from the light source. Citronella candles, bug spray, or a bug zapper lamp are all effective ways to manage more personal pests. , Make sure seats are arranged so that everyone has a good view of the screen and can hear clearly. Have a waste bin ready along with signs to the restrooms, and lay out any refreshments in one place to keep the area reasonably free of litter. If you are streaming the movie, make sure you have adequate signal outdoors to do so. Make sure your area is dark enough to project the movie with no glare or washed out colors.
 Your guests will attend to themselves mostly while the movie is playing. This is your chance to sit back and enjoy the fruits of your work for a while. However, you should make sure refreshments don’t run out and be prepared to handle your guests’ needs.
 Be careful when you break down your projector set up to avoid tearing the screen or damaging the projector. You’ll want to spend time making sure you left no litter in public spaces and that the equipment is all with its rightful owner. You should leave your outdoor space as clean as you found it or better.

