 You won’t need many items in order to store celery in water. Refrigerate the celery as soon as you can, though.


You should find a large glass bowl or a sealed plastic container. Either will work to store the celery. If the container doesn’t have a lid, you will need plastic wrap to seal it. It’s also possible but not as easy to use a plastic bag that you fill with water.
You’ll need a supply of fresh water. The water should be clean, and it’s best to use filtered water if you have it available. Even celery that’s started to wilt can be brought back to life by immersing it in water.
Choose celery that has straight and rigid stalks. The leaves should be fresh. You don’t want limp or foul smelling celery.;
, In order to keep the celery fresh, you should remove the stalks from the base of the celery. Slice the base off from the stalks.


Next, strip the leaves off the celery stalks. You can use do this task with a kitchen knife. Be careful anytime you use cutting instruments.
Then, cut the stalks in half. You want them to be about half as long as they were on the base.
Now, put the cut celery into the glass bowl or the plastic container. Leave about an inch of space between the celery and the bowl’s top., Pour enough fresh, clean, preferably filtered water that it fills your container.


Seal the container with its lid or, if it doesn’t have one, seal the top with plastic wrap. Placing celery in an airtight container without water doesn’t work as well. The celery is likely to end up dried out.Make sure you change the water every day or at least every other day. This will keep the celery freshest.
When you want some of the celery, simply remove it from the water, rinse, and eat. Replace the lid and plastic wrap if you still have celery left over.
 Another water method is to hack the bottom off of the celery bunch before immersing the stalks into a water glass. Celery stored in this fashion can last 1-2 weeks in a refrigerator.


Stand the entire celery bunch in a glass of water inside the refrigerator. You will need a large glass for this, such as a souvenir glass (or a pitcher).
When storing celery, don’t put it in the coldest areas of your refrigerator because it can freeze easily.You will need to change the water every few days at least, but this should keep the celery crisp because it will absorb the water inside the glass. The same procedure works with other root vegetables, such as beets or parsnips.

