 A simple trick to bring your breasts closer together and create more cleavage is to give your bra a twist. This will pull the cups a little closer together and add a little more cleavage.


Before you put the bra on, turn one cup all the way around from top to bottom to create a twist in the front of the bra between the cups.Then, just put on the bra as you normally would without undoing the twist.
 When you tighten your bra straps, you press your breasts closer to your body, which gives them a lift. This is an especially helpful technique when you are trying to even out the size of your breasts. If one breast is larger than the other, fit your bra to the larger breast and tighten the strap of the smaller breast to even out your chest.Experiment with different levels of tightness to see what works for you. Just keep in mind that making your straps too tight can be uncomfortable.
 Wearing two bras will make your breasts look as much as three times their normal size. Just put on one bra and then put on another bra over the first one.Keep in mind that wearing two bras can be a bit uncomfortable, so you might want to save this technique for a special event.
Do not do this with two sports bras. Wearing two sports bras will flatten your chest even more. To get the best results, wear two padded bras.
 Stuffing your bra is a classic way to create the appearance of larger breasts. However, it is important to stuff your bra with the right materials, or the result can be sloppy.Use socks. Socks are a great option because they are soft and you probably already have lots of them. Just fold a sock in half and place it near the bottom of your bra cup.
Buy gel inserts. You can also purchase silicone gel inserts to pad your bra. You can slip these inserts into the bottom of your bra to make your breasts look a full cup size bigger.
Avoid tissues and cotton balls. Tissues and cotton balls may slip out more easily than other materials. They can also fall apart and create a lumpy appearance.

