 Development executives, the people who review ideas and choose what gets made, are constantly bombarded with ideas. To stand out you need to know what kind of ideas are going to capture their attention. While there is no perfect formula for an idea, there are some common threads among the best ideas:



Originality: The hardest, but most crucial, factor of any idea. Luckily, pure originality isn't necessary. You want something that looks like it could sell -- a new mix-up of old ideas, a beloved book or story that hasn't been filmed, a new perspective people haven't seen, etc.

Projected Cost: Especially if this is your first idea, you'll generally want to steer away from the enormous, effects-driven blockbusters. Few studios will risk hundreds of millions of dollars on an unproven filmmaker. You're better off using fewer characters and simpler settings whenever possible.

A Screenplay/Proof of Concept: Do you just have the idea, or do you have something to back it up? This can be a screenplay or a short film, but it is essential nonetheless. The idea will get you in the door, but it is the content that will get the movie/show made.;
, A log line is a single sentence that outlines the basic premise and hook of your concept. It details the characters, plot, and setting briefly so that you can interest someone in the idea with just 1-2 sentences. Keep it as short and dynamic as possible. Some ideas from famous movies include:



Back to the Future: Marty, a high school student, is accidentally transported to the past, where his parents are at risk of never falling in love -- or creating him!Jaws: A police chief with a phobia for open water battles a killer shark. But the greedy town board refuses to admit there is a problem at the beach at all.

Ratatouille: A Parisian rat secretly teams up with an untalented chef to prove that anyone can cook, though jealous critics and pest-control think otherwise., Synopsis are 1-3 page documents that tell your entire story/first season, beat for beat. You want to include the genre (Romantic Comedy, Action) the characters, and the plot in quick, concise, and engaging prose. For reality shows, this is a breakdown of the setting, people, and possible plot lines to follow. This is easier said than done, but a good synopsis will contain:


As few words as possible. Get to the point, and get out. You want to tell the story clearly and quickly, so avoid long, unnecessary things like "Gary is tall, blond and young, but he look like he is 50. He likes to smoke and listen to rock and roll, and..." These details are unnecessary and will likely all change.
Action verbs and phrases. Avoid, "she does this," "he responds with," and other overused or nondescript verbs. Aim for powerful, action-oriented verbs, like "she battles," "he retorts with," whenever possible.
Characters. You don't want a list of plot elements, you want a movie. Characters drive audience investment in film and TV, so don't forget about them. The plot should be sparked by your characters, not the other way around., Having the rights to something is often the difference between a deal and the door. Luckily, they are actually easy to get. Development executives often comment that they want things "Based on a True Story." Owning someone's "Life Rights," means that you can't get sued for making a movie based on their "true" story. Just as importantly, you get the exclusive rights to make the movie or TV show, as only one person can hold the rights to something at once. Usually, you buy life rights cheaply, sometimes for $1, and then split profits once the show or movie is made.


Life rights can include biographies, such as getting a musician's life rights or the rights to the people involved in a large murder trial.
Life rights can also include reality shows. Find a compelling family, mini-celebrity, or person worth exploring every day. A cheap set of life rights may turn them into a lucrative show.

If you want to adapt a book, you must purchase the rights before selling your idea. To do so, contact the publisher located in the front of the book.