, First of all you will need to create at least one board to work on. When you log in to your account please select the option “Create new board”. In this section you are able to name your board, provide a short description and, most importantly, choose one of the pre-defined types of the board that will allow you to start the work as quickly as possible.
 Start collaborating by adding new users to your account. Click “People” icon and fill the form. The person you added to your account will receive an email with their user name, password and URL to access your account.
 Click "share" option next to your Kanban board name, folder or note. Then click "Add new person" and fill the form. Choose "full access" option to allow invited person to create, modify, move and delete tasks. This person will have access to this board / folder / note only.
 To add a task to the particular column either just double click on the empty space within the column or choose “add task” icon. To do it faster, you can also use a keyboard shortcut “N”. Remember to save your card. Note that you can also import tasks from Excel/ CSV or add tasks via email.
 The aim of using the Kanban board is to see the card progress through the various stages of the project until it reaches the end (i.e. done) at the far right end of the board. To move the card around the board you can use a standard drag & drop method or a card dropdown menu. Just right-click on the card and select "Move".
 KanbanTool allows you to archive finished tasks so they don't waste space on the board and you could always go back to them. To archive a task right-click on the Kanban card and use dropdown menu (this option is available only in the last column of your Kanban board). To archive all tasks in the last column right-click on the header of the "Done" column and select "Archive all" option.
 Kanban Tool provides advanced Kanban analytics and metrics including: cumulative flow diagram, lead & cycle time diagram and breakdown charts.

