 Why do I want to create a study schedule? What are my grades? Would a schedule help me? Those are very important questions that you NEED to ask yourself. Write them down and answer them. Put them somewhere near so you will always be reminding yourself of those D's and F's and turn them into A's and B's.;
, You don't need to spend half of your day with your head in the books, just a nice amount for you to have good grades. You can do this so:


Write down all of your subjects that you need to study on a daily basis
For each subject, write how many times a week you'll study it, and how much time you'll spend on it that day. For example, if you just want to go over some stuff in your History class write 3x a week for 20 minutes. Now count all the time together and divide by 7 (exam. 14 hours : 7 is 2 hours daily) and that's how much time you'll need to study per day.
 It will probably be really hard to study for 5 or 6 hours daily so try to reduce the amount of study time if you know you won't do it. You may also consider getting help, like joining a small study group or getting a tutor. If you don't have a study group at your school, you can make one. .


Also ask a smart kid in your Math class to help you with Geometry if that's your problem. And if nobody wants to help you, you can get a tutor as I mentioned before: https://www.wikihow.com/Find-a-Tutor .In those cases you will need to study so you will stick to them and a study schedule will be used only for refreshing what you've learned in class.
 Try to make it on thick paper so it won't just rip apart. Also, make it very appealing. Decorate it with colorful paper and cut out small shapes. Write days of the week and names of the subjects in sparkly colors and just make it perfect for you. Maybe you like it in black and white, purple and green, gold and orange - YOUR CHOICE!

, Are you happy with your schedule? There is still time to change the amount of study time and the look of it. Otherwise you can start the studying!

