 If you find yourself surrounded by smart people, you may feel compelled to hide your ignorance. Pretending like you know something you don’t can make you feel really stupid when someone figures out you don't really know what you’re talking about. If there’s something you don’t know or understand, fess up and ask questions. That’s how you learn.Don't ignore questions you can’t answer, make up answers or force the question on someone else to get the spotlight off you. Take responsibility for figuring out how to answer the question and what the correct answer is and why., Years of being smart has probably taken its toll on these people. Realize that their circumstances, personalities and personal experiences are unique. They may not have been born smart, and those who have been smart for most of their lives probably had to deal with being ostracized socially and treated differently. Their intelligence may be the only thing they have to be proud of.


When you understand more about someone’s motives and background, you may discover that you share similar insecurities. Finding out the reasons behind certain behaviors and personality traits can help you to relate and feel less intimidated by smart people.
 Smart people have years of experience exercising their intelligence. Ask them how they study for tests, do their homework, brainstorm ideas or complete certain tasks on the job. Smart people usually love to talk about what they are good at, so don't be afraid to ask them to clarify or explain certain steps so you can understand it better.
 Criticism can be rough, especially if you’re used to doing high-quality work or school assignments. It can make you feel defensive when others offer advice or critique your work. However, the people you consider smart probably have a lot of suggestions they can offer you. It is likely that they are as good at what they do because they were willing to consider outside input instead of letting criticism destroy them.


Don’t get upset if someone points out that your work could use some improvements. You want to do well and for your work to show it. Refusing to accept advice will make you appear unprofessional, and may prevent you from receiving useful feedback in the future.Find the smartest person in your class or team and ask them directly for their opinion or advice on how to resolve issues or make processes better., When you show interest in what someone has to say, it allows the other person to open up more so you can get to know them better. Ask how or why the smart person does tasks a certain way, and request that they actually show you an example of their process. Don’t let your own ego get in the way of acknowledging when someone does something in a way you hadn’t thought of before., You don’t have to be super close friends with co-workers or your peers at school but finding areas where you connect can help you get along. Ask about hobbies, kids or favorite sports teams. The more you interact positively with the smart people, the more likely they will be to help you out or offer feedback later.
 Just because these people are smart does not mean they are better than you. Be respectful, but talk to them as if they are like anyone else. Chances are, they already consider you to be one of their peers and not a minion.
 People who one-up, brag or show off to you are actually trying to impress you.When people purposefully act like they are smarter than you, it’s because they usually have low self-esteem and want validation from you. Go ahead and give them praise, even if you don’t feel like they deserve it. People who are more secure about themselves will probably not need to make you feel inferior later.


Don’t mistake self-confidence for arrogance. It's ok to take pride in your work or what you are good at.

