 It will really help calm you if you know that burglars can't get in. Ask your parents to install a burglar alarm just to be on the safe side.;
, This lets you know that you are not alone out there.


Always ring your parents if a friend wants to come round. They could have a specific reason for some one not to come round (like they'll tell that you are alone).
 If someone rings, tell them something like 'Dad's working and Mom's in the shower.' or just say, 'My parents are busy,' and don't answer any questions. Hang up and don't answer their number again. Or don't answer the phone at all unless you know the number.
 Call your parents if they don't leave, or even better the emergency number.


If someone comes into your home, run into a room with a lock, barricade the door with furniture, and dial your country's emergency number. If there is no way to barricade or lock a door in the case of an intruder, try to hide somewhere and keep deadly still.
,, If you have a pet such as a dog, go take them for a walk and play with them. You will also have a little bit of company.
 If you like to, sing or dance! You're home alone-go crazy! In addition, the loud music will help block out any scary noises.


Use music to soothe yourself. If you are having trouble going to sleep, turn on some soft music.
 You finally get the TV!!

, It will help you forget about the world around you. If this does not work, chances are you are not reading the right book. This is the time to indulge in your favorite books.
 Do push-ups, jump rope, and anything else you can do inside. It also might help you go to sleep faster. However, don't do them right before bed, or you'll get revved up and won't be able to sleep.
 An example may be finishing your book report, cleaning your room or even preparing a new recipe you found.
 Just simply get a small box and rip little papers and write an idea on it fold it up and throw it in the box. You can even make a rule like only pick 2 ideas and which ever one you like better you pick.
 Shower using cleansers and scrubs. Moisturize your skin and put product in your hair. Blow dry it or let it dry naturally. Curl it, straighten it or style it. Give yourself a manicure and/or pedicure. Give yourself a foot massage. Take a soothing bath using bath bombs and/or bath salts. This will relax you and help you sleep easier, as well as looking fantastic the following morning.
 Watch the TV or movies, write a wikiHow article, draw, play an instrument, surf the net, or some other fun activity.
 Pretzels, popcorn, crisps, and cookies are unhealthy but delicious.

