 Understand that no one thinks about you as much as you do. It's liberating when you realize that no one dwells on every little mistake you make. They're thinking about themselves and their mistakes. Keep this in mind, as it may help you to feel more comfortable., If you're trying to be more outgoing, the best way to ensure your success is if you go out and put yourself into different situations where you have the opportunity to interact with other people. Put yourself out there. Go to events or places where you are likely or ensured social interaction.


Join a weekly club. Look online or call your local community center. By spending time with people based upon a shared interest, you are more likely to have something to talk about.
Pick up a hobby, like martial arts or team sports. Physical, group activities don't require as much socialization as other activities, but they do require some. This can increase your socialization without going overboard.
 Relish in the little victories. Take little steps toward being social at first. As you get more comfortable, add greater social adventures.


Start with saying “hello” to a random stranger or telling someone you like their fashion. Decide ahead of time what you want to try, and practice a bit in the mirror or with a trusted friend, a family member, or a therapist. This will help you feel more at ease so when the opportunity does arise, you can feel more comfortable with reaching out.
Work towards asking someone on a date or inviting them over for dinner. If you can't bring yourself to ask them in person, write him a note or send a text.
 It gets easier every time you do it, so you must persist.When you have fun at a party, on a date or out with friends, make an effort to do it again. This way you will reinforce that good feeling. If that still seems like a big step, think about an activity that will help you feel more comfortable with asking a person out, such as going out for coffee, or something fun like going roller skating. Make sure to choose an activity you find comfortable.
 Go to a public place and challenge yourself to ask someone for help or for information. You might need to be creative for this. Spend a moment in whatever setting you choose to concoct a topic or question.


Ask someone in the grocery store for an opinion on a food item.
Ask someone for directions, even though you might know where you're going.
Ask someone to help you carry something even though you might be able to manage on your own.

