 Many young runners aim for a roughly identical run each time -- challenging themselves about the same amount. But high-level runners tend to alternate very challenging runs with very easy ones, knowing that the truly challenging runs are where they make the most gains. A good way to start is to find 2 routes you love -- one easy and one hard, and then slowly add or subtract distance as you get stronger., While untrained runners believe they can just run to get better, strong runners know that specific strength training is key to staying fast and healthy. Plyometrics are exercises that require a burst of power, which translates into much stronger, more efficient strides when you run. Try out:


Box jumps, both single leg and double.
Shuttle runs
Squat leaps -- perform a squat without weight, then explode up and to one side.
Power skip -- see how high you can get on each leap, The top runners today train for sprints, even if they'll never actually use that speed in a race. That's because sprinting pushes your body to a degree that helps create huge training gains in a much shorter time. Some ideas include:



Intervals: Warm up for 5-10 minutes, then sprint for 30 seconds. Jog for a minute to relax, then sprint another 5-6 times. As you get better, cut the jogging portion to as close to 30 seconds as you can. Cool down for 5-10 minutes at the end.

Ladders: Warm up for 5-10 minutes, then sprint a lap at roughly 90% top speed. Jog a lap to recover. Then sprint 2 straight laps. Jog a lap to recover. Keep escalating until you can no longer push yourself, then cool down for 5-10 minutes., A strong, healthy diet will have long-term effects on your ability to run long distances. If you're always putting junk into the engine, like multiple desserts, fatty and fried foods, and empty calories like soda, you will have a much harder time efficiently turning that food into energy. While you don't have to be on an Olympian's diet, you can take some cues from them:


Keep your proteins lean -- fish, chicken, beans, whole wheat pasta, etc.
Make fruits and vegetables a large part of every meal.
Snack healthily -- using fruits, low-fat options like pretzels, and yogurts and granola instead of "treats."
Drink water all day long -- it will always help your body run more efficiently., As mentioned above, your core is the most essential set of muscles to keep an efficient, smooth, and relaxed posture while you run. This doesn't mean you need a shredded six-pack, but you should try out the following exercises. It doesn't take much -- try mixing and matching 2-3 of the following into a 10 minute work out, resting for 30 seconds between each exercise.


Sit-ups
Crunches
Side crunches
Planks
Side planks
Bridges, You'll only get better if you actually push yourself to your limits. Except on the easy runs, make sure you struggle at the end of all your runs. It is this ability to push through the struggle that will make you stronger, making future long runs much easier to pull off.


If you feel strong, pick up your pace for the last five minutes, giving yourself a good challenge to end the run on.
There is a difference between running through pain and running through a temporary struggle. If you feel sharp pain, wooziness, or sick, you should stop and get water.

