 Trench foot is caused by having wet feet for long periods of time, due to things like having wet shoes and socks or standing in water or mud for a long period of time. If you start to notice symptoms of trench foot, then you should seek medical attention as soon as possible. Symptoms of trench foot may include the following:


tingly or itchy feet
pain in your feet
swelling feet
cold blotchy skin
numbness, heaviness, or a prickly feeling in your feet
redness and warmth
dry skin
blisters followed by tissue death (late stage);
, Although trench foot was termed over a hundred years ago and seems to be something of the past, it can still occur in people who spend many hours in cold, wet conditions. One of the best ways to treat trench foot is to keep your feet dry and clean.If you find yourself standing in water for a few hours or more, clean and dry them as often as you can. Change into dry socks as needed.


Trench foot develops because the blood vessels of the feet constrict in an attempt to keep the rest of the body warm, which reduces the amount of oxygen and nutrients the tissue gets.
Without adequate oxygen and nutrients, the tissues of the feet swell and eventually die. Bacteria in the water can also trigger infections if there's cuts or abrasions on the feet.
If you do have cuts on your feet, apply some antibacterial cream or alcohol-based sanitizer after you dry your feet, but before you put your shoes / boots back on.
 If you've been standing in cold water for hours at a time, it's important to not only dry your feet, but you need to warm them up gradually.The heat will open up (dilate) blood vessels and increase the circulation to your feet, which will stop the progression of trench foot. Apply warm packs or soak your feet in warm water for approximately 5-10 minutes. Resist the urge to use hot water because you may scold your feet and make the condition worse.


If you take a warm foot bath, add some potassium permanganate solution (from your local pharmacy) to the water — it can help draw fluid out of the swollen tissue. affected area.
Trench foot is similar to frostbite, although it doesn’t require freezing water temperatures. It can develop in water temperatures up to 60 °F (15.6 °C) and even occur while indoors.Trench foot can take less than a day of water exposure (as few as 12 hours) to develop.
 Once you've warmed your feet up, it's important to keep your socks off initially while you rest and sleep in your bed.This may seem counter-intuitive for cold feet, but wearing tight socks can reduce blood circulation and make trench foot worse. After a few days of recovery, you can wear loose socks made of breathable material, such as cotton.


Instead of socks, keep your feet warm while resting by covering them with a wool blanket.
Don't elevate your feet while sitting on the couch because you want to encourage blood flow to your lower legs and feet.
While lying in bed at night, add another blanket to the bottom of your bed to keep your feet warm. Try not to cross your ankles because that can slow circulation to your feet.
 Trench foot is characterized by tissue swelling and pain that can become quite severe. It can affect the toes, heel or the entire foot depending on which parts of your feet are wet and for how long.As such, take medications that can combat the pain and swelling, such as anti-inflammatories. Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and or naproxen (Aleve) are common over-the-counter types that work well.


Anti-inflammatories work best and are safest if taken for short periods of time -- less than a few weeks.
Once trench foot sets in, it can take between a few weeks to several months to fully heal, depending on the severity and the overall health of the person.
 The main signs of trench foot (pain, swelling, blistering, color changes) typically aren't due to infection, although standing in water contaminated with bacteria from feces certainly increases the risk of infection, especially if you have any cuts, nicks or abrasions on your feet.Other signs of infection to look out for include bloody pus discharge, red and/or white streaks on your feet, foul odor and mild fever.


If blisters form with trench foot, the likelihood of infection developing is significantly increased.
If you are at risk for trench foot, apply an antibiotic cream or sanitizing lotion to any cuts or abrasions on your feet as soon as you can.
Your doctor may give you antibiotics to prevent infection or even a tetanus booster if your vaccination record isn't current.
 A greenish black discoloration of the skin on the feet indicates that tissue is dying from not getting enough oxygen and nutrients for too prolonged a period of time.Tissue death (also called necrosis) can quickly lead to gangrene, which is a medical emergency needing antibiotics and likely surgical intervention.


In addition to dark discoloration, other signs of gangrene include: further swelling, severe pain then a loss of sensation, peeling away of skin, foul-smelling discharge and disfigurement of toes.
In severe cases of trench foot where gangrene has set in, foot and lower leg amputation is usually required.
 The majority of people don't want to stand in cold water for very long, although some jobs and pastimes (fly fishing or seeing outdoor concerts) significantly increase the risk of developing trench foot.Keep an eye on the clock and remember that trench foot can develop in as little as 12 hours or so under some circumstances. Retreat to dry ground within that time frame if possible.


Take breaks from your job every few hours if it requires you stand in water — this is particularly important for rescue and emergency workers, as well as members of the military.
Standing in warm, unsanitary water for many hours is also problematic and causes another type of immersion foot, so keeping your feet dry is important regardless of the temperature.
 If your job or situation requires spending substantial amounts of time standing in wet or damp conditions, it's important to check or monitor your socks regularly to see if they're damp or wet also. If they are damp or wet, change into clean, dry socks in order to prevent or lower the likelihood of developing trench foot.If you're on the job or need to walk / stand in wet conditions, pack a few extra pair of socks with you just in case.


For wet conditions, use polypropylene sock liners, which are specially designed to draw moisture away from your feet.
Socks made out of natural fibers, such as cotton and wool, tend to be better for preventing trench foot than artificial materials.
 In addition to your socks, make an effort to wear appropriate footwear if you anticipate being in damp or wet conditions. Ideally, you should wear waterproof boots that fit above your ankle, but regardless of type, make sure they fit well — not too loose or too tight.Stick to shoes / boots made out of treated leather and avoid ones made of synthetic materials, such as rubber or vinyl. Leather is more expensive, but repels moisture while being able to breathe (ventilate).


Depending on your situation, it may be best to change your footwear a few times daily and let the wet pair dry out overnight.
Rubber boots and gators are great for spending a few hours standing in the water (for fly fishing, for example), but can help trigger trench foot after many hours, especially if the rubber doesn't have an insulating inner lining.
 An old trick used back in the World War 1 era to prevent trench foot was to apply lots of whale oil to the feet in order to repel the moisture and help insulate the feet from the cold.In modern times, it's more practical to rub some Vaseline over your feet instead, although the effect and helpful benefits remain the same.


Another method of keeping feet dry is to sprinkle some talcum powder on them, which helps absorb the moisture instead of repelling it.
Talcum powder is especially recommended for people who tend to sweat more. Excessive perspiration can also be controlled by applying drying agents, such as aluminium chloride.

