 Search for it in the App Store for iPhones or in the Play Store for Android phones.
 Follow the prompts for information that it needs to set up the account.


You can follow friends and others when you are ready by tapping the search button, which looks like a magnifying glass. Type in friends' names or Instagram usernames to find them.
 This will allow you to take or choose a photo and then edit it.


The blue button will have a white square with a dot in the middle of it on it.
On the screen that comes up next, you can take a photo of whatever you see by tapping the large blue circle with a white outline. If you have already taken the photograph you want to upload, then click the square to the left of the blue circle; this is your photo gallery. Choose the photo you want to upload from your gallery and tap the blue “Next” in the top right corner when you are ready.
The next screen gives you the option to do some editing. You can choose a filter for your photo, which alters the colors of it. Drag the filters to the left to scroll through them. Tapping the “Brightness” button in the middle allows you to adjust the brightness of the photo. The image of the wrench on the right allows you to edit other things, such as contrast, color, and saturation. Tap the blue “Next” in the top right corner when you are done editing your photo.
 This will help explain what the photo is about.


Tap where it says “Write a caption...” and fill in your own caption.
Tag people in the photo by tapping where it says “Tag People.”
Add the photo to other social media platforms, like Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, and Flickr, if you would like to do that. Your accounts to those other social media platforms need to be linked to do that.
Show where your photo was taken geographically by tapping the “Add to Photo Map” button.
 At the top of the screen, you can tap “Followers” or “Direct.”


If you choose “Followers,” anyone who follows you can see your photos. If your account is public, then anyone who finds your account can see your photos.
If you choose “Direct,” then you can type in the person or people whom you want to receive the photos, and only they will be able to see it privately in your direct message to them.
 Now others can see your photo!

