 Go when you know that the store will be fairly empty. Make sure the child has just eaten and feels calm. This will help lower the risk of meltdowns.;
, Have them do something relaxing before shopping (e.g. special interest time, swinging, deep pressure activities). Pack some essentials in a bag or purse—Wilbarger brush, earplugs, hoodie, gum, stim toys, whatever soothes your child best.


Encourage them to stim as much as they need to.
 Shopping with an autistic child can be a time-consuming experience, and stretching it to include other siblings might be too much. If it's just the two of you, you can be done sooner, so you can go home and relax.
 You can read a social story about shopping, or give gentle reminders in the car ride. Don't simply tell them what not to do—tell them what they can do instead.


"There is no running in the store. If you have a lot of energy, you can jump, and we can go to a park afterwards."
"Remember, if you're feeling stressed, tell me right away so I can help you."
"If you want to take something down to look at it, remember to put it back where you found it when you're done."

, It may take a while for the child to process everything around them, and hurrying them could lead to a meltdown. Make sure they can browse at their own pace, and have time to take a break in the bathroom if they get too stressed. Patience is key., Giving them plenty of time in the dressing room will help them notice any itchy fabrics, distracting tags, or horrible seams. Encourage them to put back any clothes that don't feel good, and assure them that it won't hurt your feelings.


This is especially important when buying fancier clothes, which are more likely to trigger sensory issues.
You may need to shop at several stores if your child has severe sensory struggles.
 Your child may especially love clothes that are fun to stim in, and this can help them feel happy and calm. Look at both opportunities built into the clothes, and big pockets where they can put stim toys and comfort objects. Here are some ways autistic kids like to stim with clothes:


Long skirts are fun for spinning.
Strings and zippers present fun fidgeting opportunities.
Fur is good for petting.
Chunky bracelets or bracelets with big beads can be twirled and spun in the hands.
If your child is putting their clothes in their mouth, get them some chewy necklaces or bracelets from a special needs store. These can be found online as well.
 Autistic people's preferences are more than what they physically can and can't handle. Think about their current favorite outfits, and point out clothes with similar designs and styles.
 This way, you can return items that turn out to be uncomfortable, and you can buy several copies of your child's favorite shirts and pants.


If a child/preteen absolutely loves an outfit, offer to buy it in a size or two up as well. Then as they grow, they can wear it more. (Be aware that anxiety can stunt growth, and they may stop growing in their teens.)

, It's okay to let them wander between the blue and pink sections, and it's fine if the clothes they pick aren't completely "age-appropriate." It's more important that the child finds clothes that they will enjoy wearing.

