 Be certain to run any major changes in diet by your child’s pediatrician. This includes changes related to vitamins and supplements.


Ask your doctor about any conflicts that could negatively impact your ADHD medication.The pediatrician can also suggest recommended dosages of various supplements and warn of possible side effects.For instance, melatonin may improve sleep in persons with ADHD, but it might also induce vivid dreaming which may be unpleasant.
 People with ADHD tend to have lower serotonin and dopamine levels. You can experiment with changes to your child’s diet in order to counter-effect these deficiencies to some extent.


Experts recommend a complex-carb diet to boost serotonin for improved mood, sleep, and appetite. Skip simple carbs (anything with added sugar, fruit juice, honey, jelly, candy, soda) that cause a temporary serotonin spike. Instead, choose complex carbohydrates such as whole grains, green vegetables, starchy vegetables, and beans. These all are digested more slowly, and sugars are “time-released” into your child's bloodstream. , Serve a protein-rich diet that includes several proteins over the course of the day to keep dopamine levels high. This will help your kid improve his focus.


Proteins include meat, fish, and nuts, as well as several foods that double as complex carbs: legumes and beans. Chicken, canned tuna, eggs, and beans are all great examples of protein sources that are usually cheap and affordable in the United States.
 ADHD experts recommend improving the brain by avoiding “bad fats” such as those found in trans-fats and fried foods, burgers and pizzas. Instead, choose omega-3 fats from salmon, walnuts, and avocados. These foods may help lower hyperactivity while improving organizational skills.
 Seafoods, poultry, fortified cereals and other foods with a high zinc content or taking zinc supplements are linked to lower levels of hyperactivity and impulsivity in some studies; however, there is limited research on this and you should speak with your child’s physician about potential benefits, if any., Don’t forget that some spices do more than add flavor. For example, saffron counters depression, while cinnamon helps with attention. , Some studies show that eliminating wheat and dairy, as well as processed foods, sugars, additives and dyes (especially red food coloring), can have a positive impact on behavior in children with ADHD. While not everyone will be willing or able to go to that length, some experimentation may produce improvements that make a difference. 