 Brush them with a nylon-bristled brush to remove any dirt or impurities from the surface. Washing is a necessary step to remove all pesticides and any lingering dirt.


Sometimes carrots look a bit dingy or funny. This will go away when you peel off the outer layer.;
, The bowl will catch the carrot peels as you remove them from the carrot. You could peel it over the trash, but that leads to a clumsier peel since you have no surface for the carrot to rest against.


You could also just peel the carrot on a cutting board and then scrape the cuttings into the trash when you're done. Whichever.
 Then, turn your non-dominant hand over so that your palm is facing the ceiling (and your hand is underneath the carrot). The carrot should be tilted at a 45-degree angle over your bowl with the pointed tip pointing down into the bowl.


The hardest part about this is doing it fast and not cutting yourself. If you keep your hand below the carrot, at least the latter half of that quandary is solved.
 If the peeler won't reach the top inch or so, that's fine – you'll take care of it in a bit. Most peelers actually have two blades that go both directions. Does yours?


A vegetable peeler only removes thin slices of the skin if you press it against the carrot gently, preserving the layer beneath that contains many of the carrot’s phytonutrients., You will remove a thin layer of skin that should curl and fall into the bowl or onto the cutting board. That's your first slice – congratulations!


Keep the carrot's tip resting on the cutting board, if you're using one. It'll be easier to keep the carrot in place and not move with the force you're applying if it's resting on a stable surface.
 What most people don't realize is that the standard vegetable peeler has two blades that make it possible to peel your carrot from both the bottom and the top, from peeling away from you and peeling toward you. So once you peel down, peel up. Then you go back and forth, back and forth.


What's the point of this? If you're peeling a lot of carrots, you'll go much, much faster with this method. The best chefs are all about taste and efficiency.
 As you're peeling up and down, up and down, gently rotate the carrot in your hand. When you reach the side that you started on, you're finished peeling the base. Easy as pie.
 Sometimes it's easier not to worry about the top at first, your hand is there and the last thing you want to do is cut your wrist. So once you're finished peeling the bulk of the carrot, flip it over and peel the base in the same method, but just covering the last inch or so that needs to be peeled.


If you didn't peel the top at first, of course. Generally not doing so makes the first bit quicker, but then you do have to take the time now to complete it. Whether you do so or not is up to.
 Most people don't use the very tips in their cooking. With those added to the pile, discard the peels in your garbage or put them in your compost pile.


Rinse your carrots once they're peeled and continue to prepare them according to the instructions in your recipe.

