 It is not easy to get involved in the music world, even for children. It's roughly estimated that it takes 10,000 hours of practicing to become truly proficient in a skill, and singing is no exception.This will probably mean sacrificing a lot of time doing other things, like hanging out with friends, playing video games, and pursuing other hobbies. So you have to really ask and decide for yourself if you really want to make this commitment.


You will probably face a lot of competition and roadblocks.
Even after you become successful, you may not see a lot of profit at first, and there will likely continue to be a lot of work involved, like signing autographs for hours, traveling for tours, having to write and rewrite melodies and lyrics, long nights at the studio, etc. Although it is a very glamorous and rewarding job, it is not always easy.;
, You should find out more information about what other modern child singers' experiences have been like in order to understand what the process is like, and how long it will be like. You will also want to start researching to see what kind of music you want to sing.


Pick a particular person you admire, like Aaron Carter or Charlotte Church. Use a search engine like Google, Bing, or Yahoo to find interviews and articles written about their careers. Try search terms like "Name Interview," "Name on Success," or "Name music industry."
Try finding the artist's Wikipedia page by searching for them at Wikipedia or any search engine. Scroll to the bottom and look in the "References" section for articles hosted online for interviews and other articles about their career history.
Go to your local library and ask a librarian for help finding more information about the music industry and child singers; they should be able to help you locate biographies and autobiographies for current and past famous individuals.
 Maybe you already think you know what style of music you want to sing, or maybe you have no clue, but you should make sure you know which genre you want to pursue. It would be a waste of time and energy to think you want to be a country singer only to realize three years into training that you want to sing in the opera some day. Research all kinds of different artists and genres of music by listening to them to discover what you like, and what sounds you think you can envision your voice contributing to.


Try web services like Last.fm or Musicovery to build your own radio station that features songs that match your taste or mood.
Try Earbits Radio's web service or surfing your local radio stations on a car radio for different music genres.
Ask your parents and grandparents to introduce you to music they enjoy; it's probably very different than what you and your friends like to listen to.
 "Successful" is a really vague word, and it could mean a lot of things, especially in today's day and age where there are many paths to choose from. Do you want to be an internet sensation? Do you want to sign onto a record label and perform all over the country? Do you want to star in Broadway or go onto a career in the opera someday? The answers to these questions will determine the kind of training you will need to pursue.
 In addition to being time-demanding, in order to pursue this career you will need money. There will be things you need to purchase and invest in along the way like training, equipment, and clothes. It will also be emotionally demanding, since you may have to face rejection, criticism, and other difficulties. There are also things that you may not be able to do for yourself as a minor, like driving yourself to auditions or signing legal paperwork. You are going to need the support of your parents or legal guardians in order to pursue this career.
 Because becoming a singer will be a lot of work for both you and your parents, you need to show them you have put a lot of thought into this decision despite your young age. If you simply say, "I think it will be a lot of fun," they may come up with counter arguments like, "But do you know how much time and energy this will take?" You will need to use the research you did before to prove to them you know what you're talking about.


Try treating this like writing a persuasive essay. If you can think of all of the bad reasons someone could come up with, then you can think of good reasons and arguments to oppose those bad reasons. Be sure to back it up with facts when possible. So, if your parents say "You won't be able to spend time with your friends," you can say, "I can join the school or church choir and make friends that share my passion for singing."
Rehearse your argument to yourself. You will want to make sure you remember your points for when you have a discussion with them.
 Having done the research already, you should now be ready to tell your parents how you feel. Remember to stay calm and in control even if they are initially resistant. Instead, continue to maturely show them you're interested by looking into joining a church or school choir, singing whenever you have the opportunity, even casually, and occasionally trying to have more conversations with them about it. Some arguments could go like this:


"I don't think that's a good idea. You need to go to school." "I can still go to school. I would do all of my practice after school, and any performances would be on the weekends. If I got famous and I had to quit public school, I could get private teachers or do long distance learning through computers."
"You won't enjoy it. It's a lot of work." "I know it's a lot of work. I did a lot of research on what Michael Jackson and Hillary Duff have been through for their singing careers. But, I really believe that I can do this, especially if you'll help keep me on track."
"Wouldn't you rather just keep singing a hobby that you love?" "People say that you should love what you do. I think that if I had a job about something I was passionate about, it would never really feel like work."
"We don't have that kind of money." "We could find ways to make money so I could get training and go to perform. We could do bake sales, and car washes, and I could take small singing jobs in town."

