 Basically, what this phrase means is that you use bait that either the fish are already feeding on or that mimics what they are eating. Actually, regardless of the species, if you use this concept you will catch more fish. When it comes to catfish, they feed on all kinds of food, not just stinky bait as is commonly thought.Though it’s especially popular among trout-fishing enthusiasts, “Matching the hatch” is a phrase often used in the fishing world. The expression comes from the attempts from fly-fisherman to imitate the insects in any given area with artificial imitations to try and fool the fish. , Spoons, many jigs, tiny spinners and other small, life-like, plastic lures will work when fishing for bream or bass. Make sure the artificial lure mimics the movements of the fish’s natural prey. Form the lures around a hook at a size that accommodates their mouth.The components of a lure will dictate how it will move in the water. For example, a jerk bait has an oval shape and is meant to float and create jerking movements at the top of the water.
 Bream, also known as sunfish, panfish and brim, are not particular when it comes to feeding. They are also relatively easy to catch, no matter what the bait is. Whatever you choose, though, make sure it’s small enough to fit into the bream’s notoriously tiny mouth.If the bait is too big, they will just pull it off the hook little by little, until all that’s left is an empty hook.
 You can get them online by a variety of colorful names, at a bait shop or sporting goods store, or you can make them. All sponge and dip baits share a common factor and that is they stink. They are usually made with at least two extremely stinky and foul ingredients such as blood and guts of some form, like chicken livers or the innards of another kind of fish.Both are fished with using either a small dip or sponge tube to hold the bait. The disadvantage of this type of bait is that the tubes and sponges require additional expense as well as tackle.

