 While you can subtly lighten your hair by one or two shades with dye at home, generally a darker shade will take better to your hair. Avoid trying to make a drastic change by sticking to a color that is just one or two shades away from your natural hair.If you try to change your color dramatically, you might be tempted to dye your eyebrows to match. This is something you should never do, as it is unsafe to use dye so close to your eyes.
If you do want a much lighter shade than your own, go to a salon. You can bleach hair on your own, but it’s much easier to get consistent results from a professional. You shouldn’t try to go too dark, either. A good rule of thumb for a darker shade is one that is no darker than your eyebrows.If you’re trying to get your own highlights, they might turn out an unintentionally brassy orange. Try a toner or gloss in an ash shade a few weeks after the dye.Try mixing two hair colors that are one shade away from each other, or variants on the same shade, in order to create a more natural color change from your current shade.;
, Don’t shampoo your hair the same day you dye it. Leave some natural oil in your hair to protect your scalp and help the dye take to your hair better.If you need to clean your hair between shampooing and dyeing, just use some conditioner and rinse with water so you don’t strip away the protective oils. Your hair should be free of product buildup or dirt, otherwise color can become uneven., Test what your hair will look like once dyed by applying the dye to just one strand first. Let it dry completely to check the color and adjust the shade if needed.


Choose a strand of hair in an inconspicuous place so that it won’t be seen, or even cut a small strand away to dye it.
A strand test will also help you check for any allergic reactions you may have to the dye ingredients. You should also perform a patch test by placing a small dot of the dye on your inner elbow and waiting 48 hours to observe if there is any redness, itching, or discomfort., Try applying hair dye to the middle portion of each strand of hair before you do all the roots and ends. Dye usually processes faster at the roots due to the heat from your scalp, and can appear stronger at the ends if they are dry or damaged.If you have leftover color in your hair from a previous dye, apply dye first to the roots and down to where the leftover color begins in your hair.
Applying dye to one section of each strand first before going back through to do the rest gives that section a little more time with the dye on, which could compensate for any differences in color processing.
 Apply dye at your roots as close to the scalp as possible without rubbing it into the scalp, which can stain the skin and expose it to the harsh chemicals in the dye.


Try to lift up each strand of hair you are applying dye to so that the hair is away from your head.
Protect your hairline by dabbing on a small amount of baby oil, olive oil, or petroleum jelly to the edge of your face and neck where your hairline ends so that the dye won’t stick there.
 Follow the instructions that came with your dye as to how long to leave the color in your hair before rinsing it out. You can end up with no difference in your hair if it’s not left in long enough, or color that is way too strong and even damaging if you leave it in for too long.


If you’ve done a strand test, or more than one, and determined that the color looks best if left in for slightly less or more time, you can follow that timing for your full dye. Just make sure to rinse it out if you start feeling burning or itching.
Covering gray hair can require extra time. Consider purchasing a dye that’s specially meant for gray coverage, and follow any dye instructions about covering grays carefully.
 Follow your specific dye instructions on how to rinse out the dye from your hair after the allotted time. Generally, you should rinse with warm or cool water until the water runs clear.


Don’t skip the step in many dye instructions that says to add a small amount of water and work the dye in your hair into a lather before rinsing. This can help distribute the color and make the dye easier to wash out.Make sure all dye is gone from your hair and face after the rinse, and use an old towel just in case it gets stained with dye residue.
Moisturize your hair with your own rich conditioner or the small bottle that some dye kits come with.

