 Before a seizure, abnormal electrical activity builds in the brain, and after the seizure occurs it takes a while to for brain activity normalize again. The length of each phase varies depending on the individual and the severity of the seizure episode. An average time period would be 30 minutes for the aura stage, 3 minutes for the seizure, and anywhere from 5 minutes to 5 hours post-seizure. These are the three stages of seizure:


Aura – this is a period of time before the seizure when the animal shows changed behavior
Seizure – the fit itself
Post-seizure – the pet is recovering from a major electrical storm in the brain and may be confused, bump into things, and appear blind.;
, Many animals that suffer from seizure show subtle signs in the time leading up to a fit. Sometimes you only realize in hindsight that your dog was behaving abnormally, but you can learn to recognize the signs in order to better prepare for an impending seizure.


Signs of aura include: restlessness, pacing, and an inability to settle.
It's as if your dog knows something is wrong, but doesn't know what to do, or how to get comfortable.
Some dogs become excessively vocal, whining, barking, or crying for no apparent reason.
Dogs that are particularly bonded to their owner may become extra clingy, as if seeking comfort, whilst other pets hide away, as if to protect themselves from an unseen threat.
 If you recognize aura signs, now is the time to give your dog preventative medications such as rectal diazepam. This helps to cancel out the erratic brain activity, and may reduce the likelihood of a seizure occurring. Also, it gives you time to put your pet in a safe environment where he cannot hurt himself during the seizure.


Take precautions such as switching off electric heaters, and placing cushions against hard objects such as table legs.
 During a seizure, your dog will collapse and lie on his side, with all four legs extended, in a rigid posture. The head will be arched back, and the eyes will roll in their sockets. After a few seconds, the legs start to paddle, or make swimming motions in the air. A seizure may contain some or all of the following:



Mouth makes champing movements. The dog loses conscious control, and random electrical activity in the brain stimulates the chewing muscles.

Tongue lolls out of the mouth. Loss of conscious control of the tongue.

Drooling and heavy salivation: The dog is unable to swallow and so his saliva spills out of his mouth.

Scrambling, paddling, swimming motions made with rigid legs: Conflicting neurological messages tell the skeletal muscles to contract in an uncoordinated way.

Loss of bladder and bowel control: This is a combination of the loss of inhibitory muscle tone that keep the bladder closed and increased pressure within the abdomen, as the dog's muscles contract in an uncoordinated way.

Generalized shaking and tremors: Muscle twitching is triggered by erratic neurological impulses from the brain.
 Your dog is not aware of his surroundings. Your dog's higher centers of consciousness are overridden during the seizure, and his brain is flooded with random electrical stimulation, stifling the conscious centers.


He will probably not respond to his name, or anything around him. Your dog cannot see or hear because his hearing and sight centers in the brain are being swamped by random electrical messages.
 If your dog has a seizure lasting longer than 20 minutes, get him immediate veterinary attention to avoid permanent brain damage. This is known as status epilepticus and needs urgent veterinary attention to reduce the risk of long term brain damage.


Know that the average length of a seizure is around 2 to 3 minutes. Seizures generally do not take too long to cease, although it can seem much longer when it happens to your pet.
Less commonly, seizures can be longer, around 5 – 10 minutes

, After a while, your dog will come out of his seizure and enter the post-seizure phase. Commonly, your pet will seem confused, disorientated, and wobbly on his legs. He may wander aimlessly, and even bump into walls as if he is blind.


This phase can be brief, a matter of 5 minutes or so, whilst for some it lasts for hours.
A normal seizure does not usually cause any permanent damage, and the disorientation and blindness are temporary.
One slightly bizarre symptom of this is that some dogs seem very hungry, and actively seek out food.

