 Ideas are the seed of change.


Scientific writings have historically been the most censored/banned texts. Today, scientific texts are generally allowed.

Charles Darwin's The Origins of Species could not legally be taught in many states for years.
Copernicus was forced (under threat of torture or death) to state that his sun-centered solar system was false.



Black Boy and Black Like Me were suppressed because they challenged the racial norms of the day. Black Boy is still challenged in libraries.;
,


At the top of the 2000-2009 American Library Association's banned/challenged book list is the Harry Potter series. People who obviously haven't read the books suggest that Harry Potter supports witchcraft, has magical spells, etc. Any reader of the series would tell you that (in the books): You have to be born with magical abilities, All of the spells named are either plays on words (like Avada Kedavra which is a play on the magician's Abracadabra) or Latinization of words or phrases with extra syllables thrown in.
Another example of this is The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie, which is probably better named, "The Anti-Satanic Verses". A death sentence was pronounced against Rushdie in absentia for his book.




The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn describes the time before the "War Between the States" when slavery still existed. It is often challenged for its use of the word "Nigger". The term was common for the time it was written about and didn't carry the derogatory implications that the term does today, or not nearly to the same degree. The term was derived from the Latin word "nigger", meaning "black" or "dark". This is similar to the term "Indians" which described the Native Americans. Today, "Indians" is often considered improper, though it is still widely used.

Mein Kampf by Adolph Hitler is a historical document, though its statements and suggestions are terribly bigoted. Reading the book is one of the best ways to learn from history. It is history's greatest example of the politics of hate, and where it leads to. Like all authors, Hitler wrote about what he knew.



Many of the children's books by Judy Blume have been challenged on this basis. Some parents believe they can completely isolate their children from sexual discussions. Judy Blume's works are often written about children who are nearing adolescence. Her books often discuss subjects that parents want to avoid.
Some books, like 1984 and Brave New World have some sexual content. Usually, the choice is made to allow these only after 5th grade.
Religious works are no exception. Members of almost every religion have tried to suppress the writings of other religions.
 Ask for an explanation for any final decisions that were made.
 Most libraries have groups that review books. Ask how you can participate.
 Banned Books Week is the national book community's annual celebration of the Freedom to Read. Hundreds of libraries and bookstores around the country draw attention to the problem of censorship by mounting displays of challenged books and hosting a variety of events. Visit the the website to find out more.

