 The first step to receiving help, is admitting to yourself you have a problem. In doing so, you are able to realize the problem, tell others, and receive help.;
, In order to fully understand and cope with the disorder, you need to educate yourself on its diagnosis, side effects, treatment and long term conditions. To know whether it is a genetic predisposition will help deal with and treat the symptoms or disease itself. There are genetic, biological, environmental, and psychological risk factors for developing a psychotic disorder. A person with a psychotic disorder may not have any outward characteristics of being ill, but in other cases the illness may be more apparent, causing bizarre behaviors. Behavior changes might include the following:


a) Social withdrawal
b) Agitation or anxiety
c) Depersonalization (intense anxiety and a feeling of being unreal)
d) Loss of appetite
e) Worsened hygiene
f) Disorganized speech and behaviors
g) Catatonic behavior, in which the affected person's body may be rigid and the person may be unresponsive
h) Changes/problems with thinking that may occur in a psychotic disorder include delusions, hallucinations, the sense of being controlled by outside forces, disorganized thoughts

, The following types of psychoses are called psychotic disorders. They can be triggered by stress, drug or alcohol use, injury or illness, or they can appear on their own.


a) Bipolar Disorder- when someone has bipolar disorder, his or her moods swing from very high to very low. When his or her mood is high and positive, he or she may have symptoms of psychosis. The individual may feel extremely good and believe he or she has special powers. When his or her mood is depressed, the individual may have psychotic symptoms that make him or her feel angry, sad, or frightened. These symptoms include thinking someone is trying to harm him or her.
b) Delusional Disorder- a person suffering from delusional disorder strongly believes in things that are not real.
c) Psychotic Depression- this is major depression with psychotic symptoms.
d) Schizophrenia- Schizophrenia is psychosis that lasts longer than six months. Schizophrenia is a lifelong disease.
 Talking to a therapist is a way to learn and open up and understand your “disability”. Therapists are able to help you cope with and understand the rights and wrongs of the situation. They are also knowledgeable of medications, treatments, and other more advanced psychologists to seek help from. When assessing a person suffering from psychotic symptoms, health-care professionals will take a careful history of the symptoms from the person and loved ones as well as conduct a medical evaluation, including necessary laboratory tests and a mental-health assessment. They can also recommend you to a psychologist for further treatment, if medication is necessary.


Seeing a psychologist will be able to help you decide which is the best form of treatment possible. Psychologists are able to alter and change medications based on body chemistry and its effects. Sometimes if one type doesn't work, they will treat the disorder with two or more. Medications vary from person to person, each having a different effect. It is the job of the psychologist to determine which medication is right for any given individual, depending on the circumstance.
 In extremes, hospitalization may occur. Hospitalization occurs when therapy and your psychologists treatments have failed. This occurs when you have either:


a) relapsed
b) have a manic episode

, In doing so, this makes is possible for the patient to endure a stress-free environment, being able to move on in a positive light from the situation. Negative stimuli can cause an individual to relapse or have a manic episode.
 Talking about it, whether to your friends, family, or youth (therapy) groups, allows for you to come to terms with the situation and will quite possibly allow you to inform and educate others on the “disease” and obtain a different point of view or recommendation. In many communities, there are support groups willing to listen and support your failures and successes by having weekly meetings and informational sessions.
 Most effective treatments for psychotic disorders are comprehensive, involving appropriate medications, mental-health education, and psychotherapy for the sufferer of psychosis and his or her loved ones. It will also include the involvement of community supportive services when needed. Anti-psychotic medications are proven effective in treating acute psychosis and reducing the risk of future psychotic episodes. Since people with a psychotic disorder are at increased risk of also developing depression, medications that address that symptom may be of great benefit as well.


Prevention of psychosis primarily involves preventing or decreasing the impact of factors that put the person at risk for developing a psychotic disorder by removing stimuli that was once the cause or had an effect on the disorder. Most people who experience psychosis will recover with proper treatment. Even in severe cases, medication and therapy can help people live normal lives.
 Psychosis does not have many medical complications. However, if left untreated, it can make it hard for the people with this disorder to take good care of themselves. That could cause other illnesses to go untreated.
 When a suitable combination of events has made it able to cope with the disorder, you are now considered “stable” and able to function in societies eyes without a label or watchful eye. Even with continued treatment of the more chronic or recurring psychotic disorders, some patients experience relapses. By far, though, the highest relapse rates for such disorders are seen when medication is discontinued. The large majority of patients experience substantial improvement when treated with anti-psychotic agents. Some patients, however, do not respond to medications, and a few may seem not to need them.

