 Type “printable grocery coupons” into the search engine, and look through the sites that you’re offered. Usually, these searches will result both in retail stores’ and manufacturers’ coupons, as well as coupon collecting sites.There are a variety of online coupon sites that offer printable coupons available on demand. Some coupon sites offer an array of coupon selections, an online version of the newspaper inserts.If you’re looking for a particular kind of coupon, or a coupon for a particular product, you can narrow your search results by making your search more specific. For example, you might search for “printable coupons, Tide liquid detergent.”
Searching through social media sites may expand your coupon surveillance.;
, Many times, writing a letter or an email to a company results in many free coupons. Whether you have a compliment for their products, or want to make a complaint about a packaging error, chances are the company will offer you coupons for a bargain purchase. You can also go directly to a manufacturer’s website and download coupons directly.
If you’ve never tried their product, write a letter or email asking for a coupon so that you can try it. The worst you can be told is no, and chances are good that you’ll get what you ask for.
 Programs and apps like Snap (by Groupon), Saving Star, Ibotta, Checkout 51, and Shopmium allow you to download coupons to your smartphone. Then you can redeem them for cash after you’ve purchased a product.One benefit of using mobile coupons is that they don’t technically count as a coupon, which means that you can use them at the same time you’re using other forms of coupon. Since usually you’re only permitted one coupon per item, you’re definitely going to save more by combining mobile and printed coupon.
You may be required to purchase a minimum amount for some services. For example, Checkout 51 has a $20.00 minimum purchase.
 An eCoupon is a coupon that’s loaded electronically via your store’s loyalty card, through your phone or your computer. Many grocery stores, such as Safeway, Publix, and Kroger, use loyalty cards. To access their eCoupons, go to the grocery store’s website and register for their program. Then, you’ll have access to their coupons.Each store will have hundreds of coupons for a variety of grocery products, just like newspaper inserts.
Select the coupons you want. Then, when you’re in the store, your coupons will automatically be linked to your loyalty number. You don’t have to print, cut, or carry the coupons with you for them to work.
 You'll receive special sales and coupons by following the social media feeds of your favorite grocery stores. You can also "like" or "follow" grocery coupon distributors, such as Cheaptwitter, Mycoupons and Couponmom, to see more coupon deals.You'll find contests, Daily Deals, and promotional codes for free or discounted items that aren't advertised in other forms.
You can also search social media sites for coupons that you can use. For example, if you're looking for a discounted cup of joe, search the site for "coupon" and "coffee" and see what comes up.
 Online grocery shopping comes with its own coupons and savings. Sites such as Groupon have special deals on individual grocery items, but you can also shop at online retailers such as Amazon, or online wholesalers such as Vitacost (owned by Kroger), Peapod, and Fresh Direct.


Some groceries offer online ordering so that you can pick up your groceries at the store nearest you.
Other stores will ship your grocery order through the mail. It's safe to order refrigerated and frozen goods through the mail, as special packaging means that it will arrive fresh and in good condition.

