 This information is not intended to be used as a guide for diagnosis or treatment. It is merely for owner education. Do not attempt to treat your animal without vet involvement.;
, A downed cow immediately following calving, is most likely suffering from either obturator nerve paralysis, or milk fever. It is also possible, though unlikely that she is suffering from a broken bone, or another more rare condition.



Obturator nerve paralysis occurs when the obturator nerve--a nerve that runs along each side of the pelvic cavity in the floor of the vagina and controls the adduction of the thigh muscles in the cow's hind legs--is pinched by the birth of a large calf, resulting in swelling and causing neuromuscular dysfunction in the adductor thigh muscles of the cow's hind leg(s). Nerve paralysis of this nature is very common in cows after a long birth in which the cow tried to have a calf without assistance and the calf remained in the vagina too long, or after a hard pull and could not nor has not stood since delivery. Her hind legs may possibly be splayed outward in an unnatural angle because of this inability to pull her legs inwards to sit comfortably or even stand.

Your vet will treat the cow with appropriate anti-inflammatory drugs and possibly Vitamin E and Selenium to speed the healing process. Your vet may also encourage you to get the cow up as soon as possible, either by encouragement or hip-lifters and straps, to help speed the healing process. Hobbles on the hind legs to prevent them from splaying out or causing more damage if she tries to get up on her own are highly recommended while she is recovering.
Often when the swelling goes down around the nerve the cow will recover and be able to get up on her own without any assistance. Some cows, however, if left for too long, may never recover and will need to be humanely euthanized.



Milk Fever (also referred to as Hypocalcemia ) is caused by the rapid mobilization of calcium to the mammary gland following calving, resulting in decreased calcium content in bodily tissues (hence the scientific name). She cannot remove enough calcium from her bones quick enough to counter this sudden shift, and neuromuscular weakness, dysfunction and paralysis soon follow.

Affected cows are often seen staggering around as though drunk and may fall. Fallen cows can be so weak that they cannot get up, and if left untreated, become dull and sleepy looking (heads are often turned back towards the rear), drifting into unconsciousness, shock, then death.
Cows that are down (but not out) need to be treated immediately and appropriately with calcium solution. Consult a vet immediately: it is always in the cow's best interest to him/her do this for you because intravenous injection, if done inappropriately, can cause cardiac disturbance and subsequent death.


Other causes of a downer cow after parturition are possible, but less likely. Always consult a vet to rule out other causes and determine appropriate treatment.
 Cows that can get up after going down and not getting up is always a good sign of progress!

