 Savory sandwiches surprisingly taste great with pear slices. The pear adds a sweetness, lightness, and crunchiness that is often left absent from a grilled cheese sandwich. To create this grilled cheese, layer your cheese and pear on a slice of bread. Place your bread in a hot, greased skillet with butter or spray. Place another slice of bread over it and set the heat to medium low. Cook the sandwich for three minutes or until the bread is crispy and brown. Flip the sandwich over and cook it for another three minutes.You can also add a protein like ham or roast beef to your sandwich.
 Elevate your typical salad by adding sweet and sour flavors with winter fruit. All you need to do is slice up the fruit and put it in your salad. Great winter fruit choices for salads include blood oranges and sliced pears. Experiment with sweet and sour dressings, such as ginger dressings in combination with these fruits.You can also make a black bean salad using a can of black beans, avocado, and chopped persimmon., You can use citrus winter fruit as a glaze on top of proteins like fish, beef, and chicken. Marinating your food with blood oranges will impart a sweet flavor to your protein.To use winter fruit as a marinade, use freshly squeezed juice from a citrus fruit that you prefer and combine it with spices like garlic powder, salt, red pepper flakes, oregano, or pepper. Have your meat sit in the marinade for a couple of hours or overnight, so it absorbs the flavors of the citrus and spices. This will result in juicier and tastier proteins.

You can fruit like oranges, lemons, or passion fruit.
To make a more advanced marinade, you can also combine things like vegetable oil and red wine vinegar to the marinade.Adding a citrus winter fruit glaze to fish will impart a tangy, sweet and sour taste., Thinly sliced pieces of apple or rhubarb can impart a crunchy and fresh texture to the savory dishes that you cook. In addition to creating a different flavor profile, sliced winter fruit as a garnish can also be colorful and aesthetically pleasing. Choose garnishes that go with your main course. Get creative and make the garnish look aesthetically pleasing by finely slicing it or presenting it in a creative way. You can also add things like blood orange slices as another simple garnish that will enhance the flavor of the meal.

Sweeter fruit like pears and apples go great with poultry while citrus fruits like oranges and lemons go great on fish.

