 Coupon doubling is a practice some stores offer in which they match the discount offered by the coupon, doubling your savings. As a result, if you have a coupon for $0.75 off of a $1.50 box of pasta, and the store doubles your coupon to be worth $1.50, you will essentially get the box for free.;
, Store sales are another highly important offer you should take advantage of in order to get your stuff for free. When matched with the right coupon, a store sale can mean that you get an item for free. If, for instance, a bag of chips usually costs $1.50 but the store is running a sale that drops the price to $2.00 for two bags—essentially, $1.00 for each—and you have two $1.00 coupons off those chips, you will basically get the chips for free.
 Coupon inserts and fliers you receive in the mail are the easiest source, but not necessarily the best.


Join online freebie or coupon mailing lists and sign up with your favorite brands' websites to receive daily or weekly emails about special promotions and printable coupons.
Also look for coupons in fliers at the grocery store and inserts lying around the beauty salon, dentist, doctor, or vet.
Some convenience stores will even allow you to take the coupon inserts that did not sell with the Sunday papers free of cost if you ask them on Monday morning.
 Occasionally, you can even find coupon vouchers that go toward major things like garage doors and basement repairs.
 When you find a good deal, take advantage of it as much as possible. If your family goes through a lot of rice and you are able to get 12 boxes of instant rice for free or almost free thanks to coupons, store doubling, and store sales, stock up. Avoid doing this with fresh produce or products that you will not be able to get rid of on time, though.
 Stores have rewards programs to encourage their customers to buy more. While you will usually have to spend money at the store before you can get anything free, it will benefit you if you already shop at that store, anyway.


If your favorite department store offers you $15 off any purchase after you have bought $200 worth of goods from them, shop at that store as much as possible, buying everything from socks to flatware. Only buy items that you need, rather than want, regardless of whether or not you can get them for free. Once your points tally up, you can head back to the store and buy a $15 item with your $15 off.

