 You can write and self-publish an e-book on a variety of platforms. Do some market research to find a topic that will sell. Browse through the Kindle Bestseller’s list to identify what people are buying. Read reviews and look for gaps in the market. You can write the book yourself, or you can hire a ghostwriter to write the book for you. Invest in a graphic artist to create a compelling cover for your book.You can hire a ghostwriter from sites like Upwork and pay between $.02 and $.04 per word.
Use an app like Scrivener to format your document for Kindle and other platforms.
Check for plagiarism with a site like Copyscape.
Popular e-book publishing platforms include Amazon Kindle Direct Publishing (KDP), Smashwords, BookBaby, Barnes and Noble’s PubIt, Lulu, Booktango, iBooks Author, and Scribd., You can make money from your digital photos by selling them on microstock websites. These websites charge customers for using the images, and then they pass a portion of the payment back to you. The typical payment for an image starts at $1 for small images and increases for larger images. Popular sites are iStockphoto.com and Shutterstock.com.In the beginning, you make approximately 15 percent of the sale, but the percentage you earn may increase over time and as you sell more images. Plan to build a diverse portfolio of images.
The key to being successful is to sell a large quantity of images. You make a small amount per image. But the more images you sell, those tiny amounts start to add up.
Invest in a digital SLR camera for sharp images.
Remember not to include any recognizable brands in your photos. Also, if you are using people, you must have a signed release to use their image.
 Udemy is a platform that allows you to create an online course that you can sell. Course prices typically range from $47 to $197. The length of the course can be as short as 30 minutes or run from two to three hours. The average instructor earns as much as $7,000 from a course. However, the amount you can earn varies, and it depends largely on how you market the course. Those with a large social media following can market to a large audience and can therefore generate more income., If you can compose your own music, then you can license it and sell it. The first step is copyrighting the music. This is called a song copyright, which protects the composition. If the music has been recorded, then you also need a master copyright, which protects the recording. Register your copyrights with the Library of Congress, which costs $35. Once you have copyrights to protect you from unauthorized use of your music, you can pursue different avenues for generating money from your music.A television show may use your music for an episode. This is called a television synch license. The music supervisor of the television show would need to pay for the use of the song copyright and the master copyright. A separate fee would be negotiated for each.A recording artist may purchase your music to record and perform it. This is called a mechanical license, and it give the artist permission to record and release your song. You would earn royalties on albums or singles sold.Sell your music to a Production Music Library. These are collections of instrumental music that are used as background music on television, in film, on the radio, in documentaries or as music that is played when someone is waiting on hold on the phone.You can earn micro-sync fees when someone uses your music to sync to a YouTube video, a video game, television, commercials or film. CD Baby has a free sync licensing program.