 The notary must witness all parties signing the completed document. Make sure you fill out the document, except for the signatures, before meeting with the notary.Fill in all blank spaces such as the locations of properties bought or sold, the names of the parties to an agreement, etc.
Don't sign contracts or binding documents that you have not thoroughly read.;
, If your document is legal in nature, or will be legally binding on you or other parties, you may wish an attorney look over the document.By hiring a legal professional to this, you can protect yourself from unwanted consequences due to language in the document. These professionals can make sure that your document is viable.


Once a document is notarized, you cannot change it, so it must be correct before you notarize.A lawyer can read the document and point out any errors or loopholes you should correct.
You can get an attorney review at any time, but the document will need notarization again if changes are necessary. Getting a review first can save time and money later.
Even if you do not hire an attorney to look over the document, make sure that the document meets all the legal requirements.
 The person signing the document must provide it for notarization. The notary public will not provide legal documents. Their only job is to act as a means to validate the authenticity of the document. They are unlikely to make a copy of your document., Contact those who must sign the document and give them copies to look over in advance. They may wish to hire their own legal professional to help them examine the document. They may also wish to make changes. Give them the document before you go to the notary public to avoid complications.


If you are the only person who must sign the document, then you don’t need to contact other parties.
Ask the other parties to examine the document closely.
 This is usually near the end of the document or near the place where you will sign. The seal and signature of the notary public serves as an authenticating mark.Once this seal is placed, the binding nature of the information in your document if officially recognized.


A notary will not be able to notarize your document if this space is not included.If your document is not signed and sealed, it will not be considered official.
 There are many options, depending on your immediate need and the type of document you need to have signed. Do a search for "notary public" and your city to see options near you. If you live in a less populated, you may need to search for the county or nearest large town.


There are also websites dedicated to listing notaries public that you can search on.Notary associations may also be able to refer you to a notary public in your area.
 One of the simplest ways to find a notary is to ask at your bank or credit union. Not all branches have notaries on hand. If they don't, they may be able to refer you to a nearby branch that does.Finding notaries during regular business hours is quite simple. Most banks do not charge fees for this service if you are a bank customer.Even if you do not have a bank account or are not near your normal bank, you can use a notary service at a bank for a small fee.
 Ask anyone in the office if he or she know of any notaries you can use. Local government institutions sometimes let their notaries public assist private citizens.Some may charge a fee for this purpose.
A typical fee is around $10., Most, if not all, courthouses have a notary on premises who can assist with legal documents.Oftentimes, the clerk of court oversees notary services that can assist you with any documents that you plan to file in that court.The court may charge a fee for this service.
 Even if you are not a current client, some attorney offices will offer notary services for minimal or no charge.By speaking with professionals, you can help make sure that everything works out in your favor. Though there may be a fee involved, it can be worth the expense.


Additionally, many real estate offices employ an in-house notary who can witness your document.Law offices may also be able to review your documents for you.
 Rather than traveling to visit a notary, a mobile service will come to your location.Mobile notaries are often available both day and night.


If you choose this option, be sure to ask about additional charges. Some mobile notaries may add a travel or convenience charge on to the normal fee.You can find a mobile notary online using the same websites used to find any other notary., All signatories must be physically present to complete the notarization.A notary validates that signatures are authentic. If all parties are not present the notary will be unable to perform this function.


Once you have located an notary, you may want to make an appointment before going in. This is to make sure that the notary has time to answer any questions. An appointment is not usually required, though.
In some cases, your signature may be the only one that must be notarized. In other cases, such as the sale of personal property, you may need to have the buyer and seller present.
 It must be current. Ask other parties to do the same. A notary is required to verify the identities of all parties signing the document. This is to prevent fraud.


A notary public must be able to verify your identity in order to notarize a document you are signing., Wait for any other signers of the document to arrive. A notary may not proceed with notarizing your document until all parties are present. Make sure you're on time.
 Essentially, the notary will just watch all parties sign the document and then sign and stamp the document herself.They may also fill out a notarial certificate and/or a notarial journal in accordance with local laws. You may ask the notary to talk you through this part of her process.


Only after you have signed and the notary has verified your identity, will she sign and date the document and apply her seal.After all parties have signed the document, the document will be legally binding.
 Some states require that a notary public keep a journal of all the documents they have notarized. Ask the notary if this is the case. Notaries will maintain and provide to you their own journal.