 Another easy option is to buy a human first aid kit (or find one on hand) and then customize it for your pet by adding supplies. This may also prove less pricy than buying each item individually or investing in a ready-made model.


A basic American Red Cross first aid kit will run about $20. Deluxe family models are a bit more, in the range of $25 to $30.A good first aid kit will be able to treat cuts, scrapes, swelling, allergic reactions, and pain. Usually they contain different kinds of bandages and adhesive tape, gauze, antiseptic wipes, cold compresses, and rubbing alcohol.
Kits might also contain gloves, hand sanitizer, pain medication like aspirin, a thermometer, and a hydrocortisone pack.
 Most of the items in a first aid pack are helpful or, at worst, harmless for your cat. However, some human medicines are not OK for cats and should be removed.


Get rid of any aspirin tablets. Aspirin is toxic for cats because they lack the enzymes to break it down. It can cause them to vomit or bleed internally and can even affect their nervous system and lead to death.The same goes for other painkillers like Aleve, Advil, Motrin (i.e. non-steroidal anti-inflammatories) and Tylenol (Acetaminophen). The first kind can cause ulcers or kidney failure, while the second damages a cat’s red blood cells., Now, add things that your pet may need in case of an emergency or injury but that aren’t already in the kit. Think of possible scenarios and what you might require in those situations.Consider having a pet first-aid book, with instructions on how to treat injuries, poison, and other emergencies.
A muzzle of some kind is useful, as an injured or distressed cat is more likely to bite. You’ll be able to handle her more safely with a towel, as well. Of course, don’t muzzle a cat that is vomiting, choking, or having trouble breathing.Keep some water for treating dehydration and food or a nutritional supplement in case your pet needs emergency nourishment.
A nylon leash and self-sticking bandages are also helpful.
 Like before, gather together all of your pet’s medical records as well as important phone numbers and contact information, in a water-proof container.It’s a good idea to have phone numbers and directions for the nearest pet clinic, your vet, and a poison control center or hotline.
Have proof of your cat’s vaccinations for rabies and other diseases, copies of medical records, and a current photo in case she gets lost.
You can include other information like the cat’s breed, age, sex, and any other health problems, as well as your own contact details.

