 You’ll need duct tape and a ruler to make the petals of the rose. You’ll also need a craft stick or a straw, whichever you prefer, to make the stem. Using a craft stick will create a sturdier stem, but choose the items you have on hand. You’ll also need some scissors if you prefer to cut your tape instead of rip it.;
, It doesn't have to be exact, but it should be approximately the size mentioned. However, if you want all of your petals to be the same size, feel free to use a ruler to measure 2 inches (5 cm) of width and height. Then, rip or cut off the piece.
 But, do not extend it all the way to the opposite corner. Leave about a quarter of an inch of the sticky underside showing so that the border is framing each side. Again, it doesn’t have to be an exact measurement. An approximation is fine.</ref>www.thriftyfun.com/Making-a-Duct-Tape-Rose.html</ref>

, Match up the top left corner with the right corner so that they are flush with each other. None of the sticky underside should be showing. As with before, approximations are fine, and it is okay if the corners are not lined up perfectly.


This piece is the basis for the petal. Make 7 more petals to make a simple small rose. Make about 14 more if you want a bigger rose.
 Turn the petal so that the pointy end of the petal sticks up when it is wrapped around the stick. If need be, turn it on an angle to orient it like at an angle. If you continue in this fashion, it creates the appearance of a rose opening.
 Repeat steps 1-4 by wrapping the petals around the stick in the same direction as before. After wrapping all of the petals, you will see that they have formed into a rose. Bend the petals to make them fluff out as much as you want.
 Seven to 8 inches (17.78 cm - 20.32 cm) should be plenty. Then, place the top left corner of the tape on the bottom of the rose and start to wrap it diagonally around the craft stick. Wrap it all the way down the stem until the rest of the straw or craft stick is covered in duct tape.


To sturdy the rose, rip off a one inch (2.54 cm) section of duct tape, and wrap it vertically around the bottom of the rose and the top of the stick.

