 In order to reduce hoarding behaviors, you first need to help your loved one develop skills and a plan for organizing items. Discuss the specifics of this plan with your loved one, and offer suggestions if she is open to them.


Identify specific criteria for keeping and discarding items. Ask the person who hoards what criteria she would like to create for getting rid of items versus keeping them. You could say something like, "Let's see if we can make a plan that will help us organize our time. Would you be open to making a list of reasons to keep items? What are the types of items that you absolutely need to keep? What are the types of items that you can let go?" Make sure your loved one is still open to receiving help, and if she is receptive to this idea you can move forward with your plan together.
Make a list of the criteria to keep or discard items. This might look like - Keep if the item is needed for survival or daily life, or if it is a family heirloom. Toss/sell/donate if item is not currently being used or has not been used in the last 6 months. Categorize and organize wanted items, as well as unwanted ones.
Talk about storage locations and systems of discarding items. Select interim locations during sorting. Sort items into categories such as: trash, recycle, donate, or sell., There are particular skills that are indicated in assisting the recovery of hoarding behaviors such as organization and decision making techniques.Help the individual who hoards decide on rules for acquiring, keeping and discarding items.


Do not simply choose which items to trash, have the person with the hoarding problem make her own decisions based on the criteria you developed together. If she is unsure, help her refer back to the list of reasons to keep or discard an item. You can ask questions like, "Is this item necessary to daily life, has it been used in the last 6 months, or is it a family heirloom?"

, Instead of trying to clean out the whole house in one day, try starting with a room that seems to elicit the least amount of anxiety. Develop a plan that moves systematically by room or type of space or object.Start with easy items first then move to harder ones. Ask the individual where will be the easiest place to start; the place that she feels will be easiest for her to deal with emotionally.
Always ask permission first before touching any item that the individual is hoarding.
 Sometimes getting rid of clutter can be a time-consuming and emotionally draining process. Fortunately, there are organizations that specialize in cleaning, hoarding coaching and removal of items. Check your local newspaper or do a quick internet search to find an organization in your area.


If you find that hiring help is out of your budget, you can attempt to get other friends or family members to assist you. Try asking by saying, "She needs our help with her hoarding, do you think you can spare a day or two to help clean the house and get rid of some of the items?"

, Help your loved one identify problems with obtaining new items.Work with your loved one to develop a hierarchy from easier to harder situations to deal with such as: driving by a shopping center, standing at the entrance of a store, walking through a shopping center/thrift store/mall, browsing a store, seeing an item you desire, physical contact with said item, and leaving the store without the object.
Ask your loved one questions that may help her to develop alternative thoughts about the usefulness or necessity of the objects she may want to obtain. For example, you can inquire by asking, “Do you have a specific use for this item? Can you survive without it? What are the pros and cons of having this object?”
Assist your love one in making rules for obtaining new items such as having a direct use for the item, needing the financial means to purchase the item, and requiring enough space to house the item.
 Once the therapy has begun, the individual may be assigned small tasks to perform in between sessions, such as cleaning out one corner of a room or clearing out a single closet. Offer to help with this process by holding the box or bag that will receive the discarded items, but do not take on the task of cleaning out the closet yourself. Part of the recovery is that the individual who hoards must be the one to make the decision of what stays and what goes.
 A person with a hoarding issue who successfully cleans out a closet one day may be incapable of tossing anything out the next day. Depending on the severity of the condition, the recovery period may take anywhere from a few weeks to a year or more before significant and consistent progress is made.

