 Use colorless, stick lip balm for best results. Squeezable balm will work too but use in moderation. You don't want to smear shiny Carmex all over your partner.;
, Give each other chances to lead and you may find a different way you like to kiss.
 Some people enjoy looking into their partner's eyes when kissing, but for most, it's a huge creepy turn off. Keep them closed and you will enjoy it more. Think about how blind people sense so much more than sighted people, the same principle applies. You will get a more rushing sensation from the touch and feel of a kiss if your eyes are relaxed and closed.
 Don't let your arms awkwardly hang there. Guys, your hands should be around her back, waist, or on the sides of her face. Girls, your hands can be in a NUMBER of places, including: around his neck, on the sides of HIS face, on his stomach, on his hips, or a guy's favorite, on his biceps. Also don't be afraid to run your fingers through your partner's hair, just make sure your hair is clean just in case it happens to YOU!

, Softly moan, sigh, or kiss back harder if what they are doing is pleasurable. Girls, if you are holding their arms/biceps, give a little squeeze plus a moan to drive them nuts.
 If you are a girl and you are shorter, as it is in most cases, wrap your arms around his neck and he will naturally wrap his around your waist and lift you up.
, Remember: Don't dive straight for the tonsils. Play with their tongue - caress, fondle, wrestle with it. Think of it as trying to massage the other's tongue. NEVER bite; you could easily hurt the other person.


If you're a bit intimidated by French Kissing, don't be! It sounds scary only because it is not as easy as a regular kiss, but just do it in small steps. First, start kissing like a normal kiss, then slowly open your mouth and touch your partner's tongue softly with yours. They will get the hint and go from there!
Use your tongue in the way you want your partner to use his/hers - both of you will naturally do the same.
 As long as your are comfortable and at ease, your kiss will be pleasurable for both you and your partner. Just empty your mind of everything except the moment at hand and you will master the art of kissing.

