 Begin by washing all of the vegetables. Use a chef’s knife to cut up the vegetables. The potatoes, onions, carrots, and celery should be diced. Mince the garlic. Thinly slice the mushrooms and chives.Make sure that you peel the potatoes and carrots before dicing them.;
, Pour vegetable broth and cornstarch into a small bowl. Whisk them together until thoroughly combined. Set aside the bowl for later use., First, coat a 6-quart or large slow cooker with cooking spray. Put the potatoes, onions, carrots, celery, mushrooms, garlic, thyme, bay leaves, and a pinch of salt and pepper in the slow cooker. Then, pour the cornstarch and broth mixture over vegetables. Use a wooden spoon to mix all of the ingredients together., Once the ingredients have been mixed in the pot, cover the slow cooker. Turn the setting on the slow cooker to low. Allow it to cook for 6 hours. You can do whatever you want during these hours.If you don’t have a lot of time, you can also cook on high for 3 to 4 hours.
 Add these ingredients in the last 30 minutes of cooking—about 5 ½ hours into the cooking process. Stir all of the ingredients together. Put the lid back on the slow cooker and leave it for 30 minutes., Prepare the biscuits during the last 30 minutes of the vegetable mixture being cooked. The way you make the biscuits depends on the brand of biscuits you choose. Follow the instructions on the back of the package. Usually, you will need to separate the biscuits, place them on a baking pan, and bake them at approximately 425°F (218°C), though the temperature may vary.You can also choose to make your own biscuits, but it will take longer.
 In the last few minutes, use a wooden spoon to stir the ingredients together again. Then, remove the thyme stems and bay leaves. It may take a while to pick through the entire vegetable mixture., Remove the biscuits from the oven once they are finished baking. Allow them to cool for a few minutes. Put the biscuits on top of the vegetable mixture in the slow cooker while they are still warm., Let the vegetable pot pie cool for a few minutes after you turn off the heat. Serve while warm. Use a spatula or ladle to serve individual portions., If you have leftovers, put them in an airtight container. Store the container in the refrigerator. You can leave the pot pie in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.Warm up the leftovers in the microwave or on the stove top over low heat.

