 When you compare yourself to others, you are often comparing yourself to an idealized, unrealistic version of that person.To build your own belief in yourself and to stop underestimating your own abilities, it is important to remember that everyone has their own faults as well as their own unique talents.Strive to be your own unique self.


Next time you are comparing yourself to someone, try to refocus your thought patterns. Instead of thinking that your friend is better at sports than you, say to yourself, “Sarah is a quick sprinter and is great at soccer. I am strong and a great swimmer.” Acknowledge that you both have talents and strengths instead of pitting them against each other.Also, remind yourself that you don’t see their struggles, and that they too have insecurities.
 Spending a lot of time on social media can negatively impact your self-esteem. Social media users usually present the good or the glamorous aspects of their life, and this may cause you to compare yourself to others and underestimate your abilities or self-worth.Remind yourself that most people to do not share their day-to-day struggles, and establish daily or weekly social media usage limits.


Consider deleting your social media apps so you are not tempted to check your account throughout the day.
Plan to sign on only during the weekends., In order to stop underestimating yourself, it is important to acknowledge that it is necessary to make mistakes because they lead to learning about yourself. Remember that no one is perfect, and that mistakes are inevitable. Mistakes does not reflect poorly on who you are, on your talents, or on your skills. The best you can do is prepare for situations as much as possible and acknowledge how you can improve in the future.Once you acknowledge this, it will be easier to trust in yourself and your talents.


If you forgot to include an expense in your department's budget report, that does not mean you are forgetful or bad at math. Everyone is forgetful from time to time, and sometimes you may overlook things. Instead of criticizing yourself, acknowledge that you made a mistake. Tell yourself that you will have a colleague review your work next time.

