 Put your eggs in a medium to large saucepan and fill the pan with enough water to cover the eggs completely.


Note that the eggs should be at room temperature before you begin to boil them for best results, as this generally prevents eggs from cracking as they boil. You can use cold eggs, but cold eggs are more likely to crack.
Also note that older eggs are better to boil than fresh eggs. The shell will be easier to remove from the fully cooked egg if you start with an egg that is at least a few days old. The closer the eggs are to their expiration date, the easier it will be to peel them once done.
 Heat the water over medium-high heat until it reaches a rolling boil.


Do not salt the water since doing so will increase the length of time needed to boil the water.
 As soon as the water begins to boil, turn the heat off, cover the saucepan, and let the eggs cook in the still-hot water for several minutes until they reach desired doneness. The precise time will vary based on how large your eggs are and whether you want them to be soft-boiled, medium-boiled, or hard-boiled.Soft-boiled eggs have a firm white but a runny yolk. Achieve this by cooking medium eggs 4 minutes, large eggs 4 to 5 minutes, and extra large eggs 5 minutes.
Medium-boiled eggs have a firm white and a semi-firm yolk with some hint of liquid running throughout. Achieve this by cooking medium eggs 5 minutes, large eggs 6 minutes, and extra large eggs 7 to 8 minutes.
Hard-boiled eggs have a firm white and firm yolk. Achieve this by cooking medium eggs 12 minutes, large eggs 17 minutes, and extra large eggs 19 minutes.
 As soon as the eggs have finished cooking, remove them from the water with a slotted spoon and dunk them into a bowl of cold ice water.


Let the eggs sit for at least 10 minutes in the ice water.






This is not a crucial step, but dunking the eggs in cold water will stop the cooking process and ultimately make it easier for you to peel the eggs.
 If eating medium-boiled or hard-boiled eggs, gently crack the shell against a hard surface and use your fingers to peel the shell from the egg white. If eating soft-boiled eggs, slice a portion of the side away and eat the egg out of the shell with a spoon.

