 app. You can do this on your computer or any of the aforementioned Apple devices. Just search the term "yo" in the app store and click on the first result, the one with the purple icon. The download should begin automatically.;
, You will be greeted by this screen. If you want to learn a little more about the app before you start using it, click on "What Is Yo?" Otherwise, click on the "Signup" button at the top.
 The username does have to be one-of-a-kind, so try to pick something unique. Then put in your password and click on "Tap to Signup."

, to send you push notifications. This may seem counterintuitive, especially if you're the kind of person who doesn't like getting notifications from apps, but it's necessary for Yo. to work.
 These screens explain the various purposes of Yo., from talking to friends to letting that someone special know you love them. Swipe each screen to move on. You're all ready to Yo.!

, This will bring up a window that allows you to find the contacts in your address book who are also using Yo. Simply enter your phone number and press "Go."


Yo. will instantly send you a text with an SMS code. Enter this code to access your Yo. contacts.
 via SMS, Mail, Twitter, or Facebook. Click on whichever method you wish to use and invite the person (or people) you want to add. If you're using Twitter or Facebook, check your settings to make sure your invitation can be seen by whoever you're inviting!


You can also add anyone whose username you know. Even if they aren't in your contacts or on any kind of social media, you can invite someone to add you just by typing their username into the blue bar with the plus sign.
 to your friend. You should have a list of friends who you can Yo. Just click on the name of the person you want to receive your Yo. greeting!


The message "Sent Yo!" will appear at the top of the screen after the Yo. has been sent. If this message does not appear, the Yo. may not have sent.
Your most recently Yo.'d contact will move to the top of the page. The less recently Yo.'d contacts will remain underneath it.
 The "Cancel/Delete/Block" bar should appear. Click on whichever option you want. And don't worry if you accidentally block or delete someone — you can always add them again!

, dashboard. From this screen you can find and invite more friends, read about the Yo. app, unblock people, view your Yo. count (the number of Yo.'s you've received), leave feedback, or log out.
