 Avoid dwelling on the negative aspects of the holidays. Though you may be confronted with stresses, there are likely an equal number of things to be grateful for. Practice gratitude by being aware of what you have, rather than what you don't.Take a short break during the day, and close your eyes. Think about three things that you are grateful for in your life. They don't need to be big things. Sometimes it's the smallest things that stick with you.
Share what you're grateful for. Some holidays, such as Thanksgiving, are built around the idea of giving thanks. Remember this on all the holidays you share with loved ones.
 Holidays can be hectic. People may act negative due to high expectations for family gatherings. Shoppers may feel stress with holiday costs, or wishing they could have more. Some people may feel isolated or depressed without their loved ones.Smile and be present during these tough times. Show that you care through the act of paying attention to someone else's hurt. Be empathetic.
Trying putting yourself in the shoes of someone who's having a tough time. Treat them as you would like to be treated.
Volunteering with or donating to the less fortunate can also be fulfilling and helpful.
 Being mindful is focusing on our thoughts and feelings without judgment. Loving yourself and others is about acceptance. Turn your thoughts away from guilt, envy, pain, or anger. Instead see what it means to be present and to take full account of this living, breathing moment.You don’t need to engage in stressful activities, such as shopping, just because everyone else is. Channel your passion into a homemade gift that also makes you feel fulfilled, such as baking cookies or writing a kind note.
By loving and caring for yourself, you will be better able to love and care for others.
Do things that fill your soul with love. This may be as simple as sitting out on the porch and waiting the sunset with your family, or building a fire when it's cold outside. Do activities that make you happy.
Turn your thoughts to the positive things you love about yourself and those around you. Think of at least three things that make you feel good about yourself.

