 Some courts published “fill in the blank” cross-claim forms you can complete. This makes filing a cross-claim easy. Check with your court clerk if there is a form available.If not, then you would draft your cross-claim and include it as part of your answer or create a separate document.;
, If you are the defendant, then you can typically insert a section called “Cross-Claims” underneath your affirmative defenses as part of your answer to the lawsuit.See Answer a Civil Lawsuit for more information about how to draft your answer.


If you are a plaintiff bringing a cross-claim, then you would draft a new complaint and title it something like “Plaintiff Abe Smith’s Cross-Claim Against Plaintiff Mary Smith.”

, The first thing you need to do is identify yourself and the party you are suing. If the party is a corporation, then identify the state of incorporation as well as where it has its principal place of business.If the parties are people, then identify their state of residence.
 Give the judge some information about the background of the dispute. You do not have to go into extensive detail. Nevertheless, you need to give the judge some idea of what happened.


Draft the cross-claim like a complaint. Number each factual allegation and generally try to include only one factual allegation per number., A “cause of action” is a legal claim. For example, “fraud” is a legal claim. If you think a co-defendant defrauded you, then you can cross-claim for fraud.


You should list your cross-claims individually. Identify who you are suing in the cross-claim heading. For example, you could write “Cross-Claim Against Defendant, Jon Jones.”If you are bringing more than one cause of action, then each gets listed individually. Title the cross-claims “First Cause of Action Against Defendant, Jon Jones, for Negligence,” “Second Cause of Action Against Defendant, Jon Jones, for Fraud,” etc.
 You need to allege enough facts that, if true, could support a jury finding for you. This means you can’t forget to allege an element of each cause of action. If you did, then your cross-claim could be dismissed.
 You must tell the judge what kind of remedy you want to be given. Generally, you can request the following:Compensatory damages for the injury suffered. You can list an estimated amount of damages (e.g., $45,000) or you could just state that you want compensatory damages which will be calculated at trial.
Punitive damages, if allowed. Punitive damages are meant to punish intentional, harmful conduct. If someone committed fraud or deliberately injured you, then your state might allow you to sue for punitive damages.
Attorney’s fees, costs, and other expenses if permitted by law.
Further relief as may be just and proper.
 At the bottom of your document, insert the words “Respectfully Submitted” just above your signature line.Underneath the line, include your name, address, and contact information.
 You need to file the pleading in the court where the lawsuit has been filed. Make several copies of your answer or complaint and take them all to the court clerk. Ask to file.The clerk can stamp your copies with the date.
You probably have to pay a filing fee, which will depend on the court. Call ahead of time and ask the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
 You need to give all parties to the lawsuit notice of the cross-claim. You can provide notice by serving a copy of your cross-claim or a copy of the answer that contains your cross-claim. Remember to make service on the other parties’ attorneys, if they have attorneys.Generally, you can have someone 18 or older make hand-delivery on the parties. In many courts, you can also have someone mail a copy of the document.
 You should read your relevant Rules of Civil Procedure to check if you can bring a cross-claim. Generally, you can bring a cross-claim against a co-party if the claim arises from the same factual circumstances as the lawsuit, but this will vary by state.


In federal court, you should read Rule 13 of the Rules of Civil Procedure. It is available online.In federal court, you can generally bring a cross-claim that arises out of the same “transaction or occurrence” that is the subject of the original lawsuit.
State courts may be different. In some courts, plaintiffs cannot bring cross-claims against each other.You can typically find your state’s Rules of Civil Procedure online., When you make your cross-claim, you need to allege each element for the cause of action. Pattern jury instructions (also called “model” jury instructions) are a good source for finding out what elements you need to prove for your cross-claim. Many states post these online.You can search “your state” and “jury instructions” along with the cause of action, such as “fraud.”
Read the pattern instruction. It should identify what you need to prove in order to win the claim.
 You can also perform additional research by visiting a law library. Your nearest one might be at your local courthouse or at a nearby law school. You can also find pattern jury instructions at the law library if you couldn’t find them online.


The Internet also has a lot of legal information. Visit Google Scholar and click on “case law.” Then select the state where your court is located. For example, if you are in Nebraska state court, click on Nebraska. However, if you are in Nebraska federal court, then click on “Eighth Circuit” because the District Court for Nebraska is in that Circuit.Court opinions often describe the legal elements you need to prove for each cause of action. Once you have selected the right court, type in your cause of action (e.g., “fraud”) and then read through court opinions.
 You could potentially bring many different causes of action, depending on the circumstances of your dispute. However, you should recognize some of the more common:



Negligence: when someone injures you because they are careless. Generally, there are four elements: (1) the person you are suing owed you a duty of due care, (2) they breached that duty by not being sufficiently careful, (3) the breach caused your injury, and (4) you suffered damages as a result of the injury.Fraud: when someone lies to you and you rely on the lie. Generally, the elements are: (1) a statement was made; (2) the statement was false; (3) the person who made the statement knew it was false or made it recklessly without knowledge of the truth; (4) the statement was made with the intent that you rely on it; (5) you did rely on it; (6) you suffered damages as a result.Breach of contract: you can sue when you had a contract and the other party to the contract failed to perform their obligations. Generally, the elements are: (1) a valid contract existed; (2) you performed your obligations under the contract or were excused from performing; (3) the other party breached the contract by failing to perform their obligations; (4) you were damaged because of the breach., You might feel overwhelmed and not know what possible causes of action you could bring as part of your cross-claim. For this reason, you might benefit by meeting with a lawyer for a consultation. At the consultation, you could describe the dispute and ask what you could sue for.


You can find the name of a lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.If you are low-income, then you might want to contact a legal aid organization. Legal aid provides free legal services to people in financial need. You can find the nearest legal aid organization by visiting the Legal Services Corporation’s website., If you were injured physically, then gather doctor or hospital records that explain the extent of your injury.You should also think about taking color photographs of your injuries.Color photographs are helpful because your injuries may have healed by the time you go to trial.
 You can be compensated for any financial injury you have suffered. For example, if you had to pay money to fix a problem, then you could be reimbursed. Hold onto documents that show how much you spent.


Get medical bills if you suffered a physical injury. Medical bills include doctor/hospital bills as well as the cost of therapy or rehabilitation. Also hold onto receipts for prescription drugs purchased and diagnostic tests performed.If your property was damaged, hold onto estimates for fixing the damage as well as any money spent.
You can also be compensated for lost work.You should get proof that you missed work in the form of an affidavit from your boss. You also need to establish how much you made with pay stubs, your W-2 form, or other forms.
 In a personal injury lawsuit, you should document your daily experience of living with your injury.You should note how the injury has affected you, including how much pain you feel. This journal will help you establish both “pain and suffering” and “emotional distress.” You can generally be compensated for both.


Identify where you feel pain on your body and how often you feel it.
Document the intensity of the pain: a dull, throbbing ache or acute, shooting pain.
Describe how the injury has impacted your life. Are you depressed? Has your mobility worsened? Can you sleep at night?

, If you were injured in an accident, then you should take photographs of the scene as soon as possible. Return to the scene during the same time and day, and take pictures from many different angles., Eyewitnesses could be critical to winning your cross-claim. If you are too injured during the accident, then have a friend or family member try to get the names of witnesses to the incident.


You can also get a copy of the police report, which often contains witness names.