 There will always be a long list of things to do that may require your immediate attention; however, it’s important that you establish a period of uninterrupted time when you refrain from any activity that shifts your focus away from being completely still.


Early mornings usually work well because you have not begun your daily routine, and the likelihood of the house still being quiet is greater.
Late night is another option because your mind starts to settle down and your body begins to relax, primarily because you’ve finished doing all of the things that you had to do for the day.;
, You should have a designated area where you go that is free from noise and external distractions.


A quiet space in your house that’s separate from the other areas in your house will work.
Parking and sitting in your car at a quiet location is another option.
Consider going on a retreat, where you can have an extended period of peace for several days.
 Once you’ve settled into your designated area, you should get completely comfortable. Make sure your body is in a comfortable position that you can sustain for a reasonable amount of time.


If necessary, take a few minutes to do some light stretching to release muscle tension in your body.
Taking a few deep breaths is a common relaxation technique, which increases the level of oxygen to your brain, enabling you to relax better., Initially, you may be a little restless because the nature of the body is such that as soon as you tell it to be still, it gives you hundreds of reasons why it should move. Send an internal message to your body that it’s time to maintain stillness.Although you will have to choose the best posture for yourself, there are some recommended techniques that will help position your body for stillness.


You may choose to sit on the floor, sit in a chair, kneel on the floor, or lie down. If you choose to sit in a chair, make sure that you sit upright with your head, neck, and torso aligned. Your lower body should also be in a comfortable position. If you’re sitting on the floor, it helps to cross your legs if you can.
Putting your hands on your knees or thighs usually works well.
Tell your body that it’s going to sit still and completely motionless except for breath no matter what., Although some people find it easier to keep their eyes opened, by closing your eyes, you prevent yourself from looking around and becoming easily distracted by your environment.


Shutting your eyes limits the potential of bright light to keep brain activity stimulated.

