 To generate lasting motivations, clearly define your goals for studying. If you are clear on what you’re trying to get done, you’re more likely to actually do it. Take a moment to write out your study goals. Be as specific as possible.Use the SMART goals method of establishing goals that are specific, measurable, attainable, realistic and time-bound. With this in mind, you might set a goal to read, take notes, and build a study guide for a chapter over the weekend.
Think about setting up a study schedule which can include your goals and also include scheduled breaks. You might keep to this schedule by setting alarms on your phone or getting a family member or study buddy to check in on you.
Another possibility for goal-setting might be creating a plan for a longer-term goal, such as studying to get into graduate school or med school. Such a goal may involve more time, but still has the same basic components.;
, Once your goals are defined, set up rewards to incentivize your study time. This works best by breaking your larger goals down into feasible parts. Then, reward yourself with something you find motivating.For example, using the above example, you might reward yourself with an hour break to spend with friends after completing the reading portion of your goal.
 The simple act of signing your name on a contract empowers you to fulfill it. This happens because your signature is associated with your identity as a person. Sign your contract to demonstrate that you understand the terms and plan to honor them., Further stimulate yourself to uphold your contract by placing it in view of your study area. You might merely place it in a pocket of a folder or binder, or pin it on a bulletin board above your desk. Having this visual reminder will likely entice you to see your goals through., Once you have developed your study contract, do your best to stick with it. When you're studying difficult subjects, you may get discouraged if you don't understand the concepts or if it seems like too much to take in.At these times, take a break and do something enjoyable like watching a movie. Then, pick up where you left off in your study plan.
It may also help to get assistance from an instructor, a peer, or a tutor, if needed.

