 A therapist will be able to help you work through the issues you are going through at this current time. A therapist can also help educate you about your depression, which is an important component and has been shown to reduce depression.If you don't like the idea of traditional therapy, look into unique variations of it. Animal, art, drama/psychodrama, and music therapy all work by combining the talk-based therapy of a counselor with an activity-based approach to help you overcome your depression.
Ask friends or family for recommendations of local psychologists. You may be surprised by the number of people you know who visit a counselor on a regular basis. Asking someone you trust can also help you to transfer a bit of that trust onto the therapist before you start meeting, making it more likely that you will have a quick recovery.;
, Social support is crucial to getting out of a depression and can help you cope with stressful life events (job changes or loss, etc.).Support from others can also help reduce negative thoughts that lead to depression. Find those people in your life – friends, family members, or coworkers – who make a positive impact on your daily functioning. Are they encouraging? Do you enjoy their company? Can you go out and do things with them? These are the people you want to spend your time with.


Make plans on a regular basis – one or two times a week – to go out with a supportive friend. This could be as simple as grabbing coffee or lunch together, or perhaps taking a day-trip to a new city or spending the afternoon out kayaking. You can make plans to do anything together, just get out and do them!
Create distance with people you know cause you anxiety or who are not supportive of your disorder. Spending time with them will likely worsen your condition and make it harder to feel enthusiastic about recovering.
Make big plans for the future to look forward to. Plan a camping trip or a short vacation to take place a few months down the road. This way you have exciting events on the horizon that will be even more enjoyable once you've recovered.
 Physical touch, including cuddling and sex, release brain chemicals (oxytocin) which increase happiness and are linked to a decrease in depression.So cuddle up with your partner and use physical touch to help reduce your depression!


Hug a friend.
Hold hands.
Play with and pet your dog or cat.

