 If you suspect you might have a desire for knowledge and for satisfaction that can't be easily answered, you might need to turn to deeper questions to find solace.Whether you consider yourself a spiritual person or not, considering the big questions can lead many people to a new sense of purpose and fulfillment, helping to realign priorities and perspectives. Why are we here? What does it mean to lead a good life? Embrace the difficulty and the mystery of these questions.
 Whether you want to call it "god" or not, learning to give up some of your ego and embrace the idea of a higher power can be a powerful experience for a lot of people. It can be enough to save yourself.


If you're not interested in religion, that doesn't mean you can't find a way to live faithfully and with a deep sense of purpose. Physicists, artists, and people in lots of different fields are serious to the point of deep spirituality regarding knowledge. Throw yourself into something entirely and find redemption in work.
 An essential part of any religious practice is worshipping with like-minded believers. To learn more about whatever purpose, practice, or religion you're thinking of adopting, the best way to learn isn't from a book or from a video, but from real interactions with other believers. try to practice as they practice and bring your questions and concerns to the table. Deepen your questions into beliefs and a daily practice that you can comfort yourself with.


Spiritual practice should be a daily activity. Even if you only go to church once a week, or if you choose not to go to church at all, try to build some kind of daily devotion into your life. Meditating for a few minutes every day can help you keep you tied back into those deep questions you're interested in.
 If you want to grow in your renewed sense of purpose and your interest in the divine, it may be appropriate to devote yourself to an organized religion. Start by learning as much as you can about different modes of worship and experimenting with different theologies and schools of thought to find one that fits you and your beliefs. Take the next step. Learn more about joining different religions here:


Become a Buddhist
Be a Christian
Be Jewish
Be a Muslim
Be a Quaker

