 These are probably one of the most important ways to help succeed. If your school provides an agenda book of some kind, use it! Keep it interesting, perhaps by color coding subjects, or writing down interesting song titles, or decorating it with pictures of things you enjoy or think are funny.


Good looking actors and actresses are a good choice, also humorous or inspirational quotes work as well. If your school does not give you some kind of planner, buy one! They are not very expensive. You can buy a nice planner at your neighborhood dollar or department store.
Make sure you write down homework assignments, test dates, extracurricular commitments, project due dates, etc. Being aware of your schedule can really help you manage your time.;
, Prioritize your work for the day. For example, if you have a test coming up in two weeks, but you have some homework due tomorrow, work on the homework due tomorrow first, studying for that test following. Make sure you finish the work that needs to get done finished, leaving it till 10:30 at night or the next morning can leave things chaotic.
 Leaving studying for a big test to the night before is not very smart, and cramming never works, either. Instead, have 10-15 minute study sessions every day leading up to the test. That way, you will reduce stress, and remain prepared. Studies show that sometimes reviewing for a test before bed helps you remember the material better.
 This means keeping your locker(s), desk area, binders, make everything you can neat and tidy. Make sure you have tabs for different subjects or sections, just cramming papers without any obvious order is a recipe for disaster.


For note taking have some kind of 3-ring notebook for each core class. If taking notes on loose-leaf paper is easier, that's fine - but make sure you keep track of your notes. If this means having a folder for them, or a section in your binder just for those notes, do it! Notes can help you study for a test, review for the heck of it, or even help you understand the homework.
 This means many things. Coming to class 'every day will help you be prepared, which is probably the most important aspect of success. Being prepared means having your homework completed, having the necessary supplies, etc.
 Some are strict, and to gain their trust you must follow and respect their guidelines, failing to do some could get you in trouble. Another example, a teacher who is more prone to joke around a little in class-- remember never take advantage of their humor. Know when to be serious and to laugh a little.


Learning through laughter can sometime help you remember the material better, but if you find yourself laughing more than you are learning, try asking more questions, or requesting after-school time with the teacher when distracting classmates can't turn the conversation from educational to giggly.
 Usually teachers can tell when you are bored, or tired, or uninterested. If you completely understand the material, and are feeling bored, try to contribute the conversation - if there is one. If not, perhaps ask a question that will further your understanding of the material. Ask "Why?" something is the way it is. Doing so will eliminate the boredom, and give you reason to learn and understand.
 Learn to recognize important information. For example, usually if the teacher has taken the time to repeat something, or write it on the board, chances are it will be important later, perhaps on a test of some kind. However, do not write down everything the teacher says. It is a common misconception that doing so is the best strategy.


Trying to write as fast as your teacher speaks would be very difficult, and causes your hand to be sore from writing.
Not everything your teacher says is that important. For example, if they are telling you are story that applies to whatever you are learning, UNLESS they tell you to write it down, don't. If you're not really sure, try making a little arrow and putting the essential name/place or the core of the story behind it. When you are reviewing your notes later this will help jolt your memory. And if your still not sure if it's important or not, simply write it down at home.
Copying down everything they say is time consuming and pointless.
Another trick to know of is doodling. Studies show that doodling helps while taking notes. This is because of two good reasons. It keeps you awake, and it gives your mind an image to easily remember and associate with the notes you took.
Of course, don't doodle random things (that will keep you from paying attention), but doodle relevant images that resemble the notes you took. Sometimes all you need is a page full of creative-looking arrows to tie all of the notes together.
If you were absent, make sure to get notes from a fellow classmate, or have the teacher explain the material to you some time after or before school or class.

