 If you want a simple design, pick a set that only has one stone, the diamond on the engagement ring. Doing so will allow that stone to shine. A prongs setting (small metal pieces holding the stone in place) are a good option for this type of setup, as they let light through the stone., If the bride plans to wear the set regularly (as opposed to just the wedding band), a bezel setting may be best. It protects the stone better than many other settings, make it ideal for everyday wear.In a bezel, the stone sits down in the metal, and it is kept in place by a metal rim around the top.
 If the bride is all about the sparkle, then these settings are ideal. They allow small diamonds or other stones to be set around the ring, creating a very sparkly effect.In a channel setting, the stones float in a small groove, held in place by the top rim. In the pave setting, the stones are set in small holes with prongs, and the stones are set right next to one another.
However, to make it easier to resize later, consider only going halfway around the ring.
 If you are worried about losing the stone, one of the most secure settings is actually the tension setting. As the ring comes around to the front, it splits around the diamond. Each side of the ring holds an edge of the diamond, and the tension of the ring keeps in place. In addition, this setting allows for most of the diamond to be seen., You may want to choose a simple wedding band for everyday wear, particularly if your work demands it. For instance, if you need to wear latex gloves because you're a nurse, doctor, or vet, you may want just a simple band. Similarly, if you have your hands in food all the time (such as a baker), you may also want something simple to wear everyday. Stones can catch on gloves, and if you have your hands in food, it can become embedded in the setting.
 Of course, diamonds are the obvious choice for wedding and engagement rings. However, you don't need to stick with diamonds if that's not your style. You can try any stone you'd like, or even just pick a colorful diamond rather than the standard. It all comes down to what you love.


You can also mix stones. You can have a diamond in the center of the engagement ring, flanked by two other stones of your choice, such as sapphires.Also, you may find that other stones are cheaper than diamonds.

