 While completing your undergraduate degree, you will need to prepare for a master's program in speech language pathology. Many graduate programs in SLP require particular courses as a prerequisite. Research several master's programs early in your undergraduate education to get a sense of the courses you will be expected to have completed., Most speech pathology graduate programs do not require a specific undergraduate major. Some universities offer bachelor's degree programs in communication sciences and disorders. If available at your school, that major that will ensure you take prerequisites required for most master's programs.Other related majors include communications or speech and hearing sciences. , Speech language pathologists who can work in more than one language have better employment outlooks. Taking classes in a foreign language while you earn your bachelor's degree can give you a good head start., Getting some research experience as an undergraduate will help you when it's time to apply to graduate programs.Consider:


taking a class that requires work in a research lab.
signing up for summer research programs.
finding a research lab internship or position in a faculty research lab.
 In addition to formal education, SLPs rely on several skills that you can work on outside of the classroom.You will need:


strong communication and listening skills.
critical thinking skills.
the ability to be detail-oriented.
high levels of compassion and patience.
 You can learn more about which speech language pathology programs are accredited at the American Speech-Language Hearing Association website.


Your education will include coursework, supervised clinical work, and an internship period.
 To help you prepare for you career, gain additional experience by volunteering in positions related to speech pathology while you finish your education.
 During this time, you will practice under supervision. Many states require both a master's degree and supervised clinical experience to become licensed.
 A passing score on the exam is required to obtain a Certificate of Clinical Competence from the American Speech-Language Hearing Association and may be required by your state for licensure.



You can find the contact information for each state board at this website.
, For starters, try looking for jobs through professional organizations, your university career office, and online job boards. The employment outlook for speech language pathologists is expected to grow at a faster rate than the overall employment outlook, so you should have good prospects. , Most speech language pathologists work in elementary or secondary schools. Other common places you could find work include therapy offices, hospitals, and nursing and residential care facilities. , Getting certified to teach will help if you want to work in a school. Many states will require speech language pathologists working in schools to have a state teaching certificate, so check the requirements in your state., Many states require speech language pathologists to take a certain number of continuing education credits to maintain their license., Becoming a member of the American Speech-Language Hearing Association or other professional groups can help you keep up to date with the latest information in your field, find continuing education courses, and network with other speech language pathologists.
 These gatherings will give you the chance to network and learn about the latest trends in speech pathology.

