 Princesses are fashion icons—they are celebrated for their chic, classic, and conservative style of dress. With a little effort and creativity, you can imitate their fashion forward, yet prim and proper, looks.


Princesses don’t expose a lot of skin. Make sure the hemlines of your dresses and skirts hit just above your knees. Cover up your arms, chest, midriff, and back.
Princesses invest in high-quality staple pieces that never go out of style. Splurge on a trench coat, a skirt suit, a black blazer, a white blouse, and closed toe shoes.
Mix high-end and low-end pieces of clothing and jewelry, like Duchess Kate. This will make your outfits unique and more accessible to others.
Princesses don’t pile on the jewelry. Limit yourself to two pieces of jewelry.
For casual occasions, wear a pair of straight legged jeans, a blazer over a basic top, and pumps or flats. Accessorize with a scarf, simple jewelry, and a clutch.
On formal occasions, wear a skirt suit or a coat dress. Accessorize the look with a bold hat, pumps, and simple jewelry.
For special events, wear a simple evening gown in a bold color. Add bling to your look with brilliant jewels., Princesses enhance their beautiful features with natural looking makeup. For special occasions, they amp up the drama with a bold eye or a daring lip. To achieve their effortless and simple look:.


Apply a matte foundation and concealer.
Define your brows with a filler.
Create a soft charcoal smoky eye.
Line your eyes with liquid liner.
Coat your lashes with several layers of black mascara.
Apply a rose blush to the apples of your cheeks and a complementary color to your lips., In addition to their striking good looks, royals also have incredible hair. To achieve their enviable locks, princess have a team of professionals coloring, cutting, treating, and styling their hair on a daily basis.


Treat yourself to regular blowouts at the salon.
Get your hair professionally colored and cut.
Curl the ends of your hair every day to create a finished, professional look.
 Princesses have perfectly manicured nails. They often wear light, neutral colors of polish. Visit the nail salon regularly or give yourself manicures at home.


If you don’t like colored polish, apply a clear top coat to your nails.

