 Start out with the Shadow Sphere, Armour, Jet Boots, and Venomshank.

Shadow Sphere is an object to be invisible for a short period of time, but still be aware of your surroundings. People with Illumina can detect you. You cannot use a sword while using Shadow Sphere.
Armour, when worn, doubles your maximum health, although it does not double your current health, and gives you a shiny torso to let others know you have armor on.
Jet Boots work when you click and hold down your while equipped, and to let go when you don't want to fly for the time being. When it is out of fuel, you drop down either into the sky or the ground, depending on where you were when the boots ran out of fuel.
Venomshanks are sword longer than a Linked Sword (default sword). They are green all over it. When a player is hit with it, they are poisoned, and their health decreases for a period of time.;
, Avoid any fierce-looking people carrying strong weapons. These include Illumina, Venomshank, and Windforce.


Illuminas have the strongest lunge damage, behind a Ghostwalker. When equipped, the player's jump is higher and able to detect nearby invisible enemies. Sparkles come out of the sword, and it is white. Be careful, as Windforce and Firebrand will kill you instantly when attacked.
Windforce pushes a target back when hit, but he/she is able to get back to safety using a touch stone. It is slightly bigger than a Linked Sword, and looks similar to Illumina. It is one of the swords that deal the most lunge damage.



When bouncing on a trampoline, be aware that you are venerable now. Players can jump from under and attack below you, unless you are using Windforce.
 The arena is a common place for fighting, as the most spawn points are there.


Use Shadow Sphere when chased by a player and you want to use a teleport, as without it they could chase you through the teleport.
 Use it only when it's an emergency as it takes longer to recharge every time you use it. Use the safe spot to regenerate. Also, the Touch Stone is a life-saver when falling down.
 Remember, it poisons your enemy. For most noobs, that just means certain death!

, If you get hit by Venomshank, use a medic kit or invincibility sphere which will stop the poison hitting you.
 Remember; dying loses all your items.
 Get two pairs of Jet Boots and Shadow Spheres so you can switch between them quickly.
, That will freeze them and stop them!

