 Think about how you feel when it’s time to make an important life decision. For example, do you prefer to make decisions about pursuing your education, moving across the country, or taking a new job on your own? If you would rather make these decisions by yourself and without having to consider a partner, you might be well suited to the single life., It is important to notice and think critically about your reactions to other couples. Try thinking about how you feel when you are out and see groups of couples socializing. If you find yourself wishing you were part of a couple, then you might be better suited to a relationship. If, on the other hand, you feel happy about being on your own when you interact with couples, a single life might be a better fit for you., When you fall asleep at night or wake up in the morning, take note of how you feel. If you find that you enjoy the flexibility and comfort of waking up in your own bed, on your own schedule, it could indicate that being single is a good lifestyle choice for you. However, if you find yourself longing for companionship as you doze off each night, you may be well suited for an intimate relationship., Research on single men and women reveals that they have a well-developed sense of personal mastery. These single men and women go about life with a can-do attitude, believing they can accomplish nearly anything they set their minds to. Having a greater sense of personal mastery is associated with being less likely to experience negative emotions, and can mean you may enjoy and benefit from living your life as a single person.Ask yourself if you understand your personality, beliefs, values, and why you go about life the way you do.
Try asking yourself if you know where you want to go in life, and if you have a plan for getting there.
 Self-sufficiency means you are capable of and enjoy doing things on your own. Researchers have found that single people who are rich in self-sufficiency are less likely to experience negative feelings. This is the opposite for married people who are also self-sufficient, as they are more likely to experience negative feelings.Try asking yourself, “Do I like to deal with things on my own?”
Ask yourself if you get upset about having to deal with things on your own. If you do, you might have a lesser degree of self-sufficiency.
 Being single often means going to a movie, concert, or foreign country by yourself. This can be liberating for some, but for those who are not suited to being single, these situations can cause anxiety. If the idea of doing things all by your lonesome sounds appealing, you might be well-suited to the single life., It takes a lot of strength and self-confidence to live an unapologetic, single life. Single people are often challenged by others who ask why they are still single, even questioning if there is something wrong with the single person. If you can live with this type of criticism, then singledom might be for you.

