 This is called an independent clause, as it is a group of words that has both a subject and verb and forms a complete thought.For example, “Mom makes me breakfast before school.” In this example, “mom” is the subject and “makes” is the verb. It also forms a complete thought or sentence.
 Your second independent clause should also contain both a subject and a verb, but it should relate to your first independent clause.For example, “I don’t have enough time to eat it.” This independent clause closely relates to the first clause you wrote and contains both a subject, “I” and a verb, “have.”

, To form a compound sentence, you will need to connect your two independent clauses together with a coordinating conjunction. There are seven commonly used coordinating conjunctions or words.Coordinating conjunctions include: and, but, yet, nor, or, for, so.
One of the easiest ways to remember the coordinating conjunctions is to form an acronym. The most commonly used acronym is: FANBOYS (F-for, A-and, N-nor, B-but, O-or, Y-yet, S-so).For example, “Mom makes me breakfast before school, but I don’t have enough time to eat it.”

, A comma is used to add clarity. Therefore, it’s important to use a comma when connecting two independent clauses, as you want to ensure your readers know the two are related.For example, “Mom makes me breakfast before school, but I don’t have enough time to eat it.”
Make the beginning of the second independent clause lowercase. Now that you have both a coordinating conjunction and a comma in place, you need to make the first letter of your second independent clause lowercase.
In the above example, you would need to keep the “I” capitalized as it is a proper pronoun. However, another example would be, “Mom makes me breakfast before school, but my dog always steals the food before I can eat it.”
In this case, the “m” in “my” was capitalized when it was an independent clause - “My dog always steals the food before I can eat it.” Now that it’s part of a compound sentence, connected by a comma and a coordinating conjunction, the “m” is lowercase.
 Join two independent clauses, or complete thoughts, together using both a coordinating conjunction and a comma.


For example, “Mom makes me breakfast before school, but I don’t have enough time to eat it.”

, Unlike an independent clause, a dependent clause does not form a complete thought because it begins with a subordinating word (when, if, because). However, make sure the dependent clause still relates to your compound sentence, as your goal is to connect the two, by forming a complex compound sentence.For example, “Because I am always hungry in the morning.”

, When the dependent clause comes before the compound sentence, you can use a comma to connect the two, to form a complex compound sentence.


For example, “Because I am always hungry in the morning, mom makes me breakfast before school, but I don’t have enough time to eat it.”
Notice the “m” in “mom” becomes lowercase, once you’ve connected the dependent clause with a comma.
 When forming a compound sentence, make sure the comma is always placed before the coordinating conjunction and not after it.


For example, “Mom makes me breakfast before school, but I…”

, A comma splice occurs when you use a comma with two independent clauses, without using a coordinating conjunction.


For example, “Mom makes me breakfast before school, I don’t have enough time to eat it.” This is incorrect, as a coordinating conjunction wasn’t used. The two independent clauses should have been formed into two complete sentences using a period. “Mom makes me breakfast.” “I don’t have enough time to eat it.” Another option is to use a semicolon: "Mom makes me breakfast before school; I don't have enough time to eat it." You could also use a coordinating conjunction: "Mom makes me breakfast before school, but I don't have enough time to eat it."

, When forming a complex compound sentence, if the dependent clause is before the compound sentence, you can use a comma. Otherwise, if the dependent clause comes after a comma isn’t needed.


For example, “Because I am always hungry in the morning, mom makes me breakfast before school, but I don’t have enough time to eat it.” You would not use a comma if the complex compound sentence was, “Mom makes me breakfast before school, but I don’t have enough time to eat it because I don’t wake up early enough.”

