 This can be hard for some people who have trouble reading other’s feelings. Once you’ve determined he’s gay and available you can look for certain signals. Be on the lookout for these signs if he:


Compliments you.
Tries to impress you in some way.
Casually touches you.
Opens up about his personal life.
Invites you into his plans.
 Before becoming involved with someone, you have to go through a dance of sorts with them. There are many steps you'll probably go through before you both are honest to each other about your feelings.


This happens for almost every relationship., This cannot be stressed enough. Even if he is putting out signs that he may like you, hold off a bit. That just may be his natural tendency. You want to be able to feel out the situation before becoming committed.


If you think he likes you, your gut is probably right.
You can tell by the way he looks at you. Eye contact is the best indicator for attraction.
Other things you could look for is if the guy gives you a lot of attention in real life, flirts on social media by posting a lot onto your Facebook, or simply calls or texts you out of the blue.
 Try not to hang around him all the time. Sometimes it can be hard to read someone you like. You don't want him to think that you are dependent on him or that you are desperate. Play it casual at first and only shower him with attention when on a date.


After a while, you'll get really comfortable around him. Whatever you do, don't make him your "best-friend-in-the-world!" You're not looking for that kind of relationship., Go for a walk, or go to the movies. You don't have to do this every weekend, but do it at least every other weekend. Again, if you feel you're being "clingy", lay off for a while. Don't stop being his friend, unless you don't like him.If you do lose feelings for him, tell him straight up instead of toying with his heart.
 If you are confident that he likes you, go to a neutral place where you can talk like a coffee shop. Be honest to him about your feelings. Tell him what you want out of the future. Try saying something like:


”I know we’ve been hanging out for awhile now, and I wanted to tell you that I like you.”
”After getting to know you the last couple of weeks, I’ve begun developing feelings for you”
”Stevie, I like you and was wondering if you’d like to take our relationship further.”

, When asking him out, don't get too nervous. If you do, try to hide it. It is natural to get nervous, and it shouldn't matter if you are. He is probably as nervous as you are.
 It can go in two ways, but regardless you should be proud of yourself. Making it this far is not easy for everyone to do.


If he says yes, celebrate! You guys are now free to be in a loving relationship that you will cherish.
If he says no, don't sulk. Try to initiate a conversation about how you want to be friends. You could be honest and ask him if he still wants to be friends.
Don’t feel like you have to tiptoe around the truth. This is the time to lay everything out on the table.
 Not everything in a relationship is drama! Laugh at yourselves when something is funny, and joke around with each other. This will bring your relationship to another level.

