 Personal essays are commonly used for college applications and school assignments. It's dissimilar from a cover letter in that the purpose of a cover letter is to introduce a candidate for employment or admission, while a non-fiction essay is for exploring a theme. Basically, this type of assignment requires that you tell a story about yourself, using specific, real-life details that highlight a particular theme or idea throughout the essay.


Common themes or prompts for autobiographical essays include overcoming obstacles, great successes or spectacular failures, and times you learned something about yourself.
 Unlike a cover letter, an autobiographical essay shouldn't jump around quickly between different themes or events that you'd like to highlight to make yourself look good, but stay focused on a single event or theme that makes some greater point.


Depending on the assignment, you may need to connect a personal anecdote to a reading or an idea from class. Start brainstorming topics that are connected to that idea to give yourself a variety of options to choose from.
 An essay doesn't need to make you look good at all. When you're thinking of topics to write about, think about your triumphs and successes, but also give some thought to parts of your life that could use improvement. The time you forgot to pick up your sister from practice while you were partying with friends, or the time you skipped class and got caught might make for great essays too.


Common autobiographical essay cliches include sports stories, mission trips, and dead grandmothers. While these can all make for excellent essays if done well, it's difficult to stand out telling the story of the time your lacrosse team lost a big game, then practiced hard, then won. We've read that before.
 It's almost impossible to write a good five page essay about your entire life up to your 14th birthday. Even a topic like "my senior year" is much too complex to actually pull off in a good essay. Pick an event that spanned no more than a day, or a few days at most.


If you want to tell the story of your nasty break-up, start with the break-up, don't start with the star-crossed way you met. You've got to get immediately to the tension in the story.
 These types of essays are better the less you include. If you want to write a good non-fictional essay, it needs to be chock-full of vivid details and specific images and senses.


When you have some idea of your topic, start writing a "memory list" of specific things that you remember about the event. What was the weather like? What did it smell like? What did your mother say to you?
Your opening paragraph will set the tone for the rest of the essay. Rather than telling the dull biographical details (your name, your place of birth, your favorite food), find a way to express the essence of the story you're going to tell and the themes you're going to explore in your essay.
 Don't worry about "building suspense" in an autobiographical essay. If you want to tell the story about the time you accidentally ruined Thanksgiving dinner, then recover? How did people react? How did you move on? That's the essay.
 If you're writing an essay about a disaster at Thanksgiving some time ago, don't forget that you're writing about more than a burnt turkey. What's the point of the story? What are we supposed to be getting out of this story that you're telling us? At least once every page, you need to have some thread that ties us back to the main theme or focus of the essay you're writing.

