 Hair styles are easier to achieve with "dirty" hair.Dirty hair simply means hair that has been styled previously or has not been washed for a couple of days. The reason for this is that clean hair is harder to manipulate: it can have static and slip away more easily. "Dirty" hair, on the other hand, is more pliable and has the added benefit of being free of frizziness.;
, Brush your hair with a natural-bristle brush. It is softer than synthetic bristles and bends more easily, which means less hair breakage.Brush it until you're certain that it's free of tangles and snares.
 Separate a section of hair at the top of your head. Trace along the "crown," where a crown or tiara would rest, and gather all of the hair in that area.









Make sure that you have equal portions from both sides.
Divide the section into two, with the back section containing one third of the hair.
Tie off the front section with a rubber band and push it forward or bend it to the side so that it is out of the way.
 Holding it straight up with one hand, tease the hair in the back section with a brisk up and down motion. Teasing creates volume, which you will need to get your poof to the perfect height. You can use almost any comb, but a thin-toothed long tail combworks best. The reason for this is that the close-set tines of the comb help you tease the hair from the roots, and the long tail makes sectioning off pieces of hair easier.
 Spray the front and back of the teased section of hair. Allow a couple of seconds for drying. Use a hairspray that has plenty of hold but that is also flexible. You don't want your hair to appear too stiff. Lay this section down as it becomes the base of your poof.
 Fasten the front section off again and move it out of the way. Repeat the previous two steps with the new back section. Keep dividing, sectioning off, teasing, and spraying until you reach the final section.









Lightly tease the bottom of the final section and lay it back.
Spray it in place, then use the tail of your comb to round out the shape of your poof.

