 You can set up a repayment plan with a debt management company. With this plan, you make one payment to the company, who then distributes payments to your creditors. You may have to pay the debt management company a fee.These companies can’t get your debt load reduced. However, they often can get fees waived or your interest rate reduced, which will lower your monthly payments. Your creditor might also agree to let you make low payments for a limited amount of time.
You can also contact your credit cards and ask for fees to be waived, so the counselor isn’t doing anything you can’t do. Nevertheless, debt management is a good option if you don’t like to negotiate or are too busy to try.
You might need to give up your credit cards during the length of repayment.
As a positive, debt management doesn’t affect your credit score very much unless the debt management company neglects to send payments to your creditors.
 You shouldn’t sign up for debt management until you attend credit counseling. Your initial counseling session will last about an hour.You can talk about whether debt management is a good option for you during your session.


In particular, ask how long it will take to go through a debt management program. It can take several years before you pay off your debts.
 Many credit counselors offer debt management services, so you could continue to work with a credit counselor if you like their agency. Be sure to research them so that you know they are reputable:


Search their online reputation. Look for any complaints that consumers felt scammed.
Call your state’s Attorney General and check for any lawsuits or complaints filed against the company.Also check if the company needs to be licensed to practice in your state.
Avoid any company that requests your personal information before explaining their services to you., You want to know what you are getting into, so ask the debt management company questions before agreeing to work with them. For example, think about asking the following:How much do they charge? Are there start-up and monthly fees? What happens if you can’t afford it?
Is the company licensed to practice in your state?
How does the company keep your information confidential?
Can they help you create a budget for the future, even after your debt has been paid off?
What services do they offer other than debt management?
What credentials do the counselors have and how are counselors paid?

, A debt management plan probably only handles certain debts, such as unsecured credit card and medical debt. You are still responsible for paying other debts, such as your home mortgage or car payment.Also make sure to double-check that your debt management company forwarded your payments to your creditors. Call the first of the month to check.

