 Away from his mother, your baby hedgehog is liable to lose heat quickly because of his large surface area. A chilled hedgehog is an inactive hedgehog that will rapidly go into a downward spiral that results in death.


A healthy hedgehog should feel warm to your touch or slightly warmer than your body temperature.;
, It’s important to wrap the bottle because direct contact with the heat could burn the hog.
 Cover him with a small blanket, such as a dry face cloth, folded over, to prevent heat from escaping.
 Once he feels slightly warmer than your own skin, transfer him to a box with a heat source.


Be aware that overheating your hedgehog can cause blood clots to form in his circulation, which is just as dangerous as being too cold.
Signs of overheating include gaping, or opening his mouth wide in order to lose heat, floppiness when picked up and also feeling hot to the touch.
 These are ideal as they can easily be disinfected and are not flammable.
 A desk lamp is a good compromise, situated so that it shines just above one end of the box.Substitute the bulb for a red bulb so that the baby is not constantly blinded by the light. Red bulbs commonly come in 20W, 25W, or 40W ratings.
Place the heat source at one end of the box, which will allow the baby to move to the cooler end if he gets too hot.
 A good option is vetbed, which looks like fake sheepskin, and is designed to draw moisture, such as urine, away from the baby so that he doesn't sit on any damp spots.


An alternative could be shredded newspaper, though keep in mind this could be a fire risk.
 A small cardboard box or the center from a toilet roll, depending on the size of the hedgehog baby, work well. These can also be disposed of and replaced easily when soiled., Baby hedgehogs do not empty their bladder and bowels unless stimulated to do so. If you don’t do this, your hedgehog’s bladder will become uncomfortably full and he may develop urine overflow. This means his overfull bladder will spill over with urine, which will then dribble down the outside of his legs and scald his skin, making him more susceptible to a skin infection.
 Vigorously wipe the hedgehog's rear end until he urinates or moves his bowels.This may take a few minutes.
Repeat this procedure before and after every feed, as these are the times when he is most likely to go to the bathroom.
 If the hedgehog is orphaned, then start handling him immediately., Remember to also keep his bed clean by removing any soiled bedding, and disinfecting his box daily.
 You should also talk to your hog whenever you wipe his bottom or feed him.


If the baby is still with his mother, handling could cause the dam to reject her baby. So minimize stroking until he spends time in a different part of the bed, away from his mother.
 If you are using a feeder bottle make sure it has a soft latex teat attached in the smallest size available., You can use a steam sterilizer, which is also used to disinfect baby bottles or a liquid sterilizing agent like Milton.Milton should be diluted in water.
Immerse the feeding equipment in the solution for at least half an hour.
Rinse the equipment well with fresh water prior to use to remove any traces of the sterilizing agent.
 Typically four meals a day is sufficient.


A suggested routine is an early morning feed, a lunchtime feed, a late afternoon feed, and a bedtime feed.
Don't forget to wipe your hog’s bottom before and after every feed!

, In an ideal world, you would feed your hedgehog with hedgehog replacement milk, but this is not currently available.Cow's milk is a poor substitute for hedgehog milk, but goat's milk is a passable alternative.
 Be sure to shake the milk regularly to mix it up.


Your hedgehog is programmed to expect warm milk from his mother, so he will likely refuse cold milk.
Much like feeding a human baby, warm the milk to just above body temperature and test it by dropping some of the milk onto the back of your hand. If it feels pleasantly warm, the temperature is correct.
 Hold it near the hedgehog’s mouth.


If he doesn’t smell the milk and take the hint, try touching the drop of milk to his lips. If your hog is hungry, this will usually trigger his suckling reflex.
 Once he is satisfied, he may lose interest and become sleepy.If the milk flows too quickly from the teat, it will flood his mouth and spill out around his lips. The milk usually flows too quickly if the hole in the teat is too large, in which case, you should start again with a fresh teat and a smaller hole.
 Do this by leaving solid food in his box, which will give him to opportunity to test out the food by himself.


As he continue to grow and get hungry between milk feeds, the chance of supplementing his calorie intake with some hedgehog friendly morsels will be increasingly appealing to him.
 These include Farley's rusk softened in goat's milk, plain digestive biscuits softened with milk, good quality canned puppy food, wild plants such as dandelion, chickweed, or clover, and waxworm larvae or mealworms., Your baby hedgehog should have dry bright eyes, and a clean nose.
 Greedy hedgehog babies are prone to breathing in milk, which can cause pneumonia and requires treatment with antibiotics.
 Fenbendazole is sold as Panacur and the liquid suspension version is the easiest way to administer the wormer. #*This wormer can be gently syringed into the hedgehog's mouth, giving him a chance to swallow each mouthful., Use a digital scale that is accurate for low weights.


A kitchen scales will do but line it well with a disposable kitchen towel and disinfect it well after weighing your hog. Hedgehogs can carry some diseases that don't make them sick but could infect people, such as salmonella, so if you are worried about disease, dispose of the scales after weighing your hog.
The dose of Panacur is 50 mg for every 1 kg of body weight, repeated once a month.
An average hedgehog weighs between 400-500 g, requiring 20 to 25 mg of Panacur in solution. This is equivalent to 0.2 to 0.25 ml of the 10% solution., Currently, hedgehogs are prohibited animals in Maine, California, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Georgia, and Hawaii - but this list is not exhaustive and changes regularly so always check your state law first before buying a hedgehog.Hedgehogs are illegal in some states because some species can transmit the highly infectious Foot and Mouth Disease.
As well, should the hedgehog escape into the wild, it could pose a theoretical risk to cloven footed animals (cattle, goats, sheep) and impact local agriculture.
 They will be able to tell you whether the hedgehog is legal or illegal and whether you need special permits to keep the hog.