 In yoga, deep breathing is essential to a strong practice. Whenever you are practicing yoga, you should also be practicing deep, conscious breathing to get the full benefit of the postures. Deep breathing is referred to as Pranayama in yoga, which translates to “life force control”.There are numerous physical, mental, and emotional benefits to practicing Pranayama. Deep breathing will ensure all your vital organs, including your brain, are getting the oxygen they need. It will also nourishes your muscles and organs and can help your body to rid itself of toxins.
As well, Pranayama has been shown to improve mental concentration and reduce stress. When you are practicing Pranayama as you do yoga, you are that much closer to entering a meditative state. Maintaining focus on your breathing can also help you to maintain your balance during your yoga practice.
 To do Pranayama, you will need to activate your breath in your diaphragm and focus on having full inhales and exhales through your nose.Start in a comfortable cross legged position. Put your hands on your diaphragm, just below your ribs. Inhale slowly through your nose, breathing from your abdominal area. Feel your diaphragm expand as you inhale and try to make a whooshing sound.
Inhale deeply for a count of four.
Exhale slowly through your nose to the count of four. Feel your diaphragm contract as you exhale. Make a whooshing sound as you exhale through your nose. Imagine you are trying to fog up a mirror in front of you with your breath.
Pause once your lungs are empty at the end of your exhale. Repeat the breathing cycle again. Breathe in and out through your nose. Make a whooshing sound as you breathe in and out. You should feel your diaphragm expand and contract as you breathe.
 The mantra in yoga is often: “one breath, one movement”. This means that each time you move in yoga, you should be breathing in or breathing out. Timing your yoga practice to your breath will ensure you are always breathing properly when you are in a pose and you are focusing on your breath and your movement, nothing else.Try timing a sun salutation to your breath so you can practice deep breathing as you do yoga. Breath in as you raise your arms up in Mountain Pose, and then breath out as you dive forward into a Standing Forward Fold. You should then inhale as you look in front of your toes and straighten your spine and then exhale as you place your feet behind you and lower yourself down in Plank Pose.
Inhale as you rise up into Upward Facing Dog and exhale as you move back into Downward Facing Dog. Inhale as you bend your knees and exhale as you step your feet forward so they are together at the top of your mat. Inhale as you look forward and straighten your spine and exhale as you fold down into a Standing Forward Fold. Inhale as you rise up back into Mountain Pose and exhale as you end the sun salutation in Standing Prayer Pose.
Once you feel comfortable timing your breath to the movements in a sun salutation, extend your deep breathing to standing poses and balancing poses. Make sure you always breath in as you lift your body and breath out as you lower your body. When you hold balancing postures, you should maintain an even breathing cycle to ensure you are focused and calm.

