 Just like with other braiding styles, your hair needs to be well-moisturized and de-tangled prior to starting your two-strand twists. Wash your hair as per usual, and then use a deep conditioning cream to moisturize it. Your two strand twists will be easier to style if they are wet or at least slightly damp, so do not blow dry or air-dry your hair completely before styling. Use a comb to remove any tangles or knots that might be present.
 There are many options when it comes to braiding your two strand twists. The most obvious decision you’ll need to make is deciding how large you want your braids to be. You can do ‘micro twists’ which use dozens of teeny-tiny braids, or you can do jumbo twists that use 1-inch sections or larger of hair. Small twists will last much longer than large twists, but the process is obviously more time-consuming. Decide what size you want based on your personal style and the amount of time you have to work on your hair.
 Use a rat-tail comb to part a section of hair to your desired size. The section of hair should be a square in shape. Rub a bit of style gel or cream through your hair, and mist it with a little water and olive oil to reduce frizz and make it easier to manipulate. Use your comb to brush through this section several times, to make sure that the hair is completely smooth and tangle free.
 Split your section of hair into two equal strands. Begin winding them tightly away from your head in a rope-like pattern; you’ll simply wrap the strands simultaneously around each other to create a twist. To keep it tight, you’ll want to pull the twist tight to your scalp as your work.
 When you near the end of your strand and begin running out of hair to twist, you will need to switch to doing a one-strand twist to secure the ends. To do this, take the two strands and combine them together (there shouldn’t be much hair left to do this with). Then, wrap this section around your finger many times, in the same direction you were twisting the two strands of hair. This will curl the ends of the hair in the same direction, securing them in place.
 Continue working your way across your scalp, creating your two strand twists. The process is the exact same for each twist, just make sure that you section off equal amounts of hair so that all your twists are the same size.


Section a small piece of hair, comb it, and apply your gel, cream, or oil
Split your section into two equal strands
Wrap the strands around each other to form a rope-braid
Twist the ends of the two-strand braid together to secure them and prevent the braid from unravelling.