 Don't shout it, or put it very bluntly. Plant that seed in the mind of people that maybe you should be on the ballot. Begin with your closest friends, and slowly expand out of your circle.;
, People really do follow their lead. Don't say anything bad about them, or anyone else for that matter. You want people to like you and trust you. You need to plant the seed, and to do that you need to talk to a lot of people. You need to get them to realize that you deserve to have your name on that ballot.
 Of course, there are going to be haters and people that will flat out insult you.
 If you're sporty, join teams. If not, become the stat person for that team, or make friends with the best players.
, This is when you have to step up your game. Try to get at least some of the "preps" to vote for you - if some do, it will have a 'ripple effect' of sorts on the rest. Smile a lot, and make sure you are extremely nice. Be sincere. If someone looks nice, compliment them. If some one drops all their books on the floor, help pick them up. Show people that you care about them enough, and they will vote for you.
 At some schools, the girls take off their heels so they can dance without fear of twisting their ankles or falling. Find your friends and start dancing! No one wants a wallflower as their queen. You don't have to shake it all over the place, but you shouldn't stand there with your arms crossed - people will think you're in a bad mood. Laugh and just let loose!

, When they announce it, go up to the stage and proudly accept your tiara. Flaunt a little, but don't go overboard. Smile broadly and face your peers.
 If your arms are toned, then it's okay to put your arms around his neck, but it's mostly dependent on what feels comfortable to you. There are going to be a lot of pictures taken of you, so smile and be pretty. Don't make faces. Some people will take a bad picture and post it on their My Space. Dance slow, try not to step on his toes, and stay close.
 If people are laughing and making you feel bad don't start crying or stop smiling.
 Sometimes, they might even take pictures. For the rest of the night, just dance and be yourself. Surround yourself with friends, not people who decide they want to know you because of your newly acquired title. If there is someone that is still being a jerk, don't lose your cool. Just listen to what they have to say, smile a pretty smile, and brush it off. They just showed their true colors, and you have to remember - They probably aren't being a 'jerk', they just have their own opinions. If they're yelling and obviously jealous, they're probably better ignored, but if they're calmly stating their opinion, then let it be.

