 Positive personality traits can cause someone to look past negative physical traits and feel attracted towards you.For example, a guy who is normally attracted to thin women might feel attracted to a girl who is slightly overweight if she is kind and outgoing. Try to identify your positive personality traits and let them shine!


Identify your best traits and watch for opportunities to show them off. For example, if you are a compassionate person, then you might want to engage in some volunteerism. If you are a responsible person, then consider running for class president.
If you think that you need to work on something, then that is okay. For example, if you are shy, then you might want to work on being more outgoing. If you have a hot temper, then you might want to work on controlling your anger.;
, You can’t change too much about the way you look, but one study showed that people are more attracted to people who take good care of themselves.Make sure that you take time to groom yourself well every day. Some basic things you can do to increase your attractiveness include:


Showering every day.
Styling your hair.
Brushing your teeth.
Wearing clean clothes.
 Men’s preferences about looks and body type vary widely, so try not to set your sights on looking like a photo in a magazine.Instead, embrace the figure and features you have and try to accentuate them as much as you can.


For example, if your best feature is your eyes, then you can emphasize them with eye makeup. If your legs are your best feature, then opt for shorts or a short skirt to show them off.
You can even use a little make-up if you feel like it. You should not wear make-up if you feel uncomfortable doing so, but wearing make-up has been found to increase men’s perception of attractiveness.Try wearing a little make-up and see how it makes you feel. If you like it, then make it a part of your daily routine. Keep in mind that you do not have to wear much make-up to accentuate your best features. For example, you could try wearing a bit of brown mascara and clear lip gloss for a look that brings out your natural beauty.
 Women who are wearing red seem more attractive to some men.You don't need to wear red all of the time to take advantage of this, but wearing a red top now and then or adding a pop of red with an accessory might be worth a try.


If you like, you can add a pop of red to your outfit every day with some red lipstick, a pair of red earrings, or a red scarf.
 High heels have been shown to make men feel more attracted to women.Since high heels are not very comfortable, you may want to save them for special occasions, such as a school dance. You can also try wearing some lower high heels.

