 A lot of people who have little or no traditional credit do rent a home or an apartment and pay rent on time. Most renters don’t get credit for their rental payments on their credit report, but that doesn’t have to be the case. There are several services which (for a fee) will report your rental payments to one or more of the major credit bureaus, and tell you which credit cards and lenders will take your rental payments into account. This can be a big help in establishing credit if you have little or none.There are quite a few rental reporting services, all coming in at varying price points. One of the best is RentTrack, as they report to all three credit bureaus and are priced very modestly.
 The term “credit-builder loan” is somewhat of a misnomer. In reality, it isn’t much like a loan at all. While you might apply for a credit builder loan like any other type of loan, the bank doesn’t give you the money it lends. Instead, it deposits the entire amount in a savings account. You make monthly payments on the loan, and when it’s completely paid off, they release the funds to you. While it might not be ideal, a credit builder loan can also be a good way to establish credit when you’re just starting out. Credit-builder loans have their good points and bad points. The advantage of a credit builder loan is that it does usually improve your score—by about 30-40 points. The disadvantage is the interest; you still pay interest on the loan. So it’s less like a loan than it is a subscription service to improve your credit score.
 Finding a co-signer is one of the most effective ways of establishing credit when you have none. A co-signer agrees to make payments on the debt in case you default. They assume responsibility, and it is their creditworthiness dictating the terms of the loan.Co-signers are also difficult to get. In essence, the co-signer is taking out a loan they don’t need and hoping you pay it back. Very few people are interested in putting themselves in that position, so don’t be surprised if a few people tell you “no” before you hear “yes.”

, Secured credit cards are a little like credit-building loans in that they’re not really credit—they are subscription services that improve your credit score. The subscription costs come in the form of interest and other fees.You “secure” the credit card with a cash deposit equivalent to the line of “credit.” If your deposit was $500, then you’ll have a credit limit of $500. You use the card as normal, making payments on whatever you charge. After a period of time, your credit limit will either be raised, or if your credit score permits, you can apply for an unsecured card and cancel the secured card.

