 It sounds simple, but anyone who’s tried it knows the sting that accompanies opening your eyes in a heavily chlorinated pool. Luckily, there are techniques available to acclimate your land-lubber’s eyes to the water. If those techniques don't prove satisfactory, however, it's recommended you turn to goggles or dive masks as a tool to safely see in the pool.


Practice at home by filling your sink or bathtub with water, plugging your nose, submerging your face, and then opening your eyes. Starting with water sources free of chlorine or debris will help you get use to the feeling of water on your eye, without additional discomfort.
Chlorinated pools are generally kept at a safe-for-swimming pH level of 7.0 to 7.6. This effectively kills bacteria, but not the various fats and oils we bring into the pool; these accumulated bodily byproducts are common eye irritants.
While exposure to normal amounts of chlorine is irritating, it will not cause permanent damage. It will, however, wash the protective tear film away from your cornea, actually making the eye more vulnerable to any bacteria which has survived the chlorinated pool.If your eyes become irritated, flush them with cool, fresh water, or utilize saline drops to ease the pain.;
, Swimming in a natural source of water means no chlorine for eye irritation, but prospective eye-openers should be aware: no chlorine equals “yes” to bacteria and debris. Near the shore, waves are constantly throwing sand and small rocks toward the beach, making corneal scratches from debris a possibility. Away from the shore, you'll have a more pleasant experience looking around underwater.


Careful about opening that mouth, too—while they’re not all as strictly harmful as they may sound, one gulp of seawater can contain millions of bacterial cells, tens of thousands of zooplankton, and hundreds of thousands of phytoplankton. , Bacteria is your major concern when opening your eyes in a freshwater lake. While it’s far from a given that you’ll have problems with the lake’s single-cell citizens, it’s recommended you use eye protection (goggles or a dive mask) when you want to see underwater. In shallower water, dirt and other hazardous particles from the lakebed can be kicked up while swimming and enter your eye.


Acanthamoeba is one particular nasty amoeba that can be found in fresh water (including, rarely, tap water). Infection can necessitate a cornea transplant. Lakes do provide a more comfortable experience for opening your eyes than a chlorinated pool, though, or the turbulent shoreline of beach. If you're willing to risk it, you can probably keep your eyes open longer here than in any other body of water! The dismal visibility in a lake, however, might not provide too much to see.
 In any of the above-mentioned environments, you'll want to remove your contact lenses before opening your eyes underwater. Although it's a bit of a risk for the lenses to float away (thought the water pressure will likely keep them in place), the greater danger is bacterial infection. If you wear glasses or contact, you can have your prescription put into a dive mask. Wearing a dive mask is a much safer alternative for seeing what's underwater than opening one's eyes, and is optimal for anyone who would be unable to see very well without their glasses.

