 You must be honest with yourself when you spot the warning signs of an eating disorder. Having such a condition can be life-threatening. Don't underestimate the seriousness of your eating disorder, and don't overestimate your ability to treat yourself. Some of the warning signs to heed include:You're underweight (less than 85 percent of the accepted norm for your age and height).
Your health is poor – you've noticed that you bruise easily, you have no energy, your skin is pale and sallow and your hair is dull and dry.
You're dizzy, you feel the cold much more than others (bad circulation), your eyes are dry, your tongue is swollen, your gums are bleeding, and you're retaining water a lot.
If you are female and you've missed three or more menstrual cycles.
For bulimia some additional signs may be that you have teeth marks on the back of your fingers, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, and swollen joints.
 In addition to physical changes that affect your body, eating disorders are also associated with emotional and behavioral affects. These may include:


If someone told you that you're underweight, you wouldn't believe them and you'd even argue the opposite; and you may not be able to take any suggestions about your being underweight seriously.
You're prone to wearing baggy or loose clothing to try to hide a sudden or dramatic weight loss.
You're making excuses not to be present at meals or you've found ways to eat very little, hide the food or throw it up afterward
You're obsessed with diets, talking about dieting and with finding ways to eat less food.
You're terrified of being or getting "fat;" you're harsh on yourself about your shape and weight.
You're following a grueling and punishing exercise regimen that could be viewed as over-exercising.
You're avoiding relationships or going out with people.
 A trained professional can help you work through the thoughts and feelings that are compelling you to diet excessively or binge-eat. If you feel too ashamed to talk to anyone, be reassured that a therapist trained in eating disorders will not make you feel ashamed of yourself. These therapists have devoted their professional lives to helping others overcome eating disorders. They know what you're going through, they understand the underlying causes and, more importantly, they can help you work through them.


The best treatment approach for managing eating disorders is some form of therapy or psychological counseling in conjunction with close management of medical and nutritional needs.When you attend therapy, you can expect:

To be listened to respectfully.
To have a chance to tell your entire story and to ask for targeted help.
To be released from the pressures family and friends might be placing on you. A therapist can act as a buffer and a counselor for them, too, or, at the very least, teach you coping strategies during the healing process and how to overcome conflicts within the family setting.
To be treated as someone valuable and to be reassured that, with the right tools in place, you can get well again.
 You can help the therapy by doing some self-exploration into why you feel compelled to keep losing weight and to despise your body. There may be some self-revelations that help you to personally better understand how your eating habits have morphed into an unhealthy way of coping with something else that harms you, such as family conflict, lack of love or never feeling good enough.Is there an area in you life in which you feel out of control?Have there been recent changes in your life that you don't like (divorce, moving to a new city) but you cannot control?
Have you been abused physically, emotionally, or sexually?Does your family have rigid standards of perfection? Is your family over-protective, controlling, and lack boundaries?Are your parents uninvolved in or detached from your life?Are you comparing yourself to others? Media images are the worst culprits in this instance but also friends, popular people and people you look up to can be a source of comparison.
Do you eat junk food or eat more when you are emotional? If so, this may have become a habit that kicks in unconsciously and has taken the place of more appropriate self-soothing activities such as challenging negative self-talk or learning to praise yourself for all the good you do.
Do you think having a thinner body will allow you to perform better in your sport? While some sports, like swimming or gymnastics, may favor smaller, lithe bodies (pertaining to women), keep in mind that many other factors go into determining who is successful in any sport. No sport is worth sacrificing your health for.
 A food journal has two purposes. The first, more practical purpose, is to establish your eating patterns and to allow you and your therapist to work out what types of food you're eating, when and how. The second, more subjective part of a food journal, is to write down your thoughts, feelings and emotions associated with the food habits you've cultivated. And, ultimately, it's a place to write down your fears (so that you can face them) and your dreams (so that you can start planning goals and working toward them). Some things to explore in your food journal include:Ask yourself what you might be going through. Are you comparing yourself to models in magazines? Are you under tons of stress (school/college/work, family issues, peer pressure)?
Write down the rituals around food that you've developed and how you feel about these.
Write down your feelings about your struggle to control your eating patterns.
If you're manipulating people to deceive them and hide your behaviors, how does that affect your relationships and closeness with others? Explore this issue in your food journal.
Write down things that you have accomplished in your life. It will help you to better realize what you have done. Such a list will make you feel better about yourself when you see the good things add up.
 Talk to this person about what you're going through. It will often be the case that he or she will be worried about you and will be very willing to try to help you work through the eating disorder, even if it's just about being there for you.


Learn to express your feelings out loud, and be okay with the feelings that you have. Being assertive is not about being arrogant or self-absorbed – it's about letting others know that you're valuable too and deserve to be valued in turn.
One of the key factors underlying many disorders is an unwillingness or an inability to stand up for oneself and to fully express one's own feelings and preferences. Once this becomes a habit, the loss of assertion makes you feel less worthy and less able to move through conflict and unhappiness. As a result, the disorder becomes a crutch of sorts that "orders" things (albeit in a very skewed and unhealthy way).
 Find positive outlets in which to relax or unwind after a stressful day. Allow yourself these personal moments of down time, focused just on you. For example, listen to music, take a hike, watch the sunset, or write in a journal. The possibilities are endless – find something you enjoy doing that relaxes you to help you deal with harmful and stressful emotions.


Do something you have long wanted to do but haven't yet made the time or arrangements to do. Take a class to learn something new that you have always wanted to try, start a blog or website, pick up a musical instrument, go on a vacation, or read a book or series of books.
Alternative treatments may be useful in helping with an eating disorder. Talk to your health care provider about the possibility of trying activities like meditation, yoga, massage, or acupuncture., Ground yourself when you feel out of control. Call someone on the phone and focus on the person's voice, touch things close to you, such as a desk, counter, fluffy toy or wall, or hug someone you feel safe with. Grounding techniques allow you to reconnect with reality and refrain from dwelling in either the past or present.Get quality sleep and institute a healthy sleeping routine. Sleep can restore both your perspective and your energy. If you're not getting enough sleep already due to stress and worry, explore ways to improve your sleep routine.
 Look at people around you that you find beautiful with all their quirks. Appreciate yourself in the same ways. Look at the beauty inside you instead of focusing on the flaws. Stop being so harsh on your looks – every configuration of the human body is a miracle, a moment of life breathed into the continuum of time, and you deserve to be happy and here right now., Nobody should weigh themselves daily, eating disorder or not. To do so is to map an unrealistic fluctuation of personal weight and to set oneself up for an obsession with numbers instead of focusing on the greater whole. Gradually reduce the frequency of self-weighing until you're only weighing yourself once or twice a month.Let your clothes be your indicator rather than your scale. Choose your most favorite outfits that are in the healthy weight range and use them as the barometer of looking good and being at a healthy weight.
 Notice every little change to a healthier self as a big step in the healing process. Increase your food portions gradually, exercise slightly less frequently, etc. Trying to stop abruptly will not only be harder on yourself emotionally, but can shock your body and cause other health problems. Again, this aspect is best done under the supervision of a professional, such as your eating disorder specialist.


If you are severely underweight, taking baby steps will not be possible. In such cases, you will likely be hospitalized and placed on nutritional regimen to ensure your body is getting the essential nutrients it needs.

