 As your hair grows out, it's a good idea to have a certain final look in mind.That way, when you get maintenance trims you can have the stylist shape your hair so that it grows a certain way.


If you're going for long layers, you can start early by having your stylist trim certain parts of your hair shorter than others.
Bring in a picture of someone who has the look you want when you go in to get your hair cut. This way you can be sure you and your stylist are on the same page.;
, If your hair is currently above shoulder length, it's a good idea to get maintenance trims every month or so to keep it looking neat. Short hair needs more attention than hair that is past the shoulders.


Be sure to inform your stylist that you're in the process of growing out your hair. If she doesn't know, she might cut off too much and set you back.
Stop getting frequent trims when your hair has grown past your shoulders. At this point your hair should have enough weight to fall nicely around your shoulders without needing to be shaped. Trims every 3 to 4 months will keep your ends healthy, but other than that you can only to wait for it to grow.
 Whether you're still at the pixie cut stage or you just have a few more inches to go before reaching your target hair length, make the most of your waiting game by styling and accessorizing your hair in flattering ways.


Play it up. Is your hair in an awkward in-between stage of growing out? Pretend like this is the way you've always wanted it to look. Blow it out, curl it, or wear it natural - own the hair on your head, no matter how it looks. If you wear it with confidence, people will think it's intentional.
Experiment with headbands, bobby pins, and other fun hair accessories to hold back the shorter pieces of hair you're trying to grow out while looking chic at the same time.Wear a hat. For the days when you wake up and your hair feels all wrong, put on a cute hat to cover it up. Choose a seasonal hat - a cute toboggan during the winter, or a straw hat for the summer.
 Do you wash your hair every day? This can dry it out, since you're washing away natural protective oils that help your hair stay strong and healthy. Washing them out causes your hair to be susceptible to breakage and split ends, which means you'll need more maintenance trims and it'll take much longer to grow your hair to the length you desire. To keep your hair healthy, follow this routine:


Wash your hair about three or four times a week. At first your hair might seem oily, but soon your scalp will produce just enough oil to moisturize your hair without overdoing it.
Wash your hair with the coldest water you can handle. Washing with hot water leads to split ends and frizz, while cold water keeps the hair shaft smooth and healthy.
 The way you dry your hair can also have a big impact on how quickly it grows out. Do you tend to roughly towel dry your hair, brush out the tangles, then blow it dry? This sets your hair up for major breakage. When you're growing it out, ditch that routine and try this:


When you get out of the shower, gently squeeze the excess water from your hair, then pat it dry with a soft towel. Don't rub or massage it; just pat it.
Comb your hair with a wide-toothed comb, which is easier on hair than a brush. Work through tangles gently, so you don't break the hair as you pull through.
Let your hair air dry most days. It's the healthiest way to dry your hair.
 Some days letting your hair air dry just won't do - especially if you're going to a special event and you want it to look well styled. On the days when you want your hair to look sleek and styled, try these alternatives:


Blow your hair using the cold setting. This is a lot less harsh on your hair, but it can still make your hair look smoother than air drying.
Curl your hair without heat. Use the t-shirt method, the sock bun method, or another cool-curling method to curl your hair instead of using a curling iron or hot rollers.
 Now might be a good time to examine the ingredients on your hair product bottles. Commercial shampoos, conditioners, and styling products contain a lot of chemicals that make hair look good in the short term, but dry it out and damage it in the long term. Choosing healthier products will prevent your hair from getting dull and dry while its growing out.


Don't use shampoo that has sulfates. These industrial cleansers are the same chemicals used in dishwashing detergent, and they do a number on your hair. Get shampoo that is labeled "sulfate-free" or make your own shampoo.
Don't use conditioner and styling products that contain silicone. These build up in you hair, initially adding shine but eventually making it look dull. They can only be washed out with sulfate-containing shampoo, so it's best to avoid them, too.
Don't get a Brazilian blowout or use other permanent chemical-based treatments.
Don't dye or bleach your hair while you're trying to grow it out.
 Eating a healthy diet and staying hydrated can help your hair grow in thicker and glossier, which is a plus when you're trying to grow it out.


Drink 8 glasses of water a day. Avoid drinking liquids that make you dehydrated.
Get plenty of vitamin B. Found in fruits, vegetables and nuts, this vitamin helps keep hair thick and strong.
Eat lots of protein. This is the building block for hair, so you need a lot of it. Eat meat, fish, legumes, and leafy greens.
Get your omega-3s. These "good" fats keep your hair glossy. Eat salmon, olive oil, nuts, and avocados.

