 There must always be a connection between your message, your style and public expectations. In short, you need to find your own secret formula.;
, This is an example of how a 12-song rock album might be organized, but don't feel afraid to branch-out, just don't lose continuity:


Hard Rock Song 1 - Song to Set the Tone of the Album. (But this doesn't have to be in the exact "Hard Rock" style. A good example of "pumping up" the listener, but no using this exact format is AC/DC's "Thunderstruck" from the Razors Edge album.)
Power Rock Song 1 - Fast and Catchy. Potential Album Single. (Led Zeppelin's "Rock 'n' Roll" from Led Zeppelin Four is a good example)
Moody Rock Song 1 - Slow Down to Allow Last Song to Resonate.
Power Rock Song 2 - Lift the Album's Speed Back Up Again. (Led Zeppelin's "Misty Mountain Hop" from Led Zeppelin Four is a good example)
Hard Rock Song 2 - Medium Paced Song to Allow the Album to Flow.
Dark Song 1 - Something to Catch the Listener Off Guard.
Transitional Song - Almost Like a Second Introduction.
Hard Rock Song 3 - Real Meat of the Album. Fewer "Hooks."
Dark Song 2 - Dark Concept Songs Generally Work Better Later On.
Hard Rock Song 4 - Substance With Little Gimmick. Purer Song.
Power Song 3 - One Last Heavier Song to Complete the Album.
Closing Rock Song - Usually Carries an "Ending" Theme With It.
 Most artists will place their 1st album single at the beginning of an album while others will place it anywhere up to the 5th track slot. This list simply outlines the general industry standard called "Front Loading." This is where the album has a decisive flow with it's content perfectly streaming along the first half of the album. Most times the first half of the album holds many key songs in order to make the album sell. The second half of the album is generally there for the artists and true fans of the artist. Hence, the second half of the album is created to be almost a second chapter to the record.
, Play gigs wherever you can to get the word out.

