 Dampen a clean cloth with distilled white or cleaning vinegar. Wipe the cloth around the smooth surface you wish to clean several times.This technique works well when removing permanent marker from smooth stovetops.;
, Squeeze a pea-sized amount of toothpaste onto a napkin or paper towel. Wipe the affected area with a vigorous back-and-forth motion. After the permanent marker has been completely removed, wipe the affected area with a damp cloth, then dry it with a dry cloth.For stubborn stains, apply the toothpaste and let it sit for five minutes before wiping it away.This will work best with a toothpaste that contains baking soda as a main ingredient. Gel toothpastes will probably be ineffective.
This method is most effective when cleaning wood, televisions, dishes, and painted walls.
 Damp and slightly soapy, baby wipes are perfect for removing permanent marker from smooth surfaces. Simply pluck a baby wipe from the container and gently wipe the smooth surface you’re interested in cleaning.This is the preferred method when removing permanent marker from televisions or computer screens.
 There are a variety of specialty products available to help remove permanent marker from smooth surfaces. Specific directions for use vary with the product you’ve chosen to use. Generally, however, you can apply the product to the smooth surface that has permanent marker on it, then wipe it away with a paper towel or clean cloth.Popular products include Goo Gone, Watch Dog All Purpose Graffiti Remover, and Shadow Max Multi-surface Permanent Marker Remover.
 Melamine foam – commonly available as the Mr. Clean Magic Eraser – is a popular product for removing permanent marker from smooth surfaces. It works exactly like a sponge. Simply wet the product, wring it out, then wipe the smooth surface from which you wish to remove permanent marker.If the melamine foam proves ineffective on its own, trace over the permanent marker with a dry erase marker, then wipe it away with a Magic Eraser or similar melamine foam product.This works best when cleaning smooth painted walls.

