 Make sure you're running the latest version of the Snapchat app, as Memories are not available in older versions. You can update the app through the App Store (iPhone) or the Play Store (Android).;
, If you're on the Chat or Stories screen, tap the circle at the bottom of the app screen to switch to the Snapchat Camera.
 This smaller circle appears under the shutter button on the Camera screen.
 You can edit Snaps that you've saved or any of the pictures stored on your camera roll.
, This will display the controls for the picture.
 It looks like a pencil.
 You'll see a new menu appear, allowing you to choose from a variety of effects inspired by popular art. Tap one to apply the effect to your image.
 When you tap this button, you'll be able to highlight an object in your picture and create a sticker from it. This sticker can then be inserted into any new Snaps you create.:


Drag your finger around the object to outline it.
Tap and drag your new sticker to place it anywhere on the picture.
Tap the Stickers button to view your saved stickers.
 You can insert as many different stickers as you'd like. Tap the categories at the bottom of the Stickers menu to view different stickers.


Tap and drag a sticker to move it around.
Pinch a sticker to zoom in or out.
Rotate two fingers on a sticker to rotate it.
 This will insert a caption in the center of the screen, and allow you to start typing. You can tap the text button again to make the text large. Tap and drag the caption to reposition it.
 This will let you drag your finger to draw on the image. You can drag your finger along the slider in the upper-right corner to change the color that you're drawing with.
 By default, photo Snaps have a three second timer. This is how long it is visible to the recipient. You can tap the timer and set it up to 10 seconds. Video Snaps don't have a timer. Instead, they are available for the length of the video.
 This button looks like a box with an arrow coming out the top. This will share the image using your other messaging or social media apps. The Share menu will open, allowing you to select the app you want to send it through.
 This will send it like any other Snap, and the recipient will be able to view it once before it disappears. It will still be saved in your Memories.
 Tap Save Changes or Discard Changes when prompted, depending on what you want to do with your edits. Saved edits will be added to your Memories.

