 The general rule of thumb for goldfish is that the first fish should be allotted 20 gallons (75.7 L) of water and each additional fish 10 gallons (37.9 L). Since goldfish prefer to be in groups, the minimum tank size should be 30 gallons (113.6 L).;
, It is advised to buy a longer and wider aquarium than a taller one since the goldfish will have more room to swim back and forth and there is more surface area for gas exchange. This is important because fish need dissolved oxygen in the water to respire. Although quality is more of a guarantee when buying an aquarium at a pet store, it will be much less expensive to buy an aquarium online from ebay or a similar website. Be warned that aquariums from either source may have leaks. Fill the tank outdoors with tap water to check for leaks before proceeding.


Glass aquariums are more limited in shape (almost always rectangular, some bowfront). They will not scratch easily but are more likely to break catastrophically.
Acrylic aquariums are more versatile in shape but scratch easily. Do not use magnetic algae scrubbers on these tanks; use only a cloth. They are less likely to break but much more expensive than glass tanks.
 The minimum 30 gallon (113.6 L) aquarium is going to weigh over 240 lbs when full, so most tables will not support your aquarium. Metal stands tend to be cheaper than wooden stands. Some people make their own stands. Online DIY instructions are plentiful, but unadvised for someone unfamiliar with woodworking.
 Some people do not want a substrate in their goldfish tanks at all and prefer to use only pots so that the tank may be cleaned easier. In this case, use clean terra cotta plant pots. The substrate in these will be identical to what can be used to cover the entire bottom of the aquarium. The different kinds if substrate are:


Inert gravel: Very inexpensive, should not become anaerobic, easy maintenance, does not support a wide variety of plants (can be somewhat remedied by adding fertilizers). Larger pea-gravel is not a good idea because it may become lodged in the goldfish's mouth. Always use small, fine gravel.
Inert sand: Inexpensive, may become anaerobic (more likely in fine sand), moderate maintenance (cause by not being able to vacuum throughout the sand, having sand stirred up into filter), does not support a wide variety of plants (can be somewhat remedied by adding fertilizers).
Enriched substrate: Expensive, should not become anaerobic, easy maintenance, supports a wide variety of plants.
Dirt covered with sand: Inexpensive, will almost definitely have some anaerobic problems during the first few months, difficult maintenance (at first, but it becomes easy maintenance after a few months), supports a wide variety of plants.
 The types of filter are:


"Hang on back" power filter: inexpensive to moderate (depends on quality, usually found $30-$70), can handle tanks up to about 80 gallons (302.8 L), variable noise (can be loud or quiet depending on quality and water level, but never silent because of water splashing back into the aquarium)
Canister filter: much more expensive ($80-$200), can handle much larger tanks, often silent
Sponge filter: very inexpensive or free (can be made DIY), only used as a supplemental filter
Undergravel filters: not compatible with plants or (obviously) tanks without gravel.
 As a beginner, you'll want to have low to medium lights. However, the hoods sold with aquariums usually do not have enough lights in them to sustain plant life beyond a few select species such as anubias, java fern, java moss, and some cryptocoryne. Low to medium light is approximately 1 to 2 watts per gallon of water in tank of at least 30 gallons (113.6 L). Usually, two T8 fluorescent strips spanning the length of the aquarium is sufficient for this. Shoplights are an inexpensive option for this and can be found at most hardware stores such as Menard's and Home Depot for less than $20. More expensive light fixtures made specifically for aquariums can be found in specialty stores or bought online.
 Try to determine before buying whether they are compatible with your lighting and substrate choices. Avoid fragile looking plants that may be eaten by goldfish. Do not buy plants that are not true aquatic plants. Get some tall plants, medium and "groundcover" plants for the back, center, and front of your tank. If you want to buy driftwood, let it soak for a few weeks before adding it to your tank so it doesn't stain your aquarium with the tannins in the wood. Check your plants for snails and snail eggs (clear, jelly like drops on the leaves) if you don't want them in your tank. Snails are usually benign but may reproduce quickly, covering the tank in spots. Accessories such as bubble stones, UV sterilizers, and thermometers are helpful but unnecessary. Heaters are not needed for goldfish because goldfish can survive many different temperatures. Some heaters have also been known to explode in the tank, breaking glass and killing inhabitants.
 Put the stand in somewhere away from direct sunlight and drafts. Put the tank on top. Rinse your substrate unless the directions say otherwise. If you have dirt, make sure there is no air pockets left. Add the substrate to the tank about 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm) thick or 1.5–2.5 inches (3.8–6.4 cm) of dirt capped with 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) of sand. Fill your tank with water and add aquarium water dechlorinator to it. Plant your plants in the substrate or tie them to the wood/rocks if they grow on a rhizome (such as anubias and java fern) or if they are mosses. Put the filter in place and start it. Set the tank lid and lights on top and turn on the lights.
 Buy some water parameter (ammonia, nitrite, nitrate, and optionally pH) testing strips or drops from a pet store. Buy some pure ammonia (no additives such as surfactants for cleaning) from a hardware store. Add enough ammonia so that the drops or strips read 5ppm ammonia. In a non planted tank, one would usually see an initial spike of ammonia, then nitrite, and then nitrates. At this point any ammonia added would quickly be converted in nitrates. Nitrates are the only "safe" compound of the three. It is still deadly to fish in large amounts and causes irritation in medium amounts, but is not of primary concern compared to the other two. In a planted tank, the presence of plants converting ammonia into nitrates and nitrates into plant material can distort the usual nitrogen cycle. The pH of your tank should be between 6.5 and 8. Do not try to adjust the pH with baking soda or other materials with very high or low pH. Fish can more easily adjust to a suboptimal but steady pH than a changing pH. Buffers such as crushed coral are a safer option for keeping pH slightly higher and very steady. A handful can be sprinkled on the substrate.
 In a regular aquarium, the usual end of the cycling process is shown by no ammonia or nitrites and steady nitrates. In a planted aquarium, the completion of the cycle of shown when 1ppm ammonia can be added and the readings turn to 0 ammonia within a day or two. This process should complete within 4 to 6 weeks. On the day you add your fish, do a 25% water change with fresh, dechlorinated water.
 Go to a reputable chain, local, or online shop. Don't buy more than two per week to give your bacteria cycle some time to multiply and account for the increase in ammonia production. Look for fish with no spots, bloating, ragged fins, strange growth, or fuzzy growths. There should be no dead or ill fish in the tank.
 (Finally, right?) Float the goldfish bag in the tank for 10 minutes so that the water temperature will be about the same. During this time you can add some tank water to the bag to acclimate the fish to the water parameters. Then get a bucket and pour the fish out of the bag into a net over the bucket so that the pet store water does not get into your aquarium. This is done so that any waterborne parasites and diseases have less of a chance of infecting the inhabitants of your tank. Then place the fish in the tank. If the fish are especially stressed (such as sitting to the bottom of the tank and clamping their fins- behavior hopefully not seen at the pet store), turn off the lights and don't feed the fish until the next day.
 Feed your fish good flake or pellet food with 30-40% protein. Regular tropical fish flakes have a higher amount of protein, but goldfish need less protein because they are omnivorous rather than carnivorous like most tropical fish. Feed them once or twice a day and add treats such as bloodworms, vegetables, and fruits to their diet. This is unnecessary, but very enjoyable to both the fish and the owner. Goldfish with buoyancy problems should be fed sinking pellets or flakes that have been put underwater. Peas can also help with digestive issues.
 In a new aquarium, the water parameters should be tested regularly and water changed 25% weekly or whenever there are above 0.5ppm ammonia or nitrite readings. After a few months, things should be settled and water changes can be reduced to 25% every two or three weeks. The gravel does not need to be vacuumed deeply to avoid disturbing the root systems of plants. Fine gravel, sand, and dirt should be poked regularly with a skewer to prevent stagnant areas, especially in the first few months. Never remove all of the filter media at once. Fertilizers can be added, but are unnecessary and may result in algae blooms in used incorrectly.



Trim stem plants (ex: anacharis, rotala, ludwigia, bacopa) by cutting the stem and replanting the top portion. The bottom portion will grow one or more new stems from the side but the cut part will not grow.
Rosette plants (ex: swords, sagittaria, vallisneria) cannot be trimmed, or the leaf will brown and die. They will send off runners with plantlets.
Mosses can be trimmed and both pieces will grow.
Rhizome plants (ex: anubias, java fern) can be cut on the rhizome so as to end up with two pieces of rhizome with leaves attached to either. A leaf cannot grow if it is not attached to the rhizome.

