 Surround yourself with people who make you feel loved and supported rather than anxious and stressed. Even if your social circle is just a few friends and family, make time to be with them.Avoid isolating yourself from others. While temptations can be difficult around the holidays, it's important to reach out to others that make you feel safe and supported.
Make sure to show thanks and love to those who support your sobriety. Spend more time with the ones who enjoy your company, even when you're not drinking.;
, In the past, you may have depended on alcohol or drugs to enjoy yourself around the holidays. Consider making new memories with family and friends. Find new non-alcoholic drinks that get you into the spirit.Start a new family tradition with games, food, and drinks. Get together for board games, or s'mores by the fireplace.
Make tasty and satisfying drinks without the alcohol. Consider hot apple cider, hot chocolate, specialty coffee drinks, and others.
Do activities with friends that don't focus on alcohol. Get outdoors for hiking and skiing. Walk along trails with holiday lights. Go to the movies and have a nice dinner.
 When you're hungry, angry, lonely, or tired you may find yourself reaching for an alcoholic drink. Avoid situations that make you feel these ways, and be more alert that the holidays will likely trigger one or all of these feelings.If you're hungry, eat foods that are healthy and satisfying. Avoid very salty foods because they will make you thirstier and tempt you to drink.
If you're angry, talk with someone. Reach out for help and talk with someone who can listen. Avoid turning to alcohol when you're upset.
If you're lonely, go to an AA meeting or call a supportive friend. The holidays can be filled with all sorts of feelings. Remember the good things and people in your life.
If you're tired, don't feel obligated to stay up or be out late. Get a good night's rest, and let your body relax.
 While the holidays can be a reminder of what you've lost or don't have in your life, it's important to focus on the positive. Remember that you are not alone, and you have much to offer.Write down a list of three things that you're grateful for. Do this in the evening when you're alone or in the mornings before you start your day. Count the blessings that you have in this moment.
Consider giving back by volunteering. When you volunteer around the holidays, it's a reminder of the things to be thankful for--food, family, friends, shelter, and safety.
Use words of self-affirmation. Remind yourself of what you are and can be. Say these to yourself, "I feel an abundance of gratitude for everything I have and receive each day" or "I am so grateful for every person and every thing in my life.", Practice self-care in mind, body, and spirit. Focus on how to stay happy and healthy in addition to staying sober. Make your needs a priority and pamper yourself with love.


Get a massage. Treat your body with extra care.
Exercise. Join a gym. Take a fitness class. Focus on making your body stronger.
Do yoga or meditate. Make your spirit feel calm and centered rather than stressed.
Do activities that make you feel good without the temptations.

