 A pain medication can keep you more comfortable by reducing the pain of a sore throat and achy muscles.It will also reduce your fever.Don't double dose. Many flu and cold medications contain acetaminophen, so don't take it separately unless you're sure it's not in your other medications. Check the labels for the drug, as medications must list the individual drugs and dosages on the package.
 Nasal sprays can relieve congestion.


Nasal decongestant sprays contain medications to help with congestion. They are safe to use any time of day, even at night, as they only affect the nose. Be sure to follow the time schedule on the back of the bottle. Pill decongestants can make you jittery, keeping you awake, but sprays won't because they work locally.However, you should stop using them after 3 days, as after that amount of time, they can make congestion worse.Nasal saline sprays can be used in conjunction with decongestant sprays because they do not contain medications, just sterile saltwater. They can loosen mucus and provide moisture to nasal membranes. They can also partially clear out the virus and bacteria from the nose., Antihistamines can reduce symptoms such as a runny nose or watery eyes. However, be aware that some antihistamines can make you drowsy., Cough syrups can help with many flu symptoms, making you more comfortable.Cough suppressants lessen the effects of a dry cough.Cough expectorants are best for a wet cough that produces mucus. Expectorants bring up mucus from the chest, relieving congestion. Bringing up that mucus can help you get over the sickness faster., Many over-the-counter medications treat multiple symptoms at once and can simplify the process, such as Nyquil.


When using a medication like Nyquil, always check what medications are in it before taking anything else. For instance, Nyquil Cold and Flu Nighttime Relief Liquid has a cough suppressant, a pain reliever, and an antihistamine in it, so you wouldn't want to take those medications separately while taking Nyquil.

