 Frequent runners can go through shoes very quickly. This can be a major expense, and the gift of a new pair of shoes would likely be appreciated. However, runners can be particular about their footwear. You may want to:


Ask your runner which pair of shoes is their favorite. Check the size of those shoes when the runner isn't looking, and you'll have all the information you'll need to purchase the shoes.
Buy a gift certificate to a local running or sports store. This way your runner can go to the store and try on potential new shoes before making a purchase.;
, In addition to going through shoes quickly, runners also have a tendency to wear out insoles and socks. Extra socks and insoles will save your runner on this expense.


Your runner might prefer a certain kind of insole. You might ask them directly which insole they prefer, but you could also look for a label on insoles already in their shoes.
 Runners who can't afford the expense of a regular massage after running might enjoy a self-massaging machine. There are many different makes and models of this kind of machine, so you should research potential options first before buying one.


Reviews for products can sometimes be misleading. For the most accurate evaluation of a self-massaging machine, you may want to test it out.
Self-massaging machines can be found at many general retailers, big box stores, and self-care/beauty shops.
Foam rollers and massage balls are an affordable alternative to a self-massaging machines., Outdoor and cross country runners, at some point, will probably have to run in rain. A light, breathable, waterproof jacket can make rain runs less unpleasant. Other useful rain gear you could offer as a gift includes:


Brimmed hats. These will help prevent rainwater from getting into the eyes when running.
Reflective clothing/tape. Visibility is often limited in the rain. A reflective vest or reflective tape applied to clothing will make runners more visible., Moisture on your skin for long period of time, especially when the wet area is being rubbed with fabric, can cause skin to chafe or blister.Clothing that "wicks" pulls moisture (like sweat) away from the skin to the outer layer of the fabric.Chafing can also be prevented with petroleum jelly or similar products, like Vaseline or Body Glide. You might include one of these anti-chafing products with your gift.

