


Some laptop brands make it easy for you to find out the type of RAM you have, but it can be a challenge for other brands.
Check the documentation that came with your computer.
Visit your laptop brand's support site and search for your model and build to determine the kind of RAM. The model, serial and build numbers are found on stickers on the bottom of your computer.
If all else fails, visit www.crucial.com and download their free system scanner. Running this quick scan will produce a browser window with your computer's RAM details.;
,


Prices for the various types of RAM can vary. It's possible to find 4 GB sticks of DDR3 RAM for about $50, or a set of 2, 2 GB sticks for $64.
Many computer technicians recommend that you install RAM as matched pairs, splitting the total RAM in a laptop into 2 equal sticks. Using multiple smaller sticks of RAM rather than one larger stick can increase the bandwidth of the memory and improve performance in some cases.



Power down your computer. Once it has completely shut down, unplug the power cable from the wall and then from the computer.
Flip the laptop over onto a static-resistant surface. Touch a switch plate or otherwise ground any static electricity you may have built up. Remove the battery.
Find the memory bay and remove the small screws holding the door. Lift the door out of place.



If you are replacing 1 or more sticks, remove them first, working from the top down for sticks that overlap.
Gently pull back the clips securing the RAM stick and lift the outside edge slightly. Slide it back out of the bay when it is at a 45-degree angle.
Insert the new sticks in the opposite fashion. Seat the pins into the bay while holding the stick at a 45-degree angle. Once the RAM is seated, press it down until the clips snap around it.



Replace the memory bay door and screws. Reattach the battery and plug in the power cable.
Turn on your computer.



If it is not, follow the process again to make sure the RAM is seated firmly in place and installed correctly.
If the RAM is still not recognized by your computer, double check the system specifications to be sure your system is capable of supporting the amount of memory you have installed.

