 You'll need to measure from your waist to the desired spot on your leg for length and around your waist. The first one will be how long your petticoat is (from waist to knee, say) and the second one gives you the proper length around (it'll bunch up significantly).


Once you have your waist measurement, multiply it by 2 1/2. That's how long your piece of material needs to be. Cut your fabric (tulle or crinoline) with these two measurements in mind.

For the purposes of this article, tulle will be referred to as the fabric.

;
, This will form the base of your skirt shape. Since tulle is rough to the touch, you'll want to use your sewing machine to sew down both sides of the seam, keeping it from being itchy and irritating.


Start from the bottom and go to the top, leaving an opening to step into.
 There are a few ways to do this and if you know of another, by all means use it. Here is one method to get the job done:


Use a buttonhole thread and zig-zag across it, creating a channel to use for gathering later. You may need a special foot on your machine to do this. The thread should be able to be pulled out when you're finished.
Sew from the inside-out; the material will travel better as you sew along the loop if you do it from this side.
 You'll want a length that's long enough for your waist, plus an inch or two (2.5 to 5 cm) for overlap. Place a pin at the mid-point and quarter-points. Do the same to your tulle (this is to make sure your fabric gets spread evenly along the waistband).
 It will force the tulle to gather as you do so. Continue this action until the tulle is gathered to the desired width for your waist. When the pins match up, that's it!


Pin the grosgrain to the top of the tulle at different lengths. For the final pin, wrap the buttonhole thread around it to keep it from moving as you sew.

Pin the tulle evenly to the grosgrain as this will be how it lies when finished.
 Since tulle rips fairly easily, the zigzag is a good stitch to use. Once you've sewn all the way around, remove all the pins. Double-check to see if you've missed any!


If there's any excess tulle above your seam, trim it down with a pair of scissors. It'll be less itchy and less likely to tear.
 This fills out the waistband, reinforces it, and keeps the edge of the tulle from irritating your skin. Just eyeball it as you sew.


You can use a straight stitch for this part. Sew the bias binding at the top and bottom, with a negligible seam on either side.
 Remember how you didn't sew it all the way up at the beginning? That's so you can hook it together as need be. Now's the time to add a hook and clasp and then you're finished!


Whatever style you have at your disposal should work. The grosgrain and bias binding are sturdy enough to support most clasps.
If you'd like ruffles, use the same method you did with the waistband and simply add a long, wide strip to the bottom.

