 Scientists are increasingly arguing that there is a solid connection between thoughts and physical health. The idea is that those who focus on positive thoughts or those who visualize feeling well typically have a positive physiological response. You can use this technique to help relax your stomach.Begin by relaxing. You might need a quiet space for this. Relax and become aware of your breathing.
Picture good health. Your idea of feeling well is unique to you. Imagine your stomach feeling better, what you’d do if your stomach felt great. Be detailed. You might be able to see a mental picture or you may just have a feeling – either is appropriate.
Take steps to bring what you imagined to reality. You were detailed in your visualization, and you can employ some of those details in your everyday life.;
, You likely breathe from your chest rather than your stomach, as most of us were taught to do. Many believe that breathing from your stomach, the way you did as an infant, offers a list of health benefits, including relaxing your stomach. Qigong breathing, or belly breathing, may take some getting used to, but is well worth the effort.If you can, breathe only through your nose.
Take long, steady, slow breaths.
As you inhale, focus on your breath coming in and travelling through your body, all the way to your stomach. Let your lower stomach expand to receive the breath.
As you exhale, focus on your breath leaving your body, letting your stomach retract first.
After you have mastered this, focus on expanding your mid-belly, and then, after that, your upper belly.
 Stress causes a bevy or physical and mental issues, and can really do a number on your stomach. Unfortunately, stress is a part of most of our lives, and isn’t completely avoidable. You can manage it, though. Think about what situations, responsibilities, or people are causing you the most stress and then develop a plan to handle each differently.Your job may be a significant source of stress for you. Consider what exactly it is about your job that is causing you to feel this way. Be as specific as possible. This will help you develop a plan.
Finances may be causing you substantial stress. Again, isolate the issue and decide how to best resolve it.
Your relationship may be stressful, and once you figure out what it is that is causing you stress, you can speak to your partner about changes that need to be made, such as counseling or even them taking over the laundry and trash responsibilities.
 Progressive muscle relaxation is a great technique for isolating and calming particular muscle groups on your body. Your stomach, of course, because it’s the core of your body, is full of muscles and an excellent candidate for progressive muscle relaxation.You only need about 15 minutes per day and a quiet space to reap the rewards of this technique.


The first step is to take a deep breath and flex your stomach muscles (by sucking your stomach in) as much as you can for five seconds.
Then exhale, letting all the tension out of your muscles. Stay relaxed for 15 seconds.
Repeat as comfortable.
Make sure that you pay attention to how you’re feeling and stop if you feel any discomfort.

