 Leaving your hands at your sides during a standing kiss can feel awkward and unnatural. Typically, the girl will put her hands on a guy's shoulders or around his neck, and he will put his hands on her waist or lower back.


If the girl is much shorter than the guy, then these roles might be reversed in order to avoid having to over-reach.;
, Try placing your hand on the person's cheek, chin, or neck as you kiss them for some added intimacy. This can also help stabilize the kiss so that you have more control.
 If you have been dating this person for awhile, then it may be appropriate to hold each other's hands and interlock your fingers during a kiss.
 If you want to take the kiss up a notch, then use your hands to gently pull the person closer to you by the waist until your bodies are pressed up against one another.
 Hair follicles have lots of nerve endings, so stimulating them can be very pleasurable for the other person. You can also try giving the person's hair a gentle tug to make the kiss feel more passionate and intense.
 If you are sitting next to each and facing the same direction (while watching a movie, for example), it can be hard to know where to place your hands. Gently placing your hand on the person's knee or thigh is usually appropriate in this instance, as it doesn't require too much of a reach.
 If your bodies are facing one another while sitting down, then place your hands on the person's neck or cheek to add some intimacy to the kiss.
 If you are in a private setting, feel comfortable enough with this person, and have a mutual desire to do more than just kiss, then you can start using your hands to explore the rest of his or her body. Start off by slipping your hand underneath his or her shirt or lightly grabbing a hold of the person's butt. If you get a positive reaction, then keep going; otherwise, keep your hands where you can both see them.


If this is your first time being alone with the person, then you might want to explicitly ask whether he or she is comfortable moving past first base. This can save you both from a potentially embarrassing situation.
 If you are ready for the kiss to be over, then take your hands off of the other person and slowly pull yourself away. If the person is being overly aggressive, then you may need to use your hands to politely but forcefully push him or her away from you.

