 When your vet diagnoses your dog with dementia, they will explain how you can manage this condition. If you decide to treat your dog with Anipryl, you will need to follow your vet’s prescription instructions carefully.Doing so will help your dog get the most benefit from the drug. Ask your vet questions about Anipryl:


How does it work?
How do I give it?
How much does it cost?
Are there any bad side effects?
When will my dog start to improve?
How long will my dog need to be on it?;
, Anipryl is an oral drug that is available as pills or chewable tablets.It is best to give Anipryl in the morning.Although it's not necessary to give Anipryl with food, you can give your dog its Anipryl dose with its morning meal.Anipryl comes in a range of doses, from 2 to 30 milligrams per pill or tablet.Your vet may start your dog on a mild dose, then make dosage adjustments as needed.If you choose the pill form, you can give your dog the pill by hiding it in its food or using a pill pocket.
 Anipryl is a daily medication. If you forget a dose, though, don't panic. Simply give the missed dose once you remember. However, if you don’t remember until it’s nearly time for your dog’s next dose, give only the scheduled dose and skip the missed dose.Do not give your dog a double dose of Anipryl. This can lead to an overdose, which can cause serious side effects like seizures and insomnia (inability to sleep)., Anipryl works by increasing the amount of dopamine in the brain.Medications that change brain activity can take a long time to have a noticeable effect. For Anipryl, it will probably take four to eight weeks before you see improvement in your dog’s dementia symptoms.Contact your vet if your dog’s symptoms do not start improving after about a month. Your vet may double your dog’s current dosage of Anipryl for another month. If there’s still no improvement, your vet may recommend another medication., Your dog may experience some negative side effects while on Anipryl. Contact your vet if your dog doesn’t seem to be doing well on the drug:Vomiting
Diarrhea
Tiredness
Decreased appetite
Wobbliness

, Some drugs should not be given with Anipryl. Before you start your dog on Anipryl, give your vet a list of your dog’s current medications, including flea and tick preventatives. Also, tell your vet about any nutritional supplements your dog is taking.Examples of nutritional supplements are glucosamine and omega-3 fatty acids.
Your vet will decide if your dog can safely take Anipryl with its other medications.
Meperidine, which relieves pain, should not be given with Anipryl., Anipryl has been shown to increase aggression in dogs with this behavioral problem.Therefore, if your dog has aggression, your vet will recommend against starting your dog on Anipryl.
 While your dog is on Anipryl, your vet will want to see it every six months. During these appointments, your vet will examine your dog and take a blood sample.An examination will allow your vet to notice improvements in your dog’s symptoms.


Medications can sometimes affect the function of different organs, especially in older dogs. The blood work will indicate if Anipryl is negatively affecting any of your dog’s organs, like its liver or kidneys.
Based on exam findings and blood work results, your vet may decide to adjust the drug dosage.

