 Pay attention to the feet! Shoes help complete the overall look in Paris. You’re not going to see a lot of Parisians slumming it around the city in tennis shoes. Cheap or scuffed shoes will give you away as a tourist.


Instead of throwing on tennis shoes, invest in a nice pair of leather shoes or, especially, ballerina flats. Black ballerina flats go with everything, and they are comfortable.Leave the UGG boots and flip flops at home, too. You don’t need to wear heels that are too high. In Paris, it’s considered tacky to wear super high platform heels. When dressing down, you will likely see Parisians wearing the ballet flats, short boots or tall boots. When dressing up for a more formal event, women will wear lower high heels, but not wedge or spiked heels.
Get your shoes shined, and take good care of them. One pair of expensive shoes that lasts forever is a good bet in Paris. Parisians wear nice shoes even when they are in casual settings because they believe that the shoes elevate the overall look.;
, In Paris, you won’t see a lot of women wearing unnatural colors (think lime green) or anything too gaudy. The same is true with fabrics.


Avoid anything synthetic. Avoid distracting patterns, too. Instead, stick with classic neutral colors, such as navy, white, black, or tan colors.One benefit of sticking with neutral colors is that you can easily mix and match them with other pieces of clothing. They’re versatile. Parisians choose neutral colors for both formal or informal settings.
Mariner stripes are an exception to the no busy pattern rule. They are very Parisian, and they are worn in casual wear most frequently, paired with jeans or casual trousers.
 Parisian style is sometimes compared to New York style, and one thing they have in common is choice of color. The major color in any Parisian’s wardrobe is black.


You will see black worn in dresses, jackets, and trousers. Throw a white T-shirt or buttoned-down dress shirt under a black blazer and wear skinny black jeans, and you're set!
Black is a slimming color, and it’s instantly sophisticated. When in doubt, wear black! One benefit of black is that it can work for more casual or formal settings. A black evening dress works well for a formal night out in Paris.
The runner-up color most commonly seen in Parisian outfits is gray. Overall, the color palette in Paris is very understated and elegant., There is a basic style that you will see over and over again In Paris. If you want to master Parisian style, start with it. Consider it the typical Parisian's "uniform."


The basic uniform is a blazer (very tailored), with skinny jeans, a T-shirt, and, if you’re a woman, ballet flats or heels.
Again, think about wearing this uniform in the right colors – black or grey. Keep the accessories to a minimum to pull off the look.
Go for a layered look, such as a shirt under a sweater and coat. Mix classy with casual. You want to look like you threw the outfit together. A great tailored blazer is a must.
 One of the most important things to Parisians is to make sure clothes fit well. Think tailored, not shapeless.


Ill-fitting dresses, pants that are too tight or too big, and dowdy, boxy jackets are all not going to cut it in Paris.
French women dress for their body type, no matter what it is, and they enjoy slim-fitting clothing that accentuates curves. They don't try to hide their curves in too-baggy clothing.
Clothing won't fit as well if you just get it off the rack. Parisians visit tailors. Some boutiques even tailor clothes on the spot. The seams will be stronger and better. The clothes will likely last longer.
 Parisians are known for their sex appeal, but they achieve this without showing too much skin. They dress for comfort, and they don't throw their sexuality in your face.


The rule is to not show too much of your legs, cleavage, or butt at one time. If you’re going to show a little leg, for example, don’t wear a low cut dress at the same time.
If you’re trying too obviously to look sexy, that’s usually going to be less sexy, ironically. Too much cleavage is not common in Paris.
Cramming yourself into a too-tight, too-revealing, too-short dress? That speaks more to Las Vegas than Paris. Learn to be sexy through understatement and confidence.
 In Paris, people tend to have a few staple items that are quite expensive. They actually save money in the long run because their clothes last longer.


However, they have fewer clothes overall and tend to wear the expensive staples over and over again for a better look. They mix and match and are not fans of wearing something once and then discarding it.
Think of it this way. They have higher quality clothing but own less of it overall. They might purchase a $1,000 trench coat, but they’ll wear it for years. They will likely own a nice fitted dress shirt, a blazer, a great coat, and a pair of trousers.
Think smart when you’re spending your money. You don’t need a lot of things; you just need a few good things. Shop at high-end stores that take pride in fine fabrics.
 Parisians will focus on the tiny aspects of an outfit or look to create an overall sophisticated and polished look.


Don’t go out with chipped nail polish, in a shirt that’s wrinkled, or in a shirt that’s ripped. Parisians will notice and think you're not respecting yourself.
Women often choose formal dresses with subtle but intricate bead work or even a large white flower, bow, or brooch.
Wear a scarf. Parisian women are very fond of scarves. It’s a signature accessory. Wear the scarf looped several times around your neck with a blazer and a T-shirt., It's one of the best known cliches about Parisians: That supposedly they wear berets. The problem is, it's not really true.


If you wear a beret in Paris, most people will probably recognize that you're a tourist. It's more the tourist's idea of Paris than the actual Parisian's.
Instead of a beret, try wearing a fedora hat. Sophisticated hats are sometimes worn in Paris to elevate an outfit's look.Another hat to avoid if you don't want to look like a tourist is a baseball cap. Put the baseball cap in the same category as tennis shoes: You won't look Parisian with them on.
 Men in Paris share a lot of dressing commonalities with their female counterparts: They dress somewhat formal even in casual settings, and they pay attention to fit and shoes.


Parisian men wear leather pointed shoes in neutral black or brown that lace up, for informal wear or formal nights out. Men tailor their clothes so that their trousers are cut more narrowly. They won’t have a sagging cuff, crotch or armpits.
Scarves are not only for women in Paris. You will often see them on men, worn over a T-shirt or with a blazer. Parisian men prefer cotton, linens, cashmere, wool, denim and leather.Parisian men wear clothing that highlights the silhouette.For men, jeans, a bomber jacket and T shirt can work well. Suits are important, as are linen shirts. French men also choose a fitted, slim style in their suits as well as their jeans.

