 You should be able to find it at a specialty spice shop or a grocery store that carries Indian and South Asian food products. Be sure to the purchase the cooking oil (preferably cold-pressed), not the essential oil: essential mustard oil can irritate the skin.


Stop using the oil immediately if your experience any skin irritation. You may even want to perform a patch test (placing a coin-sized amount of the oil behind your ear) 48 hours before using the oil.
You might also find mustard oil in the international foods aisle at your local grocery store.;
, Mustard oil is banned for edible consumption in the EU, USA, and Canada. The oil is high in erucic acid, which can cause heart problems, anemia, and increase the risk of lung cancer., Before placing the oil on your hair, place it in a small bowl and warm it up slightly in the microwave or in a small pot on the stovetop. Be careful not to heat it up too much: just slightly warmer than room temperature is fine.


If you didn’t warm the oil up in a bowl, transfer it to one after you’ve warmed it up and bring it over to where you’ll be applying the oil to your hair.
 The oil could stain your clothes, skin and work area. Take the following precautions:


Be sure that you’re wearing old clothes or at least a towel over your shoulders to protect your clothes.
Wear gloves to protect your hands from being stained by the oil.
Apply a layer of petroleum jelly or a thick moisturizer over your neck, ears and hairline to protect them from being stained.
Cover your work area in newspaper or old towels.
 Start with the ends of your hair. Once your ends are saturated with oil, work your way up towards your roots. Ensure that the oil is evenly applied to your hair as you go by gently massaging the strands between your fingers and/or hands.


You can apply the oil with your hands, with a hair dye application brush, or with a bottle applicator, which is made for runny products. You can purchase a hair dyeing brush or a bottle applicator at a drugstore or beauty supplies shop.
 Once you’ve reached your roots, give yourself a scalp massage. This will help moisturize your scalp. Many people claim that rubbing mustard oil into your scalp can also promote hair growth, but there is little to no scientific evidence for this., Work your hands through your hair to make sure that all of your hair is evenly covered with oil. Running a wide-toothed comb through your hair will help ensure even distribution.
 In a pinch you can also fashion a plastic grocery bag into a cap around your hair., The oil needs time to soak into your hair. You can even leave it on overnight.
 Wash your hair with a mild shampoo. You may need to wash it twice to get the oily feeling out. As your hair will likely still have some oil in it, you may want to forget the conditioner lest it make your hair look greasy.

If you really want to use conditioner, apply only a small amount to the bottom half of your hair.
 You can apply mustard oil to your hair up to three times each week.

