 Fill a medium, heavy-bottomed saucepan with approximately 1 ½ inches (4 cm) of canola oil. Place a deep fry or candy thermometer in the pan, and heat the oil on medium to medium-high until it reaches 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius).If you have a table top deep fryer, you can cook the avocado fries in it. Preheat the oil to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) just as you would in a pan.;
, Add ¼ cup (31 g) of flour and ¼ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of kosher salt to a shallow dish. Mix the two together well with a fork to ensure that they’re fully blended.You can substitute whole wheat flour for the all-purpose if you prefer.
If you like, you can also mix some freshly ground black pepper into the flour to season it.
 Gather two more shallow dishes and place them beside the flour. Crack 2 large eggs into one, whisking them so they’re slightly beaten. Add 1 ¼ cup (62 ½ g) of panko breadcrumbs to the other dish.You can substitute regular bread crumbs for the panko if you prefer.
 For the fries, you’ll need 2 firm, ripe avocado that have been pitted, peeled, and sliced into ½-inch (13-cm) wedges. Dredge the wedges in the flour and shake off the excess. Next, dip the wedges into the egg and then directly into the panko to coat.Make sure that all of the wedges are well coated with the breadcrumbs on all sides.
Have a plate or platter nearby that you can lay the avocado fries on once you’ve coated them.
 When the oil has reached 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) in the pan, add just enough of the avocado wedges that will fit in a single layer. Fry the fries until they are golden brown, which should take 30 to 60 seconds. Repeat with the remaining wedges.Use a slotted, metal spoon to lift the avocado fries out of the oil so the excess oil can drip off.
 When you’re finished frying the avocado fries, place them on a plate lined with paper towel. Allow them to sit for a minute or two so the excess oil is absorbed before serving them.These simple avocado fries pair best with a spicy dipping sauce, such as jalapeno ketchup.

