 Set a table saw guide to 2 inches (5 cm) and saw scrap lumber into eight planks 24" (61 cm) long. These will become the frame of your screen.









If you don't have any scrap lumber and table saw, buy 2" x 24" pieces from a hardware store.
These instructions assume you are cutting the lumber to a 90º angle. Alternatively, you can cut them with a miter saw to a 45º angle instead, so you can fit them together like a picture frame.;
, Unroll a sheet of 1 inch (2.5 cm) poultry netting or hardware cloth on a flat surface. Place a plank over it to guide your cutting.









Use the plank itself, not a tape measure. Storebought lumber dimensions will not match the measurement on the label.
 Cut the poultry netting with tin snips or an angle grinder along the outside edge of the plank. Make sure you get enough material to stretch between your frame.









If you don't have the right cutting tools, wire cutters are a much slower alternative., Lay a plank underneath the netting, flush against one edge. Place a second plank on top of it, sandwiching the wire between them. Do not align them perfectly: the second plank should be offset just enough to allow the width of another plank to butt against it. This overlapping pattern adds strength and makes the screen easy to put together.


The netting should extend a little more than halfway across the width of the plank. It needs to be held securely, but it can't have any sharp edges poking out where you'll be holding the screen.
If the netting keeps rolling up, clamp one end of it onto the table., Position a third plank underneath another edge of the netting, forming a corner with the other bottom plank. Position a fourth plank on top, flush against the end of the offset plank.


If you have a carpenter's square, place it against this corner to guide you.
 Hold the corner together with three vises, and clamp on an additional vise at the other two corners that have planks. If you don't have this many vises, weigh down the planks with heavy objects.
 Drill two screws into the center corner to hold all the planks together. Drill an additional three or four screws along each side, plus another screw at each incomplete corner.
 Use the same overlapping pattern to form the next corner. Clamp and drill the top and bottom planks together.
 There's only one side left without a frame. Place your penultimate plank underneath it. For your last plank, measure the gap between the two planks on either side, and cut the plank to fit. Clamp and drill this final plank into place.
 If you've had enough carpentry for today, you don't need to modify your current setup. Just place the screen onto a wheelbarrow, shovel your compost onto it, and shake until the smaller particles fall through the screen. If you're looking for a less labor-intensive method, read the section below.


For better ergonomics, stand up straight while shaking the screen. This may require placing the wheelbarrow on higher ground.
 The goal of this project is to create a raised platform for your compost bin, so you can let gravity do the work for you. The first step is to dig four post holes, 2 feet (0.6 m) deep — or a little deeper if you have unstable soil. Place them so the two front posts (where you'll be accessing the compost) are 5 feet (1.5 m) apart, and the sides of the rectangle are 3¾ ft (1.1 m) apart.


You can vary these dimensions to match your garden space, as long as you alter your lumber cuts to match.
These metric conversions do not take into account standard metric lumber sizes. Plan and measure carefully.
 Install four 6 foot (1.8 m) posts of 4 x 4 lumber, tamping them in place with a gravel bed or at least hard-packed soil. At least ⅓ of the posts' lengths should be underground.
 Screw in 2 x 10 boards the the outsides of the posts to create a back wall and two side walls for your compost platform. If using the recommended measurements above, the side walls will be about 4 feet (1.2 m) long, and the back wall will be about 6 ft (1.8 m) long. It's a good idea to measure the distance between posts before you cut the lumber. Install three boards to form each wall, leaving a small gap between the boards to help your compost aerate.


Optionally, you can create a low front wall, two boards high. This will keep your compost from spilling out, but it will make wheelbarrow access difficult.
 This creates two compartments, one where compost can fall directly through the screen, and another where large objects will roll down the screen for later return to the bin. Here's how to find the proper placement:


Hold your screen against the top front edge of a side wall. Position it so it leans down toward the center at about a 30º angle.
Imagine a short wall supporting this screen, allowing a short overhang. Mark a spot on the back wall to the height of this divider.
Construct this divider with two 2 x 10 boards on their edge, screwing them together and to the back wall.
Increase the divider' stability by driving a few stakes into the ground at either side.
 Take a piece of 1 x 1 scrap lumber, and screw it just under the lip of the side wall, to support the top of the screen. Attach a second piece on the underside of the screen itself, near the other end. This second support will hit the divider, preventing the screen from sliding to the ground.
 Nail down three more 2 x 10 boards across the top to support your compost bin, again leaving small gaps for aeration. Start from the back wall and build forward. Make sure to leave space at the front so you can shovel out your compost directly onto the screen.


You may want to support the ceiling with an additional brace at the lip of the back and side walls, especially if you have a large compost bin.
 Cut this hole at the lower edge, so you can access the compost that's been in the bin longest. To sift the compost, just rake this out and let it fall onto the tilted screen. Shake the screen by moving it forward and back along the supports. The large scraps will tumble down the screen to one heap, and the well-rotted compost will fall straight through into a separate heap or a waiting wheelbarrow.

