 Deep fried dough caked with powdered sugar can set you back nearly 1,000 calories and a few dozen grams of the least healthy sorts of fats. For perspective, that will take more than three hours to walk off.If your sweet tooth is itching, go for a caramel apple instead, which will have about a ⅓ of the calories and very little fat. The apple itself will also provide some healthy, energy-sustaining nutritional value.
 As much as you might want to look like a viking berserker, leave the turkey legs in the park’s fryers. Just one of these avian thighs contains a number of calories well into the 4-digit realm. Further, they contain more than 50 grams of fat each.If you ignore this warning, at least take off the skin!
See if there’s a place that has kebabs. Chicken or steak are healthiest, and since kebabs are grilled instead of fried, you’ll be way better off in the health department.
 Though it is a vegetable and will do its best to trick you into thinking it’s relatively healthy, it’s not. Nearly 1,200 calories and over 70 grams of fat - a day’s worth - are the stats you should remember when the fried faux-flower temptation strikes.Still want a cooked veggie? Ask if anywhere in the park serves corn on the cob. With much less of all the detrimental health effects (even with a healthy dose of butter), this is definitely the route to take.
 They’re not just ice! There are hundreds of calories in snow cones, loads of the worst sorts of sweeteners, and unhealthy artificial coloring. If you just want some sugar, go for cotton candy instead - it will actually be healthier!If it’s the cold you’re after, see about a frozen chocolate-dipped banana or frozen yogurt.
If you simply must get a snow cone, ask for one with less syrup than normal.
 Maybe the temptation of a turkey leg is simply too much to handle. You are on vacation, after all. That said, when you do treat yourself to an amusement park delicacy, share it with another person in your party. You’ll still be able to enjoy a dangerously scrumptious treat, with less of the undesirable effects on your diet.Keep in mind that amusement park portions are often entertainingly large.
 Whatever you call them - soda, pop, or just carbonated sugar beverages - these will work against you at the amusement park. They contain lots of unnecessary calories and even diet versions contain chemicals people shouldn’t be putting into their bodies. If you strongly favor sweetened drinks, see about some chocolate milk. Better yet, simply drink water. You body will be grateful, and you’ll have more energy and focus with which to enjoy the rides!