 For most people, a shade of taupe will work, and is the best starting point for color. Taupe gives dark brows some depth and it doesn't overwhelm lighter hair.Test different shades on the side of your hand so you can see if the shade has warm or cool undertones. If you have red or strawberry-blonde hair, warm (red or orange-ish) tones will look good. Other hair colors should stick with cooler undertones (blues, greys, and rosey pinks).Blondes should try light taupe or a pencil one or two shades darker than their natural hair color.Brunettes should choose a pencil that one to two shades lighter than your hair color. Don't try black or a shade darker than your hair unless you want some angry, evil-looking brows.Those with raven black hair should still keep away from the black pencil. Instead, try dark brown or taupe.Redheads should try taupe and medium brown.Grey-haired gals should go for light brown or taupe instead of another shade of grey., You are not coloring your brow in a solid line--rather, you are trying to draw what look like many individual hairs. You can use a sharpener for eyeliner and brow pencils, but a sharpener for regular pencils will work, too.








If your pencil is too soft or crumbles, keep it in the refrigerator between uses and it should hold together., Focus on sparse areas, feathering the pencil strokes so they resemble natural hair.The pigment should be concentrated on the arch and the tail of your eyebrow--the thicker area that is closer to your nose should be lighter and a little less dense.








If you found your brows were different heights, use the pencil to add hair to the top of the lower brow, instead of trying to even them out by tweezing the higher one.Remember the saying that your eyebrows are sisters, not twins. They won't look exactly alike, and that's okay.
 Again, using light strokes, brush the spoolie through your brow, from front to tail. This will soften and shade the color, making the brow look more natural.








Remember to focus the color on your arch and tail of your eyebrow.
 Keep your freshly groomed eyebrows in place using a brow wax or gel.








If you have made a mistake or want to highlight your brows and brighten your eyes, use a small brush to carefully line under your brow with concealer. Make sure you blend this down toward your lids so it looks natural and not severe.For small mistakes, erase with the tip of a cotton swab dipped in concealer.