 Add 1 cup (200 g) of granulated sugar to a medium size saucepan with a heavy bottom. Turn the burner to medium to allow the sugar to start to heat.A 2 quart (1.9 L) saucepan is usually large for the sauce.
Make sure that your saucepan is clean before your start making the sauce. If there is any dirt or debris in it, crystals can form around it when you begin heating the sugar.;
, As the sugar is heating, use a heat-resistant rubber spatula or wooden spoon to stir it constantly. The sugar will start to clump, and eventually melt into a liquid. Continue stirring it until the liquid is thick and turns a dark amber color, which can take 5 to 10 minutes.The sugar can burn easily, so be sure to watch it and stir continuously.
 When the sugar has melted into an amber colored liquid, mix 6 tablespoons (90 g) of salted butter that’s been cut into pieces into the pan. Allow the butter to heat until it melts into the sugar, which typically takes 2 to 3 minutes. Stir the mixture regularly to help the butter melt.When you add the butter to the sugar, the caramel mixture will bubble rapidly. Be careful to avoid burning yourself.
You can use unsalted butter in the sauce if you prefer. No other changes need to be made to the recipe.
 Once the butter has melted into the caramel, slowly and carefully pour ½ cup (120 ml) of heavy cream into the pan. Because the caramel in the pan is hotter than the cream, the mixture will bubble aggressively and possibly splatter up so be careful as you drizzle in the cream.To minimize the bubbling and splattering, bring the cream to room temperature before adding it to the caramel.
You can substitute light whipping cream or double cream for the heavy cream, but don’t use milk in the recipe.
 As you add the cream to the caramel, use a wire whisk to continuously stir the mixture. Continue mixing until the cream is fully incorporated into the caramel.If the mixture bubbles up too much to whisk it comfortably, take the pan off the heat for a moment to allow it to cool down.
 When the cream is completely blended into the caramel, let the mixture boil for 1 minute. As it boils, the sauce will begin to rise in the pan. Stir it occasionally to ensure that the sauce is smooth., When the sauce has finished boiling, remove the pan from the stove. Stir in 1 teaspoon (6 g) of sea salt until it’s well combined and the sauce is smooth once again.Fleur de sel has a very delicate texture so it easily melts into the sauce, but any fine sea salt will work for the recipe.
Make sure to mix in the salt when the sauce is still hot so it completely dissolves into the mixture.
 Once you’ve mixed the salt into the caramel sauce, leave it in the pan and set aside. Let the sauce cool for approximately 15 minutes before transferring it from the pan.If you plan to use the sauce right away, serve it while it’s still warm so it isn’t too thick to pour.
 When the sauce has cooled sufficiently, carefully pour it into a glass jar for storage. You can store the sauce in the refrigerator for up to two weeks.If you are refrigerating your sauce, be sure to warm it up before serving or incorporating it into another dish. You can heat it in the microwave on high in 5 second intervals until it’s thin enough to pour.

