 When you're traveling internationally, you can run up a huge bill quickly if you are using data and minutes, depending on your plan. One way to make sure your apps aren't using data without your knowledge is to turn off data for each one. That way, if you want to turn your data on for some other reason, such as checking a webpage, you won't be using data automatically.Under settings, you can designate what apps you want to use cellular data for and which ones you don't.
Don't forget to turn them back on later when you're back to normal usage.
 One basic step to take is to turn of data roaming. That way, your phone won't be automatically joining networks in other countries, and you won't be charged for data.Look under your settings and find the "data roaming" button. Flip it off.You can also turn off cellular data to be extra safe., Another, simpler way to set up your phone for use abroad is to put your phone in airplane mode. Look under your phone's settings. You should find a place to enable airplane mode on your phone.


Airplane mode will cut off any cellular data and cellular service, so you won't be charged for roaming.
However, you should still be able to use WiFi, as long as it's enabled, so you can still access the internet.
 If you don't want to put it on airplane mode and would rather just minimize data use, turn off apps and systems that use data automatically. For instance, if you have push notifications set up in an application, turn them off.


Generally, you turn push notifications off in settings on your phone. Most phones list them by the app.
You should also turn off any auto-syncing apps, as that eats up data, too. You can find that under settings, as well, for each app.
 Most mobile phone companies now offer international plans. While they won't be cheap, they're cheaper than using data without an international plan.Usually, you can turn these plans on and off as you need to.
Even if you don't want a plan, you still sometimes need to turn on international service so you can use your phone in an emergency while traveling., While loading webpages, getting emails, and receiving web messages doesn't take that much data relatively speaking, streaming videos and music eats data left and right. Therefore, while you're abroad, skip viewing videos and music. Keep your usage to what's strictly necessary.