 Creeping Charlie, like other plants, needs light for growth. However, this plant can survive even in low level light, like strong shade. Because of this, if you intend to use this method, the light must be completely blocked to the plant., There are many items you could use for this purpose. For example, you could lay down a large piece of cardboard, a heavy drop-cloth, or a tarp over top the plant for maximum light blockage.


When creeping charlie is growing among plants you want to keep, you might consider cutting a circular hole around in a heavy cloth or tarp. This way you can block light to the creeping charlie around the wanted plant without denying it of light.
Any surrounding plants that are deprived of light will die along with the creeping charlie. This likely means you'll need to reseed your plot later., Stray wind, animals, or other environmental factors can cause your light cover to shift in position. Stabilize your light cover by heaping some soil, rocks, or some other kind of weight on top of it to hold it in place.


To ensure the light is completely blocked, you should make sure that the cardboard is large enough to cover at least six inches beyond any protruding stems., In many cases, a week of light deprivation will cause the creeping charlie to wither and die, though depending on soil richness and other factors this can take longer. Peek under your light cover periodically to check whether or not the creeping charlie has died.


When you notice that all parts of the creeping charlie are withered, shriveled, and lacking in green color, the plant should be dead., There is a risk of creeping charlie reseeding even after the plant has died. In order to prevent regrowth, you should gather up all of its plant matter, including roots, and dispose of it by throwing it away or burning.


Be sure you wear gloves when handling or removing creeping charlie directly. Many people are allergic to this plant.Many places require you to request a burning permit to prevent false fire alarms. Be sure you have a burning permit before attempting to dispose this plant with fire.

