 Note all the aspects that will affect your jumping, like:


The position of the jumping board. Ensure that you are able to cover the distance between the board and pit prior to your initial jump.
The width of the track, you will want to center yourself so that you won’t worry about stepping off.
The material composition of the track. If the track is rubberized, you can use spikes.;
, Ask a friend to gently push you forward from behind. The foot that you step forward with is your dominant foot.
 Start with your dominant foot placed on top of the center of the jumping board, since that is where you will want to jump from. Then run at the pace that you are expecting to run towards the jump. Measure off at 5, 6 or 7 steps, counting one step as every time your dominant foot hits the ground.
 Do this with a rock or piece of tape to the side of the track. Make sure that the mark you make will be easy to see, even when other people are using similar materials.


Check your mark. Do this by performing a run through (i.e. run as if you are going to jump but run through the pit instead.)

, Place your foot on the center of the track in line with your mark. You may have to ask people to move out of the way. Make sure that no one will cross the track while you are running.
 If adjustment is necessary, you can move your mark further from or closer to the pit.
 Take long, fast strides and keep your back straight, looking straight forward. When you come near the jumping board, do not look down, this will cause you to lose momentum.
, If you feel like you might still be off mark, perform another run through until you are comfortable with your marks.
 Align yourself with your mark and run, just like before. When you come to the board, jump vertically: your speed will carry you forward.


When you jump, you want to shoot your chest out, and look to the sky with your arms in back of your body. Land with your arms and legs in front of you, as close to fully-extended as possible.
 Use your remaining forward momentum to do this. You will be measured from the furthest back mark you make so you don’t want to fall backwards.
