 Use cool water to remove any dirt or pesticides from the skin.Then take a sharp knife and cut off the top and bottom of your squash. The top should have a woody stem, and the bottom is usually thick skinned and rounded., To do so, you'll first need to slice your squash in half. Lay your squash on a cutting board or some other kind of cut-safe surface, and use your knife to cut it down the middle into two even parts.


Lay each part so its soft core is pointing upwards and use a spoon to scoop the seeds from the squash's center.
You can throw the pulpy, seedy bits away in the garbage, or use it as compost material.
 The two most common ways to cut your squash is by cutting each half into several pieces lengthwise or width-wise. The way you cut your squash will depend on how you want to present it after grilling.


You should cut the squash into pieces ranging in size from 3/8 to ½ inch (1 to 1.3 cm) thick. This will make it easier to skewer.
Cutting your squash lengthwise will result in french fry shaped grilled squash. Your kids might even find this veggie more palatable in this form, especially if give this food a fun name, like "squash fries.", Take your pieces of squash one at a time and push the skewer through the middle of the piece. Slide the skewered piece toward the base of the skewer, then add another piece in this fashion until all your pieces are on the skewers.


You should leave some space between your pieces of squash on the skewer. Packing them too closely together can result in them being uncooked in the middle.If you plan on using wooden or bamboo skewers, you should soak these for a half hour before hand to prevent them from burning or getting charred.
 Put some olive oil or melt some butter in a small bowl. Dip a pasty/basting brush into the oil or butter and paint both sides of your squash with the coating.This will help prevent your squash from sticking to the grill.


The coating you use will also help your seasoning stick to your squash.
 Take your seasoning and sprinkle a moderate amount onto your squash. Try to be consistent with your application of seasoning. Missed spots might taste bland. Salt and pepper work well, as does steak seasoning.If you want your squash to be well-seasoned, you may want to turn the skewer to season both sides.
Be careful not to over season your squash. Doing so may make the flavor of the seasoning too strong.
 Many grills have a vegetable rack to prevent your veggies from overheating as they cook, and this might work well for cooking your squash. You can also use the corners or sides of the grill where your veggies will be more distant from the heat of the flame.Using medium heat when grilling your squash will help you achieve the best results.
 You can use a spatula, tongs, or even a flame resistant glove or mitt to turn your skewers after 3 to 4 minutes have passed. After another 3 to 4 minutes, it should be done.You'll be able to tell when your squash is done by its lightly browned sides and tender consistency. Poking the squash with a fork should help you discern its tenderness.
Be careful not to grill your squash too long. Doing so can result in your squash turning out mushy.

