 There are pros and cons to using Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Chrome OS, etc. Visit each operating system’s website to familiarize yourself with its features. Then, search the web for blogs that cater specifically to users of those operating systems. Reading user blogs is a great way to discover how people use their computers.


Windows is pre-installed on most PCs and is used by businesses as both servers and workstations. Windows is also popular with home users and gamers who love tinkering with hardware.
Mac OSX is known to be sleek and aesthetically pleasing. Made popular by artists, Mac OSX almost always runs on Apple hardware (although it can be installed on modern desktops) and has a familiar design that is gaining in popularity.
Linux a free (usually) flavor of “Unix” used by more advanced computer users. It’s highly customizable, secure, can be used on basically any type of hardware to perform any type of function.
Chrome OS is a simple operating system found on Google Chromebooks. It’s geared toward people who are more interested in using the web (and web applications) than anything else.
 To be a well-rounded computer genius, you should have experience using all operating systems and a wide variety of software.


You can find Windows PCs at public libraries. Most college campuses have both PCs and Macs available for student use. Alternatively, you can ask a friend or a relative if you can try using their computer.
Try doing the same sort of task (like browsing the web) on a Windows, Linux, or Mac computer and notice the differences.
 Both Macs and Windows have built-in System panels that provide details about the computer. Try to explore a new area of the Control Panel (Windows) or System Preferences (Mac) every day. Just poking around and clicking to view the different options will add necessary information to your budding genius brain.



To open the Control Panel in Windows, press ⊞ Win+S to launch the search, then type control panel. Click “Control Panel” in the search results, then browse through the various panels.
To view System Preferences on your Mac: Click the Apple menu at the top-left corner of the screen, then click “System Preferences.”

, If it’s your first time, start with something easy, like a new web browser. If you’re at a more advanced level, try installing Linux. Linux is a free operating system popular with the geeks (your team!) that can be installed on lots of different hardware configurations.Because Linux is so popular with people who love computers, there’s an entire community of Linux users active on chats and forums. Learning Linux is bound to make you new friends, perhaps even a mentor.

