 If the object is large or deeply embedded in the skin or muscle, removing it may cause additional damage. It may also cause the person to bleed severely. Call an ambulance for severe injuries such as:Gunshot wounds
Knife wounds
Construction accidents
Any penetrating injury
Injuries from metal or glass caused by a car accident
Injuries to an eye
Injuries that are deep and dirty;
, If you are bleeding heavily, try to prevent yourself from losing too much blood. If possible, you can do this by:Not removing the object. Doing so may cause the bleeding to increase and should be done by a doctor. Instead, you can try to reduce the bleeding by pressing around the object. Be careful not to push the object deeper inside, but to instead try to hold the edges of the wound together.
Elevating the wound above the heart. If the wound occurred on an arm or leg, lie down. Prop the arm or leg up on a pile of pillows.
 If the object is large and heavy, such as a knife or other object that may move, it needs to be kept still. If the object moves inside you, it may do additional damage. You can stabilize the object by carefully bandaging the wound.Build up a layer of support around the object using clean gauze that is rolled to increase stability. Tape across the rolled gauze in a "log cabin" method (horizontal lines of tape overlapping at ninety degree angles). This will give the support much needed height to increase stabilization.
 Losing a lot of blood can cause a person to go into shock. Shock can be fatal because the circulatory system fails to deliver blood and oxygen to the person’s organs.The following symptoms are signs of shock: Paleness; cold, clammy skin; fast, shallow breathing; vomiting; yawning and sighing; thirst.
If you think you (or someone you are treating) are going into shock, call emergency responders and update them on the situation. If you can, lie down and raise your legs above your head. Cover yourself so you will stay warm and ask someone to talk to you to keep you awake. Do not eat or drink anything.
 Depending upon the severity of your wound, you may be transported to a hospital and treated there. Tell the medical staff as much as you remember about how the injury occurred.


After you are treated, your doctor may recommend you get a tetanus shot if it has been more than five years since you had one or if the wound was dirty., Blood can transmit infectious diseases such as HIV. The best way to protect yourself and the injured person, is to wear protective gear. This protects you from any diseases they may have and protects them from any diseases you may have.Wear latex gloves if you will be touching a bloody wound.
Wear masks, eye and face shields, and protective aprons if there are splashes of blood.
Wash your hands after you remove the gloves. Wash all surfaces that came in contact with blood or other bodily fluids.
If the person was injured with a sharp object, be careful not to cut yourself as you treat the wound.
If at any point your protective gear becomes compromised while you treat another person, take a moment to replace it.

