 Dresses are one of the easiest ways to wear velvet. Not only are velvet dresses available at numerous trendy clothing shops in many different cuts and styles, but they’re also easy to dress down with accessories and accent pieces. Any cut will work for your casual velvet look, but slip dresses and short-sleeved dresses can be particularly easy to accessorize casually.You also might want to avoid plunging necklines, exposed shoulders, or long skirts, as these cuts can read as formal.
If you’re having a hard time finding a dress you like, check out mass, internationally available retailers such as boohoo, Forever21, or ASOS.;
, Footwear can set the tone for an entire outfit and switch a night-look into a day-look in one fell swoop. To do so, grab your favorite, worn-in pair of cowboy boots or some basic, no-frills sandals. Brown or black matte-finish leather in particular will immediately make a dress more casual.For an edgier but still daytime look, pair your velvet dress with combat boots or some studded booties.
For example, pair a short velvet slip dress with some black combat boots or a pair of colorful ballet flats. Alternatively, take a burgundy or hunter green short-sleeved velvet dress and add some light brown cowboy boots to play down the rich, jewel tones of the dress.
 Like shoes, jewelry can dress an outfit up or down. Rhinestones, diamonds, shiny gold, and pearls will make your dress look fancier, while brassy, coppery, or turquoise stones will make it more relaxed. In general, you want your jewelry to complement your velvet dress rather than compete with it, so avoid statement jewelry with sparkles or glossy finishes.


Stud earrings, cuff bracelets, and long pendant necklaces in brassy tones are all excellent options to dress your velvet piece down while still making you look put-together.
 If you’re still feeling overly formal in your velvet dress, toss a light jacket over it. This addition will break up the solid velvet, as well as add visual interest and structure to the overall look.


Leather or bomber jackets are perfect for a casual day out with your friends, while a fitted blazer is a great, ever-appropriate look for the office or other professional events., Tights and strappy shoes can work wonderfully with a casual velvet look, but you should be careful which bottom-half accessories you use. Shiny, sheer tights will slant your velvet dress toward a nighttime look, as will stiletto or chunky heels with lots of straps or ties. Opt instead for opaque sweater tights and flat gladiator sandals.


Also keep your purse or bag in mind! An embossed or shiny clutch will make your dress look more formal, whereas brown, slouchy hobo bags will dress it down.

