 For businesses, net income refers to profit after expenses and taxes. To start, gather your records and add up your total income for the past year, before taxes or expenses.Subtract returns and discounts from your gross income.
Self-employed people should follow this method because they have to deduct their own taxes from payments.
Let's say that your net gross income, before expenses, was $100,000. That will serve as your gross income for this part.
 If your business involves selling products, then you have to account for what those products originally cost. Multiply the price of each unit by the number of units sold. Then subtract this total from the total income.The result is your "Operating Income."


If you sold 1,500 products and each cost you $10, then your cost of goods sold is $15,000. Remember this total for the example below.
If your business provides a service, you can skip this step. Any materials you use to provide the service falls under operating costs.
 In this step, you will add up all of your expenses in operating your business. They may vary from business to business, but there are a few costs that are common and must be accounted for.Rent and utilities. If your business has a storefront, then you probably pay rent and utilities.
Paying employees.
If you use a vehicle for work, the cost, gas, taxes, insurance, and maintenance on it goes into your operating costs.
Purchase of any equipment you used.
Depreciation on equipment. Depreciation refers to an asset that loses value over time. For example, if you buy a piece of equipment for $10,000 and expect it to last five years, then it depreciates by $2,000 a year.Factor this into your calculations for gross income. For more information on calculating depreciation, read Account For Accumulated Depreciation.
 After you add up your product cost and administrative expenses, you can come to your taxable income.Add up your cost of goods, administrative expenses, and other deductions. Then subtract that number from your net gross income. That should leave you with your taxable income.
The numbers given in this part were $15,000 for your product cost and $2,000 in depreciation. This is a total of $17,000 in deductions.
Since your original net gross income was $100,000, an $17,000 deduction would give you a taxable income of $83,000.
 Based on your taxable income, you can figure out what you owe in taxes. This number will vary widely depending on your income, the size of your business, the amount of equipment you have, and so on. For help, it is best to refer to guidelines from the US Small Business Administration.
 Federal and local governments grant numerous tax breaks for businesses. Things like having an energy-efficient building, providing benefits for employees, and using renewable energy sources may qualify you for a tax break. Visit the IRS site for a complete list of tax breaks from the federal government.


Let's say the federal government gives you a $1,000 tax credit for having an energy-efficient building. You can subtract this amount from the total of taxes owed.
It will make this step much easier if you have an accountant. She will be well-versed in tax law and know how best to calculate your taxes.
For more tips, read Prepare for Small Business Tax.
 After you figure out what you owe in taxes, subtract that number from your taxable income. Once you do this, then you've arrived at your business net income.Let's say that you figure out you owe $10,000 in taxes, but you have that $1,000 tax credit, so you owe $9,000. Subtract that from your taxable income of $83,000 and you get a final net income of $74,000.

