 To do a freewrite, you need a writing prompt to help frame the exercise. You can create your own prompts by focusing on a theme like love, loss, or power. You can also choose a particular location as the prompt, such as the doctor’s office, your parent’s home, or a rocket ship on Mars.Emotions can also work as prompts. Focus on strong emotions like anger, rage, sadness, excitement, or fear.;
, Another option is to use a real life person as a prompt for the freewrite, such as your teacher, best friend, or pet. You can make up a person and use them as a prompt as well. Sometimes using a generic term for a person, like “father,” “lover,” or “enemy” can work well as prompts.


Using a person as a prompt may be especially useful if you are struggling with creating a character in a story. Do a freewrite in the voice of the character to help you generate ideas for the story.
 You can also make up your own prompts using lines from your own writing or the writing of others. Flip through your favorite book and pick a sentence or phrase at random. Then, use this as the prompt for the freewrite. You can also choose a line you like from your own writing or a line that you are stuck on in a story.


For example, you may choose a sentence like “She went into the bedroom” as the prompt. This can then be the start of the freewrite.
 You can find many writing prompts online that you can use for the freewrite. Choose a simple prompt to get your started. Or, go for a wacky, creative prompt that will help with your writer’s block.


You can find writing prompts online at Writer’s Digest.com and Daily Writing Tools.com.
You can also get prompts through a writing App. Download writing Apps like Prompts or Write About This your phone or computer to get free writing prompts., Ask a writing teacher or an English instructor at school for writing prompts. Talk to a writing mentor and request prompts from them. Good instructors will often have prompts on hand that they can share with students.
 Switch your phone to silent and turn off the internet on your computer. Close your door, if you have one, and let others around you know you are not to be disturbed. Block out any loud noises or distractions so you can focus on the freewrite., Some people prefer using a computer as they feel comfortable typing. Others prefer a pen or pencil and paper so they are not tempted to click around on their computer during the freewrite. Choose whatever works best for you.
 Have the prompt written down in front of you. This will help you think of ideas as you write and act as a guide for the freewrite.
 Get a stopwatch or use a timer on your cellphone or computer. Freewrites are timed to ensure you stay focused and write. Usually, freewrites are done for 10-15 minutes.


You can make the freewrite longer, 15-30 minutes, if you really want to go for it and write for awhile.
 Put your pen to paper or click open a blank document on your computer and set the timer. Then, with the prompt in mind, start writing. Respond to the prompt. Try not to read over what you write or edit it in any way. Simply write, moving forward on the page.Once the timer goes off, you can stop writing and read what you have written. Avoid doing this during the freewrite, as this will only distract you and force you to stop writing.
You can then decide to keep the freewrite and use it to create a new piece or add lines from it to an existing piece. You can also discard it or share it with someone else.
 If you enjoy doing freewrites, make it a daily practice. Get in the habit of doing one freewrite a day. Use a different prompt each day to challenge yourself. Return to prompts that you found difficult and try them again.You can use a writing App to make it easy for you to find a different prompt to write to each day.
 Freewriting is also a good way to break through writer’s block. Get in the habit of doing a freewrite whenever you feel writer’s block cropping up. Sit down and do a freewrite. Then, return to whatever you are trying to write. Often, you will find it easier to work through the block and get writing., Sometimes you do a freewrite that you like or find interesting. Do not be afraid to take a freewrite and expand on it to create a new story or piece. Pick out lines or moments you like in the freewrite. Then, use them in an original piece.

