 If you're starting to learn a new language from scratch, you will need some kind of instructional materials to help you learn the grammar and structure of the language. There are many books and audio courses to help with this, and your local library will likely have some of them.Language course materials can cost a lot if you are buying them new, but your local library will most likely have both books and cds you can check out for free to get started.
Most libraries have a system for borrowing materials from other libraries, so if they don't have anything at your skill level, they may be able to order it within a few days.;
, If you get serious about a language, you may decide you need instructional books of your own, so you don't have to worry about library due dates. If this is the case for you, look into buying used, older editions of language books.


While languages do change, they do so slowly over long periods of time. Many language textbooks, however, come out in a new edition every year. When this happens, prices for the old editions drop considerably. The material they contain, however, is still perfectly useful for self-study.Used bookstores and thrift stores often carry used language texts. If the language you are learning is less common, look on the internet for inexpensive used materials.
E-books for foreign language are also often available inexpensively.
 If you want a little more structure, but can't afford to take a course, there are many free online language courses that can get you started on your new language.


The BBC website contains free language materials for 40 different languages, free of charge.Many nations' international TV or radio networks also feature free courses in the language of the home country. In Germany, for example Deustche Welle offers free German courses.Search online to see if there are options like this for the language you want to learn.
The website Omniglot features listings of online instructional materials for hundreds of languages, as well as basic materials of their own. Some of their listings are paid subscription services, but others are free.