 Choose a large binder that can contain everything you'll want to refer to, including pamphlets, print-offs, notes and images. Get a bunch of plastic file holders and stick them inside for ease of keeping materials in place. Write something like "My Wedding Planner" on the front and keep this binder in an easily accessible place for referring to when discussing the wedding with anyone from the caterer to your cousins.


A mini spin-off of this binder can be kept on your cell phone or iPad for taking with you wherever you are. Get into the habit of scanning in the information or photographing it, then uploading the scans or images to your electronic devices. If you have time, regularly turn the binder into an electronic PDF for a complete reference source wherever you go!;
, Plan big to begin with, then trim it back to reality once you discover the costs, the challenges and the availability of the things you want. One part of turning into bridezilla is having unrealistic expectations that can't ever be met for one reason or another. As with anything in life, being realistic will ensure a smoother path and you're less likely to lose the plot when something you really wanted won't materialize.


Read wedding books and websites - visit the library or check out bookstores for wedding information and check online for wedding websites. Doing your research as to what is and isn't possible will help you to keep a realistic attitude toward the planning.
 Do you and your husband-to-be agree on everything about the wedding? If he is invested in both you and the wedding, he'll have his own ideas too. And it may just be that they don't dovetail neatly with yours. This isn't a reason to throw a fit. In fact, it's a healthy start to your long life together because you're already in a position to learn negotiation and compromise with your future spouse, as well as recognizing that his different ideas means he cares enough to engage in the wedding preparations.


Sit down together and share ideas about the wedding. What does he want? Ask him!
Look for wedding checklists in books and online. Print one off and write down what you want. Give copies for the groom to fill out, because it's his wedding, too. When both of you are finished, compare notes. If conflicts occur, find a healthy compromise. It's a good lesson for the rest of your life.
 A wedding is one day in your life, not the be all and end all. The day after it, you will face the reality of living together and if you've already decimated the savings, it will feel deflating. The wedding industry wants you to spend a lot of money––it raises expectations of what a wedding should be with every new year. Be a conscious consumer when it comes to deciding what you will spend on your wedding and don't feel that you have to have things just because the Jones had them for their wedding. Yes, this is even if you have the money on tap––save that money for the rainy days ahead.


Go for quality rather than quantity. Less is definitely more, and the few quality pieces will shine all the more for it.
A camera on every table is so yesterday. Ask guests to feel free to take their own photographs on their own digital cameras and give them a central online repository to leave photos for you after the wedding.
Gifts for each guest? Don't go overboard. Stick to simple things like bags of sugarcoated almonds or a piece of the wedding cake in a pretty bag.
Try a brunch or afternoon tea instead of a three course dinner meal.
 It can be all too easy to confuse help for harm when you feel overwhelmed by suggestions from family and friends. People genuinely want to help and they want to share what worked for them. While their ideas may be off-the-planet as far as you're concerned, realize that they are being helpful and learn to steer their enthusiasm rather than squelch it.


When your mother tries to tell you how to do things, listen politely. Try to pick up on one thing she has said that you'd be willing to do or compromise on. Then explain that you appreciate her ideas and that you'll do your best to do that one thing. It can also be ideal to assign her to a specific task (perhaps even the one she suggested); if it's involved, she might keep out of your hair for everything else!
Let every person know you appreciate their ideas and offerings. However, at the end of the day, it is your wedding and you are entitled to say politely how you will be doing things.
 Assertiveness is a learned skill and if you haven't already grasped it, now is a great time to learn on-the-go. You'll need to use this skill from family to every business you involve in your wedding, to avoid being sold things you don't want, doing things you don't want to and inviting people you don't like.


Borrow a book from the library on being assertive. Ask the librarian for a recommendation. Or buy one when you grab the wedding magazines. It's a sensible addition to your wedding research!
Be wise to wedding marketing. Assert yourself by not succumbing to all the "must-have" trimmings of a wedding. The possibilities are endless but your wallet––and your temper––are not. Learn to say no when the salespersons suggest an extra cake tier, an extra frill on the dress or extra space for the wedding when you have already decided the opposite.
Know the difference between sound advice and salesmanship gab. Many people can be trusted to tell you what you should know to avoid cost blowouts, poor choices of clothing/food/venue/transport, etc. Listen to your inner smarts when getting advice to be able to sort the good advice from the sales pitch.
Most of all, learn to say no to well-meaning but interfering family and friends when their suggestions are going against what you want. A positive no is one that respects the person, praises their kindness but doesn't give in to the pushiness.
 Don't let the wedding planning take over your life. If the planning grows so large that it needs to invade your breakfast, lunch and dinner, as well as all the other spare time you have, then it's likely to be out of control. Get your diary and write down set times for attending to the wedding planning, allowing the rest of your life to fit in where it should. Of course, a little flexibility is required for emergencies and changes of plan, but try hard to keep the wedding planning as a part of your life, rather than all of it.


If you can afford a wedding planner, delegate as much as possible to this person. And slot meetings with this person into your diary too, rather than feeling inclined to phone the poor person at all hours with your latest surprise.
 It's important to find time to relax and chill. This is even more important the closer you get to the wedding date. As with allotting planning time, allot relaxation time in your diary too. And make room for time spent together, just relaxing and not discussing wedding plans!

