 It is important to be alert for signs of fear in the dog. Not only is it an unpleasant feeling for the dog, but some dog's defense mechanism when afraid is to become aggressive.


Thus, if you fail to recognize fear signals and continue to approach, there is a greater probability of being attacked.
 If it is your own dog that is fearful, hopefully you have built up a degree of trust between the two of you. Respect any fear signals to go away, but if you are confident that your dog will be reassured rather than threatened by you, then approach slowly.If his signals change and the dog indicates he wants you to stop (growling, snarling, backing away), then respect this and back away.
 They are frightened and wish to escape (run away) but if they are trapped and their distancing signals are ignored (the signals they give out saying they've had enough and want out) then they are likely to attack in order to protect themselves against a perceived threat.


This inner conflict can make their body language appear confused to us: on one hand the dog appears submissive (trying to make danger go away) whilst he shows subtle signs of aggression (curled lips, a low growl). If in doubt, it is better to interpret the "worst" end and respect what that behavior is telling you. In practical terms this means giving a fearful dog space so that he doesn't feel pressured into attacking.
 Just as you do not know him, he does not know you and this increases his fear. It is best not to approach the dog. Getting closer to the dog decreases the distance between you, which increases his fear arousal. Most of the cues a frightened dog give off are aimed at increasing the distance between what he fears and himself.


Ignoring this only increases his distress and makes him more likely to attack as a form of defence. Back away, avoid eye contact, and if you feel the need to do something, speak in a quiet, reassuring voice.
 If it is your own pet that is fearful, it is to be hoped he is not fearful of you, but a situation such as a trip to the vet's or fireworks. Your dog looks to you for clues as to how he should react in such a situation, and this means you may have to act against your natural instinct to soothe and reassure him, because this rewards the fearful behavior.


Take the scenario of a dog frightened of fireworks. If you pet and soothe him, you are actually confirming that he is right to be fearful, which only compounds his anxiety. If however, you ignore the fearful behaviour and carry on as normal, he reads into this that you are not worried about the loud bangs, and neither should he. It also helps to decrease the fearful stimulus by closing the curtains to hide the bright flashes, and putting on the radio to disguise the bangs.
 Training a pet not to fear a situation, requires a combination of you appearing confident (ie not distressed) and desensitisation. The latter involves exposing the dog to such a small level of the fearful stimulus that he doesn't recognize it as the thing he is frightened of. By rewarding his calm reaction, he starts to associated the fearful noise with a treat. Slowly, over time you build up the level of exposure such that he has to work harder for the treats.


In practical terms this might mean purchasing a CD of the sounds of fireworks. Initially you play it with the volume right down, and reward the pet for his calm behaviour. You repeat this every day for a couple of weeks, and then turn the volume up one notch. You reward him and repeat this until you are able to play the CD at a normal pitch. This takes tremendous time and patience, but is well-worth doing for the sake of a happy, freak-free pet.

