 Make sure that the foie gras you buy is pre-cooked and ready-to-serve. Only purchase raw foie gras if you have a recipe that calls for it.


There are two basic types of foie gras: duck and goose. Duck is richer and more rustic, while goose is creamier and more delicate. Duck is also smaller than goose. Both duck and goose can be consumed cold or at room temperature, but when served warm, duck tends to be the preferred choice among most chefs.Foie gras usually comes packaged in four different forms: cru (raw), frais (fresh), mi-cuit ou en semi-conserve (partially cooked), and en conserve (shelf-stable).

The raw form should only be used when you need it for a recipe that requires cooking the dish.
Fresh, partially cooked, and shelf-stable types are all ready-to-eat, but partially cooked and shelf-stable fois gras are typically the most preferred types.

;
, Warmth causes the texture to become smoother and the taste to become fuller, but most people find foie gras too overwhelming when served hot. As a result, it is usually stored at room temperature or slightly chilled.


For best results, put the preserved foie gras in the refrigerator 24 hours before you intend to serve it. Take it out of the refrigerator 15 to 45 minutes before serving and let it sit on your counter until it reaches your desired temperature.Remove the packaging after you take it out of the refrigerator.
Serving the foie gras any colder than this can mask the taste and texture too severely.
 Since the flavor is so rich, each slice should only be about 2/5 inch (1 cm) thick.


The average serving is 1.7 to 2.5 oz (50 to 70 g) when served as a starter or 3.5 to 5.3 oz (100 to 150 g) when prepared as a main course.Wait until the foie gras drops in temperature before cutting it. Cold foie gras tends to break apart unevenly.
To make the cutting process as smooth and exact as possible, select a thin, sharp knife with no serrations. Run the knife under very hot water and dry it off with a clean towel before cutting each slice. Wipe the knife clean in between slices.
Only cut the foie gras immediately before you serve it to prevent the dish from oxidizing and dropping in flavor quality.
Note that this information only applies if you are serving a torchon foie gras and not a terrine foie gras. Torchon comes in the shape of a log or loaf and must be sliced. Terrine comes pre-cooked in a terrine mold and should be served directly, still in its mold., Transfer each slice of foie gras to a pre-chilled serving plate. You can either eat the foie gras by itself or pair it with an accompaniment.


Typically, you should serve the slice whole and enjoy it by breaking off pieces with a fork or spoon. The foie gras should be allowed to melt in your mouth. This is true regardless of whether or not you prepare any accompaniments.
Most prefer to serve foie gras with an accompaniment since the flavor of the dish can be overwhelming on its own.
Terrine does not need to be plated separately. It should be eaten from the mold with a warm spoon.
 If you're serving the foie gras as part of a larger meal, serve it before the main course. At this point, the palate is still fairly fresh and can appreciate the dense flavor of foie gras more completely.


If you are serving both goose and duck foie gras, start with the goose before serving the duck. The fuller flavor of the duck can overpower the taste of the goose if served first.
 Brown or white bread is the best option. Cut the bread into triangles before plating it, then place the foie gras on top of the bread or beside it.


Do not spread the foie gras over the bread like a preserve. Your guests can do so if they please, but as a rule, it should be served as a whole slice.
There are two standard bread options: hot toast and thin country bread.
Hot toast is standard sandwich bread. Toast it lightly so that it is only a little brown, but still soft.
Country-style bread should be sliced thinly and toasted very lightly. Some prefer not to toast country bread at all.
 These flavors can cut through the sweet, rich taste of foie gras. The result is a balanced palette that hits a range of flavor notes.


Sweet-and-sour items are among the best options. Try a cranberry jelly or Asian-inspired chutney. Orange sauces and other citrus-based sauces can also work well.
Consider serving it with dried fruit, like figs and prunes. Stone fruit, or fruit with a pit in it—peaches, plums, nectarines, and sour cherries—also work well.Sauces and jams made from these fruits can be spread beneath the foie gras or drizzled on top of it.
On the acidic side, consider serving the dish with a liquor-based sauce, like a caramel mixed with cognac or sherry.
 Many people enjoy the taste of foie gras when it is served alongside a glass of sweet dessert wine. Common options include Sauternes and Riesling.


Additional options include Juraçon, Monbazillac, Bergerac, and Gewurtztraimer (or other Alsatian wines). You may even wish to try it alongside a port wine.Ask your guests before serving them wine with the foie gras. Some people enjoy the combination, while others may think that the wine distracts from the taste of the dish.

