


Most production companies and television stations will require a Bachelor's degree in addition to work samples when hiring. You will also have the opportunity, as a student in one of these programs, to create projects for your portfolio.;
,


Commercial producers will hire and supervise directors, videographers, graphic artists, audio technicians, lighting professionals and talent. Having knowledge of all of these positions will help you when, as a producer, you must draw on all of their talents.
Working as a production assistant is good basic training for a well-rounded producer.



Try to observe one or more commercials through the entire production process: client meetings, budgeting, concept and scripting, location scouting, talent selection, field or studio production and editing and post-production, as well as the client review and approval. All are significant aspects of commercial production.



Commercials sell products by appealing to certain demographics. Understanding consumer behavior and trends is an important component of commercial production.
 They will sponsor networking events as well as seminars offering volunteer production opportunities. These groups will usually hold their own awards programs for the best commercials produced in the market.



The Association of Independent Commercial Producers (AICP), for example, holds in-depth commercial production seminars in New York and Los Angeles. You will gain exposure to standards and techniques that may not be available at your local level. You will also have an opportunity to meet and network with successful commercial producers.
 You will benefit the community while building your professional portfolio.



An increasing number of commercials are created for media beyond television. A broad knowledge of these outlets will help you leverage them to your client's advantage.



You will assist with commercial productions as a production assistant or other entry-level staff member and have an opportunity to move up to positions of increasing responsibility.

