 Hosting a game yourself requires downloading the game file, then uploading it back onto your own website. Downloaded files may contain viruses and malware. Learn what to avoid and install antivirus software before you begin. Scanning each file before opening it is recommended.


Users playing the game will contribute to your bandwidth.
 Only select sites allow visitors to download their games, and not all of them are trustworthy. Listed below are a few sites that generally offer safe downloads — although there is still the chance of a virus, since the games are made by many different people.



Crazy Monkey Games (sponsored games only)

Armor Games (select games only)

FreeGameJungle (select games only)
Bored.com
If you can't find a download link for the game you want, contact the game's creators directly to ask for permission.
 Most sites limit downloads to trusted games, and have you visit a special page to browse the download links. Others let you download any game from the individual game page.


Each of the links above takes you directly to a download page. Just click the download link next to each game, then double-click the compressed file to get the actual game files.
On Bored.com, visit the game page, click the Share tab underneath the game, then click the download link underneath the embed HTML code.
 Most browser games are made with Flash, so the file extension is .swf. Some games are made in HTML or, rarely, in other formats, but make sure you recognize the file extension before uploading it.


If you are using a free web hosting service such as Wordpress, you may need to install a plugin first in order to host the game. Look for a Flash player plugin to host a Flash game.
Some web hosts do not allow .swf files or other game files. In this case, upload the file to a free content hosting website, then link to it using an <embed> tag as described below.
 After uploading the game, you can link to the file just as you would any other page on your website. This will take the visitor to a new page to play the game, still inside your domain.
 If you would rather place the game inside an ordinary HTML page next to other content, you can use an <embed>, <iframe>, or <object> tag:


For a very basic embedding of a Flash game, write <embed src="InsertGameURL" type="application/x-shockwave-flash"></embed>. There are many ways to modify this tag. Follow the embed method above to find examples to learn from.
Some downloaded game files will come with a text document that includes embedding code to copy-paste to your site. Make sure you understand what the code does before uploading. Change the link to the file you uploaded instead of the original website.
 In most cases, you are not allowed to charge visitors money to play the game. Do not claim you made the game, and do not copy-paste the game description without permission. Some websites may have additional restrictions.

