 The advantage of using a pencil is to transfer the force of your punch to a small surface area (the pencil point). Any other narrow object can do the same job. Try to find one longer and less fragile than a pencil, or pick up a small, blunt object you can easily grip and swing. Even a rolled up magazine may be more effective at deflecting attacks and fighting back.

A pencil can still cause serious injury. Only follow these instructions below in a self-defense situation where you are at risk of major harm.;
, Hold the pencil as tightly as you can, with the sharp end extending out near your pinky finger. Besides letting you stab outward or downward, this grip may tighten your fist, which makes your punches more effective., If you have strong hands and some training in punching, you may be able to hold the blunt end of the pencil in with your thumb. This can make the pencil a steadier, more forceful weapon. However, if you have shaky hands, a weak grip, or little fighting experience, leave the pencil free to slide through your fist. The blunt end of the pencil can damage your hand on its own, and punching at a sloppy angle could cause the pencil to bend and puncture your skin., If you strike with enough force, these targets should cause significant pain or injury:

Nose
Groin
Solar plexus
Brachial plexus (nerves running down side of neck and onto shoulder)
Temples (strike from side)
If you are shorter than your attacker, striking his face will use your fist, not the downward-facing pencil point.
 All stabbing strikes have the potential to cause serious long term injury, or even death. However, the following areas are especially vulnerable to this danger. Strike them only as a last resort:

Eyes
Hollow at base of throat
Behind the ear
Under the jaw

, A direct, head-on strike at a 90ยบ angle is most likely to puncture the skin. Hit with enough force, and the pencil may even lodge in soft tissue. If this happens, twist and tilt the pencil right away to embed it in the body, then let go. You can try this on the softer vulnerable areas mentioned above, or in an arm or leg muscle., Your number one priority in a self defense situation is to safely get away from the attacker. Your number two priority is to call for help. If your strike succeeds in winding the attacker, or causes him to stumble back, use that distraction to get away.

If the attacker is knocked off balance, give him a hard push before you run.

