 Whenever you apply a label to someone, you will act as if that person is actually the way you imagine him to be. Your response to him can cause him to react in a way that is consistent with your view. At the very least, any action he takes will only serve to fit your label and reinforce any wrong ideas that you might hold. Knowing that your labels can affect people's behavior and your own actions can help you stop applying them.For example, thinking of someone as "argumentative" may cause you to be defensive, even if there is no argument.
Thinking that someone is often upset and regularly asking him if he is may actually cause him to be upset.
 People often apply labels to others because they don't have information about the person. Labeling someone without knowing much about her can easily lead to false conclusions. To avoid unnecessary stress or conflict, try to avoid applying needless or negative labels.Someone may have told you that your boss is a “bully.” It's best to get to know your boss before accepting this label to avoid building up a false image of her.
You might worry every time you walk by your “dangerous” neighbor; however, you might learn that she is actually one of the kindest people you've met and that all the worrying was for nothing.
 Labels can be more than just harmless words and may actually change how you see a person. Studies have shown that the labels people apply to other people can change how they are seen. People may also change their actions and attitudes towards people based solely on the labels that have been applied. Because labels are so persuasive in a person's mind, it's a good idea to avoid the negative, misleading or misinformed labeling of others.For example, if you label someone as being “angry” you may think that he slams doors or stomps around, even though he is no more aggressive than anyone else.
If you label someone as being “ugly,” there is a good chance that all you will see are the “ugly” things about him.
 After you've gotten to know a person, it can be appropriate to apply a few labels to her. As long as you aren't using labels as a replacement for actually learning more about a person, applying a few of them can be helpful. If you think that you really do understand who a person is, it's normal and useful to apply a few labels to that person.Evaluate your labels and make sure they match up with reality.
Labels like "compassionate," "dishonest," "wild," or "kind" can all be helpful; however, you should only use labels like these after you've gotten to know a person, and you should probably keep them to yourself. Let other people form their own opinions.
Sometimes, negative labels might actually apply to someone and they can be helpful tools when dealing with that person.
Labels should never be used to justify treating someone poorly.

