 Sometimes communication breaks down and you will find it necessary to discipline your teen. There are several methods to discipline your child, and you should think carefully about what will work best for your family. One effective form of discipline is to hold your child accountable for all of their actions.If you have clearly laid out your expectations, your teen knows which behaviors you expect from them. If he or she is explicitly disrespectful, let them know that now they must be held responsible.
You can try saying, "I explained to you that it is not OK to swear at your younger brother. You know that behavior like that results in the loss of a privilege."
By focusing on your child's actions and knowledge, you are making it clear that she is accountable for her actions.
 There is a difference between punishing your teen and disciplining her. The term "punishment" is inherently negative, whereas discipline can be constructive. For example, discipline is a way of helping someone stick to the rules, whereas "punishment" is more of an act of retribution. Explain that by disciplining your teen, you are teaching her that there are benefits to adhering to guidelines and consequences to ignoring rules. You can add that this is the way the world works, so you are providing good training.You will at times have to place restrictions on your teen, but you can do so without giving the negative connotations that typically go along with punishments.
For example, avoid ultimatums. Many teens see ultimatums as a direct challenge and a path to punishment, so avoid saying things like, "Get better grades or else!"
Don't make threats about vague punishments. Instead, tell your teen that you are going to impose the restrictions that you both agreed upon.
Be flexible. Maybe you have told your son or daughter that they cannot see their friends for two weeks because of their low grades. If they come home with several "A" papers or quizzes, you might consider showing that you appreciate their actions by lifting the restrictions a few days early. Show that discipline is reasonable.
Be stern but respectful. Your teen is a young adult, so don't speak to them like a young child. Avoid mocking or being sarcastic.
 Let your teen know the actions that are and are not acceptable in your home. It is important to clearly define boundaries so that they know exactly what they are and aren't allowed to do. If you feel strongly that they need to avoid all alcohol, make that clear.You can set boundaries regarding your teen's social life. Explain that they are only allowed to stay out until a certain hour. If you need them check in with you throughout the evening, for example, make that clear.
Let them know that you will be monitoring their online activities. Teens should enjoy some degree of privacy, but it's ok to let your son or daughter know that you will be checking in on them periodically to make sure that they are safe.
If you allow your teen to date, make sure that you set boundaries for the relationship. For example, explain that your son or daughter and their boyfriend or girlfriend can't be in their bedroom with the door closed. Do not just straight up disagree with your teen's choice of a boyfriend or girlfriend because 'they look like a criminal' or are a bit quirky, for example. First impressions aren't everything, but if your teen's boyfriend or girlfriend is a bit over controlling or making inappropriate talk or gestures, then it might be a good idea to talk to your teen about your concerns.
Explain to your teen that boundaries are for their safety, and to help teach them responsibility.
 Sometimes it can seem like your teen is struggling against you. Remember that teens are at a point where they are trying to establish more independence and autonomy. Allow your teenager to be an active participant in setting boundaries and choosing appropriate discipline. Giving them agency will make them more invested in the process.Have your teen help you make a list of appropriate guidelines to live by. You could set things like curfew, car privileges, or expected grades.
Don't be afraid to negotiate. Respect their opinions on the issues, and they will be more likely to listen to yours.
Have your teen suggest a consequence. If they come home late one Saturday night, have them tell you what they feel is an appropriate disciplinary action.
Typically, when you give a teen more responsibility they begin to behave in a more mature way.

