 In order to do any international traveling, you'll need a passport from your country of citizenship. Processing time for a passport can take several weeks or even months, so be sure to start this process well in advance if you don’t currently have a valid passport.


To visit Germany, your passport must be valid for at least three months beyond your expected departure date.If your passport is expiring soon and you're planning to move there, consider renewing your passport now, especially if you intend to maintain the citizenship of your origin country.;
, Germany has a few different types of visas, and the one you need depends on factors such as your reasons for moving to Germany and your education. However, citizens of the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland do not need any sort of permits to visit, live, or work in Germany. For citizens of other countries, the different types of visas include:Work visas are for academics, doctors, engineers, mathematicians, IT specialists, and people in the life sciences. These people are entitled to the EU Blue Card, which is a work and residency permit.
Job seekers’ visas allow you entrance in to Germany for six months with the intention of finding employment. However, you must apply for the EU Blue Card in order to start working.
Studying visas are for people who have been accepted to a German university or wish to attend one.
Training visas are for training or vocational courses that will last at least two years.
Internship visas are for internships with German companies, but these cannot last longer than one year.
Research visas are for highly qualified professionals who wish to pursue work with a research facility. These visas can be extended for as long as the individual meets the requirements.
Self-employment visas are for freelancers or people who want to start a manual trade or retail business in the country.
 A Schengen visa is a special visa that’s required for citizens of certain countries to enter the Schengen Area, a 26-member group of European nations to which Germany belongs. If you want to enter the Schengen Area and don’t have your other visa in place yet, you will need a Schengen visa before you're allowed to enter the country.If you plan to move to Germany before getting your more permanent visa, a Schengen visa will allow you to stay in the country for 90 days and get your affairs in order.
Citizens of the Australia, Canada, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, and the U.S. do not need a Schengen visa to visit Germany for up to 90 days, and can apply for residency and work permits after arrival in Germany.If you don’t have your work or other visa and are unsure of whether you need a Schengen visa to enter Germany, check the Schengen Visa Info website., If you want to move to Germany but aren't eligible for a visa that grants you temporary residency, or you want to extend your residency when your visa runs out, there are residency permits you may be eligible for.These include the:


Residence permit, which generally now comes in the form of the electronic residence title (the elektronischer Aufenthaltstitel)
Settlement permit, which can be applied for after five years of holding a residence permit.
Family reunification permit, which is for people who want to live with a spouse or partner who’s living in Germany.
Asylum and refugee seekers permits, which require you to have a clean criminal record and means of supporting yourself.
 To take up permanent or long-term temporary residence in Germany, you will have to get health insurance. If you are working, ask if your employer can set you up with it. Otherwise, contact a few insurance companies to see what kinds of rates they offer.Most people in Germany are with the Government Health Insurance System, but there are also private health insurance companies that offer more comprehensive care packages. However, premiums for private health insurance can range anywhere from $115 a month to over $1,000.
If you get a job that has employee status, you will automatically be covered by Germany’s statutory health insurance fund (Krankenkasse), as long as you make less than about $4,600 per month. Statutory health insurance guarantees medically necessary health benefits for all subscribers.Students in Germany are eligible for the Krankenkasse for a fee of about $65 a month, so if you're going to Germany for school, insurance will be much cheaper than if you had to get private insurance.
If your partner is covered by Krankenkasse and you yourself have little income, you will be covered by your partner’s benefits.
For artists and writers, there is a separate organization you can join called the Künstlersozialkasse, and they will actually pay half your monthly health insurance contributions if you're accepted as a member.
 Unless you are moving to Germany for a new job, a transfer, or for studying or training, you will need to find employment to support yourself, pay your bills, and cover your living expenses.


It’s important to understand the work culture in Germany, because while many work days are over at 4 p.m., there is a strong emphasis on efficiency.German salaries are among the highest in the world, but don’t be surprised if you're taxed at a rate of 50 percent.
If you're looking for a job after you’ve made the move, you can check local classified ads, check official job listings,walk around town to see if there are any vacancies being advertised, visit local job fairs, or go to a labor office (Arbeitsämter).
If you haven't made the move and want to line up work for when you arrive, check the internet, newspapers and magazines, try a recruitment agency (Arbeitsvermittlung), or contact the chamber of commerce where you'll be living.
 The manner of application will depend on the job, but you may be able to send your application by email. Along with your resume, prospective employers will also want to see:Copies of your certificates, degrees, or diplomas. Have the original documents available for inspection if required
Proof of training or courses you’ve taken
References
A passport photo attached to your resume in the upper right corner

, Before or after you move to Germany, you will have the option of purchasing or renting a home or apartment. When it comes to rentals and purchases in Germany, homes don’t come furnished, so you will have to provide your own furnishings.


Rentals in Germany can either be Kaltmiete (cold rent), meaning you have to pay for heat and utilities separately, or Warmmiete (warm rent), meaning heat and possibly some other utilities are included in the rent.To find a rental before or after you arrive, check online classifieds. Be sure to ask lots of questions and look at many photos before signing any sort of rental contract if you won’t see the place in person first. Never pay any money or fees in advance of signing a lease.If you want to purchase a home once you're there, your best bet is to hire an estate agent to help you find a home, negotiate a sale on your behalf, and walk you through the purchase process., When you first arrive in Germany, you will need a place to stay if you weren't able to secure permanent housing before your trip. Depending on your situation, you may have several options available to you, including:


Staying with friends or relatives.
Staying in hotels, hostels, or Airbnbs while you get settled and look for a place to live.
Setting up a temporary accommodation before you arrive., Moving to a new country requires a lot of planning, and there are many things you have to do before you can leave. If you’re moving for a job or studies, your moving date can coincide with your start date. If you're just moving for an adventure, you can decide how much time you want to give yourself to prepare. Things you'll have to get in order include:


Getting all your paperwork and documentation
Arranging a place to live
Notifying your friends, family, employer, or landlord about your departure
Booking your flight
Determining what to do with your stuff

, You can arrange your travel as soon as you have your moving date set. The sooner you arrange your travel the better, because you might be able to get better rates if you book in advance.
 If you own property in the country were you currently live, you will have to decide what to do with it. The two major options are selling and keeping the property:


Selling the property may take time, so you will want to start this process well in advance of your move.
Keeping the property means you'll have somewhere to live if you ever move back, but in the meantime you will have to figure out what to do with the property. You can choose to leave it empty (this may require extra insurance), you can rent it out, or you can let friends or family live there.
If you are currently renting a place, make sure you give your landlord the required notice before vacating and moving.
 Moving to a new country is a big step, and while you will require many of the same things there—such as furniture, kitchen accessories, and clothing—it may be more expensive to ship all your stuff there than it would be to buy new once you arrive.


If you are going to sell your stuff, consider having a garage sale to help fund the purchase of new household items when you arrive in Germany.
Be warned that you are better off buying new appliances in Germany, especially if you don’t live in Europe already. The voltage in Germany is double what it is in North America, for instance, so even if you use an adaptor to make your plug fit into the wall, appliances and electronics made in North America are not suited for that type of voltage.If you want to keep your belongings but don’t want to take them with you, you can rent a storage locker in your current country of residence to safeguard your possessions.
 Moving to a new country is difficult, but even knowing a few words or phrases will be an immense help, and will make the experience less stressful. Not only that, but the people you meet will be much more sympathetic if you make an effort to speak to them in German, even if they’re bilingual and speak the same language you do. Ways you can learn some German include:Taking classes
Listening to audiobooks or CDs
Going through a German phrasebook and bilingual German dictionary
Speaking with German people

, Depending on where you work or what kind of contract you have, you may have to give your employer anywhere from two weeks’ to several months’ notice that you'll be leaving your job.


Be sure to ask for a letter of reference in case you need someone to vouch for your skills or credentials.
 Once you arrive in Germany, take your passport and residence certificate to the bank of your choice to open an account.You don’t have to close out the bank accounts in the country where you currently live. In fact, it’s a good idea to keep at least one account and one credit card open (this way your credit won’t be affected if you decide to move back).
Exchange some of your money before you leave for Germany, as it will be beneficial to have Euros on you when you arrive in Germany.
 When you move in to your new place in Germany, you will likely have to set up things like heat and power for your home, unless you're renting a place that includes these things. Otherwise, setting up utilities will be much easier if you know any German or have any German-speaking friends who can help you. If you're on your own, it’s best to visit the various offices in person to set up your utilities, so that you can find someone who speaks English.The utilities you might need include your:


Phone
Cable / Satellite TV and internet
Heat and power
Water

, It’s a good idea to get yourself a map in case you get lost, but one of the best ways to get to know your new neighbourhood is to get out there and explore. Germans love walking, and many take a walk on a near daily basis, especially Sundays when most stores are closed.Walking around any city, you'll find the closest grocery stores, malls, doctors, pubs, cafes, and other necessary amenities.
If your city has a public transit system, get to know the routes and schedules, and explore the city by bus or train as well.
 Moving away from friends and family to live in a new city can be difficult, but feeling at home in the new city will be much easier after you make a few friends. Good ways to meet new people include:Volunteer with an organization
Make a local café or pub your regular place
Meet people through work or school
Join a local team or club
Partake in hobbies that you enjoy

