 Talk to your doctor about why vitamin B12 injections may be a good treatment for you. Your doctor will want to run some tests to check the levels of B12 in your blood and potentially some other lab work. If your doctor feels you are a good candidate for vitamin B12 injections, she will give you a prescription for a certain dosage. She should also teach you how to perform the injection, or show the person who will be doing the injections for you. You should not attempt to administer these shots without proper training.


You will then need to fill your prescription at your local pharmacy. Never take more than the prescribed amount of vitamin B12.
While using vitamin B12 injections, your doctor may require regular blood tests to check your body's reaction to the injections.;
, Talk to your doctor about allergies and other conditions which may make you ineligible for a B12 shot. Because vitamin B12 injections contain cyanocobalamin, you should not use this medication if you are allergic to cyanocobalamin or cobalt, or if you have Leber’s disease, which is an inherited form of vision loss. You should not get the shot if you have any of the following:Cold or allergy symptoms that affect your nose, such as sinus congestion or sneezing.
Kidney or liver disease.
Iron or folic acid deficiency.
Any type of infection.
If you are receiving any medication or treatments that affects your bone marrow.
If you are pregnant or plan on becoming pregnant while using vitamin B12 injections. Cyanocobalamin can pass into your breast milk and may harm a nursing baby.
 If you suffer from anemia or a vitamin B12 deficiency, you may need vitamin B12 injections as a form of treatment. Some people also have difficulty absorbing vitamin B12 in food or through oral vitamin B12 supplements and resort to injections of vitamin B12. Vegetarians who do not consume any animal foods may also benefit from vitamin B12 supplements to ensure they remain healthy.However, keep in mind vitamin B12 injections are not medically proven to help with weight loss., The ideal injection site depends on your age and the comfort level of the person administering the injection. A healthcare professional should administer your first shot so that he can monitor your reaction and check for any adverse effects. There are four common injection sites:The upper arm: This site is often used for adults who are young or middle aged. Older adults can use this site if the muscle in their upper arm, their deltoid, is well developed. However, doses higher than 1mL should not be administered via the upper arm.
The thigh: This is the most common site used by people who are self-administering the injections, or giving an injection to an infant or a small child. It’s a good spot because of the high amount of fat and muscle under the skin of your thigh. The target muscle, vastus lateralis, is halfway between your groin and your knee, about 6–8 inches from the crease of your leg.
The outer hip: This site, located on side of your body below your hip bone, is good for young people and adults. Most professionals advise using this area as there are no major blood vessels or nerves that could be punctured due to the injection.
The buttocks: Your upper, outer buttocks, or Dorsogluteals, on either side of your body, are common injection sites. Only a medical professional should use this site, as it is located close to major blood vessels and your sciatic nerve, which could be damaged if the injection is not administered properly.
 Though it may seem like a pretty straightforward process to inject someone with a needle and a plunger, there are two injection methods that can be used for a vitamin B12 injection:Intramuscular: These injections are more common, as they tend to have better results. The needle will be inserted at a 90 degree angle, which will put the needle deep into the muscular tissue. Once the needle is in the muscle, the plunger should be pulled back slightly to ensure the needle is not in a blood vessel; if no blood is aspirated, then the medication can be pushed through slowly. When the vitamin B12 is pushed through the needle, it will absorbed by the surrounding muscle right away. This will ensure all of the B12 is absorbed into your body.
Subcutaneous: These injections are less common. The needle will be inserted at a 45 degree angle, just below your skin, as opposed to deep in your muscle. The outer skin may be pulled away from the muscle tissue to ensure the needle does not pierce the muscle. The best site for this type of injection is your upper arm.
 Prepare a home treatment area on a clean counter of your home or space. You will need:Prescribed vitamin B12 solution.
A covered clean needle and syringe.
Cotton balls.
Rubbing alcohol.
Small band aids.
A puncture-proof container to dispose of the used needle.
 Make sure the chosen injection site is uncovered and the person’s bare skin is exposed. Then, dip a cotton ball in the rubbing alcohol. Clean the person’s skin using the cotton ball in a circular motion.


Allow the site to dry.
 Use a new cotton ball, dipped in rubbing alcohol, to wipe the surface of the container with the B12 solution.


Let this dry.
 Remove the clean needle from the package and take off the safety cover on the needle., Then, insert it into the vial. Push the air out of the syringe by pushing the plunger, and then slowly pull back on the plunger, until the syringe fills to the required amount.Tap the syringe lightly with your finger to remove any air bubbles in the syringe.
 Give a slight push on the syringe to dispel a tiny amount of the vitamin B12 supplement to ensure the air is out of the syringe., Use the thumb and forefinger of your free hand to hold the skin of the injection site taunt. No matter where the chosen injection is located on the person’s body, the skin should be smooth and tight to make it easier to administer the supplement.Let the person know you are going to inject the supplement. Then, inject the needle into their skin at a right angle. Hold the needle steady and push down the plunger slowly until all of the supplement is inserted.
Once the needle is inserted, pull the plunger back a little to check that there is no blood in the syringe. If there is no blood, inject the supplement.Try to inject into relaxed muscles. If the person appears nervous or tense, tell them to keep their weight on the leg or arm you are not injecting into. This will help them keep the muscles by the injection site relaxed.If you are injecting the vitamin B12 into yourself, use your free hand to hold the skin of the injection site taunt. Relax your muscles and inject the needle at a right angle. Check that there is no blood in the syringe and then inject the rest of the supplement if there is no blood.
 Make sure you remove it at the same angle of insertion. Use a cotton ball to stop any bleeding and to clean the injection site.


Wipe the injection site in a circular motion.
Apply a band-aid to the site to keep the area protected.
 Do not throw used needles into your regular garbage. You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for a puncture proof disposal container, such as a sharps container, or make your own container.


Use a coffee can and duct tape a lid on to it. Cut a slit in the lid that is wide enough for needles to fit through. Label the can. Once the can is full, take it to your doctor’s office for proper removal, or look into a biohazardous waste disposal service.
You can also use a thick plastic detergent bottle to store used needles (make sure this is labeled to reflect that it is now full of used needles, not detergent).
 Never use the same needle twice, as this can lead to infection or illness.You can store any unused vitamin B12 injections at room temperature, away from moisture, heat, and light.

