 Stains that have a chance to settle into leather are extremely difficult to remove. Leather's surface is porous and very delicate, so it requires a very small amount of cleaner and extreme care. To give yourself the best possible chance of getting the ink cleaned out of the leather, don't give it a chance to set in.Use a clean rag to blot up the ink from the outside of the stain, working your way in. Gently dab at the ink to get as much of it up as possible before you try to use something to clean it more thoroughly.
 If the stain is still fresh, warm soapy water can do the trick. Mix 1/2 teaspoon of liquid dish washing soap with a small amount of hot water to make a solution. Stir the solution until lots of soap suds are formed.


Dip a soft cloth on the soap suds and gently wipe the ink stain with the soapy cloth, gently working the suds into the upholstery and the ink stain. Be careful not to scrub, but to work by blotting gently. Use pressure to push down and absorb as much of it as possible.
 Isopropyl alcohol can be used to remove the ink stain from your leather upholstery, particular fresh ink stains. Older stains that have had a while to set might need multiple cleanings to get the stain out more thoroughly, so you might need to repeat as needed.


Do a spot test first. Test first the alcohol in an inconspicuous place of the upholstery to see how the leather will handle the alcohol. Damp a white cotton cloth with alcohol and use a small amount of it in a corner of the upholstery where a stain won't be obvious. Let it dry and check to make sure it hasn't left a serious secondary stain in the leather.
Blot the stain with the cloth. The ink will start transferring to the cloth. Do not rub, just blot the cloth. Repeat the process until the ink stain is gone. Make sure to change the cloth when it becomes saturated with ink to prevent re-staining the upholstery.
Never pour alcohol directly on the leather. Wet the cloth and wet it very sparingly.
 Believe it or not, many people have had success using a combination of sandwich spread and Windex to get ink out of car upholstery. Spray a small amount of window cleaner on the stain, enough to dampen it gently, then apply about a teaspoon of peanut butter on the stain and let it sit for several minutes. Wipe up the mixture thoroughly with a clean rag and go about rinsing the upholstery more thoroughly.
 Whatever you've used to remove the ink from the leather upholstery, you need to take steps to remove excess moisture from the area. Make sure to wipe down the area thoroughly with a very slightly damp cloth, and go back over the area with a dry towel to extract any excess moisture.
 This will help prevent future stains and seal some added moisture into the leather to prevent it from cracking over time. It's essential that you treat your leather seats with conditioner immediately after removing the stain.


Use a clean, soft, cotton towel and apply a small dab of leather conditioner to the affected area.

