 It is not recommended reaching for the hair dye as soon as greys appear but if you feel that they have come too early for your liking or are particularly self conscious about grey hairs why not go along to a professional hair stylist for advice? The most important thing to consider is your style whatever the colour. If you feel you could benefit from a new look consider hairstyles you've seen lately and liked before going for your next cut and if possible take a magazine clipping along to your stylist for reference. If you are receding, losing you hair, or have lost it altogether this doesn't have to be a negative! Many men choose to have shaven heads and losing you hair early can be associated with virility and high levels of testosterone. The most important thing to avoid here is the dreaded ‘comb over’. This style is neither attractive or necessary so don’t do it!;
,, A little 5 o’clock shadow can look very attractive on some men and a well kept mustache or beard can compliment your features, but many men look at their best when clean shaven. This is often a matter of taste. If you would like to address stray hairs around the ears or visible nostril hair there are specially designed trimmers that can be easily used to keep it in check. Don’t be afraid to trim particularly long brow hairs either, though it is not recommended plucking for men. If you have a ‘mono/uni brow’ and feel that it could benefit from some attention please do not attempt to address this yourself, you may wish to get advice from a beauty therapist who can offer you advice.
 The rules for younger looking and clearer skin are generally the same for men as they are for women so begin by investing in a good moisturiser, staying hydrated and washing your skin twice daily, morning and night, to keep pores clear. Moisturiser is most effective at night but for optimum results use yours after every time you wash or shave. Look for one that contains Keratin which is great for retaining moisture in the skin.

