 Using your imagination to surround yourself with calming imagery can help you reduce stress.To begin, find a private place to relax for ten minutes.


Find a quiet place where you can be alone. It be on your break from work, in your car (parked), in the bathroom, or at home.
Turn off your phone so that nothing will distract you. This is time is for you and you alone. Think of it as a 10 minute vacation from daily stressors of life.;
, Focus your mind on a place you feel safe and calm. It could be a beach in Hawaii. It could be forest, a campground at night with the crackling of fire, any place that makes you feel calm. It can be real or imaginary.You can use any imagery that focuses your attention on feelings of relaxation. Your safe place can be a memory of any place that makes you feel relaxed. Or you can imagine a fantastical place, like in the clouds or in the stars.
 Try to imagine, as vividly as you can, the physical feeling of your safe place. Imagine as many sensory details as you can.Think about how the salt of the ocean smells. Imagine the feel of sand on your feet, the sounds of the waves crashing in your ears, the warmth of the sun on your skin. Involve all your senses in creating your visualization experience.
 Notice places in your body that are holding tension and stress as you visualize your relaxation place. Consciously bring all the sensations of your imaginary retreat to the areas of your body that are physically stressed.For example, many people hold a lot of tension in their shoulders and neck. If you are imagining you are on a beach, focus the rays of sunlight, the salty air, or the feelings of being in the water on to your shoulders. Feel them relax into the visualization.
 As you breathe and imagine yourself in your relaxation place, start a full body scan. Start at your head and move all the way down to your feet.Concentrate on your head being in your relaxation place, and breathe. Next, focus on your shoulders, and breathe. Become conscious of your arms, torso, midsection, and hips all being fully immersed in your visualization. All the while, breathe deeply into each part of your body. Then focus on your legs, knees, calves and finally your feet.
Breathe yourself into your visualization while you continue to take in the sights, sounds, the feelings, and smells of your imaginary haven.
 This technique can help you feel less stressed in as little as 10 minutes. You can also use this technique when you have more time. There is no such thing as over-doing it on relaxation!


Once you feel some relief from stress, open your eyes. Take a few minutes to adjust to your surroundings, then continue with your day.

