 Coffee has skin tightening properties, it increases circulation, protects the skin from UV rays, and it can even slow down the skin’s aging process, so it makes a great addition to under eye creams.You can infuse olive oil with coffee and then use the coffee-infused olive oil in your under eye cream recipe.

To infuse olive oil with coffee, combine three tablespoons of ground unflavored coffee with four ounces of olive oil in a pan.Heat the coffee and olive oil over low heat for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Then, remove the oil and coffee from the heat and let it cool down to room temperature.
Strain the oil through a cheese cloth or coffee filter over a colander. Make sure that you place something under the colander to catch the oil.
 To set up a double boiler, fill a large pot about halfway with water and then place a heat safe glass bowl above it. Turn the heat on medium-low. In the glass bowl, add in ¼ cup of beeswax and allow it to melt.

After the beeswax has melted, carefully remove it from the heat. Wear oven mitts and set the bowl on a trivet or potholder because it may be hot.
If you prefer not to use beeswax, then you can use ¼ cup of jojoba oil instead. You will still have to melt it though.
 Next, measure out ¼ cup of coconut oil and add it to the beeswax while it is still warm.If the coconut oil is solid, then it should melt as you add it. Coconut oil is solid at room temperature, but it melts easily., Mix in the vitamin E oil next. Prick each of the capsules with a pin and drain the oil from the capsule directly into the bowl.Discard the capsule casings.

You can also add in a few drops of an essential oil of your choice if you like. Try adding a few drops of lavender or chamomile for their soothing properties.
 To complete your coffee under eye cream, measure out ¼ cup of the strained coffee infused olive oil. Pour the oil into the bowl and then mix the ingredients well.At this point, the mixture will be in a somewhat liquid form, but it will solidify again as it cools.

Transfer the under eye cream to some small lip balm pots or to a small mason jar. You can store the under eye cream in a cool dry place, such as a cupboard or drawer, or keep it in the refrigerator for an even cooler cream.
 This cream contain caffeine, which can tighten your skin. It is also moisturizing, so it will provide a good base for any makeup you decide to wear.

Try applying a thin layer of this cream after washing your face in the morning.

