 Stress can exacerbate the symptoms of morning sickness, so meditating on a daily basis can help you to relax and let go of anxiety. Take some time to yourself, find a quiet space to sit, then close your eyes and focus on your breathing.


Having some soothing music or water running in the background can help to create a calming and peaceful atmosphere.
Pilates and yoga can also help you to relax and take your mind off things, while allowing you to get some gentle exercise as well., Acupressure wristbands are said to help relieve symptoms of nausea and vomiting and are often used to ward off seasickness. They work by stimulating an acupuncture spot located on the underside of the wrist. Some women claim that acupressure wristbands have helped to relieve their morning sickness, though there is no medical evidence to support this claim.Acupressure bands are relatively inexpensive and can be found at most drugstores., Experiment with the soothing scents of essential oils to help you overcome odor-induced nausea. Some women find scents such as lemon, mint, or orange to be particularly soothing. Simply add a drop or two of your chosen essential oil into a diffuser to disperse throughout the air, or you can add a drop to a tissue or piece of cloth and take a little sniff whenever you feel any queasiness coming on. It's usually only necessary to use a drop or two of essential oil, as the fragrance is very concentrated.
 Studies have shown that acupuncture can help to significantly relieve morning sickness. Just do some research to ensure that your chosen acupuncturist has experience treating nausea in pregnant women., An acustimulation device stimulates the acupuncture point on the underside of your wrist with a mild electric current. Although they are not very commonly used, some research suggests that they may help with the relief of morning sickness. These acustimulation devices are completely safe to use, but can be cost prohibitive., Hypnosis has been shown to help with symptoms of nausea resulting from chemotherapy, so it may be something that's worth a try if nothing else seems to be working.