 To make the popcorn chicken, start with 3 boneless, skinless chicken breasts. Use a knife to cut the raw chicken into pieces that are small enough to pop in your mouth.Make sure to wash your hands before and after handling the raw chicken.It’s best to use a flat knife to cut the raw chicken. A serrated knife can catch on the stringy parts of the breast.
Try to cut all of the pieces to the same size so they’ll cook at the same rate when you place them in the oil.
Trim away any fat or cartilage that you find in the chicken breast.;
, In a large bowl, combine the cut up chicken with 1 cup (237 ml) of buttermilk and 1 teaspoon (4.9 g) of sea salt. Mix well, so the chicken is coated with the buttermilk and seasoned with the salt.If you don’t have buttermilk, you can combine 1 cup (237 ml) of regular milk with 1 tsp (5 ml) of lemon juice to replace it.
 After you’ve combined the chicken with the buttermilk and salt, cover the bowl with a piece of foil or plastic wrap. Place it in the refrigerator and allow it to chill for at least 1 hour.You can chill the chicken and buttermilk mixture for up to 8 hours.
 In a plastic bag that you can seal, combine 1 cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (4.9 g) of sea salt, 1 ½ teaspoons (7 g) of baking powder, 2 teaspoons (10 g) of cayenne pepper, ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of dried oregano, ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of ground turmeric, 1 teaspoon (5 g) of onion powder, and plenty of freshly ground black pepper to taste. Close the bag and shake until all of the ingredients are well mixed.You can customize the seasonings for the popcorn chicken breading to suit your tastes. For example, you might mix some garlic powder, chili powder, paprika, or cajun seasoning into the breading.
 Remove ⅓ of the chicken pieces from the buttermilk mixture, and place them inside the plastic bag with the breading. Close the bag and shake well to ensure that all of the chicken pieces are well coated.Use a slotted spoon to remove the chicken from the buttermilk and shake well so you don’t add excess moisture to the breading bag.
 Take the chicken pieces out of the bag one at a time, taking time to shake off any excess coating. Place the breaded chicken on a foil-lined baking sheet to wait until it’s time to fry. Repeat the process with the rest of the chicken pieces until they’re all coated., In a large heavy saucepan, add 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) of canola or vegetable oil. Heat it on medium heat until a deep-frying thermometer registers the oil’s temperature as 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius).You can substitute peanut oil for the canola or vegetable oil if you prefer. It usually provides a darker golden brown color to the chicken when it's done frying, though.
 Take ⅓ of the breaded chicken pieces and carefully add them to the hot oil. Allow the chicken to fry for 3 to 4 minutes or until the chicken is cooked through and is a golden brown color.If you’re not sure whether the chicken is cooked through, cut a piece in half and make sure that the center is no longer pink.
For a healthier version of popcorn chicken, you can bake the coated chicken in the oven. Just swap the flour in the breading for 2 ½ cups of Corn Flakes that have been crushed in the food processor and use ½ cup of flour to coat all of the chicken pieces before tossing them in the breading. Place them on a foil-lined baking sheet and bake at 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) for 20 minutes, turning them over halfway through. Make them extra crunchy by broiling them for an additional 2 minutes., When the chicken is finished frying, remove it from the oil with a slotted spoon. Place the pieces on a paper towel-lined baking sheet to absorb any excess oil.While you want to allow the chicken to drain of the oil so they’re crunchy, don’t let them sit too long. You want to serve them while they’re still hot.
 Once you’ve finished frying the first batch of chicken, fry the rest of it in the same way. When all of the popcorn chicken is fried, serve it with your favorite dipping sauces, such as barbecue sauce, honey mustard, and ranch dressing.You can also sauce the popcorn chicken directly. Toss it while it’s still warm in a sauce of your choosing, such as honey barbecue or spicy buffalo, so all of the pieces are coated and serve.
