 Some believe the color red is nourishing to the root chakra. To begin the healing process, try to imagine the color red. When meditating, picture red. If you have dull moments throughout the day, close your eyes and think about the color red. This may help heel your root chakra., Both dance and yoga may help heal the root chakra. You can simply dance alone in your room, as no special dance routine is required to heal the root chakra. As for yoga, think about attending a yoga class or taking guided yoga courses online. Poses like tree pose and half lotus are particularly helpful for healing the root chakra.You can continue to visualize the color red during yoga and dance. This may help with the healing process.
 Being outdoors can help heal any chakra, but especially the root chakra. As the root chakra is found at the bottom of your body, being mindful of your steps can help. Focus on the feeling you get when your feet lift and hit the ground. Strive to be mindful of the sensations in your lower body during your walk.If you don't have time to take long walks, try to walk more throughout the day. You could, for example, walk to work instead of taking a bus or walk to the store instead of driving.
 As your root chakra is associated with the bottom part of your body, caring for your feet can help keep this chakra strong. Pamper your feet a little to promote energy in your root chakra. Get a pedicure or foot massage. When you take a shower, pay extra attention to washing your feet. Try buying a special foot cream or moisturizer., Some believe your second chakra responds very well to water. As negative feelings like guilt and shame can commonly affect the second chakra, water can create a cleansing sensation to help wash away these feelings. Try to submerge yourself in water to heal the second chakra.Go for a swim at a local beach or pool.
Take a long bath. Add baking soda or sea salt for an extra soothing bath.
For the best effect, spend at least 20 minutes submerged in water.
 Physical movement, especially outdoors, can help heal the third chakra. Spend time outdoors getting physically active. Go for walks, runs, or bike rides when the sun is out. It can be especially effective to get outdoors close to sunrise or sunset., The fourth chakra is related to touch and may heal via physical contact. Try to get close to others. Work on being more physically intimate via gestures like hugs or cuddling with loved ones. This may help your fourth chakra heal.If you're uncomfortable getting physically close to other people, spend time with a pet that likes to cuddle., Your fifth chakra can be healed via sound therapy. Chanting, mantras, and singing can help heal your fifth chakra. You can also listen to music to help your fifth chakra heal., Your sixth chakra is strongly related to your dreams. Meditation routines that involve heavy visualization can help heal this chakra. Practice meditation routines that involve closing your eyes and imaging a relaxing scene, using all your senses to make the scene feel as vivid as possible.If you struggle with visualization, try taking a class on meditation that involves visualization or find guided routines online.
 Intense meditation, that involves clearing the mind and focusing on the present moment, can help heal the seventh and final chakra. This involves silent meditation where you try to keep your mind as thoughtless as possible.This type of meditation can be challenging, so consider taking a meditation class or looking for guided routines online.


Meditation works best in a quiet room free of distractions. You should also make sure you wear comfortable clothing and sit in a comfortable position.
 Chakras are associated with the body. A full body massage can help heal all your chakras. While you're in the process of healing one chakra at a time, book a massage to help speed up the process.See if you can find a massage therapist who specializes in chakra healing massages.
 Some new age stores sell what are known as chakra stones. These are healing crystal sold in different representing each chakra. If you want to help speed up the healing process, try investing in a full set of chakra stones.To use your chakra stones, you lay the stones on top of the corresponding chakra. For your root chakra, for example, you would lay the stone on your groin or feet.Some stones, like clear quartz, can be used to heal multiple chakras.
 If you don't feel as if your chakras are healing, talk to a professional. You can find a professional energy healer online or at a new age store. Professional energy healers can help you identify which chakras need work and form a plan to get your chakras healed.Keep in mind, however, that healing your chakras may not solve issues like depression and anxiety or physical problems like lethargy. There is very limited medical research and no thorough medical evidence to back up the idea of chakras. If you suffer from mental or physical difficulties, see a medical professional for proper evaluation.

