 It's important to get routine medical care as you age. The doctor will check for disease, talk with you about things you can do to prevent illness, answer any health questions you have, and give you immunization boosters as needed. You should go to the doctor for a physical exam every 1 to 5 years, if you're under 65. After age 65, you should get a physical every year.Catching health conditions early will give you a jump on treatment, so you should talk with your doctor about any digestive problems or concerns you have.
 Diverticulosis is a gastrointestinal disease that can be common in people over age 60. With diverticulosis, small sacs develop in the intestines and cause constipation, diarrhea, bloating, cramping, and pain. Your doctor can diagnose diverticulosis by taking x-rays, CT scans, or colonoscopies. Your doctor will probably prescribe antibiotics or recommend surgery, if you have severe diverticulosis.To reduce your risk for diverticulosis, eat a high-fiber diet, limit the amount of red meat you eat, maintain a healthy weight, and exercise.
 You may notice more heartburn and indigestion as you age. Fortunately, adjusting your diet can help manage acid reflux. Try to cut back on eating high-fat or fried foods and limit the amount of caffeine and alcohol you consume. If you find that you always have heartburn after meals, reduce the size of your meals.If simple changes to your diet still doesn't improve your reflux, talk with your doctor about prescribing medications like proton-pump inhibitors or antacids., As you age, so does your immune system. You might find that you become allergic or sensitive to foods that you used to tolerate well. Drinking more alcohol than is recommended can increase your risk for food allergies and sensitivities. Once your doctor has diagnosed a food allergy, you'll need to remove it from your diet.To avoid a food, you'll need to read food labels and check for cross-contamination when you eat in restaurants. Don't be afraid to ask about food preparations or even bring your own food when eating out.

