 Decide which subjects you plan on studying during your library time and fill your backpack with any textbooks you need for that class. Also bring any past assignments or notebooks used to take notes in during that class. In addition to these materials, you might want to bring a pen and a highlighter. That way, you will be able to take more notes and to highlight the notes you already took.


Bring your computer only if absolutely necessary. Some students prefer taking notes on their computer, or some may have digital copies of their textbooks, making a computer or e-reader necessary. If these tools are not essential, though, leave them at your place of residence. Otherwise, they will only serve as distractions.





;
,"Libraries that only have one floor do not have a designated quiet floor, but libraries with multiple floors occasionally do. The floor is usually either the top or basement floor, rather than the main floor, since the main floor receives the most foot traffic and is likely to be the noisiest. Going to a quiet room to study ensures that you will face the least amount of distraction while at the library.
 Libraries often have large rectangular tables and small circular tables. Opt for a smaller circular table, as long as one is available. These tables are usually big enough for you to spread your books and notes out onto without being so large that they invite others to come over and sit near you. Moreover, taking up a large table when you are only one person could be considered rude and wasteful.
 Some libraries, especially those that are older or those linked to a university, actually have small desks in the library for students to work at. The desks are usually lined up, several in a row or cluster, along the back wall or corner of the library. Oftentimes, these desks have high sides to allow you to maintain your privacy and block out distractions from other students sitting at neighboring desks.
 Newer libraries are usually built with study rooms, especially if the library is connected to a college or university. At large libraries that serve many patrons, you may need to reserve the study room in order to use it. Find out what your library’s policy regarding study rooms is. Rooms may need to be reserved anywhere from 24 hours to one week in advance, and there may be a time limit placed on how long students are allowed to use the room.


If your library only has large meeting rooms available, you may not be able to reserve these for individual studying purposes.






Note that many libraries offer their study rooms on a first-come-first-serve basis. Essentially, if you arrive at the library and a room is open, you can use it. There may or may not be a time limit in these instances, but the librarian may ask you to leave if you do not appear to be working and others are waiting to use the room.







