 Make sure to eliminate all fattening, unhealthy foods no matter how much you enjoy eating them. Repeat this step till there is nothing but healthy food left in the house.;
, Look up the scariest stories of people who ate too much unhealthy food, and make sure you remember them so that you won't forget and start eating unhealthy food again!

, Make sure most of your sticky notes circle around the kitchen, where you are probably most likely to be tempted to eat unhealthily. Post a red sticky note on the refrigerator, reminding yourself about your weight.


It would help to have very colorful sticky notes, such as neon, to catch your attention.
Rotate the sticky notes and stick them in different spots every once in a while, as your eyes will gradually get used to them and start ignoring them. If you place it in a new spot, your mind will not take it in so quickly and it will catch your eye more easily.
 Post that weight loss goal in your bathroom to remind yourself every day that you must lose that weight.
 Make sure you are getting enough of each type of food in the pyramid, and cut down on the food that you eat too much.


For example: If you're consuming lots of dairy and very little protein, consider lessening the amount of dairy in your diet and increasing your protein consumption.

A good source of protein is the healthy protein mix you can stir into liquids, but make sure your liquids are healthy!



, Taking in plenty of liquids is very important to having a healthy journey, as the majority of your body is made up of water. If you dehydrate yourself and refuse what your body needs, it could lead to serious health problems.
 This will help get your mind off of eating unhealthy food while taking care of your health at the same time! Plus, you'll be tired when you go to sleep, making you less prone to waking up for midnight snacks.


Try to have at least thirty minutes of exercise per day, but if you find that you are unable to devote so much time and/or energy in one go, separate the thirty minutes into three, ten minute sessions. That way, you are still getting your needed exercise, but in different time periods.
Note that you must be faithful to your health and exercise every single day.
 Remind yourself that if you keep on eating unhealthily, your physical appearance will only grow worse, giving you an even harder time when it comes to losing the weight!

,, Convince yourself that this is what you will look like if you don't stop eating unhealthily, and promise yourself that it will happen. Take it even further by printing out a picture of a disgustingly overweight person, and post it on your refrigerator to constantly remind yourself of the serious consequences.

