 Often, watching an opponent pass the ball with peripheral vision can be mistaken for a shot, particularly if it is a lob pass across the court. A common, helpful method of determining if a shot has been taken is to listen for your teammates yelling, "shot".If you see a shot taken, yell "shot" yourself so others can hear you.
If you move to box out with your back turned, the player you're guarding can easily cut past you to the basket.;
, Boxing out can vary based on what type of defense is being played. In man-to-man defense, find whatever player you were assigned to guard as they are your responsibility.This takes practice and quick thinking, but a good rule of thumb is to box out the closest opponent to the basket. If it is clear that a teammate will not be able to box out their own man, and their man is closer to the basket than your man, you should move to box out the opponent closest to the basket.
 If you're playing a high position in the zone (closer to the top of the key, past the free throw line) try to select an opponent who is also above the key.


If you're playing a low position (closer to the basket) try to find someone near to you in the paint.
 All 5 players have to box out for it to work. A rebounding mentality for a zone defense is created by understanding the offense of the opponent and what areas are critical for securing a rebound.A zone defense is predicated on guarding positions on the court so rebounding in such a defense should reflect that same mentality.
If you see the ball bounce off off the rim to your direction, don't be tempted to jump after it. You might miss it and then your man can get an offensive rebound.
 Many players will have their eyes up, watching the ball that has been shot, to try to anticipate how it will bounce off of the backboard or rim.


Their eyes will often tell you what direction they plan on moving, so you can move to anticipate them.
This can give you an advantage as they are not paying immediate attention to you.
 You shouldn't have to move much further than a couple of steps because your opponent will be moving toward you and the basket if they are going for a rebound.
 When a player of the opposing team takes a shot, you should make contact with your man using your hand or your forearm.Do not grab them or throw your arm with any kind of force, as referees will see this and call a foul.
 Turn your body to the opposite side of the arm you extended (if you extended your right arm, rotate your body to the left). Throw your arms behind you, and make a corral.As the ball is flying through the air to the basket, stay positioned with your body towards your man.


Spread your feet a foot or so further than shoulder-width, and bend your knees to lower your body. At this point, your momentum should carry you into your opponent.
 Anticipate contact with your glutes and lower back. Get low and use the strength of your base and core to keep the opponent away from the rebound.You should stop your opponent and continue to push them back, not tackle them.
 With your arms on either side, perpendicular to your body and angled backwards, you can tell where your opponent plans to move. You should plan to move in the same direction. This will prevent them from getting around you.


Do not hold them in place. Your arms are for telling where the other player is, not for keeping them stationary.With your back to the player, one leg and one arm should be on either side of your opponent's body but not touching them.
A band aid will be our example; the sticky part is your arms and legs and the padding is your main frame. You do not want the "sticky part" (arms and legs) to touch your opponent. Instead, the non-sticky part (your main frame, butt and back) will be the contact point that keeps him in place. You are creating a “box” that your opponent is unable to escape.
 It may feel a little awkward, but it is the most effective way to get your opponent out of your zone. Walk with him, and make sure he doesn’t get around you.If you feel that they are moving in one direction, push them the opposite way to counteract their movement. If you have a proper stance, you can move with them to either side and therefore make it extremely difficult for them to go forward in a rebounding effort.
Squat as if you’re sitting on a chair. Use your body weight to keep them from getting to the ball.
 When you are sure that you have your opponent sufficiently boxed out, it is important to then go in for the rebound yourself.Stopping your opponent’s momentum is often enough to keep them from attempting a rebound, and even if he tries to keep going, you will have an advantage of position.
The whole effort will have been pointless if you don't attempt a rebound.
 Watch where the ball goes and jump toward it when it begins to descend.
 When the shot bounces off the basket in your direction, jump to the "high point" (meeting the ball at the highest point of your jump) and grab the basketball for a successful rebound., Only go for the rebound if you feel that you have your opponent secured in place. If you think they can get around you, leave the rebound to another teammate and focus on keeping your opponent away from the ball., Do this by putting the ball underneath your chin and sticking your elbows out. Bring the ball right under your chin and flare your elbows out. Don't swing your elbows, you don't want to commit a foul or hurt anyone, but bring them out as wide as possible to protect the ball.This makes it harder for the defense to steal the ball from you after you secure the rebound.
 When you come down with the rebound, refrain from dribbling for a second or two as many defenders will attempt to hit it out of your hands.
 Look to throw an outlet pass to a streaking player or a guard located near the sidelines.Look for your point-guard and pass him the ball if he's open.
If you are the point-guard look up court for an open teammate close to the basket; otherwise, look to set up your offense.
 If you're a post player, wait and look for an outlet pass to a guard before running up court yourself. Don't get over confident with your ball-handling ability. Make sure all the defenders have cleared before dribbling.

