 The shoelace length depends on the number of eyelet pairs on your Converse shoes. You will need two different shoelaces in separate colors for this lacing style, but the two laces should be equal in length. You should select flat shoelaces that are fairly thin. Each eyelet will need to hold two layers of shoelace, so it is important that the shoelaces you choose are thin and flat, regardless of length.This lacing technique can be used on Converse with an odd number of eyelet pairs, but it will look most symmetrical with shoes that have an even number of pairs.
If using two pairs of eyelets, choose shoelace 28 inches (71 cm) long.
If using three pairs of eyelets, choose shoelaces 32 inches (81 cm) in length.
If using four pairs of eyelets, choose shoelaces 36 inches (92 cm) long.
If using five pairs of eyelets, use shoelaces 40 inches (102 cm) in length.
If using six pairs of eyelets, use shoelaces 44 inches (113 cm) long.
If using seven pairs of eyelets, use shoelaces 48 inches (123 cm) in length.
If using eight pairs of eyelets, choose laces 53 inches (134 cm) long.
 Arrange the two shoelaces so that they are evenly lined up and back-to-back. You should have, in appearance, a flat shoelace with double thickness and two sides. Note that this technique is fairly similar to the criss-cross lacing technique and uses the same general pattern. This is a popular lacing style for converse because it is fun, decorative, and easy to customize. It is slightly harder to tighten and tie than a single-lace method, however, so you should be aware of this fact before choosing this technique.
 Pull the double-laces through the bottom set of eyelets so that "Color One" shows. The other lace, "Color Two," should be hidden behind the top lace. The shoelaces should be threaded into the eyelets from the bottom so that the ends come up through the eyelets. The ends should drape over the eyelet sides once this step is completed.
 Pull "Side A" out of the bottom left eyelet and through the second-to-bottom right eyelet. Make sure that the shoelaces are twisted so that "Color Two" is now on top while "Color One" is hidden on the bottom. A diagonal line should connect the bottom and second-to-bottom holes on opposing sides of the Converse. Pull the laces from the underside of the right second-to-bottom hole and over the top.
 Pull "Side B" out of the bottom right eyelet and through the second-to-bottom left eyelet. The shoelaces should be twisted to match the other half of the criss-cross. "Color Two" should show on the top and "Color One" should be hidden on the bottom. The two eyelets should be connected by a diagonal line. Pull the shoelaces through the left eyelet from the underside, letting them drape over the top of the left eyelet once you pull them through.
 Then repeat the crossing procedure. Repeat the criss-crossing pattern, but twist the shoelaces so that Color One is now on top while Color Two is now hidden on the bottom. Alternate "Side A" and "Side B" back and forth, criss-crossing the eyelets so that each end is pulled through its eyelet and into the eyelet on the opposite side one row up.
 Continue twisting and criss-crossing the shoelaces. Each "x" across your shoes should be composed of a single color, but each "x" should be the opposite color of the "x" beneath it and above it.
 When you pull the shoelaces through the top set of eyelets, it does not matter which side of the double-lace shows. Both sides will show when you tie your shoes. Alternatively, you can make tying the shoes easier by tucking one color shoelace into the top of your shoe and only tying the other color in the front of your shoe. Otherwise, you will tie your shoes using both laces.







