 Creating it yourself will show her you took some time to say "I love you."


Make a heart card. Fold a red or pink piece of paper in half. Cut half a heart in it. Start by making a curve at the top, and come down to a point. Write on it like a normal card, but when she opens it, it will be a heart.
Use watercolors to create a pretty background for stationary. Make sure to let it dry before writing on it.
Start with a plain piece of construction paper in her favorite color. Make a heart to go in the middle.;
, Include a special message to show her you care.


You could write something like "I am so thankful you're my mom. You mean so much to me, and I appreciate all you do. Thank you for being there for me. Love you!"
Try writing "I Love You" in other languages. Fill up the front of the card with the phrase in other languages. You can use an internet translator or simply visit a page that translates the phrase.Start with "Jeg elsker dig" from Danish, "Ik hou van je" from Dutch, "Je t'aime" from French, "Ich liebe dich" from German, "Te amo" from Spanish, or "chăn rák kun" from Thai.Include a poem, by you or someone else. You can write your mom a special poem, but if you don't want to do that, you can use someone else's words and give them the credit.
List specific things your mom's done. Thank your mom for specific things, and tell her what you love about her.You can even turn it into an alphabet adventure. Write out something you love or appreciate for every letter of the alphabet.You can simplify it a bit and use her name for the first letters instead.
 Add embellishments to make it special.


Add pressed flowers. You can pick wildflowers, then put them between pages of a book to dry. If you're worried about marking up the book, fold the flowers in a piece of paper first. Glue them to the card in a pretty arrangement.Gather scraps of paper and pretty things. Add them to the card as embellishment.Add sewing touches. Use thread to sew in outlines on the paper you use, or use it to write out the message on the front of the card., Wrap it in a piece of paper with her name on it, and leave it for her to find.

