 Remember to catch the oil in an oil drip tray (note the green tray in another photo). The bung is located on the left hand side of the bike behind the stand and is covered by the stand when it's up. Use a spanner to unscrew it anti-clockwise and screw it clockwise to tighten it back up.


It's a lot easier to drain when the oil is warm, so warm up the bike with a bit of a drive after letting it idle for awhile.;
, If you're a little worried about the old oil being really dirty, you can buy some liquid from your local auto shop that goes in before draining the oil, to help it come out more easily and to get all the dirty oil out. Of course, note the instructions on the packet and check before buying whether it's for a motorbike or not.
 The oil filter is fixed by three screws, one long one and two smaller ones, so it's not easy to mix them up. The oil filter is located on the right hand side of the bike (note the previous photo for the location). The oil filter is quite simple to remove after the cap has been removed; just pull it out and wipe out the old oil with a rag. If you didn't note which way the filter came out, just make sure the hole on the filter goes in first.


The oil filter shown in this image is the old one after the new one was put in, and is somewhat dirty.
Watch out for oil coming out when you remove the cap holding the filter in.
 After the oil has finished draining out into the tray, screw the back on the bung (clockwise).
 After the bung is back on, it's time to fill the oil back up. Remember to use a funnel so you don't spill any oil anywhere. You will need to tilt the bike up straight and stop pouring to let the oil settle so that you can check the gauge to see how full the bike is. After you're sure you've got enough oil in, screw the cap back on and you're ready to go.


The bike is meant to take 1.4L (0.36 gallons) but you might overfill the bike to 2L (0.52 gallons) if you don't let the oil settle properly when checking the gauge.
 Pour the old oil into another container. Ask your auto store where you can recycle your old oil when you buy your oil for your oil change. Some landfills have special places for disposing of the oil, as do some municipalities. Do not just pour it down the drain!


Oil trays are super handy for when doing oil changes, especially with the end piece for pouring back into a container. They last for ages unless you're trying to break it.

