 Grab the section of hair between your temple and ear and gather it together. Braid the section of hair into a traditional braid. Secure the end of the braid with a clear hair elastic. Gently set the braid down on the right side of your head., Move to the other side of your head and scoop up the section of hair between your temple and ear. Braid the section in another normal braid. Secure it at the end with a clear elastic. Use your fingers to gently tug on both of the braids, which will loosen them up and make them look fuller., Use both hands to sweep the rest of your hair up into a ponytail. Gather it together at the center of the back of your head. Hold it there with one hand and use your other hand to secure the new ponytail in place with a clear elastic.Use your fingers to loosen up the hair directly above the elastic, which will provide additional volume.
If you want more volume, gently back comb your hair at the crown of your head.
 Grab the left braid and wrap it around the elastic holding your ponytail. Use a bobby pin the secure the end of the braid underneath the ponytail. Take the right braid and wrap it around the elastic, just as you did with the left side. Use a bobby pin to secure the end of the braid under the ponytail., Now that your ponytail and braids are secure, move two inches down the ponytail and add another elastic. Move down another two inches and add another. Continue until you reach the end of your ponytail.Space the elastics apart evenly so your bubbles will be the same size.Leave about three inches of your hair dangling at the end after you secure the final elastic.
 Start with the first section, which is between the first and second elastic. Use your fingers to grab the hair on both sides and tug it gently. Tug with equal pressure on both sides. The harder you tug, the more exaggerated the bubble will be and the more “undone” your final style will look.Move down and tug the remaining sections to create the rest of the bubbles. Try to keep the bubble size consistent all the way down your ponytail.
 Mist all over your hair evenly with hairspray. To soften the look and continue the undone vibe of this hair style, pull out a few strands of your hair to frame your face. The more pieces you pull out, the messier the final look will be.Pack a travel-sized bottle of hairspray in your bag or purse in case you need additional hold throughout the day.

