 Your insomnia may be a result of your habits. Before trying any supplements, make sure you have good habits that facilitate sleep. This is called sleep hygiene. Good sleep hygiene includes going to bed and getting up the same time each day, avoiding alcohol and caffeine before bed, and turning off all the lights. You should also avoid stimulation before sleeping.


Activities that should be avoided are any that will overexcite you before bed, such as exercise, watching TV, or computer work.
You should also associate your bed with sleep. It is best if you don't read or do other work in bed so your body does not get used to doing anything but sleep in your bed.Try not to use electronics such as your phone or a tablet before bed. The blue light emitted by these devices can make it difficult for you to fall asleep.
 The time of day that you take melatonin is very important. If you take it because you have trouble staying asleep, you can take a controlled release formulation before going to bed. However, if you take it because you have trouble falling asleep, it is recommended to take it up to three hours before you go to bed; timing is individual and may require some experimentation.


If you wake up in the middle of the night, don't take melatonin to go back to sleep. Doing so will throw off your internal body clock. Melatonin should only be taken before your normal sleep time.
A sublingual form, which will go directly into your bloodstream, has a quicker onset. If you are taking a sublingual, quick release, or liquid form, you may take it closer to bedtime, about 30 minutes before you plan to go to sleep.
It is generally safe to take melatonin for up to three months, or possibly longer if recommended by your healthcare provider., Once you know when to take your melatonin, you need to know how much to take. Generally available in 0.3 to 5 mg doses, a small dose to aid in falling asleep may work better than a larger one; it will reduce or eliminate any undesirable side effects; and liquid or sublingual forms may be preferable. To ensure sleeping through the whole night, try taking a time-released dose of 0.3 to 5 mg.
 Once you have taken the melatonin, you should avoid certain behaviors so it can work the most efficient way possible. In order to make sure the melatonin is effective, you should avoid caffeine-rich foods and liquids at night.These substances include coffee, tea, soda, energy drinks, and chocolate.


You should also keep lighting very low once you have taken the melatonin. Any light reduces the production of melatonin, so it will inhibit your attempt to sleep.

