 If you have no more space on your stovetop or in your oven to cook all of the necessary dishes, see if your neighbor has any space left. They may be happy to help out and you can return the favor at a later date.;
, If you have no more space left on your stovetop, you could use a slow cooker for some of the dishes. Slow cookers are great because once you put the ingredients inside you don’t need to think about the recipe until the timer rings. This can help to reduce your stress as you prepare everything.


For example, you can make great mashed potatoes in a slow cooker and then keep the potatoes warm in it while you use the stovetop to cook other dishes., If the lid comes off your salt shaker and you manage to get too much salt in your gravy, you can still save it. Peel a potato and then leave it in your gravy for fifteen minutes. The potato will absorb the salt and nobody will know about the incident.


You could also replace it with a package of pre-made gravy.
 If you burn a side dish or forget to make one, you can either order one or use a pre-packaged side dish. If you forget to make the mashed potatoes or the recipe goes wrong in some way, you can use a pre-packaged side dish of mashed potatoes. If you do not have pre-packaged mashed potatoes on hand, you can order some mashed potatoes from a local restaurant., If you are missing a particular ingredient such as an herb, you can always replace it or ask a friend, guest or neighbor if they have it. Start by seeing if a friend, guest, or neighbor has the ingredient. Perhaps a friend can pick it up on the way to your house. If it is nowhere to be found, you can figure out a replacement ingredient or skip it altogether.


If you are missing an herb, you can often find a substitute.
 If you are overwhelmed with the number of ingredients to make or run out of time, you can always order out. Order some side dishes from a reputable restaurant.


If you cannot afford to order out or simply don't want to order out, try making some extra side dishes ahead of time and place them in the freezer just in case you need them. If you don’t end up needing them, then you can always defrost them and enjoy them later.

