 These is nothing worse than listening to a presenter with a monotone voice. Entertain your audience by showing your enthusiasm for the topic. This will make your presentation more fun to listen to and will help keep the attention of the audience. Use inflection in your voice, be excited, incorporate hand gestures and move around the room. Your enthusiasm for the topic will rub off on audience members. Even if you are presenting on a perceivably boring topic you can help make it fun by being enthusiastic and dynamic.If you are standing on a stage there's nothing stopping you from getting off and walking through the audience as you present.
Be aware of the volume of your voice. In a large auditorium you may need to speak louder in order to be heard in the back.
 Presentations are always more fun if you can find a way to insert a little humour, but this is not an easy task. Here are a few things to consider when adding a joke to any presentation:Know your audience: You should know the general age and interests of the audience members in order to ensure that the joke is not offensive and that they will understand the joke. For example, avoid making references to the television show Frasier if you are presenting to high school students. They will not get the joke.
Use safe humour: Avoid using the audience as the butt of the joke or dividing the audience (ie joking about women or blondes), or using offensive language. Instead you can use gentle self deprecating humour. You could say "I know you all rushed here to listen to a presentation on making photocopies." This joke allows you to acknowledge in a sarcastic way the dry nature of the topic you are presenting on.
Integrate the humour into your presentation: The best way to include jokes in a presentation is to stay on topic. Try and make sure the joke relates to the material being presented.
Rehearse the joke: Practice the joke as part of your presentation and test it out on other people before presenting. This will allow you to get the timing right and ensure that the joke with get a laugh.
 Making eye contact with your audience is a great way to hold their attention and provide an effective and entertaining presentation. If you are presenting to a small group you should try and make eye contact with all audience members. For larger audiences try and make eye contact with each section of the audience.Avoid only making eye contact with the people you know in the audience or with the person who is assessing the presentation.
 If you can find a way to make the topic you are presenting meaningful to your audience it is more likely to have a lasting impact. For example, try and tell a relevant story or current event and connect it to the topic of the presentation. This will get your audience thinking and will make your topic more relatable. Alternatively you could try providing a local connection. For example, how does this topic directly impact the people in the audience?For example, if you are presenting to a group of high school students about bullying and social media you may want to draw their attention to a few examples of young celebrities using social media to attack one another. This could help to make the topic more relatable to the young audience by connecting to a story they are familiar with.

