 Check your horse for signs of discomfort such as a hollow back, pinned ears, or a sallow expression. He could be in physical pain, bucking to get rid of it. After all, horses buck for a reason.


Make sure all equipment you use actually fits your horse properly. A poor fitted saddle will not only cause back pain and scarring but it can also lead to physiological fear of being ridden which can make handling and catching much harder.
Get a specialist to check your saddle fits correctly get your horse's back/spine checked out too. once these two have been checked look at the bridle and the bit. If all these potential problems have been checked out then the next thing to consider is you.
 You need to figure out what the problem is. Is the horse getting enough exercise? Are you sure that he is not in any pain? Try watching his ears. If his ears are forward, he might just be having a good time and getting some of his energy out. If his ears are pinned back against his head, he may either be upset or somehow in distress.


Sometimes horses buck or act up in order to tell you something. It's important to listen to your horse because a lot of the time he's just trying to tell you something is wrong. Another reason may be because he just has a bunch of pent-up energy – even the best horse can buck if it has lots of energy to let out. In this scenario, lunge or free lunge your horse till it gets its wiggles out.
Lunging before a ride can also help. He might get his frustration and energy out before you get on and you two can have a peaceful ride. Also, thread the lunge lines through the stirrups and drive the horse around to get it used to the pressures of reins and learning what is expected of it.
 If he got spooked near a certain rail one time, he may buck every time he goes past it. Do some lead line work and try to calm him down about it. If he gets ornery when doing certain drills, try to limit how long you spend on those drills or give him a lot of positive encouragement when he does well. Then go through some drills or activities he enjoys.


Don't push him to do frustrating activities for too long – gradually build up how long you spend on them instead.
 If you can't successfully sit on him without him exploding into a fit of bucks, then start out slow at a walk and build your way up. Study him and figure out when he bucks, bringing punishment and reward as needed.


For example, if your horse throws a buck when you ask him to canter, express respectfully yet firmly that that was incorrect and then bring him back down to a trot. Ask again and again until he does not buck when you ask him to canter and then give him praise. Rewarding is a huge part of the training process and you must be clear to him whether or not you are pleased.
 Do not overlook the possibility that your horse was deliberately trained to buck. Perhaps the horse was used as a rodeo bucking horse, or perhaps a person with a grudge against a former owner taught the horse to buck as cruel revenge. You may find that much retraining is needed, or that for safety you should give up your bucking horse and get another.


Horses quickly discover that bucking is a very effective method in stopping an inexperienced rider from riding them. If this problem is a reoccurring one due to lack of training, your horse probably doesn't respect you. In these cases, it is best to send your horse for re-training and get some lessons yourself or consider getting a different horse as the current one may be too much for your riding ability level.
If you do decide to continue with your current horse, be aware that they may "test" you on the next ride (even if they have behaved with the trainer) so if you don't think you can handle another buck, move on.

