 If you have created a video resume, you can embed the video page. A video resume can be a great way to interactively explain your strengths. This can serve as a face to face explanation of how you can be of value to the recruiter's organization.
 In case you are maintaining a professional blog, you can direct the recruiter to read your posts. This can give them a feel for your thoughts regarding industry issues. Additionally, this allows them to gauge your communication skills in a personal context.


Make sure that you do not have any controversial, sensitive, or inappropriate content on any of your professional blogs.
 You may also choose to present your positioning statement to the hiring manager by utilizing the QR code. This statement will display as a text message on their screen.


For example: "Tommy is the person who will build long lasting relationships with the people you want to do business with. Tommy can add value to your business through their leadership-driven experience."

, You may also choose to create a custom landing page highlighting your professional strengths and portfolio. This is a remarkable way to showcase your work, especially any online projects. A landing page is especially powerful if you want to work in design and marketing, and recruiters require visual examples to drive their marketing campaigns.
 In order to have your QR code run as smoothly as possible, steer clear of these mistakes. QR codes can seem like a novelty item, and can project a cheap image if they do not work properly. These are some common mistake to look out for:



Difficult to scan codes. Certain codes are difficult to scan if there is too much information in the code, if the code is very small, if there is an inadequate margin around the code, or if the graphic is of poor quality or distorted.
Avoid these blunders by including a minimal amount of data, maintaining at least a 1” square, ensuring resolution for printing purposes, and ensuring plenty of mark-free breathing room around the code.
 If a recruiter scans the QR code with a smart phone and the page they are directed to is not mobile-friendly, this will result in poor user experience. This can make your presentation seem amateurish and ineffective.


Test it before sending it to your potential employer, especially for features like click to call buttons.

