 It sounds messy, and it IS messy. But inserting yogurt into your vagina is a way of re-populating the vagina with harmless bacteria that may be able to “crowd out” the parasite. However, there are no scientific studies that indicate this. , , , Use plain yogurt and a 10 mL syringe (you can buy this syringe at your local pharmacy).
Every night, fill the syringe with the plain yogurt and fill your vagina by inserting the syringe and depressing the plunger.
Go to bed as usual, but wear a sanitary pad. The messiness comes in the morning when you get out of bed. You should also wear a thin pad during the day.
Repeat every night until the symptoms disappear.
You can also use a tampon coated with yogurt, but tampons without the applicator can be difficult and uncomfortable to insert.
 A probiotic will help replenish good bacteria in your body. , , Probiotic capsules can be expensive and can be found in most groceries and drugstores. Use gelcap suppositories, since hard suppositories may not be as effective. Buy a brand that has Bifidobacterium longum; Lactobacillus rhamnosus; Bifidobacterium infantis; Lactobacillus acidophilus; or Lactobacillus reuteri HA-188.
There is not a lot of evidence showing if probiotics as a supplement or in yogurt are helpful in preventing trichomoniasis.
 Use Curasept periodontal gel and apply in and around the vagina. Curasept contains 0.5% cyclohexadiene, a disinfectant which has been shown to be effective in treating BV., A whole clove of peeled garlic can be inserted into the vagina and has been reported to be helpful in treating BV. .This is because the garlic contains allicin, which is a natural antibiotic that fights BV.


Peel a clove of garlic. Poke some holes in the garlic so that the allicin can be released. Insert the clove into your vagina. Replace the garlic every four hours for seven days or until symptoms have disappeared. , Boric acid can be irritating, so you shouldn’t make your own suppository. Do not directly apply it to the vagina. Look for Vitanica Yeast Arrest, found in many health food stores. This product is specially formulated for vaginal yeast infections.Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for proper usage.
You must not be the recipient of oral sex while using boric acid because boric acid is poisonous to your partner.

