 Newborn stools come in a variety of textures depending on the baby's age and diet, and loose, watery bowels are not always a direct indication that diarrhea is present.


Because every baby's stooling patterns differ slightly, it's important to keep track of your baby's patterns so that you can recognize if something is not normal. Most hospitals will give you a chart to keep track of your baby's feeding, urination, and stools, but if they don't, be sure to keep track in a journal or notebook. Simply write down the date every morning, and list the start and end time of any feeding sessions, the time you change diapers that are wet only, and the time you change diapers that are soiled with feces throughout the day.
In the first days of life, newborn stools are known as meconium, and are sticky, black or green, and similar to tar in consistency. These stools are composed of substances the baby swallowed while in utero, amniotic fluid containing body cells.As the meconium is cleared from the baby's system, it is replaced by the first stools resulting from the baby's diet. A breastfed infant and a formula fed infant will have different bowel patterns, and the stools of the two will be different in appearance.
 While you would be shocked if your stools were mustard yellow or seedy, loose stools like these are normal for newborns.


A breastfed newborn's stools are usually bright yellow and seedy in appearance, similar to dijon-style mustard or yellow colored small curd cottage cheese. All babies' digestive systems differ (depending in part on the mother's diet and the baby's muscle tone), and so some breastfed newborns will pass stools after every nursing session while others may only defecate every few days, or more rarely, even once a week! This is because breastmilk is used very efficiently by the newborn's body, and there isn't much waste to eliminate.A formula-fed newborn's stools are typically tan or yellowish in color and firmer than a breastfed baby's. They are typically the consistency of smooth peanut butter. They are also generally smellier. Formula-fed babies usually stool several times a day to several times a week.
 If you have kept familiarized yourself with your baby's typical stooling patterns, it should be easier to recognize a deviation from the norm. In general, diarrhea in newborns has the following features:


Increased frequency of stools (generally more than one per feeding).Increased amount of liquid or mucus in the stool. Call the pediatrician immediately if there is any blood in the stool.Often a larger volume of stools.

