 If, after 1-2 weeks of using jojoba oil, your acne isn’t showing any improvement, then make an appointment to see a dermatologist. Your dermatologist may recommend other approaches to blackheads, whiteheads or pimples such as benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid.


If you have moderate to severe acne, see a dermatologist before you try jojoba oil to get a professional recommendation. Jojoba oil may make acne worse for some people.
 For some people, certain foods increase the risk for acne by increasing inflammation and providing an environment where bacteria can flourish. Studies have indicated that low-glycemic index foods reduce the severity of acne.Low-glycemic index (GI) foods are those foods that release sugars into your blood more slowly. Some low GI foods include:bran cereals, Natural Muesli, rolled oats
whole wheat, pumpernickel, whole grain breads
most vegetables except beets, pumpkin, and parsnips
nuts
most fruit except watermelon and dates
legumes
yogurt
brown rice, barley, and whole grain pasta

, You can also ensure that you are getting the appropriate nutrients to keep your skin healthy. The vitamins that appear to be most important for the skin are vitamins A and D. In addition, consuming enough omega-3 fats may benefit people with acne.


Foods high in Vitamin A include sweet potato, spinach, carrots, pumpkin, broccoli, red peppers, summer squash, cantaloupe, mangoes, apricots, black-eyed peas, beef liver, herring, salmonFoods high in Vitamin D include cod liver oil, salmon, tuna, milk, yogurt, cheeseFood high in omega-3 fatty acids include flaxseeds and flaxseed oil, chia seeds, butternuts, walnuts, salmon, sardines, mackerel, whitefish, shad, basil, oregano, cloves, marjoram, spinach, sprouted radish seeds, chinese broccoli, Acne can get worse with makeup, so going without makeup for a while may help to improve acne. Makeup can clog the pores and cause irritation as well. If you do wear makeup, make sure that it is labeled as non-comodogenic. Makeup with this label is less likely to cause a breakout.
