 Testing the pH of the stream water can easily done with a simple pH test strip. Dip the strip in the water and then let the color develop. Compare the color of the test strip to the included color chart to determine the pH of the water. Make sure to read the strip within two minutes of testing because the color can fade with time. Ideally, the pH of the stream water should be between 6.5 and 7.5. This is considered neutral and is the best for stream life.A pH of 5 or less is extremely acidic and indicative of waste drainage and pollutants in the stream. 

 It is best to check the pH early in the morning as readings can be altered by organisms with high photosynthetic activity during the day. 

 The pH may vary in different parts of the stream, so try to check the same part of the stream each day for a better idea of pH variations. 
;
, A nitrate test kit can be purchased from your local pet shop or aquarium store. Test the water according to the instructions that come with the kit. Generally, you will add a few drops of solution to the water and wait for the color to change. The color of the water is then compared to a chart that allows you to determine the amount of nitrates present in the water.

 A high nitrate level (50-100 milligrams per liter) can lead to an overgrowth of algae that decreases the amount of oxygen present in the water. This is bad for the native wildlife trying to survive., The temperature of the stream is another important parameter for the organisms living in the stream. Temperature is variable over time and therefore should be measured daily over a few weeks to months. Use a thermometer to take measurements at the same time of day for the most accurate results.The ideal temperature range for a stream is 10°C-14.9°C (50°F-58°F). Streams in the range of 5°C -9.9°C (41°F-50°F) or 15°C -19.9°C (59°F-68°F) are still okay but can be stressful for some life trying to survive. Anything above or below these ranges can be very difficult for wildlife to survive in. 


, Water velocity is an important factor that affects the organisms that live in the stream. Organisms are specially adapted to extract oxygen and nutrients from a flowing stream, but if the water doesn’t flow fast enough, there may not be enough nutrients and oxygen. Slow flowing streams are not ideal because the oxygen is restricted which can lead to fluctuations in pH and temperature.Flow rate can be difficult to determine because the velocity of the water will be different in various parts of the stream. Rocks and plant life can also serve as obstructions slowing down the water. Try to select an area with few obstructions to monitor over time. 

 To calculate the flow rate, set up a start and stop point along the stream. Measure the distance between the start and stop point. Place a small, buoyant object on top of the stream and let it float down the stream. Time how long it takes the object to float between the start and stop point. Divide the distance by time to get the velocity in meters per second: FlowRate=distanceobjecttraveled/timeittooktotravelthatdistance{\displaystyle FlowRate=distanceobjecttraveled/timeittooktotravelthatdistance}.

 The ideal range for a stream is 0.3–0.69 meters (1–2 ft) per second. 	


, This is also known as assessing the turbidity of the water. Turbidity refers to the amount of dirt and particulate matter suspended in the water.A very turbid stream will be murky with little clarity. A stream with low turbidity will be very clear allowing you to see to the bottom. Clearer water allows sunlight to get to the plants at the bottom of the stream that need sunlight to survive.Place a meter stick into the water until you can’t see the bottom of the stick anymore. The depth that you inserted the stick until it disappeared is the depth of visibility. 

 If you can see to the bottom of the stream, it is very clear and has low turbidity. 

 If visibility is less than 35 centimeters (13.7 inches), the water clarity is very poor and something is likely contaminating the water upstream.
 Collect a small sample of water from the stream. You can use an at-home bacteria test kit to see if there are bacteria in the water. If the test kit comes back positive for bacteria, you may want to collect another sample and take it to a water testing facility to have it tested.The local water plant will be able to help you analyze the sample more thoroughly and determine what type and how much of the bacteria is present. 


