 It’s a terrific, free imaging program that ought to be on just about every computer. For example, it allows you to easily take a snapshot of the entire screen or active window, then crop and save the image in any one of more than 20 different file formats. (Several additional columns could be devoted to irfanview uses.);
, Most photos these days are in jpg format, meaning that the file name will end with “.jpg”, such as my photo.jpg, but you usually don’t need to worry about this. By default, Windows hides the extension of known file types, so you probably won’t see the jpg extension.
 This can be done in Word, but we’re going to do it in IrfanView because it is a generally more useful tool.
, This is easy with IrfanView. All that you need do is click and drag the cursor from the upper left to lower right. When you are satisfied with how the image is cropped, click edit > crop selection, then file > save as, allowing you to rename cropped image (preserving the original) and save it wherever you want.
 We’re using Avery 28878 “Clean Edge” business cards, which are 2” x 3.5”. (Avery says “Use Avery Template 8371”.) Still in IrfanView, click Image > Resize/Resample. In the bottom left of the sub-window which opens you will see a value for DPI:, such as DPI: 96. This indicates dots per inch for the image. Higher up in this window is a place to choose “Set new size” and enter Width and Height. Check “Preserve aspect ratio” and enter a height in pixels that will fit on your card. For our 2” high card we chose a height of 150 (just over 1.5 inches). Before you save, hold a business card in front and see if the size looks right. Change the pixel height if needed. File > Save as under a different name so that you can more easily redo from the original cropped image.
, Insert in cropped, resized image in the upper left.
 You want to place text close beside. Right-click on the image, choose Format Picture > Layout > Tight.
 You should now be able to type this right beside the image. Be careful that the combined width of your image and type will fit on a 3.5” wide card.
 Unfortunately, the Labels option in Word will copy either an image or a block of text, but not both as the same time. Not to worry. We can combine our image and text into a single image.
 From the Capture Setup sub window which opens, choose these options: Foreground Window, Show captured image in main window, Hot Key: ctrl+F11. Un-check Include Mouse cursor. Minimize Irfanview. Now, anytime you click ctrl+F11, the foreground window will be captured and displayed. You can manipulate, crop, etc. and save this image any way you want. It’s very handy.
 Press Ctrl+F11 to capture your image and text in one image.
 At 96 DPI, that will be 192 height x 332 width. Save cropped image under a new name.
 Open a new blank page in Word and Insert the combined image you just made. Click on the image to highlight it; that is, the combined image and text will be outlined in a light blue box.
 Click Options and find the business card size (in this case Avery 8371). You should see the combined image displayed and ready to print a full page of the same label. You might want to test on a sheet of plain paper before using your more costly cardstock.

