 Squish and roll it and warm it until is is a soft pliable consistency. Make it spherical and work it from there.
 Give the head a couple of ears, and it should already be starting to look a little bit like a cat.
 It might even have some personality - if so, you might like to go with it.
, Surprise cat eyes glowing in the dark are amusing but use your own personal preference.
 Work carefully on the eyes, as they are the single most important part of almost any critter. Every little change or move can change the look. For example, unevenly sized eyeballs give an air of derangement. So take care when working with them but be prepared for them to surprise you.
 You now have a cat that can stare at people.
 Attach them to the eyes. This is one of the most delicate parts of the whole process, because the amount of clay involved is so tiny and black; you may need to use a sculpting tool or a blunt knife to attach them to the eyeballs.
 You can give the cat upper and lower lids, or stick with just upper lids. Make them from a semi-circle of clay, created by forming a ball, then squashing and halving it.
 The way that the lids are attached can easily make the difference between a critter which is sweetly looking for affection, and one which is brimming over with malevolence.Take care in attaching them

, Make the cat look the way your imagination and artistic nature take you.


A tail is a beautifully expressive thing. For instance, when a cat is mad, it is moving slowly.
The set of a cat’s ears and the angle of its head can tell you a great deal.
The way it is standing is crucial.
 Then place it on a baking tray, laying it on its side or supporting it around the middle, because unbaked polymer clay legs are flimsy, and become softer while being baked. Place the tray in an oven preheated to 130° C (265°F), and bake for 20-30 minutes according to the instructions that come with the clay.
, Use this to make 2 big balls, then chop the smaller one into sixths. Make four of them balls again. The other 2 should be slightly triangular. Put them on the intact ball.";
,

, If not, then do a tail like a thin worm. Put it on, and make sure that it is smoothed on."

, Make two small white ovals and squish them on ts head. They should get bigger. Make black circles very small. Squish them on.
 You're done. Bake it on a tray and follow the instructions on the packet that the clay came in. try to use the same clay for your products as the different clay may need to be baked at different times and temperatures!"

