 Take a slow, deep breath in through your nose filling up your lungs. The breath should be coming from your stomach; you should not feel your chest moving. Then, slowly release the air from your mouth, feeling your stomach deflate as the air leaves. Practice doing 4 to 6 breaths per minute, repeating the cycle for 10 or more times.


Get ready for bed as you normally would but perform this exercise to help calm your mind and make getting to sleep easier. You may also perform this exercise while sitting in a chair.
Deep breathing can be helpful for calming the rapid thoughts and anxiety that may accompany mania during any time of the day or night. No one has to know you're even doing the exercise.;
, This technique can be a terrific way to cleanse your mind of negative thoughts and promote relaxation. Sit in a quiet room with your legs crossed on the floor or with your back straight in a chair. Close your eyes. Breathe normally, focusing your attention on each inhale and exhale. Refuse to let your mind wander, returning your attention to the breath each time you go astray. Do this for a few minutes until you build up to longer periods., This relaxation method can be done on your own or with a guided video. Sit comfortably in a chair. Take a few deep breaths, breathing in calm and breathing out tension. Slowly, moving up through your body, tense one muscle groups and hold for a few seconds. Release the tension and notice how it feels. Move up to the next muscle group until you have done your entire body., This form of relaxation involves a number of techniques that use the senses to reduce anxiety and stress. A guided imagery session may require you to imagine that you are on a serene walk through a meadow or wading through the ocean. YouTube has numerous guided imagery videos you can watch free.
 Exercise can be a great way to calm anxiety or your mood during a manic phase of bipolar disorder.However, so that the activity does not further cause disruption in your sleep, try working out in the morning or at least several hours before bed.


Your exercise regimen can include moderate activities like yoga, Pilates, or a walk through the park. You can also engage in more vigorous forms of exercise such as running or high intensity interval training.
No matter what type of exercise you choose, the benefits outweigh those of not doing any at all. Regular exercise can improve mood, lower risk of disease, and may even help with the depressive episodes you experience with bipolar.