 Despite the weird name, GIMP (which stands for GNU Image Manipulation Program) is a widely-used and popular alternative to Photoshop. Though it's not quite as slick as its retail counterpart, GIMP can produce most of the same effects, and has another significant advantage in that it's completely free.


GIMP isn't easy to learn. Aside from basic functions, expect to spend a significant chunk of time learning how to work with the program's tools. The upside is that the program is very powerful – no other free program comes close to the level of manipulation GIMP offers.
GIMP is the best free choice if you'd like to make significant alterations to images, such as adding or deleting objects, drastically altering the appearance of a person, or adding realistic special effects. It's also the best choice for fine detail work, such as altering the properties of individual flower petals in a garden scene.
GIMP offers a thriving library of plugins written specifically for the program, which add textures, effects, and just about anything else imaginable. Like GIMP itself, these plugins are typically free. In addition, GIMP even has a plugin, the PSPI plugin, that allows it to handle Photoshop plugins, effectively giving it an even larger plugin library than Photoshop itself.
GIMP can be downloaded safely from the official GIMP website.
 Paint.NET is an old program originally designed to rival Microsoft Paint. It's been kept alive and continuously developed by a devoted community of enthusiasts, and these days, the program has a surprising number of photo editing features. Paint.net is a more user-friendly (albeit less feature-rich) alternative to GIMP.


Paint.NET is a popular choice for many people over GIMP, because it provides most of the tools that non-professional image creators are likely to use, without any of the clutter or confusion of having extra options. It is able to apply filters, handle layers, and more, all with a fairly intuitive interface.
Paint.NET is moderately capable of handling advanced image manipulation (the type seen in many “Photoshop contests” around the web), but the results will generally look amateurish compared to GIMP's results.
Paint.NET can be downloaded safely from the official website.
 Somewhere between Paint.NET and GIMP in terms of functionality, Photo Pos Pro was once a pay-to-use program, and it shows. Since being released as freeware, it's become a popular choice for people who want a full suite of effects without the hassle of learning to use GIMP. The program features blurring, sharpening, noise control, red eye reduction, and all the other effects you need (even layers!) to give your images just the right look. It's also surprisingly easy to use.


Photo Pos Pro's installer is fairly innocuous, but it will try to set your homepage to a website called MyStart, which is known for an irritating (though not directly dangerous) add-on called the MyStart Incredibar that can be difficult to remove once installed. Be sure to disallow changing your homepage, as well as the installation of any software other than the program itself.
Photo Pos Pro can be downloaded safely from CNet's direct download link. Clicking this link will automatically start the download once the page has loaded, but it avoids CNet's pointless custom installation software.
 If you absolutely must have a copy of Adobe Photoshop and are unwilling to pay for the privilege, there are ways to acquire it without paying. You'll likely have to settle for an older iteration of the program than the current version, but even slightly dated copies of Photoshop are unbeatably powerful compared to other software.


The most reliable way to pirate Photoshop is by torrenting. To torrent Photoshop, you'll need to find a torrent of the copy you want (which should be as easy as a Google search), and then download the torrent file and open it with a special program that reads it, such as BitTorrent.
Downloading a copy of the software isn't enough to unlock it. You'll also need a license. The simplest way to get a license is to run a “crack” program that will generate a fake license code that fools the program into thinking you're a legitimate user. If you can, try to download the crack along with the program itself, as a single package; finding cracks separately is a dangerous and difficult procedure.
Although many people agree that Photoshop is overpriced, that doesn't justify stealing the software in and of itself. Be aware that you could get in trouble for pirating it.

