 Fill a small dish with warm water, then squeeze a dollop of gentle hand soap or shampoo into it. Mix lightly until suds form on the surface of the water. Dish soap is generally not recommended, as it can irritate your skin when you need to use the sponge later.









Baby shampoo and “gentle formula” organic shampoos work especially well, but most soaps that are safe for use on your skin or hair can be used here.;
, Drop the sponge into the dish of soapy water. Squeeze it two or three times with your hand, then allow it to soak for approximately 30 minutes.








The dish should have enough water in it to completely cover the blender sponge. If there isn't enough water initially, simply add more as needed.
As the sponge soaks, the water will likely begin to change color. Expect the water to take on a dingy beige or tan hue as it draws the foundation and other cosmetics out of the sponge.
The sponge should also expand to its full size as it soaks in the soapy water.
 Gently rub solid "Blender Cleanser" or an equivalent soap directly into the most heavily soiled areas of the sponge.You must use a gentle cleanser to avoid damaging the sponge. If you prefer solid soaps, castille soap usually works well. If you'd rather choose a liquid soap, consider moisturizing baby shampoo or an organic shampoo with a gentle formula.









Spend 2-3 patient minutes massaging the cleanser into the sponge. Only use your fingertips; do not use a scrubbing brush or other abrasive tool since doing so could damage the sponge.
 Rinse the sponge under warm, running water until all of the cleanser washes out of it. Any additional makeup sitting near the surface of the sponge should get rinsed out during this step as well.









You may need to gently squeeze the sponge under the running water to help remove the soaps and makeup.
 If the rinse water runs clear beneath the blender sponge, it should be adequately clean and you can move directly to the drying step. If the rinse water still seems dingy, skip the drying step and move into the deep cleaning method (see the “Deep Cleaning” section of this article).
 Wring out excess water by gently squeezing the sponge with your hand, then roll the sponge in clean, dry paper towels to absorb any water still inside.









If the sponge is still damp after you blot out the water with paper towels, let it sit in a dry location to continue air drying. Wait until the sponge is completely dry before using it as an applicator.

