 Choosing the species of bird that is perfect for you can depend on many factors (such as time, and money). There are many species within each group of parrots, so if a group sounds right for you...do research and find the right species.


Smaller birds (parakeets, lovebirds, finches) are good for those who don't have as much time to spend with the bird, or money to spend on it. These are good birds for new bird owners.
Conures and Caiques are good birds for people who have owned birds in the past. First-time bird owners may have trouble handling a conure or Caique, as they are rowdy clowns who are LOUD.
Medium-large birds (Amazons, African Greys, etc) are good for experienced owners who have owned conures. First time owners may have trouble discouraging their bird from biting, and properly stimulating the bird. These birds are intelligent, and if their mind isn't properly stimulated, it can lead to self-mutilation or other behavioral problems. However, these birds are fun talkers, they have long lives, and it's fun to bond and watch them amaze you.
Large birds (cockatoos, macaws) are for experienced bird owners that know what they're doing. These birds are intelligent and fun, but they are known for their large beaks, screaming, and biting. First time owners will have trouble with their larger bird, but large birds are extremely fun, lifelong companions.;
, Since birds are not domesticated, they aren't born friendly and loving. Choosing the right breeder is extremely important. If the breeder is good, it will bring you a receptive companion that will, with the right love and care, bring you a friendly companion. Choose the wrong breeder and your bird won't be as receptive to you, and will most likely behave like a jungle animal, but with a lot of love things can be turned around.


Good breeders can be found on numerous websites.
Some birds will be easy to locate and others will be harder to find.
When you get in touch with the breeder, you'll need to know:

Do they have any of these babies available now? (They'll tell you if they do or not.)
How much is the baby?
What diet are they raised on? (If they're raised on seeds, don't bother buying, seeds are unhealthy. Pellets and fruits/veggies is the way to go.)
How long will I have to wait for a baby to come my way?


Once you've found the right breeder and contacted him/her, it's time to place a deposit on the bird. This will secure it until it is weaned and ready to come, in most cases. This is for serious inquiries, however, as once you put the money down you cannot get it back, in most cases. Ask the breeder if you have any questions.
 Everyone has a different experience with choosing the right pet bird. Sometimes people choose a bird that has a distinct personality trait ("the angry one in the corner"), or one that has a unique affection for them. However you choose your bird is your business, but there are some things to remember.


Pick a bird that is alert and active (sleepy can indicate sickness).
Look for clean eyes, nostrils, and an overall healthy, clean look (disheveled can also indicate sickness, birds are normally obsessed with their appearance).
Listen for clicking, abnormal sounds when the bird breathes (respiratory infections are common, and can be deadly).
Pick a bird that eats, drinks, and poops normally.
Pick a bird that perches correctly and interacts with its cage mates.
Ask your breeder about a health guarantee (usually guarantees health between 72 hrs and 30 days).
 This is good for three reasons. One, it shows if your bird is sick. Two, it provides baseline information in case your new pet ever gets sick (this is important). Three, it establishes a relationship with a vet, between your bird and the vet, and you and the vet.

