 When you travel and share photos or anecdotes on social media, you may inadvertently let criminals know that your apartment or home is empty. To avoid compromising the security of your home and possessions, you should increase your social media security. This includes improving the security of your passwords and strengthening your privacy settings.You can increase password security by using anti-malware software, which protects against malware. Malware such as viruses and worms can quietly gather the passwords stored on your computer and distribute them to unknown parties, who will then have access to your accounts. To avoid this scenario, make sure you have good anti-malware installed. The top rated anti-malware software includes Hitman Pro, Malwarebytes, Zemana, Emsisoft, MSRT, and NPE. Ask a computer expert which one is appropriate for your computer and devices.Manage your passwords. You can use a password manager that regularly updates and stores passwords for you. You could also try using passphrases, which are easier to remember, and regularly update them. Poor passwords (e.g., 1,2,3,4,5) and passwords that are used repeatedly and not updated are prone to being stolen.Increase your privacy. Make sure your social media profiles are not visible to anyone except your friends. If your profiles are publicly visible, more people will see that you are on vacation which makes your property vulnerable to crime.;
, While you are on vacation, get someone to watch your apartment. You could ask a neighbor to keep an eye on the house or get a friend to house sit. In the event that someone uses your social media to determine vulnerable properties in your neighborhood and attempts a break-in, at least your friend or neighbor will be able to call the police., If you choose to share social media posts while travelling, you should avoid posting pictures of your friends and tagging them. You should at least ask your friends what security measures they have taken online and in terms of keeping their homes safe. If they haven’t taken any security measures, you don’t want to compromise their security inadvertently., The best way to ensure cybersecurity is to save your travel posts until you come back from your trip. At the end of your trip, you can look over your travel journal and curate pictures from key moments on the trip. Your friends will probably prefer this approach since their feeds will not be overwhelmed with excessive travel shares.If you must share during your trip, make sure you have somebody house sitting and avoid posting pictures of friends or family members who may not have someone watching their house.
 Record your travel experiences and the details of your trip in a journal. At the end of the trip, you can use a few of the stories recorded in your travel journal to write a compelling social media post about your trip. In your travel journal, you could record the dates, times, places, costs, and other details of your journey. You can keep a travel journal as a paper journal or on a laptop or device.As a prompt to write in your journal, you could think about whether there was a theme for the day. A theme might be unexpected encounters, exhaustion, or learning moments. Once you have your theme, expand on it.To spark reflection for your journal, ask yourself: “What was special about today?”

, Rather than writing about and taking pictures of everything on your journey or of touristy spots, follow your genuine interests. If you are passionate about architecture, take photographs of the local architecture. If you are passionate about wildlife, take pictures of local wildlife. If you love dogs, take pictures of local dogs and dog culture., Follow your creative instinct in your travel journal and with your camera. In your journal, challenge yourself to think about the nuances of your conversations and about the little things you observed during the day. With your camera, challenge yourself to get creative by taking shots from down low, up high, zooming in, and shooting slightly out of focus. In this way, you can make interesting shots, even if the location is a familiar spot that everyone will know like the Eiffel Tower or the Brooklyn Bridge.If there is a tourist landmark you want to shoot, take a picture from your boots. Get down low and shoot the monument from down low to make it look more imposing and impressive.Use a monopod extender or just your arm and shoot the scene from up high. You could also try getting up on a bridge to shoot a scene from higher up.Keep your camera still but zoom in or out on your subject while taking the picture. This will create a sense of movement in your photograph, which can look quite compelling.Try shooting your subject intentionally out of focus so that it has a blurry look. If you are shooting a landmark, people will probably still recognize it., Pictures of your feet dangling by the resort pool, your feet in the sand by the ocean, or the Eiffel Tower are examples of cliché shots. Everyone has seen these pictures so you should avoid sharing them. If you take and share cliché shots, your friends will be less likely to be engaged in your travel story. You can take the pictures and keep them to yourself as private memories., Nobody wants to see you sipping champagne in an airport lounge or enjoying a really expensive meal at a five star restaurant. The pleasure of social media is built on common experiences as opposed to unique and rare experiences. People can feel alienated if you post a lot of photos of really exceptional, rare, or expensive sorts of experiences. So, it is best to avoid bragging with your photos., Your friends know what you look like. They want to see the place and the landscape as opposed to another selfie or your tan. You should avoid sharing too many selfies. If you take a lot of selfies, you can keep them as private memories instead of sharing them., Nobody wants to see another hotel room picture. Hotel pictures are simply boring, regardless of whether it is especially fancy or just a run of the mill hotel., Use your travel journal and your travel photos to tell the story of your trip. Review your travel journal to identify some of the key themes you wrote about and look through your photographs to identify how these themes are represented. Think about the introduction and overall plot of your story. The plot of your trip may revolve around the meanings of a place or around a particular relationship. While reviewing your photos and overall plot, consider relational themes, locational themes, stylistic and visual themes:Visual themes relate to the colours and textures captured in your shots.
Stylistic themes relate to particular styles and techniques used in the photographs.
Locational themes relate to the types of places that interested you on the trip such as beaches, markets, restaurants, or museums.
Relational themes relate to interpersonal relationships such as friendship or marriage.
 Before sharing your trip on social media, tell a close friend about the experience. Then, ask your close friend what they think the important themes might be based on what you talked about. If your friend is a good listener, they may be able to give you some tips on what stories and themes to talk about in your social media post.
 Spend an afternoon reviewing your travel journal. Highlight stories that you want to keep to yourself and stories that you want to share with friends. Highlight stories that you want to share on social media. Once you have figured out the stories you want to share on social media, think about the tone you want to use in your social media post. For example, think about whether you want your tone to be reflective, upbeat, comedic, or philosophical.
 You don’t want to overwhelm your audience, so you should be selective and choose only one or two pictures from each day of your trip. If you give your friends too many pictures of your trip, they may not look at them., You don’t want your social media post to simply show off the expensive or unique trip that you took. The social media post should not be curated in such a way that people will feel jealous or alienated from your life. To avoid this, you should cut out pictures of especially expensive objects or events and focus more on your experience.By focusing on your personal experience of the trip and the relationships you built on vacation, your travel post should be much more relatable.
 Think about the pictures that convey the feeling and key themes of your trip. When you edit these pictures into a social media story, your friends should have the feeling that they are travelling with you vicariously., Drawing from your travel journal, write a short reflection on your trip. You don’t want this to be too long (e.g., no longer than 250 words), but it should offer a nice personal reflection on the experience. Rather than posting multiple posts about the trip, simply post one solid post at the end of your trip. In this post, include a curated selection of travel shots that tell the story of your trip in relation to key themes and experiences.If you are using Instagram, you should write a one sentence narrative per photograph. You can upload a few photographs all at once at the end of your trip, but it is best to be selective so you don't overwhelm your friends' feeds.
If you are using Snapchat, you can create a short video reflection on your trip.
If you are using Twitter, you could reflect on all of your photos and your journal and then offer a short tweet about a learning experience from the trip.

