 The most important factor in slenderizing your arms is cutting down on body fat. Cutting your calories with a diet is the best way to reduce body fat, but adding cardio exercises can also help you to burn more calories. Spend 20 to 30 minutes on alternating days doing something that keeps your heart rate up throughout the exercise. Some of the best forms of cardio exercise include jogging, swimming, and biking. If you prefer to work out at a gym, rowing and spinning can also get your heart rate up and keep it going.Team sports like basketball may be more fun, and can also offer a decent cardio workout. If you’re playing a sport that allows a lot of stop-and-go action, supplement the workout with a ten minute jog after the game.
While cardio workouts can initially be challenging if you have a significant amount of body fat to lose, know this: the more you have to lose, the quicker you’ll see results.;
, If possible, monitor your heart rate while exercising, as this can help you determine whether you’re working hard enough. Your mid-workout heart rate should decrease after a few weeks of doing the same exercise at the same level of intensity. If it does not drop noticeably as you improve your cardio fitness, this means you haven’t been doing an aggressive enough workout. Pick up the pace or exercise for a little while longer! Expect to see your body – including your arms – start to lose body fat within four weeks. While initial achievements are only the beginning, record them and congratulate yourself to fuel your motivation to stick with your workout routine.
 Arms are especially hard to keep slender, and will wiggle a bit, no matter how fit you are. It can be helpful to make non-judgmental self-assessments of your level of fitness and proceed accordingly. For instance, if you are unable to do a push-up, you should start a fitness regimen based on cardio, and proceed to resistance exercises after you’ve gotten rid of some body fat.For a more specific assessment of your body fat, get in a push-up position, with your body held horizontal by outstretched arms, about shoulder-width apart. Reach up and across your body with one hand to the midpoint of the back of your other arm and pinch the flesh. If you can loosely gather an inch or more between your fingertips, you should focus on cardio exercises initially.
 Know that you may be perfectly healthy – and look great – even if your arms aren’t as taut as the people in this seasons’ swimsuit magazines. Women, especially, tend to accumulate body fat in particular areas of their body. This includes the upper arms. Women are also less likely to include upper arm workouts in daily exercise regimens without making the conscious decision to target the arms specifically.There’s good news: the areas of your body that accumulate fat deposits are also those that will give up fat the quickest as you begin to maintain a cardio regimen.

