 Start by making your foundation chain. An easy way to determine how long to make your chain is to measure the chain on the person who will be wearing the capelet. Or, you can also follow a pattern to determine how long to make your foundation chain.


Try using a bulky yarn with a size K hook, and then chain 67 to start.Keep in mind that the number of stitches you will need to chain will depend on the gauge of your yarn. To check the gauge, crochet a square that is 4” by 4” and then count the number of stitches required to create this length going in each direction.;
, You can make a capelet in just about any stitch. However, if you want to give your capelet a holey design, you can use the V-stitch.To double crochet, loop the yarn over the hook and then insert the hook into the stitch. Yarn over again, then pull through the first loop on your hook. Yarn over again and pull the yarn through the first two loops on your hook. Then, yarn over again and pull the yarn through the last two loops.Be sure to double crochet into the same stitch twice.
 For the rest of the row, you will be skipping one and then double crocheting into the same stitch twice. Skip your next stitch and double crochet two times into the next stitch.


Continue this pattern all the way to the end of your row.
 After your last set of two double crochet stitches, chain three and turn your work over. This will be your turning chain and it will provide some slack as you begin your next row., Instead of double crocheting into the stitches for the second row, you will be double crocheting into the spaces that you created with your first row of V-stitches. Yarn over as usual for a double crochet stitch and then insert your hook into the second space and loop the yarn over on the other side. Pull through your first stitch, then yarn over again and pull through first two stitches. Then yarn over again and pull through last two stitches.Do another double crochet into the same space.
Continue to double crochet into every other space twice to the end of the row.
 When you reach the end of your row, do not double crochet into the space twice. Instead, finish by double crocheting into the top of the chain you created in the previous row. This will complete your second row., For your third row, you will need to work two V-stitches into each space. This will begin to increase your work and give your capelet a flowing look. Start by chaining three stitches as you did for the previous row. Then, skip a space and double crochet twice into the next space to create your first V-stitch. Then, chain one and double crochet into the same space twice again.Repeat the double V-stitch for every other space to the end of the row.
Finish the row with one double crochet stitch into the top of the chain from the previous row.
 To continue working on your capelet, you will need to repeat the second row and third rows. Keep working in this way until the capelet is as long as you want it to be.Don’t forget to chain three at the beginning of each new row.
Work the V-stitches and double V-stitches into every other space, not into the stitches.
Finish each row with one double crochet stitch into the top of the chain.
Tie off the yarn when you complete your final stitch.
 For easy way to finish your capelet, you can thread a double strand of yarn through the top of the shorter side of your capelet (first row). This will provide a simple way for you to wear the cape. Just tie the yarn in a bow whenever you want to wear it.


Another option is to thread a piece of ribbon through the top of your capelet. You can use ribbon in a complementary color.
 You can use any type of yarn you like to make a capelet, but a textured bulky yarn is an easy way to ensure that your capelet has a textured look and feel. Try using a type of yarn that is bumpy and soft.
 If you prefer to use a smooth texture yarn, then you also have the option of working your capelet in a textured stitch. Some good textured stitch options include:


Textured Shell Stitch
Popcorn Stitch
Crunch Stitch
Criss Cross then Stitch

, Instead of securing your capelet with a piece of yarn or ribbon, you can also sew a large button onto the corner of the top of the cape. You do not need to make a button loop because a large enough button should fit through one of your spaces. Use a needle and thread to sew on the button and then slip it through the space that best secures the capelet.

