 Cut rectangular pieces of fabric from outgrown clothing and blankets, and sew them together to make a quilt. Some children really enjoy touching the various textures and seeing all of the different colors and patterns, even if they don’t remember wearing or using the items themselves.


If parts of the clothes are too small – like socks – sew them onto one of the other patches.
These quilts make excellent heirlooms. Consider keeping a record of which patches came from where.
 Baby clothes make excellent clothing for larger dolls and stuffed toys.
 To make new doll clothes from outgrown baby clothes, simply measure the doll, cut a piece of fabric from the old clothing, and cut slits for the neck, sleeves, and pant legs. Then sew the parts together.
 Old cloth diapers, cotton blankets, and t-shirts can be used as cleaning rags.
 Bottles are marked with measurements, so you can easily use them for liquids during cooking and baking.
 Baby bottles can also be used to lubricate squeaky doors. Pour oil into an old baby bottle, and attach a nipple. Because it dispenses a small amount of liquid and easily fits into hard-to-reach areas, you can easily use this to lubricate door hinges. After doing so, move the door to the left and right to distribute the oil.
 If your child has outgrown the crib, you can repurpose it for a toddler. Remove the part of the crib with the bars, so that your child can climb in without any obstacles.


Be sure to remove excess parts and redundant screws, and don’t let your child use the bed until you have sanded it smooth and repainted it.
 You can also convert a crib into a bench. Remove only one side, and take out the mattress. Replace the footer with a stronger board, and repaint it all in one color.
 Another use for an outgrown crib is a work table. Check to make sure the crib is the appropriate height. Remove the mattress and footer, and replace it with glass or a stronger board.


If the table is too low, you can extend the legs of the crib and place the work surface above. Use the space beneath for storage.
 You can use the wheels of a stroller to build a trailer for your children to play with. Use planks to build the trailer in the form of a box. Attach the wheels with screws.


Keep in mind that the length of the trailer must be sufficient for the wheels to rotate freely. The width can be any measure.

