 It’s time to sit down and make a list. You have connected with this person for some reason. Physical attraction is likely not the only reason you find yourself drawn to him or her.


Many times we see qualities in celebrities that are not present in our own lives, but we wish they were. Perhaps they demonstrate kindness to everyone they see, and you feel most people in your life are not kind.
You need to remember that celebrities are showing the world a persona – an ideal masked version – of themselves minus their more fundamental and true character traits. You don’t usually see them having a bad day or a private moment. It may ruin the image / personal brand they have been working to build.;
, Obsessions are considered abnormal because they negatively impact a person’s capacity to love and to be a productive member of society.Your mind can become so crowded with thoughts about a celebrity that you have little room for anything else.


Are you isolating yourself instead of participating in events?
Are you quick-tempered with family or friends when you hear that your obsession has done something that upsets you?
Are you feeling depressed or anxious around others and escape to privacy in order to reconnect with the object of your obsession? These are common emotions for those with a celebrity obsession., According to research, celebrity obsessions can serve two functions: companionship and personal identity.Do you feel lonely and in need of someone who understands you? Or, perhaps you like the way the celebrity handles himself or herself and you want to be like him or her.


Clinical psychologists think of obsessions as fixations with an object, person or activity. Obsession in the psychological sense is defined as a continual thought, concept, picture or urge which is experienced as invasive and not proper, and results in significant fear, distress or discomfort., Do you imagine yourself hanging out with the celebrity; but truly believe it would happen? Do you pretend to know what they are thinking about a certain person or situation? Have you forgotten that you can’t read people’s minds?


Have you had significant one-on-one meaningful interactions with this person that would allow a healthy relationship to develop? If you haven’t, then you must come to terms with the fact that you have imagined the relationship to be something far exceeding an “ordinary” connection.
Researcher and professor, Brian Spitz berg, at San Diego State University’s School of Communication indicates that social media communications with celebrities via Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram can cause a fan to feel unique, as if the celebrity is speaking only to that person. This can leave you feeling confused.
Relationships that are one-sided are considered to be para-social, meaning one person extends emotional energy, interest and time, and the other party, the persona, is completely unaware of the other’s existence.Celebrity obsessions most always fall into this category.
 We all have emotional needs that we want and need to have met: the need to be loved; the need to belong; the need for safety are just a few. Are you satisfied by your obsession to the point that you forego opportunities to find satisfaction in authentic human interactions?


Introspection is the process of directly attempting to access your own internal processes.When you figure out how and why you react to the people and things around you, you will be able to help yourself solve many personal struggles. Only you can do the work that it takes to find the answers to these questions. Analysis can be difficult, but it can put you on a clear path toward change.

