 There are several other navigation apps available that you can use instead of Google Maps. They may boast additional features or different navigation algorithms, or may have a different niche than auto navigation., There are a variety of apps available for free or for purchase that accomplish different things. A few of the most popular apps include:HERE We Go - An alternative turn-by-turn navigation app that allows for many different type of transportation.
MapFactor - A navigation app that uses OpenMaps to stay up-to-date and effective in many different countries.
Waze - A Google-owned navigation app that relies on community submissions of traffic, police locations, and more.
BackCountry Navigator - An offline GPS app for hikers and campers that offers topographical maps and hiking trails.
 If the app requires purchase, tap the Buy button with the price to purchase it with the payment method associated with your Google Play account. If the app is free, or after you've completed the purchase, tap Install to begin downloading it.

There are a couple apps called "Navigation" or "Navigator" that add a Navigation button to your Home screen. All these apps do is load Google Maps.
 This may take a few minutes, especially on slower connections. You may want to connect to a wireless network before downloading the app to lower your data usage., You'll find an icon for your new app on one of your Home screens or in your app list. You can also tap the Open button from the app's Play Store page., The navigation app will need permission to access your device's location, and may ask for permission for other services as well. In order to use the app, you'll need to at least grant the location permission request., When the app loads, you'll see the navigation map or the app's main menu. Tap the Search box or button to begin searching for your destination., All navigation apps will be able to look up businesses and landmarks, as well as specific street addresses. Enter the location that you want to travel to., After entering a destination, you'll be able to start the turn-by-turn navigation.