 The rest can kill mobs or help out with killing the creepers.


Once you're past wave 15, add another person to each lane as the creepers become tougher to kill.
It is recommended that you Skype a bunch of your friends to do this strategy. Strangers are less likely to listen to you and tell you to be quiet.;
,


Choose an iron sword and then iron armor. Do this ASAP as in the later rounds, you will die and lose coins (it's overwhelming).



Sprint run around the inner circle of the map. Golems run, slightly slower than a player's sprint run, so as long as you can sprint (double press w) you can avoid the golems wrath. If you sprint long enough, the golem will either be killed by your fellow players or will lose interest in you and chase another player.
If you attack an iron golem, you increase your chance of becoming chased. However, don't let this scare you. It will eventually stop.
 Wave 17 and up), purchase the Melee Attack Power-up from the Villager.


This give you a boost on attack damage by sword which is helpful for killing mobs
Don't try and save up for the diamond stuff. You will die before you get 3000 coins and you will lose your well-earned coins. Spend it on the power-up for better investment.
 It isn't there just to make the game look nice.


At the top, you'll see either see Creepers left: or Next Wave in:

Creepers Left: Tells you how many creepers are left to kill
Next Wave In: Tells you how many seconds until the next wave of mobs come.


Under this you will see Wave: This will tell you what wave you're on. The higher the wave the harder it is to kill the mobs.
Next you'll see a bunch of names with numbers. Ignore this if you want to get to wave 25 or higher. It is just a tally of how many mobs players kill, but it doesnt really benefit anyone. No extra coins or anything. It's literally a distraction for new players. Another distraction are the red numbers on the side, which have no meaning otherwise.
Finally, you'll see Gold: This will tell you how much gold you have.

