 Bullying behavior is just one set of behaviors among many, and can be adjusted. If you think about your child as a bully, you might be tempted to assume they cannot be changed, or that being a bully is part of their essential nature. These assumptions are incorrect, but can be dangerous. If you treat your child as if they are a bully, they might internalize the message that they are bullies, and continue to bully others.
 You might say, “I really like how kind you were to your classmate,” or “I heard you were very generous with your toys in class. Great job!” Children respond positively when parents praise them, and this positive reinforcement is an effective way to correct bullying.


You can discipline your child by withdrawing privileges if positive reinforcement alone does not work. You might, for example, restrict their use of the internet if they use it to post rumors about other children.
 The best way to do this is to arrange a meeting between your child and the person they victimized. If you see the bullying firsthand, you should intervene immediately to make your child say “I’m sorry” to the person they were bullying.


If you hear of bullying from teachers or other authority figures, you should help your child understand why their behavior was wrong and ensure they feel sorry for their actions.
Ask your child how they might apologize to the other person. Perhaps they could make them a card, or maybe they think it is best to talk it over in person. This will help your child create an apology that is sincere.
 Talk to your child’s teachers and school administrators regularly for information about how your child behaves at school. Use this information to stay informed about your child’s behavior and track his their progress. Ask school personnel for advice and guidance about how to best correct your child’s bullying. Many school officials will have seen similar behavior over the years and can offer valuable advice.


Share potential causes of the bullying behavior with your child’s teachers.For instance, if there are marital or other family problems, you should let your child’s teachers know. This will help them better understand why your child is bullying.
 Other parents, coaches, and faith leaders can help you identify and correct bullying. Ask them for their advice and perspectives on the issue. If you have an especially difficult time correcting your child’s bullying, consult a child psychologist.


Use your online community to correct bullying, too. Organizations like stopbullying.gov and kidshealth.org have extensive advice about how to deal with bullying behavior in children. Read online forums to learn more about how other parents have corrected bullying in their kids.
 It may take time to change bullying behavior.Monitor the situation and look for improvements in your child’s bullying over time. Successful anti-bullying education will result in a reduced number of bullying complaints over time. If you notice or receive reports of an increase or a lack of change in your child’s bullying behavior, you should consider new, additional approaches to combat their bullying tendencies.

