 The first thing that will make you stand out as a mermaid is your hair, so you should work hard to cultivate that mermaid look. Growing out your hair takes time and patience, but it'll be worth it. Here's how to have perfect mermaid hair:


Grow your hair out long. Just below your shoulders or longer is best.
If your hair isn't naturally wavy, curl it lightly to give it a natural wave. If you want a more natural wave to your hair without using rollers or a curling iron, try braiding your hair while it's still wet after washing it. Sleep with the braid in and take it out in the morning.
Cultivate a healthy shine to your hair. A few ways you can do this is by adding a little bit of vinegar to your hair and rinse it out with cool water instead of warm.
Leave-in shampoo, or do a hair mask with eggs, mayonnaise, Aloe Vera, and more.
Read the article titled How to Have Soft Shiny Hair Inexpensively for more ways to get soft, shiny, mermaid worthy hair.
If it feels right, your hair can be partly wet, especially the tips. This will give you that "I just stepped out of the ocean" look.
You can also put water and salt in a squirt bottle and spray your hair a few times to get that ocean, beach look.
Get the right hair accessories. Since you're spending so much time under water, put fake starfish, coral combs, or even a sprinkle of sand in your hair to show that you're a true mermaid.;
, Your face is what everyone will notice after your hair, so it should show everyone that you are the genuine article. Mermaids have a natural look so you don't have to go over the top to achieve it, but there are a few things you can do.


Use light blues, greens, and purples to shade the outer corners of your eyes to bring out natural ocean tones. Wear a good, non-clumping black mascara, this gives your face mermaid emphasis.
Avoid glitter, it would wash off in the water and give an unnatural look.
Wear a blue, purple,or clear lip gloss.
Remember to wear water-proof makeup.
 To dress like a mermaid, you won't need too many items of clothing, but you'll have to wear them the right way. To be a true sea creature, you'll have to pay attention to your top, your bottom, and even your feet. Here's what you should wear:


A bikini top that is shapely but not too seductive for the beach is great. Pick a sea-friendly color like blue or purple, and try to find bikini cups that look like shells if you can.
For everyday clothes stick to long clothes that flow. This style will remind people of the soft ocean waves.
Pair a flowy shirt with a pair of jeans or a crop top with a flowy blue skirt.
Remember to stick to ocean colors such as blues, greens, and purples. Pink is also a good color in some cases.
Wear flip-flops or sandals with shells on them and keep your shoes casual. Since real mermaids don't wear shoes there's no need to draw attention to your feet. You could even wear water shoes, if you like.
Paint your nails and toes a subtle shade of pink, blues, or other ocean colors. If you want to draw more attention to your nails and make them seem more like a mermaid, paint designs on them such as starfish, anchors, or even scales.
 To be a true mermaid, you have to accessorize like one. Mermaids are too busy swimming to have many accessories, but a few key items can help distinguish you as a mermaid.

Wear coral and shell jewelry. Having coral or shell necklaces, earrings, or bracelets can help you stand out as a mermaid.
Wear a mood ring to show your complicated mermaid emotions, but remember that some mood rings are cheaply made. Don't wear them for too long, or you will risk having a green finger unless you wash it all the time with soap.
Have a small coral purse.

