 There are many good how-to videos on YouTube.


Follow the steps to making good bunny hops. Take a few days to get used to it. It might actually take a few weeks to get it down right. Even though you won't get perfect bunny hops, you can still use the bursts of speed to reach around areas you couldn't get to before. Do these by yourself, and try to hop around a lot, shoot some things in mid air while you're at it. Get used to multi-tasting a bunny hop and a shot with a 357, shotgun or bow.;
, SW, VDUS, 911(I guess about 911, but I heard they cheated in some instances)are all but a few of great clans. Really, SW and VDUS are the ones I know to be the best clans.
 You don't have to go to servers that dump around 40 megabytes of sounds. It's a waste, and usually servers like that are just plain dumb, as they modify so many things such as the gravity or running speed. Good players usually go to servers that have not been altered, as they just like to get in and jump into the game, and play the game right.
 Such as increased shotgun damage, increased sprint speed, unlimited sprint, all weapons. Servers that do this is Skullshock servers, they're shit. It's fun once in a while to play in these, but they don't really give you much skill out of it.


You might think you're good, and you start getting pissed at someone who truly is a good player, kicking your ass all over the place. Stop crying. If someone is better than you, then suck it up. You should in fact be glad that you are playing someone who is better. Here is one of the biggest ways of improving: GETTING YOUR ASSED KICKED OVER AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN BY SOMEONE WHO IS FAR BETTER THAN YOU, WILL NO DOUBT, INCREASE YOUR SKILLS. Over time of playing with this certain group of top notch players will soon make you into a top notch player too! If you play with the best, you will soon become one of the best! That's how it is. Their skills starts to rub on you, and pretty soon, you're learning their tricks, their tactics as you get dominated by them. Pretty soon, they're going to have a harder time trying to take you out, because you have been learning what not to do, and what is right to do in a certain situation. And you shouldn't play with just one great player, play with a variety of them. Remember, it doesn't take a day to improve.
 Whenever in a server, try to find the best player in there (It's not always the guy with the most kills, btw) and make it your goal to take this guy down personally (But not insulting or in your face personal). Everyone else should just be an obstacle to you.
 This weapon should be the most important weapon in your inventory(Next to the crowbar or stun-stick). The Gravity Gun is both an offensive and defensive weapon. With it, you can throw heavy objects at your opponent. Also even grab an object thrown at you and throw it back at the attacker. You can speed up your combine balls with it (More on that later), and catch them to send them back to an attacker. You can cook your grenades with it (More on that too later), toss a grenade back to an opponent, etc, etc. There are so many ways that the gravity can help you survive almost anything, even an smg grende, but more on that later.
 A balanced player can use any weapon correctly, and efficiently. Most players switch their weapons at the times that is suited. Shotgun for close range, SMG nading for close to medium range, 357 Magnum and crossbow for long range. After you get real good with these weapons (By practicing tons)you can use almost any weapon for close or long range. After a while, it becomes an art of how you use what gun and how. Good players will usually jump, shoot a double shot from the shotgun, switch to gravity gun and toss an object, all before touching ground. The more attacks you can send in one swift collection of movements, the better. Also helps to be precise, else all those attacks were for nothing. Practice switching from shooting an smg nade to shotgun. Shoot a bow, then shotgun. Shotgun to pistol.


You start out with an SMG and two nades. An SMG alone does no good. Nades are handy when you have learned to "cook" them(Look in tips). Scavenge around for better weapons. It's best to learn where they are. Don't get into a fight with someone who is equipped with a shotgun, while you only have an SMG. Big chance you'll lose. There's no shame in running away for the while to look for a better gun.
 With no armor, a bow can kill you instantly. With 15 armor and 100 health, a shot with a bow will reduce your health to 15. It's very low, but at least you're still alive, hopefully you can run away and look for some more health and armor. Usually, you want to get used to avoid fighting until you have at least found some armor. Have you ever gotten someone cornered, and you blew him up with a grenade and a double barrel shot with a shotgun, and still see him alive? Only to have him shoot you in the head with a magnum? Well, he was smart. He stocked up on as much armor as he could. Armor should that little gem you should pick up every time you can.
 DON'T STAND STILL, EVER. Jump, duck, weave out of the way of your opponents crosshairs. Standing still just for a mere second can get you killed. Also don't be predictable, by staying to one side the whole time. Mix it up, left, right, backwards, jump around, make it hard for your opponent to hit you.

