 You don't need to use curtains with Santas and snowmen on them, but red ones might look more festive than pink ones. Here are a few ideas to get your started:


Use colors such as red or green. Darker shades might look better than brighter ones.
For a rustic cabin feel, switch out your throw or blanket for a cozy quilt or sweater/knitted blanket. Anything made from plaid flannel will also work.
Make an easy sweater pillow by slipping a square-shaped pillow inside a bulky sweater and tying the sleeves in the back.
 If you can't put up a lot of decorations, you can still make your room feel more festive by bringing in scented candles, wax melts, or potpourri. You don't even have to light candles; many scented candles are potent enough on their own. If you are getting candles, consider displaying three different-sized ones on a red, green, gold, or silver candle charger/plate. Listed below are a few Christmas scents:


Gingerbread
Peppermint and Candy Cane
Winter Wonderland
Fireplace
Pine, Spruce, Balsam, and Cedar

, Shelves, dressers, and desks are great for displaying trinkets such as snow globes, nutcrackers, and figurines. If you already have some on your shelves, consider switching them out for Christmasy ones instead. Here are a few ideas to get you started:


If you like nature, put up some pine tree or reindeer figurines.
If you are religious, put up figurines related to the Nativity.
If you like the classical look, put up a snowman, a Santa Clause, or even a nutcracker.
If you don't want to put away any of your existing decorations, consider decorating them instead. For example, if you have a figurine of a cat, try putting a little Santa hat on it.
 If you don't have a lot of room for a tree, you can hang small decorations using thread or clear thread/fishing line instead. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Candy canes and jingle bells can be slung over doorknobs or strung from ribbon.
Christmas cards can be clipped to yarn, jute cord, or ribbon using wooden clothes pins.
Christmas stockings can be tacked to your wall using nails or thumbtacks/pushpins.
Ornaments, plastic icicles, and snowflakes (plastic or paper) can be suspended from thread. They'll look delightful against a wall or window.
 If you like to collect things, setting up a Nativity or Christmas Village scene on your desk or dresser can be just the thing for you. You'll have lots of fun buying figurines and arranging them. You can find them at most arts and crafts stores.


You can also make a Nativity scene at home using popsicle sticks, straw, and wood or clay figurines.
 Try to spray the frost towards the bottom corners of your window to make it look more realistic. Fake frost usually comes in a spray can, like spray paint, and washes off your window with soap and water. They are great for those who don't get snow for Christmas.
 Not all Christmas decorations have to be store-bought. Homemade ones can have their charm too. If you don't have a lot of money to spend, or just like to be crafty, you can make some of your own decorations and display them in your room. Here are a few ideas to get you started:


Find some pinecones outside and paint them with acrylic paint or glitter. Display them on your windowsill.
String cranberries and popcorn into thread to make garlands.
Make some paper chains using construction paper.
Cut out some paper snowflakes from white printer paper.
Make a gingerbread house and display it on your dresser or desk.
Cut out some letters from glitter paper to spell "Merry Christmas" and tack them to your wall.

