 It will be difficult to cut the kind of calories you need without a change in how you cook and eat as a family. Encouraging your family to eat healthy and be active with you will set you up for success.;
, You should never eat a meal that is comprised of more than 40 percent healthy carbohydrates. This means that if you eat a carbohydrate, it should be a root vegetable, ancient grain or whole grain—refined white carbs are out.
 Apps like My Fitness Pal Free Calorie Counter will allow you to input your food while you are on the go. Studies have shown that journaling and keeping a food diary is effective in encouraging calorie reduction and weight loss. The reason a food diary might help with weight loss is that the person who writes down all they eat is less prone to mindless eating. The act of writing it down makes you accountable.
Use your calorie counter to see how much you can safely cut from your diet. Although 1,000 calories through diet is your goal, women should reduce to no less than 1,500 calories per day. Men should reduce to no less than 1,800 calories per day. If you are near these numbers already, your diet may need less adjusting than your activity plan.
Remember that increased exercise can make you hungrier. Snack on healthy snacks frequently, and consider splitting your meals so that you eat more often and stay more satisfied.
 People who skip meals, especially breakfast, tell their body to store fat. Give priority to breakfast, a snack 2 hours before you exercise and a meal after you exercise, since you will burn more calories with a boosted metabolism. , Make sure you are not adding calorific sweeteners or full fat milk to your tea or coffee. Alcohol, soda and sugary coffees can increase your calorie consumption by 200 or more per drink. Coffee has been shown to actually boost your metabolism. , You should have 40 percent healthy carbs, 40 percent lean protein and 20 percent healthy fats at each meal. The following are good guidelines for this meal plan:


Make sure at least 20 percent of your healthy carbs are from produce. Try spinach salads, red potatoes, broccoli, cauliflower, celery, carrots, peppers and other nutrient-rich veggies.
Try to replace some of your whole grain breads and pastas with legumes, such as chickpeas, black beans and pinto beans. Ancient grains like quinoa and wild rice are better for you than whole grain bread.
Eat lean proteins like egg whites, low-fat cottage cheese, Greek yogurt, salmon, tuna, chicken breasts, turkey breasts and low-fat cuts of other meat.
Choose monosaturated fats, like olive oil and avocado, peanut butter, nuts and seeds over saturated fats from full-fat dairy (butter) and animal fats (bacon fat). , Choose a different day than the day you rest from exercising. Avoid eating to excess, but allow yourself to eat things that satisfy you and fulfill cravings. 