 Knowing what your triggers to gambling are can help you become better at dealing with your impulse to gamble. Triggers are thoughts, feelings, situations, and behaviors which make you want to gamble. For example, being around friends who gamble is a powerful trigger for many gamblers.


Identify your triggers by keeping a thought journal. When you have the desire to gamble, stop at that moment and write down your thoughts (possible trigger such as thinking about gambling), feelings (perhaps boredom which is a trigger to gambling), and ways you are going to cope with your trigger.
Do negative emotions such as stress or sadness lead to your gambling? If so, you may need to learn better ways to deal with these emotions.
Do you often gamble when you are looking for excitement? If so, boredom could be a big trigger for you. You may need to keep yourself busy or engage in other exciting (and safe) activities to fulfill your need for a thrill.
Try listening to music. Music may help calm and relax you in order to reduce impulsivity and deal with triggers to gamble., An individual with a gambling problem cannot gamble sensibly because the addict may be hooked on the adrenaline rush associated with "the chase." It is difficult to be in control if you are preoccupied with the feeling you get from an activity.


If friends suggest a trip to the casino, be honest with yourself and with others about the fact that, for you, gambling has gone beyond being recreational. Suggest another activity or opt out of this particular one.
At the earlier stages of recovery, avoid even driving past a gambling hall.
Avoid going to places that encourage gambling such as Las Vegas, Nevada. If you surround yourself with gambling it can make it very difficult to resist the urge to make a bet.
 Negative thinking habits such as irrational beliefs, the illusion of control, and the gamblers fallacy can lead to increases in gambling behaviors.Reduce these negative thoughts by identifying them and modifying them.


The illusion of control is common in people who gamble. It is the belief that you can somehow control the outcome of the game. In order to counter this thought, remind yourself that no strategy or trick can control the outcome; it is impossible to control the game (whether it be cards, online poker, betting on a sports game or horse race, or using slot machines). Each throw of the dice is independent and random.
The gamblers fallacy is when someone believes that a random event is less likely to happen due to a previous event. For example, a person may believe that his chances of losing a game of cards is less likely because he just lost; therefore, he believes it is more likely that he will win this time around. However, statistically speaking, the odds are exactly the same as before.
Superstitious thinking is also a common thinking habit associated with gambling. You may believe that random incidents have meaning. For example, if you are betting at the horse race track, perhaps you always pick a certain horse with a particular name because you believe it is lucky. Remind yourself that superstitious thinking occurs due to random events that occur together; it does not actually mean something is lucky.
Reduce risk-taking behaviors by thinking logically about the consequences and outcome of the situation.When you want to gamble, think about how much money you have lost and are likely to lose if you make a bet.
 Planning on what to tell yourself when you feel the urge to gamble can help ensure that you have a strategy when the time comes; this strategy can help you limit or eradicate your gambling.You can start by telling yourself, “It is too risky to gamble. I know that if I start I won’t be able to stop. I need to avoid it altogether.”
Explore different ideas of things to tell yourself and pick the ones that work best for you. You can write them down on index cards if you are likely to forget them. Then you can take them out and read them out loud when you have the urge to gamble.
 Substance use including alcohol and other drugs have been linked to increased gambling behaviors.When you drink alcohol and use other substances, this lowers your inhibition and decreases your ability to make logical decisions.


Avoid drinking too much alcohol. A few drinks may be fine depending on your tolerance and weight, but being inebriated is a big risk factor for problem gambling. Your coping resources and ability to resist urges will be significantly decreased if you are intoxicated.
 Some gamblers may have a distinct problem with impulse control.Impulses are like cravings, they are automatic urges to do something such as gambling.


When you have an impulse to gamble, stop and take a breath instead of acting immediately.
Take a step back a observe your thoughts and feelings. What thoughts are you having? What feelings do you have?
Identify ways to cope or alternative activities to engage in. Practice what works for you.
 Moods, especially depression and anxiety, may be a direct link to gambling behaviors in some gamblers.Learn better ways to cope with your negative emotions.


Try managing your emotions by writing them down, expressing them through art or dance, or talking to someone about them.

