 Keep the socks together as you roll them. The tip of the socks will stick out of the top of the cupcake and look like a little decoration.Choose a solid-colored baby sock that contrasts with the diaper. Red, pink, or light blue would look great!

, Keep the folded edge at the top and the elastic edge at the bottom. Use a plain, white diaper if you can; this way, it will look even more like frosting.
 Make sure that the toe part of the sock is facing upward and sticking out over the edge of the folded diaper. The other end of the sock roll should be lined up with the bottom (elastic) edge of the diaper.
 This will make the frosting part of the cupcake. If you'd like to, you can roll it at slight angle so that it creates a peak.
 If you need to, use two rubber bands, one towards the top and one towards the bottom, for extra support. Don't worry about what the rubber band looks like; you will be covering it up. Set the cupcake aside when you are done.
 You may have the fold the washcloth into thirds. Don't worry if the washcloth is a little bit shorter than the diaper. This will make the bread part of the cupcake.Choose a washcloth that matches the baby's gender or the theme color of the baby shower.
 Keep the folded edge of the wash cloth at the top, and the loose edge towards the bottom. Make sure that the bottom of the washcloth is aligned with the bottom of the cupcake. Once you have the washcloth wrapped around the diaper, secure it around the middle with a rubber band.
 You can also use an elastic baby headband or hair tie as well. Try to match the ribbon to the baby's gender: pink for a girl and light blue for a boy. If you don't know the baby's gender, consider matching the ribbon to the theme color of the baby shower instead.


The width of the ribbon does not matter, but it shouldn't be too thick or too thin. Consider something between ¼ to 1 inch (0.64 to 2.54 centimeters).
 For a more personalized touch, use a cupcake liner that matches the theme of the baby shower. For example, if the baby shower's theme is fish, choose a fish-themed cupcake liner. You could also use a pink cupcake liner if the baby will be a girl, and a light blue liner if the baby will be a boy.
 This is not completely necessary, but it will give your diaper cupcakes that final, realistic touch.

