 The international driving permit (IDP) is not truly a license. Instead it is just a translation of your existing driver's license into 11 languages. You must continue to carry your regular driver's license with you at all times.The permit is recognized in 150 countries (a list of those countries can be found at thenac.com/international_driving_permit_countries.pdf). In 40 countries, you are required to possess an IDP in order to obtain a rental car.An IDP will not be issued more than 6 months before you need it. It is only valid for one year from the date of its issuance.;
, You can only receive an IDP if you currently hold a valid driver's license. An IDP will not be issued if your license is suspended or revoked. In addition, there are a few requirements.


Your domestic license must be valid for at least six months after your IDP is issued. If your license will expire during the six month period, renew your license at your local DMV office.
You must be 18 to get an international driving permit.
 The U.S. State Department website notes that only the National Automobile Club and the AAA offer international driver's permits in the United States.Do not pay any other organization for an international driver's permit. Such offers are often scams. Even if you do receive something that appears to be a permit, it may not be a legal document.


The United Nations does not issue international driving licenses. If you obtained a document purported to be an international driving permit issued by the U.N., you do not have a valid international driving permit.
A real, valid IDP is a multi-page booklet 4 by 6 inches (10.16 by 15.24 cm) in size. It has a gray cover. It includes a page displaying the holder's name, date and place of birth and home address. This information is repeated in 9 other languages on separate pages. If you have any questions regarding the validity of an IDP, take it to your nearest AAA office.
 As noted above, there are only two agencies that provide the IDP in the United States--the National Automobile Club and the American Automobile Association. You can either obtain an IDP in person or through the mail.


If you would prefer to get your IDP from AAA, you have two options. You can download the application from the American Automobile Association and bring the completed form to an AAA office near you.Alternatively, you can mail the form to the closest AAA office. You can find the AAA office in your area on their website.You can also download the application from the National Automobile Club website and mail the form to the NAC at the following address:The National Automobile Club, Attn: IDP, 373 Vintage Park Drive, Suite E, Foster City, CA 94404.
Included with your application forms, you must supply two “passport type” photos. You can get these pictures taken for a small fee at an AAA office.
The cost of the permit is $15 (from either association).
 Even though an IDP will not be issued more than six months before you plan to travel internationally, make sure that you get your IDP well before the trip. If you have waited until the last minute, go get your IDP in person to avoid mail delays.


There is no waiting period, so if you decide to go in person everything can be handled in a single visit.
Applications sent through the mail will normally be processed in 10 to 15 business days.
 Remember that the IDP is really just a certified translation of your driver's license. You must keep your actual driver's license with you at all times.

