 If you are daydreaming, it means you are focusing on a fantasy or your own thoughts which are not necessarily related to what is currently going on around you. Mindfulness is about being present in the current moment.Try to eat a piece of fruit that you enjoy while focusing on how it feels, looks, and tastes.
Use resources online to learn about mindfulness and try mindfulness techniques., Grounding helps you detach from emotional pain; it is useful especially when dealing with difficult situations and emotions and can serve as a healthy and useful replacement to daydreaming or fantasizing. Grounding can be done in any situation and at any moment that you choose, and it helps to re-focus your mind. Once you do the grounding exercise, go back to your original duty or task. You may find that you are better able to focus after using a specific grounding technique.


Name some of the different objects in the room and their different uses.
You could name some color or animals that you can think of.
Remember not to spend too much time doing the grounding technique, or you are simply using it as another form of daydreaming. Limit yourself to about 1 minute, and then go back to what you were previously doing.
 A lack of sleep quality has been associated with increases in daydreaming.If you do not allow your mind to rest at night, it can become over-active during the day. Individuals with sleep issues also experience higher rates of depression, anxiety, and medical problems.Develop a sleep schedule (a bedtime and wake-time) and sleep at least 8 hours per night.
Try relaxation and breathing techniques to help you fall asleep at night.
 If you find your thoughts are distracting you, it may be helpful to take a break.Sometimes when we are distracted it is an indication that we have been working too hard. Taking breaks can actually increase productivity overall, especially on brainstorming tasks.Try going for a walk or a stroll down the street.
Do something you enjoy for a few minutes, eat a snack, listen to music, or watch something on television.
 If you're someone who begins to daydream when you are not particularly engaged, such as sitting idly, try doing something somewhat active. Fidgeting may actually help individuals with attention issues concentrate better.Grab a pillow, stuffed animal, or stress ball that you can fiddle with.
Some people find that listening to music while working on simple tasks helps them focus.It serves as a partial distraction for the mind, so it can focus on what is important.

