 All families are different, and they will show affection in different ways. Some parents expect a hug from their children, while others are more comfortable with a handshake. Friendships also have a wide range of expression, but no matter what the gesture, it will show a family member or friend that you are there for them.Children will often seek even more contact, and sometimes require it. Holding a child’s hand while crossing the street, or picking them up when they are too tired to walk any more sends a clear message that you are there for them.
For adult family and friends, it might be appropriate to place your hand on the person's shoulder or squeeze her hand to let her know that you are there for her and you are concerned.
 People often forget the importance of openness as they age. Many times family members will stop telling each other that they care, and this can create a distance between them. Be open and honest with your family and friends, especially when they are struggling. For example, you might wrap your best friend in a long heartfelt hug before he moves out of town for a new job.
When it comes to children, they need your feedback. Be sure that you tell them you love them and care about them no matter what. Don’t fall into the trap of only being affectionate when they do something good or get hurt. This will lead them to think that those are the only times you care.
 This doesn’t mean that you have to spend all of your money or time delivering gifts to friends and family members. Just be sure that when you do give a gift, it is a gift that your family member will like. It could be as simple as picking up the tab for lunch, or buying your kid’s first car.Do not underestimate the gift of time. Spending time with those you care about can be difficult when life gets busy, but they will appreciate the effort if you come see them in their moment of need. , Whether you help your mom clean up her house or help your best friend move cities, it will be appreciated. Big or small chores can add up and overwhelm anyone, and helping a loved one get on top of things is a clear sign of affection. Even something as simple as dropping by to cook her dinner after she's had a baby can make an impact.