 In Nevada, you must meet certain requirements to be eligible to receive your contractor's license. Make sure you know what those requirements are before beginning the process.


To become a contractor, you need to have field experience in construction. You need four years of experience to qualify to become a contractor, and this experience only begins to count when you've reached the status of journeyman. A journeyman is someone who has either completed an apprenticeship program in contracting or is an experienced construction worker. You must be out of the initial training stages to be considered a journeyman, meaning you are qualified to perform necessary construction duties without training or supervision.You can also have four years experience as a supervisor or foreman, meaning you have experience overseeing and supervising physical construction. The next step up from a supervisory position would be a contractor, meaning you manage all daily activities of a construction site.There are no specific educational requirements to become a contractor. However, undergoing a 3-year training program from an accredited and board-approved college or university can be used in place of experience to qualify you for a license. You will still need a year of field experience after your education. You can browse the Nevada State Contractors Board website for a list of approved schools and programs.;
, The vast majority of the time, you need a license to contract in Nevada. However, under certain circumstances you may be able to work without a license.


If you are working under the supervision of the state or federal government or operating under the jurisdiction of a court, you do not need a license. If you are hired by the federal government to rebuild after a natural disaster you do not need a contracting license.If you are building on your own property, and you do not intend to sell your property or use it for commercial means, you do not need a license.If the value of a property is less than $1,000, you do not need a license to contract on that land.There are a number of exemptions available for land used for agricultural farming purposes. If you are a farmer or are conducting construction on a farm, see if you qualify for an exemption., Contracting licenses in Nevada come in different classifications, Responsibilities and rights vary between license. Make sure you know what license classification works best for you.


A Class A license is for a General Engineering Contractor. You would be allowed to oversee construction projects requiring special engineering knowledge and skills, usually regarding fixing repairs and damages to large structures.A Class B license is for a General Building Contractor. You would be legally able to oversee projects regarding the construction or remodeling of large buildings that shelter, store, or enclose people, animals, and movable objects. Such projects must require the use of two or more unrelated building skills.A Class C license is for a Speciality Contractor. In short, any construction job that does not fall into the first two categories would fall into Class C. There are 36 different categories of specialty contractor. You can consult the Nevada State Contractors Board's website for a full list of categories.