 Excel is the spreadsheet tool of the Microsoft Office productivity suite. It is available on both Windows and Mac operating systems.
 How you open the Custom Lists editor will vary depending on your operating system and software version of Excel.

For "Excel 2010" or later software on Windows, first, click the File menu at the top of your screen. Then, click Options, Advanced, and General, respectively. Here, click Edit Custom Lists.
For "Excel 2007" on Windows, click the Microsoft Office button in the upper-left corner of your screen. It looks like colored squares in a circle. Then, click Excel Options, Popular, Top options for working with Excel, respectively. Here, click Edit Custom Lists.
For "Excel for Mac", click the Excel menu in the upper-left corner. Then, click Preferences and Custom Lists, respectively. This will open the editor.
 You will see a list of all your lists in the Custom Lists editor. Click NEW LIST at the top of the Custom lists box to create a new custom list., This is the second box in the Custom Lists editor next to the Custom lists box. Here, you can see all the list entries when you select a list from the Custom lists box.

This box will be empty when you select NEW LIST.
 If your new list is short, you can manually fill out the List entries box with entries.

Hit ↵ Enter on your keyboard after each entry.
 This button lets you select a range of cells, such as a column or row, from your spreadsheets in order to use this data for your List entries. This option could be useful for long lists with too many entries to manually enter.

On Windows, this button looks like an upwards-pointing arrow icon.
On Mac, it's a red, diagonal arrow inside a rectangle box.
 This button will import all the data from the selected range of cells, and plug it into the List entries box., This button will create your new custom list., It will save your changes, and quit the Custom Lists editor. You can now use your new custom list.

If you're on a Mac, you might not have an OK button here. In this case, close the dialogue box by clicking the red "X" button in the upper-left corner of the Custom Lists window.

