 Mojitos are great refreshing cocktails that don't rely on a lot of mixers or sweeteners. To make a classic mojito that's low in carbs, smash 1 ounce of lime juice or about 3 lime wedges, 8 mint leaves and 1 tablespoon of zero-calorie sweetener in the bottom of a tall glass. Fill the glass with ice and pour in 1 1/2 ounces of white rum. Fill the glass with club soda or seltzer water and stir before serving.For a quicker low-carb mojito, you can use diet lemon-lime soda instead of the club soda and zero-calorie sweetener.;
, Margaritas are usually high in carbohydrates because they contain a large amount of sugar syrup and fruit juice. To cut back on the carbs, cut back on the fruit juice, use just a little no-sugar sweetener, and flavor the margarita with orange extract. Combine the following in a cocktail shaker and shake it till it's cold:3 ounces of tequila
2 ounces of lime juice
1 ounce of vodka
1/2 teaspoon of orange extract
1 tablespoon of zero-calorie sweetener, optional
Ice to mix and serve

, You may think that since gin and tonics don't contain much mixer or sugars, they'd be low in carbs. Unfortunately, most tonic water is high in carbohydrates. To make a low-carb version, use a sugar-free tonic water or a no-carb tonic water. Low-carb tonics are made with natural sweeteners like agave. You'll need to mix together:1 1/2 ounces of gin
4 to 6 ounces of no-sugar or low-carb tonic water
Ice to mix

, A traditional rum and cola runs high in carbohydrates. For a simple replacement that's lower in calories, mix one shot (1.5 ounces) of whiskey with about 4 1/2 ounces of diet cola. Pour the drink over ice and enjoy it immediately.An even better replacement for the high carb rum and cola is just whiskey on the rocks. This cuts out all of the sugar that comes with the soda or diet cola., Most of the carbohydrates in cocktails comes from the sweetener in the drink which could mean the soda, juice, or simple syrup that flavors the cocktail. Try to cut out as much of the sugar as possible or use a diet soda replacement.

For example, instead of drinking a Moscow Mule with ginger beer, vodka, and lime, you could mix diet ginger soda with vodka and a little lime., You may think that a classic cocktail (like a gin and tonic) that relies on tonic water would be low in calories, but most tonic waters are high in carbs. Swap out tonic water in any cocktail for soda water like seltzer water or club soda which are calorie free.

You may be able to purchase low-calorie tonic water in specialty stores.
 Distilled spirits do not have any calories. If you enjoy the taste, consider drinking the distilled spirits without any mixers. You can enjoy gin, tequila, vodka, rum and whiskey. You should also keep these spirits in mind when mixing your own low-calorie cocktails at home.Avoid flavored liqueurs and fortified alcohol which are all higher in carbohydrates.
 Most restaurants and bars offer unsweetened iced tea. You can order a glass of ice tea and a shot of your favorite distilled spirit (gin, tequila, rum, vodka, or whiskey). If you choose an unsweetened ice tea, this will make a great low-calorie cocktail.For a little extra flavor, ask for a few lemon wedges to squeeze into the drink.
 Cream or juice-based cocktails like a white Russian, mudslide, or margarita are high in calories because of the cocktail base, not the alcohol. Try to avoid cocktails that are mainly mixed with cream or juice since these are high in sugar and carbohydrates.

You should also avoid cocktails with garnishes that are high in carbohydrates, like additional fruit or whipped cream.

