 You can create an individual or professional seller account depending on your needs.


If you do not already have a normal Amazon account, create one by clicking on the "Your Account" tab in the upper right corner. You will be asked to provide an e-mail address, password, and basic contact information.
After submitting these details, you should receive a confirmation e-mail to notify you that your account has been created.
If you already have a normal Amazon account, click on the "Your Account" tab in the upper right corner of the page to visit your account page.
On the right side of your account page, there should be a heading called "Your Other Accounts." Click on "Your Seller Account" at the top of the list to begin the process of establishing a seller account. You will need to sign in again before your seller account can be activated.
Note the difference between an individual and professional seller account. You will be asked to choose one or the other as you set things up. A professional account has a $39.99 monthly subscription fee but no per sale closing fee while an individual account has no monthly fee but charges $0.99 as a per sale closing fee. A professional account also allows you to use feeds and spreadsheets to manage your inventory while also providing access to order reports.;
,


Under the "Settings" tab on your seller account page should be a link called "Account Info."
Upon going to this page, you should notice a "Deposit Method" section. Click on the "Edit" button in order to input your information.
Select the country your bank account is in under "Bank Location Country."
Enter your routing number and checking account number. Click on "Submit."
Wait until you receive a confirmation e-mail. This can take several days since Amazon will need to confirm the account with your bank.
 You can search for the title by going to the "Sell Your Stuff" page linked on your main account page or by finding the book through a standard search.


On the "Sell Your Stuff" page, type the title or ISBN into the search box. Make sure that "Books" is selected as the product category. Click on "Start Selling" to begin your listing.You could also search for the book on Amazon as though you were buying it. Once you locate the book and go to its corresponding item detail page, click on the "Sell on Amazon" button on the right side of the screen to begin your listing.
 If the book you want to sell has not been listed on Amazon already, you can begin a new listing for it by searching for the ISBN on the “Sell Your Stuff” page. When no results come up, Amazon will direct you to begin a new listing.


Type in all information about the book, including title, author, ISBN, and publisher information.
 Decide what price you want to sell your book for and input that information in the corresponding field.


If the book has already been listed on Amazon, a good way to determine the price you should sell it for is by noting the price that other sellers have listed their copies at. Since you are just beginning as a seller, you will need to list your copy at a low price in order to convince potential buyer's to purchase yours over someone else's.
 You need to set the "condition" of the book.You also need to type a brief description of the condition and note whether your book is hardcover or paperback.


The condition of a used book ranges from "Like New" to "Acceptable." A book can be listed as "New" only if it has never been touched or read.
A book is "Like New" if everything appears as though the book has never been touched. The dust cover must be intact with no tears. The spine should show no creasing and the pages must be completely clean and intact.
A book is "Very Good" if the pages and dust cover are intact and clean and if the spine is undamaged. The pages can show evidence of mild folding.
A book is "Good" if the pages and cover are intact. The spine can show limited signs of wear and the pages may include limited highlighting. The book can also have a "From the library of" label.
A book is "Acceptable" if the pages and cover are intact. The pages can include notes and highlighting, as long as the text is not obscured. The spine can also show creasing, but it must remain sturdy and intact.
If a book is "Unacceptable," it cannot be sold on Amazon. A book is "Unacceptable" if it includes missing pages, obscured text or ripped covers.
 Select the shipping method you plan on providing before saving your listing.


Once you save your listing, the book will be made available for sale on `amazon.com`.
 Follow the steps to create a seller account and to list a book for sale as usual. This listing can be converted to an FBA listing.


On your Seller Central page, select "Manage Inventory" under the "Inventory" section of your account.
Select the book you want to convert. Check the box next to the book in the far left column.
Go to the "Actions" pull-down menu on the page. From this menu, select "Change to Fulfilled by Amazon."
Amazon should take you to the conversion page next. Click on the "Convert" button to change the listing. Review the directions about completely your first shipment.
 Amazon will provide you with a list of fulfillment centers. Select the one nearest your location and follow the instruction about shipping your book or books to that fulfillment center.


Amazon will generate PDF product and shipment labels for your book. Print these labels and attach them to your shipping envelope as directed.
You can use Amazon's discounted shipping to send the book to the fulfillment center. Alternatively, you can also use your own carrier if you find that option to be cheaper or otherwise preferred.
 Amazon stores and ships your products. All you need to do is monitor the listing for your own records.


You will receive notification when Amazon receives your books. The Amazon fulfillment center will scan your inventory, record item dimensions and conditions, and input this information into the online tracking system.
When a customer purchases a book you are selling with FBA, Amazon will ship the order to the customer and update your listing. Outbound shipping costs are included in your service fees.
You will receive notification when your product has been purchased and shipped.
 You will need to submit a special application to join the Advantage program. This program is designed for sellers who intend to distribute their own work or large quantities of other books they are legally allowed to distribute.In order to participate, you will need North American distribution rights for any titles you enroll.
You will also need a valid e-mail address, access to the Internet, and a U.S. bank account.
Note that each title you list will need a valid ISBN and a scannable barcode.
Note that as a member of the Advantage program, you do not need to maintain a selling account or manage buying orders and feedback.The account you set up for an Advantage membership will require the same information as a standard selling account. You will need to input your name, e-mail, password, mailing address, and bank account.,


To confirm an order, you will need to log into your member page and select the "Orders" tab. After clicking on the corresponding Order ID number, you will confirm the order and receive shipping instructions.
Your Advantage account is not fully active until you enroll a title.
Each title must have an ISBN, and each copy must have a valid barcode.
 You can print out these slips from your order confirmation page.


The packing slip should be included in the box along with the books you ship. The shipping label is placed on the outside of the box.
 Amazon will instruct you on which fulfillment center to send your books to, and the address will be on the shipping label.


If you ship an order to an Amazon fulfillment center that does not meet its requirements, Amazon may ship it back to you at your expense.
You will be notified when your order is received at the facility.
 Amazon will proceed to sell the books and ship them out. You will receive payment upon purchase.


Under the Advantage program, the books are put up for sale under Amazon's name rather than your seller name. You will not receive feedback for the purchase or the condition of the book.

