 Disassembling your bed normally requires two people, especially for beds with an adjustable base. Having a second person around will also make the process simpler and safer.
 Verify that the mattress is lying in a flat position. Place yourself at the head of your bed and locate the mattress zipper between the pillow cover and base. Duvet-style beds will have two mattress zippers.If there are two mattress zippers, unzip only the bottom zipper, which is normally hidden under the edge of the mattress., Locate the gray tab on the side of the bed where the hose is attached to the bed’s air chamber. Push in the gray tab, then gently pull the hose out of the mattress cover through the opening in the cover. If your Sleep Number bed has two hose connections per air chamber, remove both hoses.Go to the other side of the bed, and repeat the above step to remove the remaining hose.
 This includes the air chambers, foam border walls, and corner locks. Once all these items have been removed you will reach the bottom of the mattress. Take photos of the inside of your mattress throughout disassembly so you can refer to them later on for correct placement when reassembling your Sleep Number bed., The Firmness Control System is the large white box unit to which the hoses are attached. Unplug it from the wall and place the system and its remote securely into a packing box and surround with packing material. This prevents the system from being exposed to excess shock and vibration, which could damage the it., Make sure the box is also surrounded with packing material so the chambers do not get punctured or damaged. This could result in needing replacement chambers., Place the foam comfort pads and mattress cover into a double bag. This helps prevent the pads and mattress cover from becoming stained during transport., The retainers are what’s holding the mattress in place. Use a 7/16 inch socket to loosen the hex bolts holding the mattress cover bottom to the adjustable base.Set aside the bolts and hardware components somewhere safe to use them when rebuilding the bed. This completes the disassembly process for your Sleep Number bed if using an adjustable base.

Proceed with the remaining steps if disassembling a modular base.
 Each decking panel slides directly off the bed to the left or right.You should not need any tools to slide the decking panels off., Unscrew the wing nuts and detach the legs from the base of the bed frame. Slide out all pins from the side rails and support beams, and add to the bag of hardware components.

Place all decking panels and support beams into a packing box. This will help prevent the components from accruing damage during transport.