 If you cannot care about the people you are serving, you will not excel as a nurse. Nurses deal with the sick and injured and their families on a daily basis, and you, as their nurse, need to be able to show them that you truly care about their situation. Showing you care can occur in a variety of ways, but they all involve attentiveness, responsibility, competence, and responsiveness.People believe that you care when you show them personal attention. For example, if you have a young patient who you know will be afraid to spend the night in the hospital, draw him a picture to cheer him up. If you know your patient prefers red jello to green jello, make sure to get her a cup of the red stuff.
Attentiveness to your patients' needs also shows that you care. For example, if your patient is feeling increased pain, contact the physician in charge of painkillers and get your patient's dosage increased. Then, check in with your patient and ask how s/he's feeling.Don't lapse into a formula with your patients. Make sure you personalize your interactions. Nobody wants to feel like a cog in a giant wheel, least of all people who are ill.
 Be completely honest with your patients, even if you don’t want to, even if you think honesty will upset the patient.Humans are often very good at perceiving when others aren’t being honest with us, and if your patients believe (or discover) that you’re being dishonest with them, it will destroy your patients’ trust in you.Honesty also means following through on your word. If you promise to revisit a patient or take a shift for a coworker, make sure that you follow through. Noting things in a planner or even on your phone can help you keep your obligations straight even in hectic circumstances.Ethics are paramount in nursing. When you make mistakes, own up to them and address them. Use them as learning experiences for next time and do better. Be honest with your team members and the other nurses and hospital staff as well.Patients are scared to be in the hospital, and the last thing they want is to be lied to. However, be wary of giving them a diagnosis, even when pressed; only doctors and nurse practitioners can diagnose.
 Nurses feel the joy of seeing a new baby born, followed by the pain of losing a long-term patient who had become a friend. Emotional stability is crucial in order to survive the roller coaster ride of emotions nurses must endure on a daily basis. Nurses who can’t control their emotions are more likely to experience burnout and low-performance. Nurses who know how to handle their feelings deal with stress better, make better decisions, and have better patient outcomes.Part of developing emotional stability is staying in touch with your feelings. Take moments to check in with yourself throughout the day. Know what you are feeling, and why. Think about the connections between your experiences and your emotions. Trying to bury your emotional responses will only make them explode later.Mindfulness may also help you keep your emotions from controlling you. Mindfulness focuses on noticing what you are experiencing and feeling, and accepting it without judgment. It can help relieve stress and anxiety and help you feel more in charge of yourself.There are many ways to practice mindfulness, but deep breathing and mindfulness meditation are common techniques.
 We're not talking about yoga here (although that can help you with your emotional stability!). Being able to adapt to widely different situations and patient needs is critical for being a good nurse. No day is quite like the next when you work as a nurse, so you need to be able to adapt to circumstances. People are unpredictable at the best of times, but under stress they become even more unpredictable. Nurses who are adaptable are able to handle multiple demands and swift change. They can shift their priorities and view situations from different perspectives.


Learning and practicing flexibility and adapting to change will also build emotional resilience. When you’re able to “roll with the punches,” you’re less likely to feel as though you need to control every facet of a situation. In nursing (and, honestly, life), you’ll never be able to exercise that kind of control., A crucial skill for nurses is empathy. You don’t have to understand exactly how people are feeling or coping with something to understand why they are having a hard time and that they need someone to care. Take the time to listen and ask questions. Sometimes, patients just need someone to acknowledge their feelings.Judgmentalism is the enemy of compassion and empathy. Try to see the situation from your patient’s perspective, even if it seems completely unfamiliar or even “wrong” to you. Even if you have no understanding of why a person would think or feel a certain way, acknowledge the importance of your patients’ feelings.
 Nursing can feel overwhelming and even terrifying sometimes. It’s important, both for your own health and your patients’, that you stay calm. Managing your stress in your personal life will help you with this. In stressful moments on the job, take a deep breath and count to ten. Remind yourself that you chose this profession because you want to help, and you can’t help your patient if you’re both upset.For example, if you are working in a labor and delivery unit, you might come across a woman who needs an emergency c-section to protect her baby’s health. This is an alarming and stressful moment for the mother, so it’s important that you remain the rock of calm in the situation. Clearly and quietly explain what is going to happen and why it’s necessary. Don’t raise your voice, shout, or become visibly upset. Watch to make sure your patient looks like she understands and ask for confirmation, such as “Nod if you understand.” If your patient doesn’t understand, try your best to clarify your explanation. Your cool and collected manner will set an example for your patient.
 As a nurse, you will encounter many situations that try your patience: lost charts, needy patients, overprotective parents. It’s important that you remain patient with your patients, but also stay patient with co-workers, physicians and family members -- even when you’ve been at work for 8 hours and the eighth family member from the same patient comes and ask you the same question again.Don’t give information that you don’t know or shouldn’t share. For example, a patient may ask you about test results that you know the results of. However, the doctor should call the patient to discuss the results. Calmly explain that you can’t give your patient that information.

