 If you've already traveled into the Eurozone, you're in luck — it's not usually hard to get your hands on Euros. For example, most European banks will sell Euros to non-citizens at very reasonable rates. Best of all, most banks in major European cities will have at least some staff members that speak English. If you're not comfortable awkwardly asking for an English speaker, you can always use the ATM (see below for more information).


Exchange rates at European banks tend to be quite good. Many banks will not charge a transaction fee for the service (though some will).
Note that the hours of operation for banks in Europe can be different than they are abroad. Banking holidays will also vary from country to country. If possible, check when the bank is open online before making your trip.;
, You can also buy Euros at most major banks in the UK, Canada, Australia, and the US. This is handy if you want to have a small amount of European currency in your wallet when you step off the plane. Some traveler's guides strongly recommend this.Others, however, favor buying Euros in Europe to avoid the risk of traveling with large amounts of currency.


Fees at banks in the English-speaking world can vary from place to place and based on whether or not you have an account. Anecdotally, American banks are said to have less-favorable dollar-to-euro exchange rates than their European counterparts., Believe it or not, many European post offices (especially in major cities) will have small "mini-banks" inside that will be able to change your money from your home country's currency to euros. Not all post offices will have these mini-banks, but the ones that do are claimed to have some of the best exchange rates available.Even some post offices in the English-speaking world will have small banks or exchange bureaus available to exchange your currency. This is by no means guaranteed, however, so check online or via phone before visiting if possible.
 Since busy airports are host to thousands (sometimes millions) of passengers from around the world every day, they will usually have their own currency exchange booths and kiosks. Any of these will be happy to convert your cash into Euros — whether you're in your home country or the Eurozone.


You may want to avoid this option if you have other choices available. While airport exchanges are are convenient, according to some sources, they often have some of the least-favorable exchange rates.Note that airports that don't receive a great deal of international traffic (like smaller regional airports) may not have their own exchanges.
 Some major cities and tourist locations will have currency exchanges completely separate from banks, post offices, airports, and so on. These can range from small kiosks to bank-like brick and mortar locations, depending on where you are. The most well-known currency exchange service for most Americans is Travelex, but you may be able to find other currency exchanges (also called bureaus de change) in the following locations:


At major transportation hubs (airports, train stations, etc.)
Near tourist destinations/landmarks
Near hotels, resorts, etc.
Near commercial areas (markets, malls, etc.)
If you haven't left for Europe yet, try using Travelex's store locatore here to find a currency exchange near you., It's important to note that most ATMs in Europe — those at banks and those elsewhere — will allow you to buy Euros by debiting your checking account. This can be an exceptionally convenient option since there are likely to be hundreds of ATMs in any major European city. In addition, most ATMs will operate in a variety of languages including English.


With ATMs, the fees you incur can vary greatly depending on the bank you use. Some banks may charge a "foreign transaction" fee in addition to the standard ATM fee, which can make using ATMs expensive. Thus, it is usually cheapest to make a few big withdrawals, rather than many small ones.If you intend to use ATMs in Europe, notify your bank in your home country before leaving. If not, your bank may interpret the financial transactions in Europe as fraudulent activity or identity theft.

