 You may experience pain while sitting or during sexual intercourse, or sometimes no pain at all, only swelling. If you suspect that you may have a Bartholin cyst, it is important to see your family doctor for a pelvic exam to confirm the diagnosis.


In addition to a pelvic exam, your doctor will likely test for STIs (sexually transmitted infections).
This is because, if you have an STI in conjunction with your Bartholin cyst, you are at higher risk of having your cyst become infected (and you will likely be given antibiotic treatment — more on this later).
If you are over 40 years old, your cyst may also be biopsied to rule out the possibility of cancer of the female reproductive system.;
, A Sitz bath is when you fill the bathtub with just enough water to cover your buttocks and vagina when you sit down in the water. The water does not need to be any deeper than that, although it can be, if you would like. (This depends on personal preference, and whether you are aiming to make the bath an enjoyable experience, or simply one of convenience.)


You should have a Sitz bath at least 3 to 4 times per day.
The purpose of regular Sitz baths is to keep the area around the Bartholin cyst clean, to reduce pain and/or discomfort in the area, and also to increase the chances of the cyst naturally draining itself.
 If your Bartholin cyst does not naturally drain itself and resolve with Sitz baths after several days, you may want to see your doctor to discuss the possibility of surgical drainage. The reason that it is important to discuss treatment options sooner rather than later is that, if the cyst does not resolve, it may become infected and form what is called an "abscess."This is more complicated to treat than a simple cyst, so it is best to be proactive.


If you are under 40 and you the cyst is asymptomatic (no pain, fever, etc.), then often no medical intervention is necessary.
If you notice signs of a fever alongside your Bartholin cyst, see your doctor for treatment.
To prevent your cyst from becoming infected, use condoms during sex, particularly if you are unsure whether your partner has an STI; however, it is not necessary to refrain from sex., You can purchase over-the-counter pain medications at your local pharmacy or drugstore. Some common choices include:


Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) 400 – 600 mg every four to six hours as needed.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) 500 mg every four to six hours as needed.
 You can see your family doctor, who may do it themselves (if they are experienced with the procedure). Alternatively, they may refer you on to another physician to have the procedure performed.


Most cases of incision and drainage are outpatient procedures done in the doctor's office and only require local anesthetic.
An incision (opening) will be made in your cyst, allowing any fluid inside to drain out.
A catheter (tube) may be placed into the cyst for up to six weeks following the procedure. This is usually only done for cases of recurrent Bartholin cysts.
The purpose of the catheter is to keep the cyst open, so that any further fluid that accumulates can drain out immediately.
Keeping the cyst open prevents fluid buildup and, as such, allows the cyst to naturally heal.
 It is important to complete the full course of antibiotics, and to not miss taking any of the pills, as missing pills will lessen the effectiveness of the antibiotics.


Also, if you test positive for any STIs, you will receive antibiotics whether or not your cyst is currently infected.
The purpose to prevent an infection, as testing positive for STIs heightens your risk that your cyst may subsequently become infected.
 If your Bartholin cyst recurs, you can speak to your physician about a procedure called marsupialization. This is when the cyst is surgically drained, and then stitches are placed on either side of the cyst to hold it open following the procedure.This opening is permanent, and serves to prevent recurrences of the Bartholin cyst.
You will likely have a catheter (tube) in for a few days following the surgical procedure; however, after that, the catheter can be removed because the stitches will be strong enough to keep the incision open.
 Both of these are simple procedures that do not require an overnight hospital stay.
 Doctors do recommend that you begin treatment — either home treatment or medical treatment — as quickly as possible once you notice a cyst developing.
 Again, this is to ensure that the area remains clean, and to maximize healing while minimizing the risk of infection.


Sitz baths are advised beginning one to two days following the surgical procedure.
 For as long as the catheter remains in, it is key to refrain from sexual intercourse.


Abstaining from sex for that time period will also help to prevent your cyst from becoming infected.
After marsupialization, even though there is no catheter, you will be advised to refrain from sex for four weeks following the procedure to ensure full healing.
 Alternatively, if your pain is more severe, you may ask your doctor for prescription strength pain medications (narcotics) such as Morphine in the initial stages of recovery.

