 You may already have a navy blue or charcoal grey suit and appreciate its versatility. A second suit doesn’t have to be specialized for a certain or set of occasions; you may wish to purchase another suit with a different highly versatile color scheme.


If you already own a charcoal grey suit, purchase a navy blue one to maximize versatility.
Having two different color suits will limit the chances that people will see you in the same suit twice in a row.
Women may choose to purchase separates so you may have pants and skirts that both match a single jacket.
 Dark brown suits can be fairly versatile, but aren't well suited for very formal events or environments where business dress is taken more seriously. Brown suits are considered slightly more casual than most all-purpose suits.Be aware of how the material of your suit matches the color. Brown tweed usually denotes an academic environment, for instance.
Brown suits are best for people with dark complexions and hair color.
Some brown jackets can be matched with tan pants or skirts, but it depends on the shade and pattern of each.
 Light grey suits are great for a number of social occasions, but are considered less formal than their charcoal grey cousins. It is best to choose a light grey suit after you already have at least one all-purpose suit to use for more formal events.Light grey suits are great for summer and fall occasions, but are particularly good for spring events.
Lighter shades of grey lend themselves well to introducing patterns in your accessories like tie, pocket square or purse.
Light grey separates match well with navy blue garments.
 While a tan suit can technically be classified as brown, light shades of brown and tan materials match a lighter complexion well enough that it warrants separate consideration. Tan suits are excellent for spring and summer social events, but are often not formal enough for black tie events or companies that take business dress very seriously.Tan suits are a great way to switch things up if you commonly wear suits to work.
Tan is well suited for light complexions and hair.
Tan skirts and pants match well with women’s open toed shoes for outdoor events.
 Choosing the right color suit is only the beginning; you also need to choose accessories that match the color scheme you’ve picked out. Making sure you have the right shirt, belt, shoes and other accessories can make the difference between a professional appearance and a disheveled one.


Shirts and blouses should always be a complimentary color to the jacket. Use a color wheel to help you Coordinate Colors.
Match the color of your shoes to the color of your belt. Black and brown are the most versatile colors, but using others can breathe new life into a suit and help switch things up.
Avoid using multiple patterns when matching accessories to your suit. If your suit is patterned, your accessories should not be.

