


Have your hair cut every couple of months to keep it in good condition. Ensure it is always brushed and smooth.
Don't bite your nails, but keep them a good length and always ensure they are painted, even if it is just with a clear or nude colored polish.
Shower daily, sometimes twice. Brush your teeth several times a day, and remember to use whitening polish, floss and mouthwash.
Wash your face often and use products suitable for your skin in order to get it clean, smooth and glowing. Moisturize too, and apply suncream most days.
Shave daily, or wax frequently, and always ensure your eyebrows are perfect.
Always wear deodorant and a light (not overpowering) perfume.
Don't overeat or under eat. Have a healthy balanced diet with lots of good foods, and you will be the perfect weight.
Exercise. Go to the gym with friends, or work out at home. Take up sports such as tennis, which not only help you keep fit, but also give a sense of wealth. Furthermore, it's easy to dress well while playing tennis!
Treat yourself with fast food or sweets every now and again, but not all the time!;
, This is important before going on to the next steps, as you need to organize and evaluate what items you already have, and what items you need.


Keep good, well made items that you like and are in good condition.
Get parents to repair anything that is torn.
Start selling everything you don't want on eBay. Take good photos (and model the clothes if possible), to try to get the most money you can for your clothes.
With things that are in poor condition or won't sell on eBay, give them to a thrift store, donate them to charity, or throw away.
Make a list of items you think you need, and keep this list in mind whenever you are shopping online or with your friends. Make sure the list includes absolutely everything you need, and make a promise to yourself to not buy anything not on the list.
 eBay is great for buying brands such as Abercrombie, Lacoste and Ralph Lauren for super cheap prices. Look around often in order to grab yourself a bargain.


Buy basic clothes, shoes and accessories in the following colors: black, navy, grey, beige, brown.
You will need polos, oxford shirts, dresses, jeans, skirts and trousers in these basic colors.
You will also need basic shoes, such as flats, brogues, loafers and court shoes. Buying them in the colors stated will mean they can go with everything.
Reorganize your wardrobe after buying these basic items. Put together several different outfits, ensuring you are always polished and color coordinated.
 Now, it's time to make it more obvious to them. Using the money you have saved from buying clothes cheaply online, spend large amounts of money when shopping with your friends.


Buy expensive designer shoes and bags. Having expensive shoes is important as these are often the first thing people notice, and therefore the first thing you will be asked about. It's also vital to have at least one designer tote bag (even if it's just a high street designer), as this will be used every day.
Buy expensive jewelry. Though you can save money on other jewelry, your friends will know you are rich when buying something small in size for a large price.
Get a small number of expensive clothes. Though accessories and shoes are timeless and will always be in fashion, it is also good to buy expensive clothes while shopping with your friends, as this will show them price is unimportant to you.
As well as clothes, you should also get the gadgets. A smartphone and tablet are must haves for somebody that wishes to appear rich. Keep these with you at all times.



When shopping, don't look at price tags - if you have to, do it subtly and do not show your reaction.
Never comment on price at all. If you say something is too expensive, your friends will automatically assume you are not rich enough to afford it. Likewise, commenting on something cheap makes it seem like you appreciate it when things are cheap, which rich people shouldn't because they have enough money to buy expensive things.
Don't make it obvious you have money to spend, and don't show off about it, but answer politely if a friend asks you.
Never ever head straight for the sale racks, or even comment when you see one when with friends. Feel free to look there, but only when casually browsing around a store: don't spend hours rooting through, it will make you look desperate.



When out shopping with friends, offer to buy everybody lunch.
If any of your friends are running low on cash, take them to one side and offer them money. You should never ever be patronizing, just politely offer and accept if they decline. They will appreciate you offering it secretly rather than embarrassing them in front of everyone.
Give your friends great gifts. This means the gift should be something your friend will like, but also something that has a brand name attached to it. This shows you are thoughtful enough to spend a lot of money on them.



Go to the salon, to get your nails done, or to the spa as often as you can, and then bring it up in conversation when with your friends.
Go on holidays or city breaks as frequently as possible, which will give the impression that you lead a luxurious life.
Never go out looking bad. You don't know who you might see, and you should always be well groomed.

