 One way that you can avoid conflicts about political issues is to set your privacy settings so that only people you approve can see your posts.Limiting your visibility will prevent people that might disagree with your political opinions from seeing your posts. If they can’t see them then they can’t respond to them or create conflict.


On Facebook, go to your account settings and select ‘privacy.’ Select the desired options for who can see your posts and profile information.
If you are using Instagram, go to settings and select your desired privacy settings. For example, you can select who sees your posts, who can respond, as well as block specific people from seeing your posts.
Snapchat allows you to select whether everyone sees your post or only specific people each time you post something.
Review your privacy options in other social media app settings like Tumblr, Twitter, and Pinterest to limit your visibility.;
, One thing that ‘internet trolls’ look for are posts that contain incorrect information presented as a fact. They often ridicule, share, and leave comments that might create conflict when they find something inaccurate in a post. If you are posting something as a fact, check with various reputable sources to make sure that your information is correct before posting it.If you are sharing a news report make sure that you check the original source and that the source is reliable.
If something is your opinion and not a fact, then you might want to say something like, “In my opinion” or “I think.”
If you are reposting something that someone else posted, you can mention that your content is a repost. You can say, “This is a repost that I liked.”

, The simplicity of sharing your opinion on social media makes it easy to post content without considering the effect it will have. Thinking about how someone else might interpret your post or whether it might be seen as controversial can help you avoid conflict.


Try to look at your post objectively. If the language were different would you find it offensive? For example, if you’re thinking about posting a meme making fun of Republicans, ask yourself, “Would this be funny if it were about Democrats?”
Think about who might be offended or have a negative comment about your post. For example, consider whether the post is rude, mean, or discriminatory.
 Humor is always good at reducing tension and preventing conflict from popping up. In, fact nearly half of people that view political posts view humorous pics, videos, and content. If you want to post political content without causing conflict, consider posting things that are comical.Instead of directly posting your opinion, try to find a meme or video that represents how you feel.
Remember that not everything is funny to everyone. Avoid posts making fun of others’ race, religion, sexual orientation, or gender.

