 Many babies swallow air when they cry. If your baby tends to cry often, pick her up and comfort her as quickly as possible.

Some babies are very sensitive and may not be able to soothe themselves without help from a parent.
You can help prevent your baby from swallowing air when crying by holding her when she’s upset and helping her to calm down.
 This will reduce the amount of air she swallows. During all holds keep the baby's head above her stomach and support her head. This will help her swallow properly. Common positions are:The side-lying hold, where mom and baby are lying tummy to tummy on the bed with the baby's head at the mom's breast.
The football hold, where mom is upright and holds the baby like football with her feet in mom's armpit and her head at the breast on the same side.
The cross-cradle hold, where mom holds the baby like a football, but nurses the other breast.
The cradle hold, where the baby's head is supported by mom's elbow and her body lies across mom's forearm.
 If your baby is particularly gassy, you can interrupt the feeding a few times in the middle to burp her. You can burp your baby in a few different positions:

Sit upright and hold the baby to your chest. Allow your baby's chin to rest on your shoulder as you gently pat her back.
Hold your baby sitting upright. Support her head by cradling her chin with one hand, and use the other to pat her back.
Place your baby on her belly across your lap. Make sure the baby's head is still higher than her chest. Gently pat her on the back.
 There are a few simple changes that may help enormously if your baby swallows air during bottle feeding.

Hold the bottle high enough that the nipple stays full. If the nipple is only partially full with milk, the baby will suck in air with the milk.
Try a different bottle or a different nipple on the bottle. Your baby might not swallow as much air when drinking from a bottle with a disposable, collapsible bag.
 Though it’s rarer in babies than in adults, some babies are allergic to cow’s milk, or intolerant of it. These babies often do much better on formulas which are easier to digest. If formula was causing your baby’s gas, you should see improvement in about two days. Possible formulas to try include:Similac Expert Care Alimentum
Nutramigen
Pregestimil

, If your baby might have a genetic predisposition to allergies, stopping eating these foods might help relieve your baby’s gas. It may take a few weeks before you notice a reduction in your baby’s gas. Possible allergens include:Dairy
Peanuts
Tree nuts
Wheat
Soy
Fish
Eggs

