 Speak with students in more advanced Italian classes, or make friends with people who are fluent speakers. Conversing with people who are fluent in Italian is the best way to improve your language skills; it's impossible to get this kind of practice by reading a textbook or using other educational resources.


Start an Italian discussion group that meets a few times a week. The goal should be to speak only Italian for a full hour or so. You can have everyone discuss a certain conversation topic, or simply go with how the conversation flows.
Plan outings with Italian speakers so you can practice using the language in a variety of contexts. For example, you could go to a museum and discuss art in Italian.
Find a way to speak Italian for at least half an hour a day. Even on the days when you don't meet with your group, give a fellow Italian speaker a call and chat in Italian for half an hour. Meet with an Italian instructor during his or her office hours and discuss the class in Italian. Get as much practice in as you can.
 Media immersion is a good way to continue improving your skills, and it helps you gain a deeper understanding of the Italian language through pop culture and other contexts. Rent Italian films and watch them with Italian subtitles, or no subtitles at all. Focus on understanding the language; soon you should be able to pick up on what the actors are saying.
 If you want to become fluent in Italian, there is no substitute for going to Italy and studying the language there for as long as you can. Attaining full fluency could take many years, but even a stay of 6 months to a year will vastly improve your language skills.


Look for study abroad opportunities offered by your college or university. You may be able to spend a semester or a year studying in Italy.
If you aren't affiliated with a school, look for work opportunities in Italy. Foreigners can work abroad through arts programs, organic farming programs, and other interesting opportunities.
When you're in Italy, speak only Italian and try to avoid English. Don't gravitate toward the English-speaking foreigners you'll inevitably encounter. Many well-meaning Italians may assume you'd rather speak English, but you should politely continue to speak Italian, even if it's difficult at first. With enough time and practice, the language will begin to click and you'll be able to speak with fluency.

