 Each of CTA's lines operate frequent service through most of the day, every day (with a couple of exceptions). To find your way: Simply determine where you may enter the system, where you need to go, and follow the most direct, colored route on the map. Trains are designated by line color and its final destination (i.e., Blue Line train to O'Hare, Brown Line train to Kimball, Pink Line train to the Loop).
If you have to transfer from one line to another, do so at a designated transfer station--it's free!


You can also use CTA's website or the RTA Tripsweb to help you plan your trip.;
, Fares on the 'L' are paid with electronic farecards. You can buy or refill a Transit Card at any 'L' station's main entry. To enter, simply insert your card into the slot on the turnstile, remove it when it's given back to you, and walk through when the green "ENTER" light goes on. Chicago Card and Chicago Card Plus holders only need to wave their card past the circle on the front of the turnstile as they enter.


Be aware that the CTA will soon be replacing the magnetic stripe cards you insert into a slot with Ventra cards, which are read via NFC. Simply touch your card to the large plastic square with "Ventra" printed on it and hold it in place until the light goes green and a tone plays.
 Follow signs directing you to trains heading in the direction you wish to go. For example, if you are downtown and need to go north on the Red Line, follow signs to trains going to "Howard" (the northern terminal of the Red Line).
 Trains will show their destination on the front and sides of the train (center window). At transfer points, the recorded announcements also announce what kind of train it is audibly ("This is a Red Line train to Howard").
 At designated transfer points, you may transfer for free between trains. Simply follow signs on platforms to the line and train destination you need. If you must exit the system and walk to a nearby station as part of a transfer, no money will be deducted from your farecard when you use it to re-enter (the system recognizes you as a free transferee).

