 However, make sure it's not tight to the point where it pulls on your scalp.;
, Wrap it around your ponytail.
 Make sure you gather up any stray strands or uncooperative pieces of hair before you secure the ponytail.


If your hair is short and hair falls out of the ponytail, use bobby pins or barrettes to fasten them back into place.
 Not only will your style depend upon the occasion, but the shape of your face will affect your choice. While some people may look gorgeous in messy ponytails, others would appear more attractive with a neat ponytail., Make sure you gather up all of your hair in your hand.






Arrange the pieces around a little with your free hand if your ponytail is a little too messy. You could also use a comb, but make sure you don't turn your ponytail into a neat one.






Secure the ponytail with an elastic hair tie once you're satisfied with its appearance. You can still pin back stray bits and stubborn strands with bobby pins or barrettes.
 Make sure you've gotten all the stray bits and pieces.






Run your hand along your hair to check for strange bumps or frizzy areas.






Secure your ponytail with an elastic hair once you're satisfied with its appearance. Redo your ponytail if you think it's a little too messy.






Beware of pulling your hair back too tightly. A tight ponytail can give a sharp, stern appearance, and it doesn't always suit people's faces. To avoid this, use your hand as a comb, and tie your ponytail loosely.
 Make sure you've gathered up all the pieces and strands.



If you find this difficult to pull off, you could tie your hair back into a regular ponytail. Then, tug your ponytail to the right or left side.
, You could also slide your ponytail down so that it's halfway down your head where a regular ponytail would normally sit.

French braid your ponytail till you reach the end.
Secure an elastic at the bottom of the ponytail where you've stopped braiding.







Braid your ponytail till you reach the end.






Secure an elastic at the bottom of the ponytail where you've stopped braiding.
 You could also borrow one from a family member or friend.
Pull your hair back into a regular ponytail, securing it with an elastic hair tie.






Using the straightening iron, straighten your ponytail.






Another option is to straighten your hair before pulling it back into a ponytail.
 You could also borrow one from a family member or friend.
Pull your hair back into a regular ponytail, securing it with an elastic hair tie.






Using the curling iron, curl your ponytail into loose or tight curls.
,,