 If you like the idea of a big simple shape to decorate the towel, but don’t want to sew, you can stencil a shape on instead. You’ll need a stencil, tape, spray bottle, and dye or bleach that will contrast with your towel’s color. (In general, use dye for light towels, and bleach for dark ones.)


Pick out a stencil you like. You can print shapes onto cardstock and then cut around the edge to make a stencil, if you don’t have a pre-made stencil that excites you.
Tape your stencil to the towel.
Fill a spray bottle with fabric dye or undiluted clothing bleach.Spray bleach or dye through the stencil.
Wait a few minutes for the chemicals to develop on the towel. If you want a stronger color, spray more on.
Wash the towel after the stencil dries. Be careful not to wash it with anything that could be damaged by extra bleach or dye.
 If you want even more control over the imagery on the towel, you can use clothing bleach to paint on a word or design. This creates a beautiful and artsy appearance, and it’s quite easy. You’ll need chalk, gloves, bleach, a paintbrush, and dark-colored towels.


Sketch out your design in chalk.Put on your gloves. Now, using a paintbrush or foam brush, apply fabric bleach to the fabric on top of the chalk. You may have to wiggle the brush to drive the bleach into the pile of the towel.
Let the bleach develop, then wash the towel.
Breathe safe! If you’re working with bleach, make sure you’re in a well-ventilated area, wear gloves, and take breaks if you feel woozy., You can achieve a trendy image by dip-dying the tips of a towel. You’ll need light-colored towels, RIT dye, gloves, salt, a hanger, newspapers, and a bucket or tub that you can stain with no repercussions.Put on the gloves, so you don’t end up with purple hands.
Prepare a dye bath according to the package directions. This may require a surprising amount of table salt.
Wet the towel. Fold it in half and hang it over the hanger so that both ends are even.
Dip the tips of the towel into bath, and let them soak for 5-10 minutes.
Hang the towel to dry with its ends positioned over a pad of newspapers (to avoid staining the floor). Don’t let the dyed parts touch anything.
Wash the towel according to the dye’s package directions.
 For extra fun for young guests, tie-dyed towels are great. This is a project with an improvisational flavor, so you can even invite kids to help. You will need light-colored towels, rubber bands, a tie-dye kit, newspapers, and a bucket or tarp.Use the rubber bands to create a base pattern for the towel--there will be white stripes wherever the bands were. Bind the towel into sections for a striped design, or pull and tie off small corners to make starbursts.
Get the towel wet in the sink, then squeeze out excess water.
Place the towel in a bucket or on a tarp and squirt dye onto it. Don’t be dainty--it’s more fun if it’s colorful.
Carefully remove the bands from the towel (you might want to wear gloves for this step), and let the towel dry flat on a thick pad of newspapers.
Wash according to the kit’s directions.

