 Keeping a journal can help you understand what exactly intimidates your dog, especially if they cling to you but resist encounters with other people or animals. Jot down as many details as possible whenever your dog appears shy, fearful, or stressed.Note physical descriptions of people involved, any interactions involved, the time of day, what the dog ate, and how much exercise they had that day.
For example, keeping a record of shy behavior might help you determine that your dog is shy around people with beards, is afraid of children, doesn’t like strangers, or is less likely to be anxious after it’s had enough daily exercise. This information can then help you develop strategies for dealing with specific triggers.
 Once you’ve identified a specific trigger, expose your dog to a less intense version of it. Use gradual, reward-based desensitization training to ease their shyness.For example, if the busy streets in your neighborhood stress your dog, consider playing a recording with traffic sounds on low volume inside your home. Practice command words or play a game with your dog to build a positive association with traffic sounds.
If your dog is shy around other dogs, think of any friends or family you might have with a small, calm dog. Bring the two dogs within visual range, but consider separating them using a baby gate. Ignore your dog if they bark at the other dog, and calmly get the other dog out of sight if your dog doesn’t calm after several minutes. If they do quiet down, offer a food treat as soon as they become calm to create a positive association.
 If your dog is shy around other members of your household, have that person feed and walk your dog. If your dog depends on you for comfort and confidence, try to withhold giving the dog attention while you’re acclimating them to the person that intimidates them. The dog will gradually build new positive associations with the person who used to make them shy.Try to take note if the intimidating person has a booming voice, is a rough handler, or does anything else that might make your dog shy. Tell the person, “I think there’s a chance the dog gets scared around loud noises. Maybe you could try speaking a little softer.”

, If your dog is shy around you and other people but likes other dogs, schedule a playdate with a friend or family member’s social dog. Seeing another dog comfortably play around you and the other dog's owner can help encourage your dog to overcome their shyness.If they’ve never met before, introduce the two dogs slowly, and consider first offering them objects that smell like the other dog before letting them make visual contact.  

