 Fixing them up or upgrading them is no easy task. Finding spare parts or materials to fix or replace it is even harder. So consider if you really are up to the task before you do anything. Also remember that there's a difference between willing to do the work rather then dreaming and thinking that you could.;
, Knowing how to fix technologies and knowing how they work is a MUST if you are planning to go through with this. Because this entire thing will not work at all if you don't know how to fix even the most basic technical problems that the devices has, let alone upgrading them.
 Having a reliable partner will sometimes help make maintenance on devices more quicker.
 It'll be a good idea if you could create yourself a workplace with enough spaces that you could go and work at during any given time throughout the day. Consider having shelves and places where you could separately store equipment, tools and parts in an organized fashion.
 Look through for a while for some good deals on technologies that you could use as parts or fix up pretty cheaply.
 It might not be worth it if you start off with something really difficult to fix at first as it will wouldn't exactly be cost effective for you. Only start doing so after you feel you are ready to move on to the more difficult stuffs.
 Because sometimes things are just not financially worth fixing or upgrading in the end and you'll just ended up wasting your time and money.
 Try to only focus on a few items at a time so you wouldn't exactly be overworked or over stressed.
 Also upgrading them to it's maximum specifications would help make it seem more appealing to people.
 Try not to fix something that will cost so much money because then it'll be harder to sell later because you will need to charge more money in the end just to cover the costs.
 It'll be easier for you to make more money if you could get your hands on the stuffs for a cheap price. After fixing them up and upgrading them, try to sell it just slightly higher then you originally paid for it.
 Make sure you know the difference between a good and bad deals.
 It's obvious that you have to sell it at a price where it can cover the costs to fixing and upgrading it up.
 This is perhaps the most important part. You cannot sell anything if the device doesn't work properly or at all. Also make sure the charger/AC power adapter works because it couldn't be sold at a good price without one or the other.

