 Using a soft toothbrush or a bristle brush made for leather, gently brush away any dirt, dust, or debris. Brush the leather with soft strokes in the same direction. If you scrub the shoes in multiple directions, you're likely to leave scars.

Use a rubber-bristled brush rather than a nylon-bristled brush. Rubber brushes will be easier on your shoes.;
, Make a cleaning solution with water and mild dish soap.Dampen a microfiber cloth with the solution, and use it to clean your Sperrys. Apply firm pressure while you rub in a circular motion to remove residual dirt and scuffs.

Don't get the leather too damp, as excessive wetness can make the leather fibers less supple.Avoid using saddle soap on your Sperrys, which can break down and damage most leathers., After you have washed your Sperrys with water, wipe them dry with another microfiber cloth. Use the same circular motion as you did to remove the scuffs. Continue wiping until your Sperrys are dry, at which point you can proceed to the next step., Before you can polish your Sperrys, you need to apply leather conditioner. Using a soft cloth, apply a thin layer of conditioner to your shoe's leather. Let the conditioner absorb into the shoe for 10-20 minutes, then remove it with a dry section of the cloth., Use a soft cloth to apply the polish in a clockwise motion around the shoe. When you have polished the entire leather surface, use a separate cloth to remove the polish in a counterclockwise motion.

Test the polish on a small part of the shoe first to make sure it won't cause discoloration.
Cream polishes will retain your shoe's color best, but wax polishes are ideal for shine., Using a soft microfiber cloth once again, buff your shoes in a circular motion by applying direct pressure to the shoes. For an extra shine, apply a few drops of water onto the cloth before you buff your Sperrys., You cannot clean suede shoes the same way that you clean leather. Suede is treated differently and has a napped finish because it is made of the underside of animal skin.Follow the cleaning instructions for suede shoes to avoid causing damage.