 An overly bulky bag is pointless, distracting, and seems rather high-maintenance. Roll up clothes and stuff underwear in shoes. Try to pack in a satchel or backpack and make sure all toiletries can fit in one makeup case or bag. If not a backpack, then the smallest suitcase ever. Chances are there won't be much room where you are going.


Take clothes for all types of weather. If you're staying for a couple of nights.
Don't take too much makeup. You only need concealer, blusher, waterproof mascara, lip balm and perfume.;
, This will give you have something to listen to if you're bored.
,, You'll be everyone's best friend!

, Both on the bus/car and in your room or cabin at the destination. Bring an iPod (if allowed) and tons of books or paper pads and pencils. Block out the world from your own little bus seat, or maybe talk to some poor soul who needs their own oasis too.
 When you arrive, claim a bunk or bed or loft as yours and make it home. Arrange pillow, books, and sleeping bag exactly how you like them because hey! No parents to tell you otherwise!

, Or, if it suits you, enjoy some alone time on your suspiciously lumpy camp bed, reading. Volleyball is fun, or swimming or the ultimate last resort. Re-imagine movies in your head, that you can't watch now because you are on this trip.
 Drama is bad! It's seriously fun to watch drama go down from a comfy perch on the top bunk, but it is no fun from the middle of everything. So stay out of it, but for extra entertainment it isn't the worst thing to watch. But remember: It is not fun to be involved.
 Don't forget anything because chances are you will not get it back. Get your stuff out for the drive back and keep in your own little bubble, just like the drive there. And, unless the bus wrecks, count yourself lucky. You survived.
 Wear your seat belt if your seat has one fitted.


Sit on your seat properly. Whilst it is tempting to kneel on the seat so you can chat to the person behind you, remember if the bus has to brake very sharply or is hit from behind, you are at risk of being flung the length of the bus.
Don't walk around the bus if traveling by bus. Remain seated.
Avoid distracting the coach driver. Most professional drivers will have encountered their fair share of excitable school children but keep the singing, shouting, fighting and throwing things to a minimum.
Don't distract other road users. Flashing, mooning, making obscene gestures and showing other road users "amusing" signs is hilarious until they mess up overtaking your bus because they are distracted, spin out of control and inadvertently cause a vehicle pile up.
Keep emergency exit doors closed. Falling from a vehicle traveling at only a few miles an hour can result in serious injuries and if you or one of your classmates is unfortunate enough to be run over after falling from the bus or coach, death is a strong possibility.
 Listen carefully to the instructions provided by the instructor and teacher. Do not be afraid to point out any problems that you see, such as weather issues, equipment problems and unusual things you've spotted. It is better to raise these things and have them explained or assessed, than to not speak up and have a problem occur.

