 Open Google Play Store on your android menu and type “Badoo” on the search bar with magnifying glass. Click on the result from the drop down, reading “Badoo”. If you are using other softwares like iOS, Windows or Blackberry; open the desired stores and search for the “Badoo” app and download it respectively. If you’re using iOS or Windows, download the respective app from the store on your phone. You can also do that directly by visiting the Badoo official website.
 After opening the link, click on the green button reading “Install”. This will take few seconds to download and install the app. You will get a notification once after the installation is complete. Click on the notification. This will redirect you to the play store. You can notice that the “Install” button changes into “Open” button. Click on it to open.
 Locate the app icon on your device’s home screen and app drawer. Tap to launch the app.


If you don’t have the app yet, you can get it from the App Store for iOS or Google Play for Android.
 You can log into Badoo using your Facebook account. Should you do this, you will be asked to log into Facebook and link Badoo with your Facebook account.


You can also log in with Google+ or email. To get these options, tap “Other options” on the welcome screen. Logging in with Google+ is the same as with Facebook. You log into your Google+ account and link Badoo with it. If you signed up with Badoo using an email address, just enter it into the field provided and then the password into the field below, and tap “Log in.”

, Go to top of the page, and find the “Create New Entry” button. Tap it, and a dialog box will appear.
 The dialog box contains a title field and the large text field to be filled in. Enter the title that is apt for the entry you’re going to make in the title field. You can always create multiple entries to your Multilog, so the entry can be either about a party you’re going to organize or an event you’re going to attend—anything! Type in your entry in the large text box. Include all the details you want to share.
 You can always set the audience of the Multilog to “Public” so other Badoo users can read it. This can be done by tapping the settings option at the top right corner. If you only want to select a few people to access the entry, tap “Private” instead. You can then add the names of the viewers who can access the entry.
 If you want to add media to the entry, you can by clicking the “Add photos and videos” button located at the bottom of the screen. Your device’s camera roll will open; browse through your images and videos and tap the one you want to upload.


The smallest dimensions of the image that can be uploaded is 200x200 pixels. Anything larger can be uploaded up to 128MB. The limit for video length is 100MB and 30 minutes in length. Videos should possess a minimum of 10 seconds to be uploaded.
 The entry will be created, and you will be directed to it right away.