 You must be at least 110 pounds and 17 years of age. Some states allow 16-year-olds to donate with parental signature.;
, Some areas have curbside recycling or a local recycling center.
, Check your community to see if there are any volunteers needed (like at an animal shelter, school, Boys and Girls Club, YMCA, retirement home)

, This keeps your garden healthy and lowers the amount of rotting waste in landfills.
 It's unhealthy for you and the people around you. Smoking is a leading cause of respiratory problems, including asthma.
 Reducing meat intake allows more animals to survive, sustaining biodiversity.
 CFLs use only 1/4 of the energy an incandescence light bulbs use.
 Sites like GoodSearch (powered by Yahoo, recommended) and SearchKindly (powered by Google) donate to the cause of your choice each time you use their search engine. GoodSearch donates a penny per search, also combining to things like GoodShop, GoodGames, GoodTVAds, allowing you to be able to donate more to your cause.
 Shoes donated are recycled into playground equipment for kids.
 For every answer you get right, 10 grains of rice is donated to the World Food Programme.
 Click-to-donate, sign petitions, participate in polls, comment on articles, and use your butterfly rewards to provide a gift to someone in need.
 It helps the environment and you can donate excess produce to food pantries through ampleharvest.org

, If you're not going to eat it, don't get it. 50% of the world's food is thrown away, increasing hunger and poverty worldwide.
 Those who become obese from bad eating habits are less productive to society and also take up federal funding that could have been used toward world hunger.
, In order for the government to run effectively, citizens must vote for who they think is fit for the job

, Though they encourage donations, participating and volunteering for charity events makes a difference by spreading awareness.
 If you are not good with tools, you can still donate supplies and refreshments.
 Help kids who need help after school or through Boys and Girls Club.
, Each click generates a donation to the cause. Greatergood.com, the Hungersite.com are some good ones. Clicktodonate.com has a long list of charities to help by clicking.
 One click generates a donation to various causes. The Breast Cancer button, for example, provides one free mammogram per click per day.
, If you are still in school, become a member of a school club that interests you.
 You can't help the world if you are not healthy enough to do so.
 If you're an accountant, volunteer to help nonprofits with their accounting. Nurses can help at a free clinic. Engineers can help build houses through Habitat for Humanity. Cooks can help serve food at the local community kitchen. Teachers provide free tutoring. Increase the publicity of charities through social media or by being a public speaker. The list is endless.
 Choosing local stores in your area over stores like Walmart keeps your spent money in your area and help them grow financially.
 This is when your organs are donated to those in need after you die instead of just rotting underground in your tomb. Get more info at http://organdonor.gov/index.html.
 Doing so saves gas and reduces the pollution emitted into the atmosphere.
 This is that small thing used to open sodas. Tabs can be exchanged by McDonald houses for money.
, Reusing the things you have reduces the size of landfill waste.
 Those with jobs are more productive members of society.
,, Don't throw away the seeds of fruits you have eaten. Plant them.

