 Sometimes, trying to log onto the server will display a screen that tells you where you can appeal your ban. Otherwise, a quick online search for "Minecraft" plus the name of the server will often lead to the server's website and forums, if that does not work then ask a friend..;
, Most likely, you were banned because someone reported you for breaking a server rule. Find the rules of the server on the website. Read them all to find out whether you actually broke them. You can argue you case more effectively if you know the rules.
 Search the forums for "Unban Request" and "Ban Appeals." It's very important that you read any "stickied" posts made by administrators in these threads. Often, these posts include format instructions that must be strictly followed.


You may need to create an account on the forums before you can see these posts.
 If you can't find any unban request instructions, look for the contact information for server operators. These are also called Ops, moderators, or administrators. This can be a difficult process. Follow all instructions to the letter to increase the chances of a response.


If there are no instructions posted, post in the forums asking for help.
If there are no forums, ask friends who can still access the server to ask around for the operators contact info.
If the operators won't talk to you, try to find someone who plays on the server. Ask him to negotiate on your behalf.
 Be sure to use your best grammar, spelling, and punctuation. The administrators are more likely to take requests seriously when they are well-written.


If you know a friend who's good at writing, ask him to look over your posts before you send them.
 Tell the operator everything that happened, and be polite about it. Acting rude or threatening will definitely not help your chances. Don't leave anything out of your story.


Don't make excuses, even if they're true. "I didn't know it wasn't allowed" or "My little brother got on my account" will almost never work.
 If you broke a rule, acknowledge that fact and apologize. If you offended another player, send the apology to her as well, or ask the operator to send it for you.


If you did something against a server rule, but didn't know it was a rule, collect evidence or witness testimony showing that you did not know. Present it in a polite and easy-to-understand fashion.
 If you have any screenshots or screen recordings showing what happened, post them on the forum or share them with your contact. It's always a good idea to take a screenshot of the ban screen, as it will say the reason you were banned, and sometimes a message from the person who issued the ban.


If you were mistakenly banned for "flying" or other cheats, take a screen recording on another server that shows severe lag causing this effect.
 If you're good at negotiation, you may be able to strike a deal. Try volunteering for some of the following:


Helping others build, gather, or work on other projects.
Trading only low-value items (if your ban was trade-related).
Staying out of certain areas.
Avoiding conversation with certain other players.
Compensating other players for damaged property (if relevant).
 The operators will look into your request. They may interview witnesses, take screenshots, look up your account information, or ask you questions. Wait patiently as they make a decision.


Depending on the server, this can take anywhere from one day to several weeks.
While waiting, you can participate on the forums. Posting compliments, advice, or inoffensive opinions could be taken into consideration.
 If you follow correct procedure and they still won't add you back, stay polite. Don't act abusive or give the server bad press, or you may find yourself on a blacklist that blocks you from many other servers. There are plenty of servers out there. It's time to find another.


Wait at least two or three weeks before trying again with another appeal. Check the server rules to see if they have specific rules about repeated appeals.
Some bans are only temporary, usually lasting between one day and one month. As long as you don't break any more rules, you will be allowed back once a temporary ban expires.

