 Caramel apples are a delicious treat many love. A fun way to mess with your family is to make caramel apples, but replace the apples with onions. Your family members will bite into an apple expecting a delicious treat only to be met with the taste of onion. Use a basic caramel apple recipe for this prank.Buy a 14 ounce package of individually wrapped caramels, some milk, onions, and popsicle sticks. Place a stick in each onion you're using. Make sure to buy onions in the size and shape of regular apples. You should also remove the papery skins off of the onions. Use a knife to carve the bottom of the onion into a rounded, apple-like shape.Remove the caramels from their wrappers and place them in a bowl. Add two tablespoons of milk, and microwave for 2 minutes, stopping halfway to stir. Allow the mixture to cool for a few minutes, and then coat each onion in caramel.
Set the apples aside where you family will find the treat or serve them after dinner as dessert.;
, By poking small holes in a plastic bottle, you can create a booby trap for an unsuspecting family member. You can leave this trap in the fridge for someone to find later.Take a plastic bottle of water. Hold it over the sink and poke holes in it with a needle. Some excess water will spill out. You can wipe this away with a towel.
Set the water bottle in the fridge. When someone picks up the bottle, the pressure from their hands will cause water to squirt everywhere.
You can also pull this prank with a bottle of soda, juice, or any liquid.
 A lot of great pranks come from messing with expectations. Someone expects one thing, but gets another. You can pull a prank by replacing the contents of a bag of chips.


Get up in the morning before anyone is awake. Take a bag of chips from the cupboard. Gently open the bag along the seam, going slowly as to not rip the bag.
Dump out the chips into the garbage. Replace the bag with a healthy snack. Something like dried fruit or kale chips would work well here.
Once the bag is full, place a small amount of glue along the seam. Reseal the bag and set aside until it dries. Then, place it back in the cupboard.
 Fake lollipops created with broccoli can be a fun prank to play if you have young children. Your kids will think you're giving them a sugary treat, when you're really providing them with health food. Keep in mind, very young children may react poorly to this, so it's a good idea to have some real lollipops on hand after you pull the prank.Buy some lollipop sticks and some 6-by-6 inch pieces of wax paper at a craft store. You should also buy colored tissue paper.
Take a small piece of raw broccoli, about the size of a large marble, and put it on the end of a lollipop stick. Wrap the broccoli in the wax paper. Then, wrap the wax paper in a piece of colored tissue paper.
Leave the treats out for your kids to find or give them to your kids as a snack or after dinner or lunch.
 If you're in charge of making breakfast for your family, fake sunny side up eggs can be a great prank. You can make what looks like an egg out of yogurt and peaches, leaving your family baffled when they bite into their breakfast.Put a dollop of plain white yogurt on a plate. Then, place a canned peach in the center of the dollop. This will look like an egg.
Serve this breakfast to a family member, or multiple family members. Keep in mind, if you don't usually make breakfast for your family, family members may get suspicious if you suddenly decide to do so on April Fool's Day.
 Switch the types of condiments in the bottles in the kitchen. This will give people a shock when they expect one thing and get another. You can do this in the morning, before anyone is up, or get up in the middle of the night to make the switch.It's a good idea to switch condiments that look similar, so whoever ends up using the bottle does not notice until he or she begins eating. You could, for example, place mayonnaise in the whipped cream container. You could also put spicy Sriracha sauce in the ketchup container.
 A classic April Fool's Day prank can be done with Oreos and a bottle of toothpaste. Make sure the toothpaste you use is white, so it looks like the filling of an Oreo. As with many food pranks, it's best to do this early in the morning or at night so no one catches you.Open each Oreo and then scrape off the cream. Be gentle, as not to break the cookie, and use a fork or spoon to help.
Squeeze a bit of toothpaste onto the center of one side of the cookie. Spread evenly on the cookie's surface, then place the other side of the cookie on top.
Place the Oreos back in the container. Leave them out in the cupboard for a family member to discover.
If you can't find Oreos, any other type of sandwich cookie will work.

