 If you want a bib necklace that you can wear with lots of different colors and outfits, a metallic one is a great choice. Look for a bib necklace in gold, silver, copper, or any other metallic finish you like. Metallic jewelry can complement virtually any color, pattern, or look, so you’ll get your money’s worth with a metallic bib necklace.


For example, you could wear a dramatic big necklace made of silver chains with a white tee and skinny jeans, but you can pair it over a little black dress just as easily. One metallic necklace can be worn with all types of outfits, from casual to dressy.;
, If you want a bib necklace that you can style with super casual outfits, look for a cloth version. You can find cloth bib necklaces in all sorts of different colors, often with beading or design work. Not only are these effortless, they are lightweight around your neck.


Look for bib necklaces will a ribbon tie. Instead of a normal necklace clasp, you'll tie these bib necklaces in a sweet bow around your neck. These are perfect for casual, daytime outfits.
 If you are really looking for a way to make a statement, go ahead and buy a bib necklace in a bold color or pattern. While it won’t be as versatile as a metallic or neutral, you will make a striking, noticeable statement. This is a perfect choice for someone looking to spice up a specific outfit!


Purchase a bib necklace made of layers of different colored beads or baubles. A multi-colored necklace can be paired with all different colored outfits, and it's an easy way to make a bold statement., When you’re wearing a bib necklace, it needs to be the star of the show. Because it’s a heavier, larger piece, keep your other pieces small. This is especially important for any accessories near the face, like earrings or headbands. Not only will this keep your look from being busy and weighed down, it will get your necklace the attention it deserves.If you're wearing a bold bib necklace, skip the chandelier earrings and wear a pair of simple studs instead. This will keep your top half from looking busy and weighed down.
 Bib necklaces will fall along the neckline of whatever top or dress you are wearing, so keep it simple. Skip the intricate lace-up shirts or the embroidered V-necks, because there will simply be too much going on. A bib necklace should enhance a simple neckline, rather than overshadow an interestingly-designed one.For example, a tiered bib necklace pairs beautifully with a deep V-neck shirt because it fills in the simple neckline. Look for combinations that complement each other, rather than overlapping or competing.
 Bib necklaces look great with solid, neutral tops and dresses, but that doesn’t mean you need to stick to those. If you want to wear a patterned or a colored piece of clothing, pair it with a bib necklace that contrasts with it in some way. This will ensure that your bib necklace is the center of attention.


For example, a white shirt pairs well with a black bib necklace, and vice versa. Metallics pair well with neutrals, and colored bib necklaces look great with their complementary colors.
A striped or geometrically-patterned shirt would look great with a floral or free flowing bib necklace, while a whimsical shirt would look best with a simpler, linear one., Because bib necklaces are large, they add the perfect pop to an otherwise simple outfit. Pair a metallic or colored bib necklace with an all-black or all-white outfit to instantly take it from boring to trendy. If you have a few different colors or styles of bib necklaces, you can transform the same monochrome outfit several different ways!


Throw on a chunky metallic bib necklace with an oversized black sweater and black skinny jeans. Your outfit will be comfortable, but the necklace will dress it up., Bold bib necklaces look best with simple necklines. What’s simpler than no neckline at all? A bib necklace will stand out against bare skin, adding a beautiful touch to a strapless dress or top.If you're pairing a bib necklace with a strapless ensemble, clasp or tie it so it sits higher on the chest. You want the necklace to be shorter so that it sits entirely above the shirt or dress, rather than layered on top of it., This look is supremely trendy right now. Typically, you probably wear your button down shirt with a button or two undone at the top. Take it from “typical” to stylish by buttoning your shirt all the way up to the top and then adding a fun bib necklace around the collar. The necklace will frame the collar of the shirt.This is great for anyone wanting to wear a glitzy, fun bib necklace in a professional setting.

