 If you create a sexy atmosphere, your girl will be turned on before your first kiss. You should make sure that the lighting, smell, and sounds in your crib are set for romance. Here's how to do it:


Have soft and sexy lighting. When you walk into your apartment, the lights should already be turned down low --just enough for your lady to see you, but not so brightly that she feels self-conscious. Light a few candles. If you don't have any candles, just have a few lights on that make the room dim.
Have a sexy-smelling apartment. If you know you'll be having a lady over on a particular night, open your windows during the day and let in some fresh air. Some manly potpourri can help your apartment stay fresh too. When your lady arrives, casually light some incense, or make sure those candles are scented. You can also use a nice scented air freshener.
Play sexy music. Your lady will be more turned on if you turn on the right music. Jazz can make her feel sophisticated, and R&B can put her in a sexy mood. Whatever you choose, make sure you're casual about putting it on, and play it softly.;
, Your home should be prepared for sexiness in advance, so the mood can stay hot and you can avoid interruptions. Here are a few key items to always have in stock:


Something to drink. Be prepared with red and white wine and any other beverages that your lady may like. Chances are that you've come back from drinking at a sexy dinner date, and to keep things going, you should always have something extra to sip on just in case.
Something to eat. If you need more time to warm up to get to the bedroom, sharing a sexy snack can help set the mood. Be prepared with sexy foods like grapes, strawberries, cheese and crackers, or chocolate. Avoid eating anything greasy or fried that can give you gas, which will definitely not be a turn on.
Something to clean up with. If you plan on doing the deed, have a clean towel and fresh soap for your girl, so you don't turn her off by giving her a wet, moldy towel.
 Work as hard as you can to have a home that will turn the ladies on immediately. Your home should be presentable so your girl wants to venture into the bedroom. Here's how:


Be clean. This is the most important part of setting the mood. Hide your dirty laundry, clean all surfaces in your home, and absolutely make sure you don't have a grimy bathroom. Your girl should be as comfortable as possible before she can be ready for action.
Be fashionable. Your home doesn't have to be worth a million dollars to turn a lady on. Have classy wooden or leather furniture, a few nice paintings, and a good stereo system to show your girl that you care about your surroundings. Avoid lots of photos of you and your ex-girlfriends.
Have a sexy bed. Clean your sheets and covers, have nice, fluffy pillows, and a clean night table. This is the time to put your pictures of you and your mom as far away as possible. Your girl should feel comfortable snuggling up in your covers to be ready for your body.

