;
,,, It has the full power of the healthful enzymes to nourish and keep your body and mind healthy.
, Namely:


We believe that Ein Sof (the Eternal One) is the Creator and ruler of all created things. He is the Creator and Sustainer. He is Immanent and Transcendent.
We believe that the Creator is echad (one), yet emanates, three manifestations; Abba Yahweh,the Father, Yeshua HaMoshiach, the Son, and Imma Ruach HaKodesh, the Holy Spirit.
Though Elohim is beyond gender, Elohim has manifested certain characteristics that are masculine and feminine. Thus, Yahweh represents the Divine Masculine aspect of Ein Sof, and Ruach HaKodesh expresses the Divine Feminine, the Mother.
We believe in Messiah Yeshua, the only begotten Son, beloved of His Father in heaven, whom Yahweh sent into this world to be our Master and Redeemer, as He promised by his holy prophets, and who descended from heaven for our salvation.
He was conceived of the Ruach HaKodesh (Holy Spirit), born of the virgin Miriam (Mary is the translation.), the seed of David and anointed of Yahweh with the Ruach and power.
He was tempted in all ways as we are but without sin. He glorified his Father in heaven in all of His words, thoughts and deeds. He bore the reproach of sinners and was put to death on the tree for our transgressions.
He was wounded for our transgressions, and bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon Him and by His stripes we are healed (Isa. LIII)
We believe that Messiah Yeshua is the Alef and the Tav, the beginning and the end.
We believe that we pray only to the Father, in Yeshua’s name. Yeshua is the Way, the Truth and the Life. No one comes to Abba except through Him.
We believe that the prophets prophesied of Messiah Yeshua through Yahweh’s foreordained wisdom and knowledge.
We believe that the Torah, given through Moshe (Translated as Moses) is eternal and binding for the Essene Netzari community. The Torah contains the transcendental precepts by which we are to live our spiritual lives.
We believe that the whole Torah, which we now possess, is the same as that given to Moshe. We reject any notion of an oral Torah.
We believe that Sacred Scripture as written by the original writers in the original language is the Word Of Yahweh. We accept and affirm the Tanak, the Brit Chadasha, the Apocrypha, and the Book of Enoch as Sacred Scripture.
We believe that Elohim knows the hearts and minds of all human beings. No one is lost to His love, mercy or tender gaze.
We believe that Yahweh will reward those made righteous through the atonement purchased for us by Messiah Yeshua on the tree. Those who reject His mercy and love will reap the results of their hard-heartedness.
We believe that Yeshua will return to set up His Eternal earthly kingdom and rule the world on David’s throne from the New Jerusalem.
We believe that the dead will be raised and the righteous shall be changed.
We believe that Daven (prayer) and meditation are our primary methods of communication with Yahweh and seek to lead lives filled with their attentiveness.
We believe in observing the Principle of Kashrut in our diet. Further, we strongly encourage the organic Edenic Diet (vegetarianism) as most befitting our future life in the Eternal Kingdom. We do not judge those who choose not to maintain the Edenic Diet, but expect that they will keep Kashrut.
We believe that to enter the waters of mikveh is an outer sign of an inner transformation. We hold it as a necessary component of spiritual realization in Yeshua.
We believe that non-violence is a mandatory precept for talmidim (disciples) of Yeshua Messiah.
We believe that stewardship of the earth is a sacred obligation. To this end we encourage organic farming, sustainable living, and eco-theological understanding.

