 Don't skip this step as you might replace something that isn't broken. There may not even be a problem with your valves (i.e. the vacuum isn't even reaching them to be able to shut them). These valves, if good, should close with very little vacuum, and should also hold the vacuum when applied with a vacuum pump. The default position (engine off, no vacuum) for these valves is open. Once the engine is started (and vacuum is being applied) these valves will close until wide open throttle, when vacuum is absent.
 DO NOT skip this step under any circumstances. If you want to know the why, there is plenty of literature out there and plenty of reasons, the best being YOUR SAFETY. Once it's removed, secure it somewhere that you are sure it won't come into contact with the terminal again unintentionally (picture)., Good luck trying to get a socket on this beast. I'm sure they have a nice shiny tool that makes this easier, but I used the box end of a wrench to get on this. Pull the wrench toward the front of the vehicle until enough tension is off the belt to remove it from the alternator pulley. Doing this with a wrench does require a good bit of strength. If you can't get it to move, or don't think you would be able to put enough power behind it to get it to turn, talk to one of your local parts store to see if you can get your hands on that tool. They may even have it on a loaner program so you wouldn't actually have to buy one., Take off the nut hiding under there, and lay the wire to the side. Thread this nut back in place once you have the wire off so it doesn't get lost somewhere., The connector was already taken out in this picture, but top arrow pointing to the right is where it was. And just in case you're curious, there's a picture here that shows what it looks like without the alternator in there., Now, swing the whole harness out of the way. Remove the electrical connector on the front valve. Just squeeze the connector at the back (where the arrow is on the picture with the connector off) and pull away from the valve., You won't be reusing this clip, as a new one should come with your new valve. Remove the two bolts holding the valve onto the engine. This is a little tricky, and where the u-joint comes into play., Again, if you're curious, I've added a picture with the valve out., Insert the arm of the new valve into the clip, and insert the two bolts that hold it on., Start with the electrical connector for the IMRC Valve, then the alternator, then the vacuum lines for the valves and fuel pressure regulator, and finally, the accessory drive belt. Just follow all of these steps in reverse, and you'll be taking it for a test drive in no time!, Start up the vehicle, and verify that both valves are now closed. Having an assistant available to start the vehicle while you watch the valves could be helpful, but it will be an obvious change from open to closed. Once that your are satisfied that both valves are closing when you turn the vehicle on, close the hood and take it for a test drive and feel the difference!