 Discontinuing a psychiatric drug will be unlikely to go well under heavy stress and if your body is unhealthy. Regular exercise can have minor antidepressant effects; exercise can also relieve stress and may help to improve the ease at which you withdrawal from your psychiatric drug.When you exercise, try listening to some music that pumps you up and helps you to continue your workout when you feel like giving up. That said, be sure to listen to your body and not push yourself too hard!

, Keep in mind that the goal of getting off psychiatric drugs is to feel well, and not necessarily to be drug free. If, in discontinuing the drug, you feel absolutely terrible, keep in mind that, if your doctor thinks it is a good idea, you can reverse your decision take your medication again.Be sure to consult with your doctor before you change your mind and follow their specific advice.
 When you eat unhealthy it can make you feel negative, which can interfere with your attempt to get off psychiatric drugs safely. Therefore, it is important to eat healthy foods. Here are some examples of healthy foods: lean meats, nuts, fruits, and vegetables. Keep in mind that a large part of eating healthy is having a balanced diet; avoiding eating too much of only one food source.
 Not getting enough sleep can contribute to poor mental health by causing feelings of fatigue, sadness, and anxiety, all of which may interfere with your attempt to get off psychiatric drugs safely.If you have trouble sleeping, try making you bedroom completely dark. Reduce sounds by changing your environment and/or wearing earplugs. Try to get into a routine and keep it more or less the same every night. Be sure make note of the number of hours a night of sleep you need in order to to feel refreshed and rested; aim to get that many hours each night.
For example, if you tend to be in bed by 10:30 PM then read for 30 minutes before falling asleep, do your best to stick to that schedule as often as possible. In this way you will train your body for sleep., Caffeine can make you feel anxious, which can contribute to feelings of stress and anxiety and make the discontinuation process more difficult and less likely to be successful. , Counseling or psychotherapy has been found to be effective either by itself or in combination with psychiatric drugs. So, if you are getting off of drugs but still feel like you could benefit from treatment, consider trying psychotherapy or counselling.To find a psychotherapist or counsellor, try doing an internet search with “psychotherapist + your location” you can also try searching for “psychotherapist + your location + your specific diagnosis.
Another way to find a psychologist for counseling is by visiting: http://locator.apa.org/


