 Unwind roughly 6 inches (15 cm) of 0.5 mm brass craft wire. Cut the wire using side cutting pliers.


If you choose to use smaller or larger beads for this project, the amount of wire you'll need will also change. The length of wire you cut should always be approximately twice as long as the combined width of your teardrop beads, if not a little longer.;
, Feed six 1-inch (2.5-cm) long teardrop beads onto the cut length of wire.


Ultimately, the pointed ends of all the teardrop beads must point in the same direction. The beads should also be positioned toward the center of the wire.
You can alter the size of the teardrop beads as desired to create smaller or larger flowers, but the beads must all be the same size.
 Wrap the center of the wire into a tight loop, drawing the points of your teardrop beads together.


There should still be some space at the center of the formed circle. The teardrop beads should be side by side, but they should still lie flat when placed on a flat surface.
If you need help forming the loop, you can wrap the wire around a pencil or wooden towel.
 Wrap the ends of the wire around one side of the top portion of each bead to help hold the beads in place.


Feed one wire end into the hole of the bead, then wrap it over the top side of the same bead before feeding it back into the hole again. Repeat for all six beads.
Wrap three of the beads with the right wire end and the other three beads with the left wire end.
Note that the wrapped side of the beads will be the back of the flower.
 From the front of the flower, thread both wire ends through the center of a 3/8-inch (9.5-mm) round bead. Pull the wire ends until the round bead rests in the center of the flower structure.


Pull the wire ends up from the back of the flower to the front. Direct the ends so that they cut through the center of the flower structure.
Feed the right wire end through the right side of the round bead and the left wire end through the left side of the round bead. Pull the ends in opposite directions to draw the round bead down into the center of the flower.
If you use smaller or larger teardrop beads, the round bead will need to be smaller or larger, too. Choose a round bead that roughly matches the width of your teardrop beads.
 Draw the ends of the wire back down to the bottom of the flower. Twist them together beneath the round bead to secure the entire structure.


If necessary, use round nose pliers to twist the wire tightly.
 You can use this flower to decorate jewelry or other crafts. Simply position the flower over your chosen backing and twist the excess wire ends over and around that backing to hold the flower in place.


Once you've mounted the flower, use cutting pliers to trim the remaining wire. Hide the sharp wire ends beneath the beads.

