 Once you’ve learned how to boost your own productivity, you can take what works for you and apply it, if possible, to your work force.



Encourage breaks. Telling your employees to take breaks may not work, so create them: celebrate birthdays, have weekly group activities, organize team lunches.

Create an email policy. If employees want an immediate response, they should call one another or visit one another’s office. Expecting email to be read immediately leads to constant email checking, which wastes time.

Set deadlines. Even for extremely long-term or open-ended projects, your employees will work with more motivation if you create goals and deadlines for them to meet along the way.

Give employees access to a gym. Having an office gym, or giving employees automatic membership to a nearby gym, can increase exercise and productivity. You can also use monthly challenges to boost participation.
 It doesn’t matter where and when work gets done, so long as it gets done. Research by Gallup shows that employees who work remotely part of the time are more engaged and actually work longer hours. Give your employees the flexibility to do their work when and where they work best., Workers who feel appreciated will be more motivated and productive. Praise employees publicly during meetings. Give spot awards. Profile employees and their work in company publications.If an employee puts in extra work on a project, recognize this. If you fail to reward hard work, your employees will not work as hard., If workers are given ownership of their work and know they will receive feedback, they will work more meticulously. Accountability also means giving workers a clear sense of the direction of the company and how their work contributes to driving the company in that direction. If they feel like their work matters, rather than just being cogs in a huge machine, they will work harder.Offering economic incentives tied to clear targets is a great way to increase employee commitment and drive at all levels of your business., Working in teams can improve work product by allowing for multiple points of view. It also makes workers more conscientious, since they do not want to let down the team or appear less competent than their peers. Finally, it prevents the isolation that can leave workers feeling ignored and unimportant., While most of the work each employee does will be in his or her area of expertise, doing the same thing over and over again can lead to burn out. Varying the type of work and the work setting – i.e. solo versus group – can keep tasks fresh, as well as expanding your workforce's skills and giving them a more holistic view of the company., All your employees will benefit from training, as it both makes them more valuable employees and creates a sense of indebtedness to the business, which leads to harder work. Pay particular attention to supervisors and middle managers who are just stepping into leadership roles. They are the key to transmitting upper management's vision and organizing work in an efficient manner, so extra management training for these positions will go a long way towards improving company productivity., To constantly increase productivity, leadership must commit to a constant process of change. This process has four parts:



Determine a baseline. If you are producing service-oriented products, what is your total revenue per hour worked? What are the base services you offer, and how much time do they typically take? If you are manufacturing, how long does it typically take to produce your product? Do you have excess input materials or inventory? What percent of your products are defective when first produced?

Identify Areas for Improvement. Maybe you want to be able to take on more work product without hiring staff. Perhaps you want to decrease the number of defective products that require reworking.

Establish a process of change and metrics of success. This process can take months or even years. You will need to test out new processes to see if they are creating improvement along the established metrics.

Adopt and Train. If a process works, you will need to train your managers first, and via them your employees to implement it.

