 Don't try to go completely meatless right away. While that works for some people, it can make the transition much harder for you than if you do it in smaller steps.For instance, you could say that you're giving up beef for the next 10 days while still eating poultry and/or fish.
Alternatively, you could pick what meat you like the least to cut out first.;
, Once you've cut out one meat, move on to the next meat. For instance, once you've cut out red meat, set a timeline for pork.Don't beat up on yourself if you mess up and eat the meat you're cutting out. It's a process you need to adjust to gradually. You can satisfy a craving, then move on.
Over time, eliminate all of the meats you want to give up.
 As you cut out meat, make sure you're adding in more vegetables to your diet. You should also be adding in plant-based proteins, such as beans and other legumes and whole grains.It's good to try some new vegetables right now. You may have been fairly predictable in your vegetable choices before going vegetarian, but adding in new vegetables will keep it more interesting.
Try to eat vegetables instead of extra carbohydrates such as pasta or rice. While both will fill you up, if you're trying to be healthier, the vegetables are the better option., When you're transitioning, you may want to give into cravings for some less-healthy options. Maybe your craving is sugar or maybe you've got a thing for chips. While you don't want to make these foods a staple of your diet, letting yourself eat a few while you're transitioning can make it easier.Another way to help deal with cravings is to add umami to your food. Umami is a Japanese word that describes a fifth type of taste in addition to sweet, sour, bitter, and salty. It describes a savoriness that you often find in meats, but that you can also add to your vegetarian diet. For instance, using fermented condiments, such as soy sauce, liquid aminos, or vegan Worcestershire sauce, can help add umami to your food. Other options are dried mushrooms and tomatoes, nutritional yeast, vegetable broth, and savory spices (such as cumin and smoked paprika).
Another way to deal with cravings is to eat meat replacements and "meaty" vegetables such as mushrooms, which can serve as a stand-in to help you make dishes you used to love. For instance, maybe you love shepherd's pie. You can use meatless soy crumbles as a replacement for the meat and still have the same dish.
 You can purchase meat substitutes, such as soy ground beef or black bean burgers. They are a good option, but you can also make your own for a lot less.For instance, experiment with a mix of grains, beans, and rice to make "burgers."
Once you find a recipe you like, you can freeze small patties so you have them ready whenever you want them.
Also try meatless options that aren't trying to taste like meat. That is, sometimes a black bean or mushroom burger can be tastier than a soy burger, even though they don't taste exactly like meat.
 Every vegetarian is different. Some vegetarians eat eggs and dairy, while others avoid all foods made from animal sources.Some people eat mostly vegetarian and indulge occasionally in fish. Technically, that's pescatarian, not vegetarian, but it may be what's best for you.
If you eat no meat but you want to still eat dairy and eggs, that's called ovo-lacto, while if you eat dairy but not eggs, that's called lacto-vegetarian.
If you don't want to eat any animal products at all (including honey) or wear animal products (such as leather), that's called vegan.
Or, you may choose to be a flexitarian. With this diet, you can cut back on meat and animal products on most days but allow yourself the room to indulge in a steak (or whatever your favorite is) from time to time.The names don't matter as much as finding the diet that's right for you.
 The key to getting the proteins you need is to make sure you are eating a variety of proteins. For instance, eating grains, nuts, legumes, seeds, and meat substitutes can help you get the protein you need.Very few individual plant proteins don't contain all nine essential amino acids that animal proteins do; however, when combining plant-based foods, you can easily get all nine in your diet.Try brown rice and beans or whole grain bread with peanut butter.
Quinoa, buckwheat, and soy are complete proteins (they have all nine essential amino acids) that vegetarians can enjoy.
The US Government recommends that adult women aged 19 to 30 get 5.5 ounces or ounce equivalents a day, while adult women aged 31 or older get 5 ounces. Men should get 6.5 ounces or ounce equivalents from age 19 to 30, 6 ounces from age 31 to 50, and 5.5 ounces from age 51 on.As a guide, here are some "ounce equivalents" of vegetarian foods: 1/2 ounce of nuts (7 walnut halves or 12 almonds), 1/4 cup of beans (cooked), 1 tablespoon of almond or peanut butter, 1/4 cup of cooked peas or lentils, 1/2 ounce of seeds (such as pumpkin or squash seeds), 1 ounce of cooked tempeh, 2 tablespoons of hummus, or 1/4 cup of tofu., If you're skipping dairy, you need to make sure you're getting your calcium intake from other sources. Some good sources of calcium include dark, leafy greens (such as kale, collard greens, or broccoli) and fortified cereals.Vitamin D is just as important — your body needs vitamin D to absorb calcium. If you're drinking milk, it's probably fortified with vitamin D.
However, if you're drinking non-dairy milk, check to see if vitamin D is added. You may need to add a supplement if your food sources don't contain it.
 Another vitamin you need to pay attention to as a vegetarian is vitamin B12. This vitamin is necessary for muscle repair, and while you easily get it from meat, you need to pay a bit more attention if you're not eating meat.Dairy products, such as cheese, milk, and yogurt, are all good sources of vitamin B12.
Eggs are also a good source.
If you're not eating any of these, you might consider trying a fortified yeast extract, fortified cereal, or tofu. Another option is taking a supplement.
 These fatty acids are good for heart health, and they are commonly found in fish. If you're not eating fish, you need to get them elsewhere. Some good sources include ground flaxseed, canola oil, soybeans, and walnuts., Humans best absorb iron from meat sources, so when you're vegetarian, you need to by vigilant about getting enough iron. The best sources for iron are dark-leafy greens, whole grains, dried fruit, lentils, peas, and beans.Similarly, your best bet for zinc is from animal products, like cheese. However, you can also get it from soy, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and wheat germ.
Iodine is mainly a problem if you're vegan. The best way to get iodine is from adding iodized salt to your diet.
 While many restaurants list a vegetarian option, you can also ask if they have any other veggie options. Additionally, don't be afraid to ask if a dish can be altered by leaving out the meat.In addition, be sure to look at the side dishes, as you should have a number of options available to you there.
Don't forget to ask about "hidden" meats, such as chicken stock in soup or anchovies in caesar dressing.
Besides helping you stick to vegetarianism, eating at restaurants can open you up to new options., If you're not sure where to begin, a cooking class can help you get your feet wet. It can lay out the best options for you, as well as introduce you to new veggie options.Check with your local community college to see if they offer a class.
You might also find a class at your local culinary college or even your parks and recreation department.
Another option is purchasing a vegetarian cookbook or checking one out from your library.
 A co-op is a group of people who come together to buy produce directly from farmers. Different co-ops work differently, so once you find one, you'll need to ask how it works. You can usually find one just by putting in your city's name and "food co-op" in a search engine.


Some co-ops require you to pay a fee to join.
Some work much like conventional stores, where you go in and buy what you want, while others have lists online.
Still others may have a set "box" each month or every two weeks where you pay a certain price. One nice thing about the box model is you are introduced to new vegetables you may not have picked out for yourself.
 If you're invited to a party, offer to bring a meatless option. That way, it takes the pressure off the host, but you still have a good option on hand. In addition, you may find there are other vegetarians at the party that the host didn't know about.Always ask first. You don't want to show up with food the host didn't plan for.
If the host offers to make a meatless option, it's fine to take him or her up on the offer.
 If you don't already know about the process animals go through to become meat, now may be the time to do it. Once you learn more, it may help you stick to your guns about swearing off meat.You can try checking out a book on the meat industry from the library.
Another option is to visit websites that advocate for animals and the environment, as they are likely to have information.

