 The majority of your training and learning will happen through an apprenticeship at a body piercing studio. Research different body piercing studios in your area that you would be interested in learning at.


Make sure to consider whether or not the studio also does tattooing, and if they do, whether they require all employees to know both skills.
 Some studios require their piercers to also know how to do tattooing, while other studios only do piercing. Consider whether you would like to learn both skills or if you are solely interested in piercing. Learning to do both will make your training considerably longer.
 Decide on a few studios to visit to ask about an apprenticeship. Only consider established, professional piercing studios, and stay away from mall kiosks or studios where they only use piercing guns., Most body piercing studios don’t advertise their apprenticeships online, so the most common way to find an apprenticeship is to visit different studios and ask if they are willing to take on apprentices. Even if you are visiting several studios, make each request personalized, and try to let your passion and interest shine through.You could say something like, “I was wondering if you take on apprentices here at Dragon Piercing. I think that you do really great work, and it would be great to be able to learn from such a professional studio.”
Don’t feel like you have speak or dress formally. A lot of piercing studios have a causal, independent environment, so while you should come across as driven and articulate, you don’t have to be overly formal.
Studios will be looking for apprentices with confidence and strong people skills. Remember to stand up straight, smile and speak clearly and with confidence.
 You will likely not receive compensation as an apprentice, so you should make sure that you will be able to support yourself financially before you begin. Either expect to use money that you’ve saved, or try to secure a part time job that can work around your schedule at the piercing studio., Once you have found a studio that will take you on as an apprentice, ask them how the apprenticeship will work. Find out how long they expect to have you on as an apprentice, and if you will get compensation for your work. Also ask about whether or not you will need to buy any tools or equipment.Typical apprenticeships take 1-3 years.
 Creating and maintaining a safe environment is an enormous part of learning how to be a body piercer. Learn the measures the studio you're training at takes to ensure their clients’ piercings will be infection-free., Piercing procedure varies greatly depending on what part of the body you’re piercing, and what kind of piercing your client wants. Learn all the basic piercings like septum and earlobe piercings, as well as the more obscure ones like rook and snake bite piercings., Your apprenticeship will cover a lot of ground, so try to constantly assess whether or not you need more training in certain areas. This can make you feel more confident as you leave your apprenticeship and become a professional piercer.In addition to how to actually do a piercing, you apprenticeship should cover: sterilization and disinfection, cross-contamination, piercing aftercare, piercing safety issues, and how to recognize when a piercing isn’t suitable for a patron. If you feel hazy on any of these points, let the studio know you need to brush up.

