 Go to www.disneycareers.com. Once there, click on the specific Disney company you wish to join. Companies owned by Disney include:The Walt Disney Studios
Walt Disney Parks and Resorts
Disney Consumer Products
Disney Interactive
The Walt Disney Company
Disney/ABC Television Group
ESPN
Marvel;
, When you click on a specific Disney company on the homepage, a brief overview of that company will appear. Click on the provided link to their own career page. Once there, open the “Our Business Areas” dropdown menu. Select the description that matches the specific company where you wish to work.For example, if you are seeking employment at DisneyWorld in Orlando, Florida, click on “Walt Disney Parks and Resorts” on the Disney Careers homepage and follow the link to the Parks and Resorts Careers page. Here, the “Our Business Areas” menu will feature “Themepark Destinations,” “Cruise and Travel Destinations,” and “Design and Technology.” Choose “Themepark Destinations,” and click on “Walt Disney World Resort” in the following menu., Once you have selected the correct Disney company and landed on the specific page for the location where you wish to work, open the dropdown menu labeled “Career Areas.” Select the category to which your ideal position would belong. The Walt Disney World Resort page, for example, breaks its careers into the following categories:Broadcast/Media
Corporate
Creative
Entertainment
Operations/Travel
Sales/Marketing
Students/Recent Grads
Technology/Digital

, After you click the desired title in the “Career Areas” menu, a “Job Categories” menu will appear. Select the appropriate heading to open a page listing various functions performed by workers in that category. If you are unsure of which heading to select, browse through them all until you find one that lists your desired position.For instance, if you are interested in working on costumes for characters and shows at Walt Disney World, select “Entertainment” in the “Career Areas” menu, then “Theatrical/Shows/Stage Production” under “Job Categories.” On the page that opens next, you will find “Costuming” listed., At the bottom of the page, a “Search Jobs” link will appear.Click on this. On the following page, fill in the requested information to narrow down your search for openings. Use the job descriptions that you found on the previous page as keywords to find relevant positions. You are allowed to choose multiple job categories, types, and locations all at once, so if you are flexible with any of these criteria, broaden your search in order to find the most hits. Click “Search Jobs” once you have finished.Let’s say you are interested in working on costumes at Disney World, but are willing to work at Disneyland if necessary. Select both locations. If no such openings are available at the moment, but you are eager to work in any capacity in the “Theatrical/Shows/Stage Productions” category, leave the keyword section blank in order to see all the positions that are currently available in that category.

