 The easiest way to convince your landlord to accept your cat is to establish a really good relationship for yourself and with your landlord. Do this by obtaining the references of prior landlords, having excellent credit, and by paying your rent and utility bills on time. In addition, try to be a congenial and friendly person., When appealing to your landlord to accept your cat, you need to be as polite as possible. Approach your landlord knowing that it is their decision. Make sure to say please and to avoid anything that sounds like a threat. In addition, do not articulate anger or anything of the sort.


Address your landlord appropriately. If they go by “Mrs.” or “Mr.” you should use those titles. If you usually call them by their first name, do so., If your landlord seems a little open to letting your cat stay with you, you might want to suggest that they meet your cat. Then, set up a time and place for them to do so. They might wind up liking the cat and agreeing with your position., Perhaps the biggest reason that a lot of landlords ban cats (and other pets) is the potential damage that they could cause to the property. As a result, you’ll need to convince your landlord that your cat won’t damage the home.


Offer to trim your cat’s nails.
Let them know your cat will have plenty of scratching posts and other objects to keep them busy.
Tell them your cat has no history of property damage., Your veterinary records will show that your cat is up to date on its shots. In addition, they will show that you are a responsible pet owner who attends to the needs of your cat.


Show that your cat has been spayed or neutered – something that could reduce chance of aggressive or destructive behavior.
Discuss flea control with your landlord. By showing them that you will take measures to control fleas, you’ll demonstrate you’re a responsible cat owner (and tenant)., If you think your landlord still needs more persuading after you’ve approached them, you should offer to pay an extra deposit. This deposit will cover any damage your cat may make to the property.


Pet deposits might be refundable or nonrefundable.
A new deposit could range from $200 to even a full month’s rent.
Its best to assure your landlord that there won’t be any damage – and that you simply want to assure them of this by providing an extra deposit.
Make sure you and your landlord sign a formal agreement that grants you permission to have a cat if you provide a pet deposit. This could be in the form of a new lease or an addendum., If an extra deposit isn’t enough incentive for your landlord, you can offer to pay extra rent specifically for your pet. Extra money a month, possibly in addition to another deposit, might just be enough to convince your landlord.


Pet rent can range from $10 to $20 extra a month. It may also represent a percentage of the total rent. Work with your landlord to determine an appropriate pet rent.
Have your landlord draft a new lease or an addendum that acknowledges your agreement., If other incentives have failed, you can offer to sign a longer lease. Suggest that you will either renew your current lease for a year or add on another year in addition to whatever remains on your current agreement. In the end, this is probably the best way for your landlord to make money and save time associated with finding a new tenant., If your landlord refuses to accept your cat, you may be able to have your cat certified as an emotional support animal. An emotional support animal is an animal that provides therapy to people with psychological disabilities. Under United States law, landlords are required to allow tenants to have emotional support animals.


To have your cat classified as an emotional support animal, you’ll have to have your doctor, psychiatrist, or a mental health professional certify that the pet is necessary to your mental health., Read your lease very carefully to see if there is a legal way you can have your cat live with you. If your lease doesn't prohibit pets (or cats), you may have the legal right to keep your cat with you.Remember, even if your lease says you can have a cat (or does not forbid you from having one) you still need to maintain a positive relationship with your landlord. Continue to work to convince them.
 After you’ve signed a lease that forbids a pet cat and appealed to your landlord to accept the cat, your only recourse will be a lawyer. Your lawyer might be able to find a legal way to require your landlord to accept your cat. If not, they may be able to help you mediate with the landlord so you can both come to a compromise about your cat and your living situation.


Contact a lawyer in your community or a tenant advocacy group near you.
Know the law of your city, state or country. Depending on where you live, tenants may have more rights than they know.