 National surveys have shown that maintaining relationships with at least five people that are close and fulfilling can lead to a greater sense of personal happiness.You may count your romantic partner as one of these five people, as well as close family members. The idea is the stronger your ties are to other people, the happier you are. Healthy interpersonal relationships enrich your life and help improve the quality of your life. Having good relationships also gives you a sense of support when you are feeling down and a way to relieve stress or anxiety through spending time with those you care about.
You may want to sit down and write out five people in your life that you are closest to. This could be friends, family, partners, spouses, etc. You should then consider how you can strengthen your relationships with these five individuals even more. Maybe you haven’t spoken to one friend in months or you have neglected your relationship with your partner. Make an effort to reconnect with that individual and stay connected.
 Being there for friends and family can also improve your mood and your quality of life. If you have a friend who is feeling down, reach out to them and try to cheer them up.This could be something as simple as dropping by for a visit or going out for a coffee. If a family member is ill, bring them healthy food or medicine. Making an effort to be kinder and considerate to others can in turn help you feel better about your life.
 Do this by expressing a sense of wonder and thankfulness towards people who support you in your life. Every day, to think of at least one thing for which you are grateful. This could be the fact that your partner makes coffee for you in the morning or the fact that your morning commute is shorter that day. Displaying gratitude and appreciation will help you maintain a happy go lucky attitude.When you have an ungrateful thought, try to replace it with a grateful one. For example, you may think, “My boyfriend forgot our anniversary,” but then you might remind yourself, “My boyfriend took me out for dinner last year and he has a lot on his plate right now.”

