 Breathing exercises can help to focus your thoughts away from the stresses of your life. By paying attention to the simple act of your breathing, you are better able to clear your mind and focus on the present. Through different acts of meditation, you can help to calm the mind during the holidays.Use breathing exercises to help you concentrate. By focusing on your breath, you can reduce your mind's distracting thoughts.
Meditation exercises can help to release tension from the body. For example, when you breathe in, say to yourself, "I am aware of my body." Then breathe out and say to yourself, "I release the tension from my body." Repeat multiple times throughout the day.
Deep breathing can help to reduce anxiety in stressful situations. When you're feeling overwhelmed, take a deep breath and hold it for five seconds, then exhale slowly for five seconds. Do this ten times or until you feel relief.;
, While you may be "playing host" to a large gathering of family and friends, understand that your body and mind need rest. Leave yourself time each day to do nothing. Make sure to give yourself at least seven hours of sleep each night.It can be helpful to delegate tasks of preparation to others ahead of time so there is less on your plate to begin with.
Set aside time to sit and do nothing. If you're sitting on the couch and everyone is watching TV, close your eyes and rest for 5 minutes.
Avoid making plans or doing chores right before bed. Give yourself at least 30 minutes to wind down when heading to bed. Avoid your phone, computer, and TV during this time.
 Participate with your friends and family when they're having fun. Laughter can reduce stress and make you feel better. Lightening up about stressful or negative thoughts can make you happy and more present in the moment.Having fun and spending time with family is what the holidays are all about.
When your friends or family are having a good time, focus your attention on this even when you're busy. Prioritize these special moments.

