 If you have an indoor cat, your cat should be safe from worms as long as you're feeding it high quality pet food. However, if you let your cat go outdoors, make sure to keep an eye on it. Do not let your cat outside unsupervised. Cats can contract worms from dead animals, like mice and birds.You should also never feed your cat raw meat or undercooked meat. Your cat could contract worms from this.;
, Heart worm is a serious concern for pet owners, and can have major health consequences. Talk to your vet about monthly medication to prevent heartworm. Heartworm medication can be injected, administered as a pill, or applied topically.Heartworm medication needs to be applied on a strict monthly schedule. Make sure you write down on a calendar when you last gave your cat heartworm medication and when its next dosage is due.
 For many reasons, allowing cats to go outside is not recommended. In addition to being exposed to a lot of dangers like predator and cars, outdoor cats are much more likely to contract worms. It's best to keep cats inside, as they will be healthier and live longer.If your cat really enjoys going outside, only let it out when you can supervise. You can also get a harness for your cat and take it for short walks.
 If you find out one of your pet has worms, isolate that pet from other animals as soon as possible. Worms can be transmitted through food bowls, litter boxes, and water bowls.A cat infected with worms should have its own food bowl, water bowl, and litter box. Keep the infected cat in its own room in the house until a veterinarian confirms you have effectively treated the worms.
You should also get all your animals tested for worms. If one animal has worms, it's likely the others do as well. Worms should be treated as soon as possible to prevent complications.
 This is especially important if you have a kitten. A solid immune system can help cats and kittens can help protect a cat from worms.Talk to your vet about your cat's diet. Request recommendations for foods that contain the vitamins and nutrients a cat needs for optimal health.
You should also ask about multivitamins. Some cats may benefit from a daily multivitamin to keep their immune system strong.
 This is especially important if you have an outdoor cat. However, even indoor cats can contract worms if they're transmitted through bugs that get inside your home. You should have your cat's feces tested once or twice a year so you can catch and treat worms early.If you have an outdoor cat, you may need more frequent testing.
 Fleas are one of the biggest causes of worms in cats. Fleas can carry worms, and can transfer them to cats they infect. Preventative flea medications can be purchased at your vet's office. These can be used to deter fleas from infecting your cat. They are particularly important i you have an outdoor cat.Flea medications are usually administered topically to a cat's skin. Talk to your vet about how to properly administer your chosen medication.
 You can purchase a flea comb at a local pet store. Once a week, give your cat a thorough brushing with the flea comb.You should also wash your pet's bedding once a week. In the event fleas did get int your home, washing your pet's bedding can help remove flea larvae.
 Fleas can live in your home. They may get into furniture, bedding, and other household items. Regular cleaning can help remove any flea larvae that accidentally got into your home.You should also keep outdoor materials out or your home. Stray leaves and dirt can track in fleas. Make sure to keep material from outside out of your home.
 Fleas are much more likely to infect outdoor cats. This is one of many reasons it's best to keep your cat inside. Indoor cats tend to live longer and are less likely to be infected with fleas., Make sure to know the symptoms of worms so you can spot and treat them. Worms can be very hard to see with the naked eye, but your cat may develop certain symptoms. Make sure to get your cat's feces tested, even if it doesn't show signs of worms. Some cats may not have symptoms. Symptoms of worms include the following:Diarrhea or bloody stools
Bloating or a potbelly
Excessive scratching or biting
Coughing or difficulty breathing

, Do not attempt to treat worms on your own, especially if you don't have an official diagnosis. Worms are a medical condition that must be addressed by a qualified veterinarian. If you suspect your cat has worms, take it to the vet for diagnosis., Your vet will recommend a treatment regiment for your cat. Different types of worms require different treatments. While over the counter dewormers may work for certain worms, dewormers may actually be harmful when used to treat other types of worms.Make sure you ask your vet any questions you have about the treatment plan they think of for your cat. You want to administer any medication properly to make sure your cat makes a full recovery from its infection.
 In rare cases, worms can be transmitted from a cat to a person. Worms can cause health problems if contracted, so take measures to protect yourself from worms.Always wash your hands after petting a cat infected with worms.
Use rubber gloves when changing your cat's litter box.

