 One of the richest sources of phenolic acid is fruit. Phenolic acid is present in different fruits such as pears, grapes, and berries. Adding a variety to your diet can ensure that you increase your daily phenolic acid intake. Products manufactured from these fruits, such as juice or wine, also contain phenolic acid. Fruits high in phenolic acid include:Grapes
Pears
Apples
Cherries
Berries such as blueberries and raspberries
PlumsCitrus fruits such as oranges and lemons
Kiwis
Mangoes;
, Like fruits, vegetables also contain a high amount of phenolic acid. Get a wide array of vegetables every day and even at each meal if you can.Some vegetables high in phenolic acids include:Onions, white and red
Black and green olivesGlobe artichoke heads
Red and green chicory
Spinach
Shallots
Broccoli
Asparagus
Potato

, Another great plant source of phenolic acid is whole grains. An optimal way to get them is baking with flour made from them. However, even eating a bowl of rice or oats can also increase the amount of phenolic acid you’re getting. Whole grains and whole grain flours high in phenolic acids include:Wheat
Rice
Corn
Oats
Refined maize flourRye

, Sprinkling these on your foods can also add more phenolic acid to your diet. Nuts and seeds high in phenolic acids include:Flaxseed and flaxseed meal
Hazelnut
Pecans
Soy flour
Chestnut

, Beverages made from plant sources can also help boost your daily phenolic acid intake. Having a sensible amount of the following beverages can further your efforts to get more phenolic acid:Red wine
Tea
Coffee
Hot chocolate made from cocoa, The best way to add phenolic acids to your diet is through foods and beverages high in them. You can also try a supplement high in phenolic acids for a further boost. Phenolic acid supplements often come as grape seed or green tea extract or are marketed as antioxidants. Avoid using these in place of a proper diet high in phenolic acids because they may not have the same benefit as food sources.Follow your doctor’s or packaging instructions for proper dosage.
The FDA​ ​does​ ​not​ ​regulate supplements​ ​for​ ​content,​ ​purity,​ ​labeling,​ ​or​ ​claims.​ ​​It's best to use supplements​ ​with​ ​a​ ​third​ ​party​ ​verifier like USP (US Pharmacopeia).

