 People who speak negatively oftentimes have a bad habit of doing so. It may be aimed directly at you, but more likely it is merely about the myriad of other factors which are going on in that person's life. It is difficult to face an onslaught of negativity, and especially so when you are the target of it. But keep in mind that the complaints are likely just a way for the individual to vent. Take a breath, put on a smile and remind yourself, "It's not me, it's them." This really is their concern, not yours.;
, It's never fun being the subject of another person's negativity, but consider how miserable that person must be to be intentionally treating you this way. They may see themselves as a victim of the world, and they may be scared or hurting in some way. Anger is one way that people use to hide their true feelings from others, as well as from themselves. Attempt to be compassionate and give them the benefit of the doubt.
 Ask yourself what you can do to make this person's day better. It could be something modest, like acknowledging a recent accomplishment or complementing them on something. Even just asking them how they are doing might help them open up to you and tell you about how they really feel. Do something that you think would cheer yourself up on a bad day. But recognize that you may be met with an even larger wave of negativity. If this is the case, don't get frustrated. Realize that this person probably is not yet in a place where they can accept your kindness, or that this simply wasn't the best way to communicate with them.
 We're not physically attached to every individual that we deal with on a daily basis. It's okay to choose not to be around people who bring negative energy into your world. If you have people in your life - friends, family members, coworkers, etc. - who have demonstrated that they don't relate to or appreciate your positivity, then it really is okay to limit your interactions with them. Further, if someone you know has a completely toxic personality, consider not having a relationship with them at all, if possible. There is an entire world full of people who can make you smile, and it's up to you to decide who you want to share your positive outlook with.

