 In addition to their racks of current titles, many comic shops also feature boxes of older comics as well as bagged rarer issues. Buying from a comics shop may cost you more than from other sources, though, because you're also paying for the dealer's overhead.
 Some estate sales may include a collection of older comics, and auction houses also provide a way to advertise a collection you're trying to sell. However, these promotional services come with a price, which usually includes an auctioneer's fee; many auction houses therefore prefer to deal with older, rarer comics.
 General-circulation newspapers and specialty trade publications are both places to advertise that you're looking for certain comics issues to add to your collection or that you have issues to sell.
 A number of second-hand bookstores and flea markets sell comic books as part of their inventory; many of them also buy comics to resell to others. You can also buy comics at yard sales.
 Conventions dedicated to comic books began in the late 1960s, providing comics fans the opportunity to buy and sell comics, as well as to meet their favorite writers and artists and the actors who have portrayed their favorite characters. Smaller shows run a half-day or full day, while larger conventions run 3 to 5 days.


The largest comic convention is Comic-Con, held in San Diego in July. Other major comic conventions are held in New York and Chicago.
If you can't make a comic book convention, many science fiction conventions feature a comics programming track and include one or more comic book dealers among the vendors in their dealers' rooms.
 There are several ways you can buy or sell comics online.


Many comic book dealers have online storefronts. As with brick-and-mortar comics shops, however, you may be paying for dealer overhead as well as the comic book itself.
You can buy or sell comic books through online marketplaces such as Craigslist or Amazon.com or auction sites such as eBay. In addition, there are specialized comic book auction sites as comiclink.com and comicconnect.com.
You can network with other comic book fans through online communities and forums devoted to comic books. These forums will provide you with the chance to learn more about the comic medium and get advice on where and how to buy and sell comics.

