 Another type of matched grip is the French grip. This style is somewhat unique among matched grips in that it mainly uses the fingers to power each drum hit, rather than the wrists. To hold your drumsticks in a French grip, begin exactly as you would for the American or German grip by finding and gripping your sticks' balance points with your thumb and first finger.
 Next, turn your palms inward so that they face each other. The flat parts of your palms should be facing up and down (perpendicular to the floor).









Your palms should be facing each other, but they shouldn't necessarily be close to each other. Keep your hands as far apart as feels natural — for most people,this will be about a foot or so.
 Curl your middle, ring, and pinky fingers underneath each stick. As you play, these fingers will provide support for your sticks, helping you keep them under control. This is extra-important for the French grip because it uses your finger strength more heavily than the other matched grips do.
 Since you've positioned your hands so that their palms are facing each other, your elbows will probably have naturally dropped near to your sides. If they haven't, tuck your elbows in slightly so that they hang an inch or so from your torso.









You don't need to be strict about this — as you play, you should find that your elbows naturally find a comfortable "resting" position somewhere near your sides. You just want to avoid having your arms bend outward at the elbows, which can reduce your playing power.
 When you've found a comfortable stance and you're ready to start drumming, turn your wrists downward slightly and use your fingers to strike the drum with the sticks. Some wrist movement will probably be unavoidable, but most of the power for the drum hits should come from using the fingers to strike with the sticks, not from rotating your wrists or moving your forearms or shoulders.









Because you're using your fingers to power your drum hits, French grip typically gives the drummer the ability to play with a little extra control and dexterity than wrist-oriented playing styles. This makes French grip a great choice for drumming that demands finesse, like jazz, technical rock, and certain types of technical "Drumline"-style pieces. However, because the fingers don't have as much strength as the wrist, French grip can be a bad choice for the loud, powerful drumming demanded by hard rock, heavy metal, and so on.

