 Unless your child's crib came with its own toddler bed rail, you'll need to purchase a separate rail.









Toddler bed rails are lower and shorter than the sides of a crib. Your toddler should be able to get in and out of bed without assistance, but the rail should prevent your toddler from accidentally rolling out of bed in his or her sleep.
Typically, your best option will be a universal toddler guardrail kit. The rail itself should fit most recently manufactured cribs, and the kit will also contain the metal brackets and screws you'll need to attach the rail.;
, Use a manual or electric screwdriver to remove the screws holding one side of the crib in place. After removing the screws, you should be able to completely lift away the side.








The exact set-up will vary depending on the crib manufacturer and model, but typically, there will be several screws located along the left and right posts of the crib side.
In most cases, you'll only want to remove one side of the crib. If you choose to remove both sides, you'll need to install a toddler rail on either side or push one side of the bed against a wall.
Note that this will only work for convertible style cribs. Stationary cribs do not have removable sides, so you won't be able to use this method of conversion.
 You'll need access to the bottom slats of the bed when installing the guardrail, so remove the bedding and mattress from the crib before you begin.









Set the bedding aside. Since the dimensions of the bed won't change after you convert it, you should be able to use the same mattress and sheets.
It'll be easiest to complete this step after you've already removed one side of the crib, but if you need to access the bottom slats to remove the side, remove the mattress and bedding first.
 Position one L-bracket along the inside of each rail post. Attach the brackets to the posts using screws and a screwdriver.









Guardrail kits should come with the correct L-brackets and screws, but if you need to buy separate hardware, choose 2 inch (5 cm) or 3 inch (7.6 cm) corner brackets with four mounting holes and 1 inch (2.5 cm) long Phillips-head screws.
You'll need to install one bracket one each of the two guardrail posts.
Position the bracket so that the foot of the bracket lies flush with the bottom of the post. The vertical portion of the bracket should be aligned with the center of the post. Use two screws to secure the bracket to the post.
 Lift the guardrail and position it over the bare side of the bed. Hold the rail so that the end posts and attached brackets line up with two separate slats on the bottom of the bed.








Try to leave approximately 9 inches (23 cm) of space in between the rail and the headboard. You should also leave another 9 inches (23 cm) of space in between the rail and the footboard.
By leaving this much space on either side of the rail, you'll make it easier for your toddler to get in and out of bed.
 While holding the rail steady, install two screws through the remaining holes of each bracket and into the corresponding slat rolls at the bottom of the bed.









You must use two screws with each bracket. Try to keep the bracket positioned down the center of each corresponding slat for the greatest amount of security.
Make sure that the screws are tight and able to hold the brackets firmly in place. When finished, try to wiggle the rail. The guardrail should not move.
 Once the guardrail is in place, return the mattress to the bed. Cover it with sheets, blankets, and pillows as needed. The toddler bed should now be ready to use.









Note that if you need or want to install a second rail on the other side of the bed, you should do so by following the same steps used for the first rail. Install both rails before returning the mattress and bedding.

