 If you're caught in a dangerous situation or feel unsafe, you'll be able to call someone for help. Emergency numbers include parent's cell phone number, a trusted neighbor, a nearby relative, etc. It's best to memorize them, but you should also write them down and post them near the phone or on the refrigerator for quick access. If you need to, call these numbers. If you're scared, call these numbers. Be safe, not sorry. You should also learn to dial 911 in case a serious emergency occurs.;
, In order to stay out of trouble, follow their orders and don't answer the phone if they instruct you not to. This will prevent you from getting into danger, as some people may try to extract important information from you. Giving away any personal details, such as your address, age, etc. is dangerous and unwise. Follow your parents' wishes for the sake of your safety.
 If your phone has one, it's wise to check it before making any decisions. A caller ID shows you who is calling, which can help you decide whether to answer the phone or not. You should not answer the phone if you don't recognize the caller ID. However, if you do answer the phone, just check and say "Hello, who is this?". If they say something weird or creepy, then get off of the phone right away and notify your parents immediately.


Avoid answering any 1-800 numbers. These are most likely scams calling and attempting to convince you to purchase one of their products. They may ask for personal information, so it's better to leave their calls unanswered. If you must, you can tell them not to call you again or you will call the cops because some are persistent to the point where it can be considered harassment.
 If you choose to take the call, press the "talk" button or pick up the handset, which will connect you to the caller. Be sure to answer with a polite tone. You can greet the caller using a phrase an adult has instructed you to say (ex: "Hello? This is (your name)."). However, if you don't recognize the caller ID, avoid giving away your name or information when you first answer the phone. Simply answer, "Hello?" to protect your privacy.


Other phrases you could greet callers with are "(Last name) Residence, (your name) speaking" or "Good afternoon, (your name) speaking." Be sure to talk to an adult about which one is best to use.
If the caller informs you that they're coming over to fix something, tell them, "Mr./Mrs. (last name) will have to call you back about that." Then, hang up and immediately call one of the emergency numbers. Tell them that someone called and said they were coming over.
 If they ask to talk to your parents, don't tell them that you're home alone, as this puts you at risk. Instead, tell them, "I'm sorry, it is inconvenient for Mr./Mrs.(insert last name) to speak with you at this time. May I take a message?"

, Even if you recognize the number that is calling, it is important to be aware of who you are speaking with. The response of the caller should directly impact how you reply, whether to carry out a conversation, or to hang up. If they refuse to give their name or sound suspicious in any way, you may want to hang up and ignore their calls. Although it may seem like you're being paranoid, your safety should come first.
 That way, before disconnecting the call, you can take down information or messages that they would like to share with you. You might say, "May I take a message?" Write down all the details you can, including the caller ID and phone number if possible. You can give it to your parents once they return home.
 Avoid giving out any personal details about being home alone, your age, where you hang out, where your parents work, or any other identifiable information. This puts you and your family at risk, and you're only supplying the caller with information that they may take advantage of. You can however say, "I'm sorry, but the person you are looking for isn't available to take your call. Can I take a message and have them call you back later?"

, If the caller continues demanding that you hand the phone to your parents, tell them, "Okay, one moment; I'll get them." Then, hang up and ignore any further calls from them. When your parents arrive home, inform them about the situation. There may be a way for them to check the phone, and if they know the caller, they can call back and talk to them. You should also hang up the phone if the caller keeps asking you personal questions. If they continue pursuing answers despite your protests, immediately disconnect the call and don't answer if they call back.


It's best to hang up if you feel unsafe or suspicious about the caller.
 If a wrong number calls, don't hang up without saying anything, as they may call back. Say, "Hello?" and they may tell you who they are looking for. If you don't recognize the name of the person they're looking for, say, "I'm sorry but I think you have the wrong number" and hang up.
 Simply let it go to voicemail. Then, when you have the chance, check your voicemail to see what they want. If it is a true emergency, call them back; if not, wait until someone else is at home with you.
 If you have caller ID, this is your first indication. If not, listen for the caller's identification. You may have to prompt the caller and ask for their name in order to make sure you know who you're speaking with.


If the caller does not identify themselves, consider hanging up. If it really matters, they'll call back and identify themselves because they'll realize that they didn't come across properly with the first call.
 Have a line that makes it sound as if you're not the only person at home. For example, you could say, "Hello, to whom do you wish to speak?" if you don't know who is calling you. You can determine from their response whether or not the call is worth proceeding with.
 You also have the power to reveal nothing at all, so don't be persuaded to say things to this caller that you don't feel comfortable sharing or explaining. If you don't know them, then it's none of their business. It's best to keep personal information to yourself, especially if you're uncertain of their identity or intentions.
 When answering the phone, simply greet them with a "Hello?" With this introduction, you can keep your identity a secret and require them to tell you theirs. Sometimes, you may get a caller who won't tell you who they are until you identify yourself. Understand that the person who called - and not the person who answers the phone - must identify themselves first. You may want to consider hanging up if they refuse to tell you who they are.
 This depends on your comfort level after getting the information. After the caller has identified themselves, you have the option to (a) acknowledge yourself, (b) gather more information about the caller without identifying yourself, or (c) just hang up.


For information on avoiding being scammed, read further How to Avoid Phone Scams.

