 Run your head under hot water in the shower for a minute or two to help soften your hair and scalp. Rub your head thoroughly with shaving lubricant or oil. Keep the bottle nearby so you can reapply it when necessary.
 The hair is lighter and thinner near the face, making it easier to shave. Save the coarser hair toward the back of your head for last, so the lubricant has time to soften it.


Shave from your forehead to the crown (in the back of your head) in even rows.
Use steady, firm strokes. Don't press too hard, but make sure you apply enough pressure to get a close shave. To keep the skin taut, press down on the scalp just below where you are shaving.
Rinse the blade with water to remove hair as often as necessary.
 Working in upward strokes from your neck to the top of your head, shave the hair off the sides of your head.


Be careful when shaving behind your ears; use one hand to hold your ear down so you don't nick it with the razor.
If you encounter a cowlick, shave around the area first. When you are ready, use short strokes that trace the pattern of the hair to shave against the grain of the hair.
 Tilt your head forward and down while you are shaving the back to prevent nicks. Use a steady hand to continue shaving the part of your head you can't see. Work in upward strokes from the base of your neck to the top of your head.


Be especially careful not to rush the process as you shave the back of your head. Allow the razor to glide smoothly over ridges and valleys to avoid cutting yourself.
Use a hand mirror to check your progress, and reapply shaving cream or oil as necessary to finish up your shave.
 Wash away the hairs, then take a look in the mirror at all sides of your head.


If you missed a spot, apply more shaving cream or oil and go back over it with the razor.
Don't go over your scalp twice unless it's necessary. If you're using a good razor, one pass should be enough to remove the hair, and a second pass will only irritate your scalp.
 When you're satisfied with the job, rise your scalp, pat it dry and apply a moisturizing aftershave. This will soothe any razor burn you may have and protect your newly exposed skin from getting dried out.

