 Walking meditation, Tai Chi, Qi Gong, Yoga and Pilates are all good examples you can do in private or join a group. More esoteric kinds include Sufi Whirling - which is a fantastic style to learn from a trained instructor - which are hard to find; self-manifest Qi Gong and other more advanced forms of Qi Gong and Yoga.;
, Ideally this place should be quiet, empty and full of space and fresh air. It doesn't have to be fancy and many people can and do enter into meditation in ordinary places at home - such as on their home gym equipment like the bike or rowing machine and even in the kitchen, such as stirring a pot of soup or porridge.


This may seem strange, but does offer opportunities that any calming, repetitive motion can become a meditation. Consider the serene tea ceremonies of Japan as how a simple thing can become a meditation. You can find opportunities to relax in vacuuming, ironing, sweeping, cooking, lawn mowing, raking leaves or earth (consider the famous Zen monastery gravel gardens), painting and washing windows and washing dishes.
 The principles that you use in sitting meditation are the same as moving; relaxing, not interfering with the movement, observing and letting go. Ideally you should have a sense of kindness when you practice, as this makes any meditation more effective.


Like in sitting meditation, what makes moving meditation work is that you let go, almost always this is by being occupied with something else that is calming and clarifying.
 Although taken for granted in sitting meditation, moving meditation requires free movement so loose or elastic type clothing that breathe well are the recommendation as tight clothing can be limiting and therefore distracting.
 Generally moving meditations can create more thinking - especially walking meditation, because for most of their life walking has been a common time people would think about issues - its a natural thing people do, so the mind will readily use an old pattern. Likewise rapid movement like aerobics can get the blood pumping and can stir up energy and excitement or tension.
 You may walk in a large circle, clockwise or anti-clockwise is a matter of personal preference; or in back and forth in a line. Hallways, verandas and long balconies are ideal for the latter.
 Move at a speed that is comfortable for you. Your speed is also very telling to an experienced observer so this can be useful to learn and reflect on what your state of mind is, as deliberate slowness shows a controlling mind (which won't let go easily), too fast shows agitation or worry, too random shows a lack of central calmness and focus, too sloppy can show fatigue - in which case a rest is recommended.
 What you are aware of varies from practice to practice, Some people may focus on the movement of the body, the sensation of touching the floor, the visual stimulus of each end of the room, its a very personal thing so there is no right or wrong, but in essence there should be a relaxed engagement with what you are doing.
 If you are walking in a circle, you can, at a certain stage, simply let go of where you are in the room and keep walking - it happens naturally because you are so relaxed into the pattern that you won't walk into anything, but for beginners or when starting it is ideal to keep fairly clear idea where you are in the room; and walls and furniture are useful guides.


For back and forth in a line, when you reach the end on the room, allow yourself to stop. Take a deep breath of fresh air filling the whole lungs, then breathe out and slowly turn around, collect your awareness and then continue. When you reach the other end, stop for a few seconds, then turn and take another deep refreshing breath. Breathe naturally the rest of the time. Back and forth styles are generally slower to get into a peaceful state but tends to be more stable.
 This essentially is letting them fade away on their own, which they do when you have shifted focus back to your movement.
 There is no fixed length of time, but generally you will know when it has finished. Walking meditation, if practiced for a long time such a few hours, it can feel as if you are floating, so you tend not to be too worried about time as you are enjoying yourself so much.
 Your feet should be a shoulder width apart and as parallel as comfortable. Allow your hands to hang comfortably and gently in front of your stomach area, with your elbows pointing outwards and the palms facing you. Take a minute or so to settle into your body's centre of gravity (often called the dan tian) and settle the weight into your feet as if strong roots are growing into the ground.
 Your breath should be gentle, natural, slow and deep, and allow the air to fill up your lungs. Ideally you should do this meditation where there is ample fresh air, rather than old stale air.
 As you breathe in, gently allow the hands and arms to expand outwards and upwards, as if expanding around a big ball, or more accurately, as if your energy space is expanding. As you breathe out, allow them to sink back down as if the ball is shrinking to the size of a basketball (or whatever size feels right for you). Repeat for each breath.
 As you breathe in, rock slightly forward onto the front half of your feet, and as you breathe out, rock back slightly. This is a very gentle, natural movement and generally happens all on its own.
 As you breathe in, stand up or expand slightly, as you breathe out, you may relax inwards - as if sitting down on a high chair.


All movements should essentially follow the flow of the breath as a natural expression of expansion and contraction. It should feel each time you breathe as if a wave of energy is coursing through you.
Movements should feel comfortable and relaxed to you, if you feel tension or over-exertion, this can for beginners simply be using muscles that have not been used in a while, but can also be a sign of forcing the meditation, in which case the meditator should stop and rest until they feel more calm. Force and meditation don't work well together.
 Imagine the energy is flowing in you like waves in the ocean, each time you breathe in and out the energy flows in and out like a wave. Let the energy flow outwards taking any muscle tension, tiredness and inner toxins, so that the in-breath soothes, cleanses and refreshes your entire body. You may do this as long as you wish.
 This means at the start of each meditation, each time you should keep to small, gentle waves. As your body and mind lets go more, it naturally wants to expand more and breathe more. When your arms expand out just above shoulder height, that is about the extent you should go for. Any more than that can potentially make you feel tired as it can be too much of a work-out for the arms and lungs.
 When you feel ready, allow the waves to slowly shrink back where your arms move only a few inches in front of your abdomen, palms facing inwards.
 Allow the energy to flow through you as you settle into your feet. You may like to stand observing this for a few minutes, or to sit or lie down to observe.

