 Many people are brought up from very early childhood to believe that they can achieve nothing until they are thin. "You'll never find a husband looking like that"/"Nobody wants to date someone like you" are statements that especially fat girls and young women are pressured with. This, among other things, instills the belief that you do not deserve anything good - a loving relationship, success at work, financial wealth, or friendship - unless you are thin. This type of thinking is very dangerous and opens fat people up to both abusive relationships and exploitation at work. Stop believing it. It is untrue. You are a human being and deserving of everything good. You do not have to "earn" respect and dignity.
 Since becoming thin is made such a priority for fat people (either by themselves or through outward pressure), they often have no space or energy to define themselves as people. All other interests are seen as a waste of energy or time that could go to weight loss attempts instead. Free yourself of that notion as much as you can. You have one life, and you get to live that life in the body you have. What do you want to do with it? What are your interests? What do you like to do?

, They may be your family members, friends, or people you know only online, but get in touch with others. Find body-positive and fat positive blogs and activists online. Read their blogs, share your experiences, and read those of others to see you are not alone. If it gives you strength, claim certain words for yourself, such as "beautiful". If you do not subscribe to beauty as a goal, don't feel pressured. You don't have to love yourself or feel beautiful if you don't want to.
 Most commodities available for fun are not inclusive of fat people. Movie theatre seats, airline seats, fun ride seats, restaurant seating, public transport, clothing sizes, gym equipment, and online dating, to name a few, are engineered to serve thin people, in spite of the fact that a large percentage of the population of any given country is not thin. This states "you do not belong here" to fat people. Understand that you do belong anywhere you wish to be. You have the right to go out and enjoy yourself. You have the right to wear what you wish to wear (provided that you can find it). You have the right to eat in public. You don't have to put up with abusive friendships or relationships because someone is deigning to spend time with you.
 This can be due to the fact that they are a lot more expensive, (for example, buying a bike that does not have a 180-pound weight limit will cost up to 20 times as much as a run-of-the-mill bike that any thin person can use), or because you were held back by others or their criticism, or because you wanted to wait until you were thinner before doing whatever it is. Don't wait. It is your life to live. It is impossible to please others completely. Focus on doing the things that make you feel good, safe, confident, and happy.
 If you want to go to the beach, but you panic when you get there and are afraid of negative comments, sit in the sand or put your feet in the water. Enjoy it on your own terms and make it a positive experience. Maybe after a couple of times you feel like rolling up your pants or sleeves, maybe you eventually move on to wearing shorts, etc. Consider taking a friend or family members with you. If you do receive negative comments, have even more fun. Understand that your body is not public property. You are not infringing on anyone's rights by existing. Someone who thinks you should disappear because they "don't want to look at you" severely overestimates the importance of their personal aesthetic. They are not more important than you by default because they are thin(ner). Their opinions are irrelevant.

