 You will need a piece of paper, a writing utensil, and some colored pencils or markers. Pull out a few of the colored pencils or markers and assign meaning to a few of them. For instance, you may say that orange is for topics you need to research further, a green marker is for an essential point, purple is for counterarguments, and yellow is for supporting examples.


Lay out the colored markers or pencils to which you have assigned meaning.
Orient your paper so that it is in landscape position.;
, If you are writing about disability advocacy, for example, you could either write "Disability" or you could write "Disability is a socially and environmentally imposed issue rather than an inherent physical reality." It just depends where you are in your thinking!


Circle your topic.
 Start writing any words or ideas that relate to the topic at hand. Draw them each in their own bubble, then draw lines to connect them to the main idea and to each other using the colors that apply. You can draw your lines as arrows, branches, or whatever other shape seems relevant.


Each thing you write down may give you another association. Write that down as well. For instance, writing "Impairment vs. disability" might remind you of "wheelchair ramps."
Try to cluster related thoughts together ("wheelchair ramps"—"access to public life"), but don't worry if it doesn't always happen—you can draw a line between things you wish to connect.
Look for connections between your unrelated thoughts and jot them into the picture.
 If you would like to take a more organized approach, you can pre-map your ideas. You might draw several bubbles and label them "Who" "What" "Where" "When" "How" and "Why," for instance. Then fill them in.


You might also label them "supporting argument," "evidence," "counterargument" etc.
 Work swiftly so that your associations keep flowing. Don't pause to illustrate or trace perfectly straight lines—instead, try to write and sketch quickly, at the speed of your associations.


Include doodles if they occur to you, but again, don't get caught up in making them perfect.
 Some people type faster than they draw, or think better if they can look at an already organized structure. If drawing by hand isn't doing it for you, you can try an online template instead.While there are plenty of programs available for purpose, you can also use free online mapping tools like Bubble.us, Mind42, or Coggle.

