 Inform your work colleagues that you will be planning a company event and invite people to assist you in the organizing of it. You might consider sending out an email to all of those invited, putting up a bulletin in the breakroom, or even creating an event on various social media platforms. You may also want to approach some people personally.People are not always quick to volunteer, but a personal invite might have more traction, especially if you emphasize the specific skill that you wish to utilize by selecting that particular person.
Some people are good at organizing details, while someone else might be particularly good at baking tasty treats for the party. If you have someone in mind that you specifically want to ask to help, try saying something like, “John, I was really impressed with the way you helped organize the activities at our last function. I was wondering if you might consider helping in the same way for our upcoming event?”;
, At this meeting, you should divide the various steps into committees, such as venue, food, entertainment, and decorating. Assign each committee a leader who you feel is the most capable out of your volunteers. Each leader should then pick a team, of at least one other person, to assist them from the remaining volunteers.During the meeting, discuss ideas from each committee to get the teams motivated and thinking of their approach.
Before ending the meeting, arrange a date and time for the next meeting and request that each committee offer a status report.
 You delegated the tasks so you didn't have to get lost in the shopping end of these areas, but you have to take part in the decision making process – especially when it comes to choosing and buying.Get involved with all the committees, and remain in charge of the budget.
Make sure each committee runs costs by you before making any purchases.
Let committee members handle the small stuff, but make sure they know to consult you on all larger decisions.
 Have these meetings until the date of the company function. Arrange for one of those meetings to be at the chosen location so that all the committees can make sure that their part of the plan works in conjunction with the event as a whole.For example, the decoration crew needs to know the size and structure of the venue to make sure they select appropriate decorations, and the entertainment committee needs to check out the venue before making a final decision on the entertainment selection.
Make sure everyone is on schedule and pulling their weight. Be ready to help with issues and decision making solutions.
Try to settle on the date, time, and location so you can work on getting the word out about the event.
 Consider what goals you want to accomplish for the business by hosting this event. Is the purpose to draw in more clients? Or maybe your goal is to develop stronger relationships with business partners. Whatever the reason, it’s important that you have it in mind from the beginning so that you can keep this goal as the motivating factor whenever you make decisions about the event.Your business goal should be something specific and measurable instead of something vague. For example, a reasonable event goal might be to increase business investors by 20%.
 This is one of the most important steps in planning an event for your company because the location will really set the tone for the whole event. Consider the scale of your event – will it just be the people in your small office, or will the event be catering to an extended business crowd?Depending on the size and scope of the event, you may be able to host it at your workplace. If you have a large conference room, this could be a cost-efficient way to plan the event.
But if you are inviting many people to the event, you should look into reserving a conference center or events center. Many hotels have these kinds of locations available for booking.
Consider the acoustics of the room. If you will have a large group, you’ll probably need a microphone for the speaker and you don’t want the sound to echo terribly because of poor sound acoustics.
Make sure the venue fits in your budget for the event, while still allowing enough for the other expenditures.
 Once you have chosen the venue, you’ll need to start considering who to invite. Make sure you don’t invite more people than the venue can comfortably hold. You don’t want your guests to be crowded or uncomfortable.The venue employees will be able to tell you what the maximum occupancy is for the venue.
Be sure to keep the business purpose in mind when considering what guests to invite. You want to invite people who will contribute to the successful outcome of the event and support your cause, not people who might hinder that goal.
 Once you know how many people you will be inviting, you can start planning for the food. You need to figure out what kinds of food you want to serve and how much of it to get for the event. These considerations largely depend on what time of day your event will be held.


For example, if your event is at 7pm, your guests will probably expect you to provide food for them and they probably won’t eat dinner before the event. In this case, you’ll need to supply an entrée, some sides, and a dessert, as well as some beverages.
If your event begins at 8am, it would be good to offer coffee and juice along with some croissants or doughnuts.
 If you decide to invite a keynote speaker to your event, make sure that whoever you choose is somehow related to your business, your product, your company’s ideology, or the purpose of this event.Make sure the speaker’s cost is within the budget for your event.
Try to speak directly with several options for keynote speakers so that you can get a better idea about which one would be the best fit for your event.
 In order to stay on budget for the event, you’ll need to assess how much money you can spend and subtract a substantial contingency fund. Then the rest is what you have to spend on the event.No event will ever go 100% smoothly. There will usually be some minor (or large!) mishap that ends up costing additional, unexpected money. It is important to plan ahead for this and to be prepared with a backup contingency fund.
Depending on the size of the event, the contingency fund could range from a couple hundred dollars to several thousand dollars.
 In order to attract corporate sponsors for your company event, you’ll need to come up with a proposal request that piques their interest. Sponsoring your event must be beneficial to the sponsor in some way – like it will give their organization more media coverage.Your proposal should include the reasons why they should sponsor your event, demographic details for the event/organization, the actual dollar amounts you’re requesting,

, To get the turnout you want for your event, you might want to consider promoting it on social media. You could create a Facebook event and invite people that way. You could also tweet about it from your company’s Twitter account. All of these are great ways to spread the word about your company’s upcoming event. , Make sure you have a committee for invites and responses, and suggest they create a spreadsheet with guest list information.This will allow you to keep track of who is planning to attend and get a headcount for the things you’ll need to plan for – like how many refreshments or company swag to purchase for the event.
 In this meeting, you should review all the committee decisions, guest list, and budgets requirements. Take this time to iron out all the final details.Be sure to include time at the event for networking because this is a very important aspect of company events.
 Sponsors are the people who made your event possible, so you’ll need to treat them appropriately. This means possibly inviting them to the event, ensuring that they have a good time while they are there, and giving them front row access to anything happening at the event. You’ll also need to thank your sponsors publicly at the event.You may also want to host a sponsor follow-up meeting after the event to discuss how the event went, what could be done differently in the future, etc.
 Remember to thank all your volunteers for their help organizing the company gathering. Write personal cards recognizing their individual contributions. This is a good way to help make the whole planning process as pleasant as possible.


Showing your appreciation will most likely motivate your helpers into assisting you again in the future.

