 Instead of heading for the full priced dresses, find the racks that contain marked down dresses. Most department stores will mark down merchandise anywhere from 20%-80% off the original price.


Racks are usually grouped according to percentage off. Start with the racks containing the most mark downs if you are on a tight budget. Go towards the back of the store or section if you are having trouble finding the clearance racks.;
, This is extremely important for saving money on a dress, especially a dress that is part of this season's fashion. Most major clothing and department stores run sales around holidays, like Labor Day, Presidents' Day, Independence Day, and Black Friday.Watch for circulars or television commercials advertising these sales around holidays. Most stores use every small and large holiday for an excuse to have a sale.
 Many clothing and department stores offer coupons to encourage consumers to come to their stores. These coupons can be found in advertisements received through the mail, in newspapers, or sometimes in the front of the stores.


Search online for coupons. Sometimes, stores provide coupons on their websites or mobile apps that are not well publicized through sales papers or commercials. Googling a store's name plus the word "coupon" may also yield coupons you can use.
Sign up for stores' mailing lists. Stores send coupon rewards to their loyal customers that they don't give to the general shopper. These mailing lists will also alert you to sales and special promotions., Shopping online for a dress can be one of the best money savers. You can comparison shop easily without driving between different stores, which can help you find the best deal.


Many websites offer discount deals for dresses. Try ASOS, Blue Fly, Fly Jane, Simply Dress, Adoring Dress, Zulily, and A'GACI, among others.Google simple search terms to help you locate what you are looking for. Try typing in "cheap cocktail dresses," "cocktail dresses on sale," or "cocktail dresses under $100."
The downside to online shopping is that you can't try on a dress. If you buy your cocktail dress online, make sure to buy it early enough that you can send it back if it does not fit. Also remember to look at their size charts to make sure you are buying the right fit.
 If department and clothing stores are too heavy for your wallet, try going to discount stores. Stores like T.J. Maxx carry designer brands, while Marshalls, Ross, and Dress For Less carry a mixture of brands.Look for outlet stores from your favorite retailers. Places like Nordstrom Rack are a great way to find quality or designer dresses at a fraction of the price.
 End of season sales are a great time to pick up dresses at low prices. Doing this does require some forethought, but if you know that you will be going to prom, homecoming, or another formal event in the future, save yourself some future stress and buy the dress early.


Early fall and spring are two common times when clothes are being rotated out for the seasons. When you see winter and summer clothes being brought out, check the clearance racks for dresses.Shop after common formal events. Most department stores carry formal wear around the time of high school proms (spring) and homecoming (fall). Look for dresses when the stores put these event-specific dresses on sale.
 Some bridal shops, such as David's Bridal, don't just carry wedding and bridesmaid gowns - they also carry other formal wear. Visit these stores and see what they have to offer. These shops also run good sales on their dresses throughout the year, especially when they are getting a new season's selection in stock.
 Websites such as Shop It To Me and Shop Style can be set up to troll the web for great deals.You enter your size, your price range, the type of item you want, and even a brand, and you can log into your account daily to check for the deals they've found.