 Before you start going through your leftover makeup and beauty supplies, check online for the rules of recycling in your city. The laws for recycling can vary from place to place. While you may be aware of the standard recycling practices of your area, you should still check to see which materials are acceptable to be recycled with regular items like cardboard and plastic bottles.Many beauty products are made from plastics that are harder to recycle and are not accepted in some cities.;
, Check each of your items for a small triangle with a stamped number. This number refers to the type of plastic the product is made of and how it can be recycled. For example, while numbers one, two, four, and five are considered safe and can usually be placed outside with normal curbside recycling, numbers three, six, and seven are harder plastics and may require specialized recycling.Keep in mind that some smaller beauty products may not have a number indicating what plastic they’re made from. For these items, look the product up online. For example, if it's a Clinique product, go to the Clinique website and search for the item to see details regarding it.
 Once you’ve researched what’s acceptable in your area, start going through and cleaning your leftover products. Take apart spray bottles by removing the cap, and separating the tops, springs, and bottles. Try to clean out any leftover residue, as well. Rinse each product in warm water and dish soap, scrubbing with a kitchen sponge if necessary.


You can also soak bottles or makeup pots overnight.
 Generally, cardboard, glass containers, metal lids or caps, plastic bottles (one, two, and six) and steel/tin cans can be recycled with regular curbside recycling. However, for empty Aerosol cans, bottle caps, and three, four, five, and seven, plastics you will need to check with your local recycling. Also, if your product has a mirror, try to reuse it rather than tossing it away. For plastic wrap and waxed cardboard, place them into the trash to be taken to a landfill.If you have your own compost, any corn-based plastic can be thrown there.
 Once you’ve checked which plastics are accepted with your local recycling, you can place those items out with the rest of your recyclables. Depending on your area, you may be provided a blue bin or garbage can for recycling that will be picked up once a week. This may be with your usual garbage collection or on an entirely different day. You can also take your recycling directly to a local recycling facility in your area.
 For items that you aren’t sure on, for example, the ones without a number indicating the plastic used, try shipping to Terracycle. This is Garnier’s Personal Care and Beauty Recycling Program. All you need to do is clean up your used beauty products, put them into a box, and then go to the Terracycle website. From the site you can print out a free shipping label to attach to your package. Some areas even have local Terracycle collection facilities., Similar to Garnier, Estee Lauder also offers a place to turn in used beauty products. You can search locally for an Origins store in your area, or you can go the Estee Lauder counter in a department store to turn in your recyclables. They are willing to accept all cosmetic containers, even the ones you feel aren’t able to be recycled. Just make sure you have cleaned everything properly before you turn it in., For the thicker, harder to recycle plastic like the caps of makeup pumps or plastic soda bottles, try turning them into Aveda’s Full Circle recycling program. You can find these locations at any of the Aveda retail stores across the U.S. Simply pack your cleaned items into a box or bag and turn them in over the counter., If you commonly use MAC products, hold onto your empty items until you get six. The type of makeup product doesn’t matter, it can be an eyeshadow palette, a paint pot, lipstick, or primer. Once you have six empty ones, go to any MAC store or counter in a department store and turn them in for a free makeup product like a lipstick., If you've come down to the end of your lipstick, try reviving it by mixing it with another color. Simply take both lipstick stubs and place them into a large metal spoon. Then hold that spoon over an open flame until the lipsticks melt. Stir the mixture with a knife and then pour it into an empty lipstick tube. Place the new lipstick into the refrigerator to harden overnight.You can also take an old lipstick and turn it into a lip-gloss. All you need to do is mix the leftover lipstick with an equal amount of petroleum jelly.
 Take an old solid foundation or powder compact and remove any leftover makeup. Once clean, glue a small piece of felt or a sponge into the open area. Once dry, place a needle or two into the felt/sponge along with some thread. You can also store buttons in the compact if you have room., If you have a multitude of old beauty products with mirrors, use them to create a unique piece of art. For example, use small, circular mirrors to create a larger mirror. You can do this by separating the mirrors and spray painting their backs the same color. Then, simply organize the mirrors into a pattern and glue them to a piece of wood to hang on your wall.