 You won't need a lot, and any tools you don't have can usually be rented at an auto supply shop in your town, so don't go out and buy these until you know you need them:

Socket set
Brake line wrench
Drop light
Screwdrivers
Needlenose pliers
Torque Wrench
Gloves and goggles
Brake fluid
Car jack
Service manual;
,, Ensure the jack is positioned correctly in a safe position under your car, then add jack stands and wheel blocks to keep the car secure. Never work under a car with just the hydraulic jack.It is not strong or stable enough.

Refer to your owner's manual for lifting points if you are unsure where to place the jack.



 



, Turn the wheel to the proper position to where the caliper may be accessed easily.
, Remove the retaining bolts that hold the caliper's brake hose in place to allow movement with a wrench.


Some cars may have clips in place of the bolts. Use the edge of a Phillips or flathead screwdriver to pry open the clips. Throw away the old brass or copper washers. Never reuse old washers.
 Never clamp or crimp a brake line, as it can be damaged and this would result in brake failure, possibly causing an accident or worse., The fitting shown is also known as a "banjo" fitting.
 Some vehicles have 2 bolts, while others may only have one to take out.
 Carefully remove the brake pads from the caliper. Try to avoid dropping brake pads as it can cause serious damage.
 If there is any corrosion or interference be sure to remove before new caliper installation.
 Place the brake pads into the new caliper if they are not preloaded. Do not apply grease to the side of the brake pad that is in contact with the rotor.
 Install new mounting bolts (if supplied) if not reuse the bolts you removed and tighten to your vehicle's specifications. You might need a torque wrench to do this. Be sure not to over tourque.
 Torque to your vehicle specifications.
, Refill with proper DOT specification for you vehicle, any brake fluid that was lost.
 Snug the lug nuts in a star formation. Carefully lower your vehicle back onto the ground. Refer to the owner's manual for the final torque value and tighten with a torque wrench only after the tires are back on the ground. The use of an impact wrench by an untrained person isn't recommended.
 if brakes don't feel like they are working properly, contact a certified technician immediately.

