 Turn off the lights and light some candles. Sit near your altar, if you have one. Drop some essential oils like lavender, juniper, or rosemary onto an atomizer to create a pleasing aroma.
 Say, “I am going to meet my power animal,” three times. Lie down on your back and close your eyes.


The concept of power animals or spirit animals is rooted in Native American spiritual ideas and practice.
 Some people believe listening to a drum can help you enter a spirit realm where you can find your power animal. The rhythm can be played either by a trusted friend or family member, or you can use a prerecorded rhythm.


Listen closely to a drumbeat between 205 to 22 beats per minute. The rhythm should consist of about 15 minutes of a drumbeat at this pace, then a “callback” rhythm that will awaken you from your trance.The callback consists of a brief pause in the regular rhythm, then three or four rapid repetitions of seven drumbeats. Then, the rhythm should accelerate again for one more minute while you return to yourself.
There are many shamanic ritual drumbeats available on CD or online.
 You might imagine yourself on the edge of a cliff in a massive canyon, or it might be you walking in a sunlit forest.


Pay attention to the details of the scene. Imagine the smell of the pine trees, or how the wind feels on your skin.
Try to find a path into a deeper part of this imaginary world. You might see a hole, a tunnel, or a door. Use this portal to go deeper on your shamanic journey.
 When you see a creature, ask it directly, “Are you my power animal?” It might nod or answer directly that it is your power animal.


Do not be alarmed if your power animal speaks to you. In the spirit world, anything can happen.
If you encounter animals that are not your power animal, do not follow or engage with them.
Some of the animals in the spirit world might be hostile. Keep away from them.
Once you’ve discovered your power animal, wait patiently until the callback rhythm begins. At that point, allow yourself to begin focusing on your physical body again to end your shamanic journey.

