 If you don't object to the person's use of your property and want to work something out with them, you can avoid adverse possession by creating a written agreement granting them permission to use your property.Before you send your letter, think about what you ultimately want to accomplish. If you're okay with them using your property for free, let them know this – but you still need to get the agreement in writing.
More likely, you expect to be compensated in some way for this use. Come up with an amount that you think is fair to charge as "rent," and build a range around it from the lowest amount you would be willing to accept to the highest amount you think you can legitimately ask for.
Briefly explain the factual situation in the letter, and let the person know that you would like to negotiate with them the right to legally use your property.
If you expect to be paid, start with a number at the high end of your range and indicate that you are open to discussion.
Give the person a deadline to respond – a week or two from the date of receipt should be sufficient.
Make a copy of your letter for your records before you send it, and then mail it using certified mail with returned receipt requested, so you know when it's received. When you get the green card back, mark your deadline date on your calendar.
 Sit down with the person who has been using your property to work out the terms of the agreement granting them permission – legally known as an easement on your property.Negotiations typically run more smoothly if you can meet at a neutral location not too far away from the property – maybe a nearby park or coffee shop.
Be polite and civil with the person when you meet, and avoid being antagonistic or accusatory. If you have a pre-existing relationship – for example, maybe they're your neighbor or a family friend – this probably will be easier.
The person may want to know why they should have to pay you now when they've used the property in the same way for however long without having to pay anyone a cent.
Respond to this argument by explaining that you want to make the use official, so that no one else can keep them off the property either, and that a written contract must be supported by consideration to have legal effect.
If negotiations have stalled, you might also want to mention that the free access they previously enjoyed will no longer be available to them – either because you will install a fence, or because you intend to sue them for trespass if they're discovered on your property without permission.
 Any agreement involving the rights to real property, including an easement, must be in writing to be legally enforceable. Your agreement should include all relevant information about the easement you've agreed to grant the other person.You may be able to find a form or template online that you can use as a guide when you draft your agreement – but these agreements don't typically have to follow any specific format or include any particular language to be legally valid. #*Make sure the words you use aren't inadvertently granting the person greater rights than they were using previously.
For example, if your neighbor has a vegetable patch that encompasses 10 square feet of your property, specify that 10 square feet – not just any area of that size anywhere on your property – and don't grant any additional land for that use.
If the person is paying you for the use, write specifically how much they are paying you and how often. For example, your neighbor with the vegetable patch may be paying you $10 a month.
You also want to include the duration of the agreement. You may have it last as long as you own the property, for a set number of years, or as long as that person is your neighbor. Pick a duration that best suits your needs.
 Provided you both agree with the terms and conditions laid out in the written agreement, it's ready for both of you to sign. You must follow the signature and witness requirements set forth in your state law dealing with real property agreements.In many states, signatures on contracts deal with real property rights must be signed in the presence of witnesses, or a notary public, or both.
Once you've signed the agreement, make two copies of it so both you and the other person have one for your records.
 Once the agreement is finalized and signed, take it to the county recorder's office in the county where the property is located so it can be recorded along with the deed to the property.Check with the county recorder to find out what the requirements are for recording a document. Some recorders may require an original document as well as copies.
You will have to pay a fee to record the agreement, typically under a hundred dollars.

