 Maple trees generally thrive in soil with an acidic pH below 6.8 that drains quickly. You can test the soil drainage by digging a 1 ½ foot deep hole and filling the hole with water. Check the hole the following morning. If there is still water in the hole, the soil drains too slowly and will not sustain a maple tree.;
, To test the soil, collect a soil test sample from 4 inches below the surface. Let the soil sample dry before testing it.


Pour the dry sample into a glass jar, add distilled water and the test chemicals, shake it up and let the soil settle to the bottom. Compare the color of the liquid with the test strip that comes with the pH test kit.
You can purchase a pH test kit at your local garden center.
If the soil pH is 6.9 or higher, it would be better to plant another species of tree that will thrive in soil with a neutral to alkaline pH. Soil pH can be adjusted but it is very difficult to maintain a consistently lower pH for the life of a tree.
 If your tree comes with a root ball, dig the planting hole 2 feet wider than the root ball.The hole should be just deep enough to hold the roots with about one-third of the top of the root ball exposed. If it is a bare-root tree, dig the hole 2 feet wider than the root mass when it is spread out. Planting a bare-root tree at this height allows for settling and provides better oxygen flow to the roots.


If the soil is heavy clay, scratch the side walls and bottom of the hole with a hand rake or the tip of a dirt shovel. Heavy clay soil tends to develop a glaze when the dirt shovel slides in, making it difficult for water and tree roots to penetrate it.
 You can replace up to one-third of the backfill soil with well-aged compost or good loamy soil. Improving the soil this way will help the tree flourish early and ease its transition into the native soil.


To improve the existing soil, break up the backfill soil and remove any rocks or hard clumps of dirt. Then, remove it from the planting hole with a shovel and put it into a wheelbarrow. Pour aged cow manure or loamy soil into the wheelbarrow with the backfill soil and mix it thoroughly with a garden hoe or dirt shovel. The resulting mixture should be about two-thirds native soil and one-third manure or loam.
Cow manure and loamy soil are often available at garden supply centers in 10, 20, and 50 pound bags.
 Though maple trees are generally hardy in USDA Hardiness Zones 2 to 9, their hardiness can vary depending on the species and cultivar. “Flame” (Acer tataricum subsp. ginnala “Flame”), for example, is an Amur maple cultivar that is hardy in Zones 2 to 8. “October Glory” (Acer rubrum “October Glory”) is a red maple cultivar that is hardy in Zones 4 to 9. Determine if your chosen maple tree species will thrive in your USDA hardiness zone before you plant it.
 Use your backfill soil mixture to fill the hole halfway, and pour 1 to 2 gallons (3.8 to 7.6 L) of water evenly over the soil to remove any air pockets. Then, fill the rest of the hole and pour another 1 to 2 gallons (3.8 to 7.6 L) of water over the soil.


If you are planting a bare-root tree, always plant it a few inches higher than its previous hole. Adjusting the planting height will help the tree to settle and provides better oxygen flow to the roots.
 You should have a depth of 3 to 6 inches of mulch over the soil around the tree, extending out 2 to 3 feet beyond the tree trunk.


Make sure you pull the mulch 3 to 4 inches away from the trunk to help prevent cankers or collar rots, which can occur if wet mulch stays in contact with the bark for too long. The bark where cankers and collar rots develop is usually dark, moist-looking and may ooze sap. When these diseases occur on the tree trunk, the tree will usually die, so always pull you mulch away from the tree trunk.
 The best way to deliver the water is through a garden hose set at a slow trickle. This way the soil will absorb the water better and there will be less runoff. Put the end of the hose on the edge of the root ball and let it run for two to three hours. Check the soil moisture at a depth of 4 to 8 inches before watering again. If the soil is dry or just barely damp, water the tree again.


Your new maple tree may need to be watered more or less often depending on how long the soil retains moisture and how high the temperature gets during the day. Hot summer weather will cause the maple tree to transpire more, so it will need more water.
If the tree branches and leaves start to wilt on your maple tree, it is not getting enough water.

