 (These need to be lined and graphing, depending on your grade). Dedicate these strictly to math. No tearing out pages to use for something else, or using the same notebook for 3 classes. This is advanced, your teacher will probably make you show your work, and you'll need all the help you can get. Also have a folder for math, you don't want to lose any worksheets or important papers.;
, It may seem obvious, but pay attention, don't turn and talk to your friend, don't zone out, you'll regret it later. Every chapter/section builds off of what you learned before, if you fall behind, catch up immediately. Be sure to take notes and give examples of the math problems so you can refers to them later, and that includes writing vocabulary words.


Pay close attention to what the teacher is writing and saying. Most likely, your teacher usually explains each step as he/she writes it.
 Don't let the homework pile up then do it all in one night. Doing a couple of problems a night is much easier, less stressful, plus you'll learn more and do better in class.


Look back on past material. This could jog your memory and make concepts in future classes easier to comprehend.
Watch a video of those same lessons described in class on the web. Resources like khanacademy.com, youtube.com, patrickjmt.com can be very valuable resources.
 Practicing will familiarize you with the types of problems you will be tested on later. While practicing, you should look for significantly more challenging problems on the web to assure that you have at least attained a good handle on the concept(s) in practice.
 Know them like the back of your hand. A lot of times, these theorems can help you solve problems a lot faster which will be a great on a test.
 If you need help on a single problem, or don't understand the lesson ask a friend, or better yet the teacher. And if you got a problem wrong on your homework and don't see your mistake, simply raise your hand and ask the teacher to go over it. Asking for help is probably one of the most important things you can do.


There are many teachers, tutors, and outside resources you can access to give you that boost. Use them.

