 Budgies are very active birds and they enjoy having lots of toys to play with. However, be careful not to crowd your budgie’s cage with toys so he has lots of room to move around and hang out, as budgies consider their cage their home.Look for toys that are made of materials that your budgie can chew, like rope, and all natural materials. Chewing helps your budgie keep his beak nicely trimmed and strong and it also provides stimulation for him when he is hanging out in his cage. Birdie bagels are great as they can be slipped onto your budgie’s perch or hung up for chewing. You can also use lightweight toys or a small, squishy ball. Toys made of natural materials like wood, paper and plant materials are also good for your budgie, as they will mimic the types of things he might play with in the wild.;
, Your budgie is prone to climbing and hanging off of objects. He will also likely enjoy ringing bells, scratching his head against objects, and chewing objects. Head to your local pet store and look for climbing stands and a play gym made for budgies. Look for a colorful gym made of wood with dowels, and ensure there are no toxic materials in the gym. There are also hanging jungle gyms that have two to three levels of perches, ropes, and swings.There are also safe climbing nets made for budgies that you can install underneath the play gym. Your budgie may also enjoy climbing up, down, and through the net as another kind of toy.
 Most budgies enjoy swinging and hanging out on a play swing. You can find play swings for budgies at your local pet store or make your own swing with two dowels and a piece of rope. Install the play swing in your budgie’s cage so he can move around safely on the swing unsupervised.Some swings have bells, which are a real treat for budgies as they love to ring bells. There are also swings made of rubber like material, which are soft on your budgie’s feet and fun to bite and chew on.
 If you are going to let your budgie fly around the room or play on a swing or gym outside of his cage, you should always prepare the room first. You should also never let your budgie out of his cage unsupervised, as he can get injured or end up chewing on something that might make him ill or harm him. Before you let your budgie out of his cage:Cover all the windows and mirrors in the room with sheets or towels. This will prevent your budgie from flying into them.
Close all the doors and windows in the room. Let everyone in the home know the budgie is being let out of his cage and they should not open any doors or windows.
Remove any other animals, such as dogs and cats, from the room.
Move any poisonous plants into another room.
Switch off all ceiling fans and regular fans to prevent your budgie from getting injured. Ensure there are no hot surfaces, such as on a heater or a stove.
Remove or cover any containers with water or liquid, such as fish bowls or aquariums.
Unplug electrical cords and hide them so your budgie cannot chew on them.
 Playing with your budgie is a great way to bond with him and train him to respond to your direction. Maintain a consistent routine of play sessions, lasting no more than 15 minutes, several times a day. This will keep your budgie entertained and active, without tiring him out with long play sessions too often throughout the day., During your play sessions, it’s important that you vary the toys you use. Try to change up your budgie’s toys every two weeks, using toys with different functions, colors, and textures. Rather than splurge on new toys every two weeks, you can change the location of the toys in his cage.If possible, you should try to move his cage to different areas of your home so he is exposed to different noises and activity around him. This will keep him interested in his surroundings and prevent him from getting bored.
 Budgies love interactive games, and you should try to be as involved as possible with your budgie’s play time. One simple way to do this is to play a game with a small mirror. You can play this game in your budgie’s cage or outside of your budgie’s cage.Hold the mirror a few inches in front of your budgie. He will then likely run towards his reflection.
When he moves closer to the mirror, move it in a different direction so your budgie chases it.
Do this several times, letting your budgie chase the mirror each time.
Reward him at the end of the game with a small treat.
 Play this game in an unfamiliar area of your home or an unfamiliar room, like a basement or a bedroom.Place your bird on the floor at one end of the room and then step back. Tell your budgie, “Find me!” Move several more yards away from your budgie and peek around corners or behind furniture so your bird can see you. Hide a far enough distance away so your bird will have to do a fair amount of walking to find you.
If your budgie does not seem to be able to find you, call out his name to give him a clue. If your budgie is very bonded to you, he will seek you out to avoid being left alone in an unfamiliar place. When your budgie finds you, tell him “Good job!” and give him a treat.
 You will need to play this game with two people on carpeted stairs. One person should stand at the top of the stairs with the budgie and the other person should stand at the bottom of the stairs. The person at the top of the stairs should place the budgie on the top stair and encourage the bird to move downward. The person at the bottom of the stairs should call the budgie’s name and say, “Climb down!”Your budgie should start to climb down the stairs, flapping his wings as he hops down. Once he reaches the bottom, tell your budgie “Good job!” and give him a treat.
 This is a more advanced game that you can play with your budgie if you are going for a very active play session.


Use a small, soft ball or a lightweight toy and throw it at your budgie as you say “Catch it!” Your bird may then pick up the object with his beak. Reward this action with “Good bird!” and a treat.
You can then try to teach your bird to bring the object back to you once he catches it. Command him to “come” when he has the object in his mouth and motion towards you. Once he comes back to you, reward him with a “Good job!” and give him a treat.
 You can interact and play with your budgie during his daily flying session. Let him play on his play gym or his play swing. Use a toy to play fetch or to get him to interact with you. Make the flying sessions the same time every day so your budgie gets into a routine. Over time, he should fly back into his cage at the end of the session on his own.