 Calf muscles need to be stretched regularly to keep the muscle from becoming short and tight and restricting your movement. It is important to utilize stretching as a part of your calf building regiment after your workout. Breathe slowly in through your nose and out your mouth as you stretch.Hold your stretches for at least 20 seconds. As your calf muscles become more flexible, you will be able to hold stretches for longer. Aim to reach a single 60-second hold or 2–3 sets of 20 seconds each.
 Use the same step you use to workout your calves with or a curb works too. Put the ball of your foot on the higher step or ledge, and slowly lower your heel down to the lower level. You will feel it stretching your calf muscles as you try to touch your heel to the ground.


You may need to do this next to a wall or something else to balance yourself if needed.
Don’t force your heel all the way down if it hurts. It may take some time but you will be able to do this with practice., Sit down, and put your legs straight out in front of you, keeping your back straight. Wrap a towel around the ball of your right foot and hold each side of the towel with one hand. Slowly lean back, and pull on the towel until you feel a slight burn in the calf muscle. Hold the stretch for 20 seconds, and switch feet.The towel pull stretch works best with bare feet.
 This is a commonly performed stretch that is great for your gastrocnemius muscle. To do the stretch, keep your back straight, and extend your arms. Place both palms against a wall or other sturdy object, while you extend your right leg behind you, heel pressed to the ground. Move your left leg into a forward lunge and, bending your elbows, slowly lean forward.To stretch the soleus muscle deeper in your calf, place your toe up against the wall with your heel on the ground. Lean into this with a bent knee so the top of your foot flexes toward you., Stand with legs straight and at hip-level. Bend forward at the waist so your fingers reach the floor. While touching the floor, move your hands slowly in front of your body, supporting more weight on your hands as you do so. Then move your hands back to your starting position.
 Sit down with your legs in front of you. Flex your toes toward you, then reach out and grasp the balls of your feet. Pull your toes toward you until you feel a slight burn in your calf. Hold for 30 seconds or up to 1 minute.
 The tibialis anterior is the muscle that runs along the outer front of your calf, alongside the shin. Try a couple simple techniques to stretch this muscle:

While seated on the floor, stretch your legs out in front of you and point your toes.
While seated in a chair, tuck your feet back under the chair and rest the tops of your feet on the floor, with your toes facing behind you.
 While yoga is most well-known for its relaxation and stretching benefits, it can also help build and tone muscles. One pose that is particularly effective at working out and stretching your calves at the same time is Downward-Facing Dog. While you don’t need any special equipment to do this pose, you will need a space with enough room to do it.


Get into a pushup position with both your hands and toes on the floor. Lift your hips, keeping your hands and toes on the ground, until your body is shaped like an upside-down “V”.
Hold this position for 2 seconds, while lowering your right heel onto the floor. Lift your right heel back up, and lower your left heel for 2 seconds.
Do 2 sets of 10 reps. Rest between each set for at least 30 seconds. As time goes on and you get better at doing this pose, you can increase the number of sets that you do and the length of time that you hold the pose.