 If your attacker happens to be a mugger, give the mugger what he wants. This is the quickest way to resolve the situation, and anything else is worthless in comparison to you or your family's lives.;
, Do this if the situation can't simply be resolved by simply handing over said item, or it's one of your family members. Remember that police respond to emergencies that involve a weapon faster. However, if it's just you alone, you must put distance between you and the attacker to buy enough time for this step.
 Do this if police have not arrived at the scene. This can be a good way of resolving it without any hasty actions and who knows you may stall until the police arrive.


When the police arrive, the attacker will try to escape the scene. However, if you know what the attacker looks like, you must give the police this information as soon as possible or the attacker may never be taken off the streets.
 Sometimes you may have no time to call emergency services, so it's time to fight back, especially if giving the item doesn't save you or you are not being robbed and simply are a victim of domestic or street violence.


For this step, you can use any weapon that fate will throw at you, like sticks rocks and even dirt. These weapons can help you if the attacker isn't wearing glasses or a balaclava. You can also mess him up with kicking some dirt in their face, or grab a stray stick of a good size and give him a good whack or even throw rocks at your attacker. They may be upset, but it is your life on the line here.
If it's a home invasion grab a knife, wrench or whatever you have to slow your attacker down.
 Have them over a car, or get to the nearest public place that may be still open at such late hours, like hospitals, shopping malls, gas stations (or if you know the location of the police station) your attacker may get away with the items, but know that you will be walking forward being safer. Do not put other people's lives on the line that won't help you or them. Only request help if need be.
 You've just dealt with a potentially life-threatening situation, that isn't easy. Give yourself a pat on the back .

