 A girl’s words should say just as much about her potential interest in you as her behavior. She might flirt, but does she pay attention to you, to what you say, and to who you are as a person? Listening is a key indicator that she is interested. Pay attention to an any details that she drops.For example, does your mystery lady remember things that you say? Does she recall that you really hate banana peppers on pizza but really like anchovies? Does she quote Star Trek at you, because she knows that it’s your favorite movie? What about other likes and dislikes?
Does she remember your birthday? Does she ask how you are if you’ve said that you had a bad day or are feeling unwell?
What about small details? For example, a girl who remembers that you wore a red sweater to last year’s Christmas party – when you have long forgotten – either has a great eye for detail or pays special attention to you.
 While a casual flirt might ask you how you are, how your work is going, or other stock questions, an interested lady will want to know more about you personally. Does she ask questions about you, questions that show a deeper interest? This is a good sign.Questions about your family, friends, pets, hobbies, and other personal details may show that she wants to know more about your personal side.
Does she ever ask you embarrassing things, i.e. the name of your goldfish, the name of your favorite stuffed animal as a child, or other cute but somewhat mortifying questions? This could be a good sign.
 It is a very good sign that a girl is interested in you if she talks about you with her friends or family, or at least hints that she does. This means that she thinks of you are part of her life and wants others to be aware of you. It means that you rank high enough to be included in her other important relationships.


Listen carefully for hints. She will probably not say openly, “I talk about you all the time with my friends.” You’ll have to read between the lines.
Does she lead on that she shares stories about you or things that you’ve done together, perhaps to her sister or mother?
Have you met her other friends? If so, did they know who you were? You can bet that your mystery lady talks about you privately if her best friend said, when you met, “Oh hi! I’ve heard so much about you!”
The fact that she talks about you is not proof positive that she’s interested, however. It may mean that she likes you, but it also may mean that she sees you as a good friend. In that case, your problem may be the tricky “friend zone.”

, After reviewing her behavior and her actions, try to figures out her motives. Add up all of the indicators. What do you think? If the girl is only responsive at certain times – before a big math exam, for example – she may just be using you. However, if she displays all the physical signs, pays attention to you, and seems to care about your interests and feelings, then she is probably interested. The next step is to signal that you are, too.

