 To make a paper cup trophy, you'll need paper, a pencil or pen, cardboard, a paper cup, a toilet paper roll, paint and a brush, a marker, craft glue, and scissors.


For the cardboard, you can use a cardboard box, a cereal box, a packaging box, or something similar.;
, On a piece of paper, draw a trophy handle. Make sure it's roughly as tall as the height of your paper cup. The exact shape is up to you, whatever you want your trophy's handles to look like.
 Use scissors to cut the handle shape out of the paper. You'll also need a base for your trophy, so draw either a square or a circle on the paper, and cut that out as well.


The size of the base is up to you, but it should be at least a little bigger than the width of the top of your paper cup. That way it will be able to support the trophy without it falling over.
 Using the paper handle and base you just cut out, trace the shapes onto a piece of cardboard. You'll need to trace the paper handle twice so you have two cardboard handles. Then use scissors to cut the base and handles out.
 Get your paint ready. You'll want to paint the outside of the toilet paper roll, and the whole paper cup inside and out. (You can leave the bottom of the paper cup unpainted.) Paint the handles and the base as well.


The color you use is up to you, but paint everything with the same color.
 Draw on, paint, or otherwise decorate the painted toilet paper roll and paper cup however you like. You can paint stars, or write a title for the trophy with a marker.Some other ways to decorate your trophy include glueing glitter on the trophy or glueing sequins or plastic stars on it. Have fun and use your creativity here.
 Fold a small portion of each end of your trophy cup's handles. Fold them so there's a small surface that can be attached to the paper cup. Glue the folded ends of the trophy handles to the sides of the paper cup.


If the ends of the handles don't line up right with the slant of the paper cup, you may need to trim them.
 Glue one end of the toilet paper roll to the cardboard base. Then glue the other end of the toilet paper roll to the bottom of the paper cup.