 Again; Be inventive and create a convincing splash webpage with a opting form that prompts the user to subscribe for a free gift or additional info. concerning the merchandise or affiliate program advertised. This will help you build a subscriber list to keep on following up on your prospects. The page must be short and compact and your visitors must not need to scroll to read the page content completely. In addition, the splash webpage should load fast. Save the splash page on your host or server. If you do not have a host or server you can host you splash page in a free web hosting site. Just Google search "free server" and you will realize varied options. Even you'll be able to host you splash page in a free web host; You ought to better search for a cheap hosting plan. You can find hosting plans beginning at 5 Dollars per month but your webpage will not have all the ads included with the free hosting. Save the URL for the splash page in an accessible place thus you'll use it in what ever traffic exchanges you join.;
, Remember, that for a page to be on the fist 2 to three search webpages they have to be moving a huge amount of traffic and members. Traffic exchanges with additional traffic and users will greatly profit your website or referral program. You will notice several choices to join and the best part is that a lot are free. You will also realize two traffic exchange surf choices; Manual Traffic Exchange (manual surfing) and Auto Traffic Exchange (auto surfing). The term; Auto traffic exchange is self explanatory. It's automatic therefore, the member is not required to click or in many cases not even see your pages in any respect, so as to make credits.
 You will additionally receive joining bonuses, with free credits you'll use to advertise and rotate you webpages. It's vital that you simply save your membership member and password information so, you can remember latter.
 Only after you're away from all the program's particulars you may go and submit your splash page (or webpage) and assign credits.
 Use any extra advertising opportunity and upload your banners and/or post your text ads. However, only to use these choices to complement your webpage rotations at the surf page. Remember, that your main idea when joining the traffic exchange, was to promote full views of your webpage.
 Be consistent and workout a schedule so you'll surf every week and build up more credits you'll then use to rotate and market your own site.
 Invest and spread your credits consciously or accordingly to your marketing wants or urgency. You can even purchase credits if you need more rotations or if you do not have enough time on your hands to surf. The best half is not solely that traffic exchanges are free to use however in most cases the credits are very low-cost.

