 Pick a color as close to your natural hair color as possible.


Don’t pick a color that is darker than your eyebrows. Go a little lighter than your natural color if you can’t find a matching shade. Keep in mind that brown looks good on any eyebrow color.
Find what color that works best by applying swatches above your eyebrows. Figure out how darkly to apply your eyebrow pencil by applying different amounts of pressure as you draw your swatches.;
, Make sure that your eyebrows are properly groomed.


Wash your eyebrows with soap and water to take sure that they’re clean. Make sure to dry them with a towel so that you can apply the makeup properly. Look in the mirror while you wash, dry and tweeze.
Hold your tweezer like a pencil. Holding the tweezers this way will give you the most control.
Try to pull hairs from the root. Tweeze following the natural direction of your eyebrow hair. Don’t tweeze too much, but make sure that you get rid of any stray hairs.
Consider getting your eyebrows tweezed for the first time at a hair salon. Use this shape as a guide for tweezing your own eyebrows.
 Start by drawing from the inner corner to the outer corner of the eye.


Make sure to sharpen the pencil first. Reapply with a sharpened pencil every time you wear makeup.
Make sure that you put on all of your other makeup first. Putting on makeup in this order prevents accidental smearing.
Apply just enough pressure to make the color visible. Apply in short strokes about the same length as your eyebrow hairs. Fill in any spots afterward.
 Use an eyebrow brush or a Q-tip.


Lightly smudge the color in the direction of your eyebrow hairs. Comb the eyebrows to blend further.
Look in the mirror to make sure that the color is even. Use the brush or Q-tip to remove excess color.
 Clean up errors using a Q-tip dipped in makeup remover.Look in the mirror to make sure that there are no pencil marks outside the eyebrows. Fix a big mistake by gently washing off the color and reapplying.
Consider using a clear eyebrow gel to stop the color from smudging. Make sure to let it dry before touching your eyebrows.

