 This cast-off works best for creating shoulder seams of sweaters and in other projects requiring a change of direction. It can also be used to join two separate pieces of knitting.


If you're binding a single piece, work your project from the middle, moving out toward either side. When you reach the final row, leave your stitches on the needle. Before you begin this cast-off, you should have an equal number of "live" stitches on two needles.
When joining separate pieces, leave the final row of each on a knitting needle. They must be made up of the same number of loops., Use your left hand to place the needles parallel to each other. The finished portion of each piece should be pointing downwards. Make sure each stitch lines up with its partner.
 Place this third needle underneath the first two needles and through the first stitch on each. The first stitches should now be wrapped around the third needle.









A third needle that is wider than the first two is preferable but not necessary.
 Use your working yarn to make the first new stitch over your third needle. Pull this new stitch under the other two existing loops. Tug the two original stitches off of their needles. Repeat this so that your third needle has two loops.
 Use your fingers to gently lift it up and over. The second stitch will now form a secure loop around the first. Keep the remaining first stitch on the third needle.
 Add new stitches to your third needle and pull the old stitch over the new one. Keep working until you've stitched together every loop. This is very similar to the standard bind-off with the major difference being you are knitting through two loops at a time instead of one. Another major difference is that the final edge you are creating will be inside the piece and invisible.
 Make sure to leave a tail of free yarn between one to five inches long. Pull the tail through the loop of the final stitch. Remove your piece from the third needle. Tug the tail until the final loop is closed and secure. Trim off any excess tail yarn.







