 If your Chihuahua is a normal, regular eater and stops eating within a short period of time, i.e., a week, this can indicate a problem. Inappetence is a symptom of many dog illnesses. If this is your dog, then you need to take it to the vet immediately, especially if it is coupled with weight loss, and/or vomiting and diarrhea.Hormonal changes, such as females in heat, could also be a reason for why your dog is eating less. For example, cramping and mood swings can cause a decrease in appetite. However, eating less during a few weeks twice per year is not something to be concerned about.;
, Teeth, gum, and mouth problems can also decrease your dog’s appetite. Check your dog’s mouth for bad teeth, foreign objects, sores, or growths. If this applies to your dog, take it to the vet immediately.Pawing at the mouth, as well as refusing to eat are signs that your dog might have a toothache or an infection in its mouth.
 Have you switched dog food brands recently? If so, this could be the cause of your dog’s picky eating habits. It is certainly ok to switch your dog’s food, but you must do so gradually. If not, it can cause digestive issues, which can cause your dog to eat less or skip meals. Gradually switch your dog’s food by:Mixing ¾ of the old food with ¼ of the new food the first week.
Mixing ½ of the old food with ½ of the new food the second week.
Mixing ¼ of the old food with ¾ of the new food the third week.
Mixing 1/8 of the old food with 7/8 of the new food the fourth week.
Feeding it 100% new food the fifth week and on.
 Because Chihuahuas are small dogs, feed your adult Chihuahua two small meals spaced apart, i.e., one in the morning and one in the evening. A healthy, adult Chihuahua typically needs 35 to 40 calories per pound of body weight.For example, if your Chihuahua weighs 15 pounds, it will need to consume 525 to 600 calories per day. If a cup of dry dog food contains 200 calories, then you will need to feed it 1.25 to 1.5 cups of dog food twice a day.

