 Ivory feels heavy and dense when you hold it in your hand. Think of the weight of a billiard ball, which ivory has been used to make in the past; when you hold one in your hand, it feels sturdy and solid. If the item in question feels strangely lightweight, you can eliminate the possibility that it's ivory.

Bone can have the exact same weight as ivory, so just because the piece feels solid and heavy doesn't mean it is indeed ivory.
If you're unsure whether the item feels appropriately solid, weigh it, then compare its weight to similar items that you know to be ivory. The internet is a great resource for finding the dimensions and weight of ivory items.;
, Ivory is said to be as smooth as butter. It's not as soft, but in the right hands it's almost as easy to carve. If the surface of the piece feels rutted and pockmarked, it might not be ivory. If it feels unbelievably smooth, you may have ivory on your hands., It's not always possible to tell for sure whether an item is ivory by looking under a magnifying glass, but doing so should provide good clues. Real ivory is lustrous and beautiful, often with a slightly yellowish hue. It can also take on a brownish patina caused by the oils of those who have handled it over the years. If you see spots or other odd markings, though, it probably isn't ivory. Look for the following identifiers:
Cross-hatched lines. There should be parallel lines (with slight irregularities) running along the length of the item. Perpendicular to these should be circular or V-shaped lines known as Schreger lines. These are found in all elephant and mammoth ivory.Does the surface have multiple darkened dots or pits? If so, this is a very good indicator of its being bone. In some cases the bone has been bleached, though, so keep performing other tests to be sure.
All bone has the telltale flecks of marrow, or tiny notches, in the surface. These may not be visible to the naked eye, but you should be able to see them through a magnifying glass. Ivory tends to be smoother, harder, and not pitted.