 If you want to describe something that's both fun and entertaining, this adjective is an appropriate choice. Switch between entretenido (ehn-tray-tehn-EE-doh) for masculine nouns and entretenida (ehn-tray-tehn-EE-dah) for feminine nouns.For example, you might say "La novela es muy entretenida," or "The novel is very entertaining."

, If someone or something is amusing or funny, you could use this adjective instead of "divertido." Use gracioso (grah-see-OH-soh) for masculine nouns and graciosa (grah-see-OH-sah) for feminine nouns.For example, if you wanted to say "the story is funny," you could say "el cuento es gracioso."

, When someone makes fun of someone else, this is typically the most appropriate verb to use. Burlarse (burr-LAHR-say) is a reflexive verb, so you'll need to use the right reflexive pronoun before the verb. It's a regular verb, so standard conjugation rules apply.This verb also requires you to use the preposition de (day) before introducing the person being made fun of.
For example, suppose a girl is making fun of her brother. You might say "Ella se burla de su hermano" to mean She makes fun of her brother.
 You could use this verb to describe the action of "making fun," but it's more appropriately translated as "poking fun at" or "laughing at." Use the preposition de before introducing the person being made fun of, and add a reflexive pronoun.Keep in mind that reír is an irregular verb. For example, you might say "Te ríes de tu hermana," or "You poke fun at your sister."

Reir can also mean simply "to laugh." For example, you might say "Me reí de tu chiste," or "I laughed at your joke."

, When you're joking with someone or "kidding around," this is an appropriate verb to use. This verb follows standard conjugation rules for Spanish verbs, and is not reflexive.For example, you might say "bromean conmigo" to mean "they joke with me."

, The verb gozar (GOH-zahr) is closely related to the idea of "fun," because you can use it when talking about the action of taking pleasure or enjoying something.Gozar is a regular verb, so the standard conjugation rules apply. Follow it with the preposition de before introducing the thing being enjoyed.
For example, you might say "Gozo de mis amigos," or "I enjoy my friends."

