 As a consequence of their facial structure with the pushed in face, bulldogs are considered Brachycephalic. This leads to snoring, snorting, and breathing difficulties along with low tolerance for exercise., Because of the Bracycephalic syndrome, your bulldog has trouble cooling himself through panting if he gets too hot. Bulldogs should be kept indoors if it is above 85 degrees Fahrenheit outside. Because of this, you need to monitor your dog in hot and humid weather. Too much panting can cause swollen and inflamed airways and make it hard for your dog to breathe, and even cause heat stroke.A bulldog is too hot when he is panting too much, heaving, making odd sounds in his throat, foaming from the mouth, fighting for breath, and displaying a floppy, loose, discolored tongue.Never leave your dog unattended in hot weather. Always watch for the signs of overheating. Never leave your bulldog (or any dog) alone in a car during hot or warm weather. This could result in death.Make sure your bulldog has somewhere cool, out of sunlight, and in air conditioning to sleep during the summer.If your bulldog is overheating, remove him immediately from heat. Place him in cool water, pour cool water over his head, and pour cool water on his paws, especially on the pads of his paws. If you can't get him into a tub or a pool, spray him with cool water using gentle pressure.Tile flooring is a good place to place your bulldog to help cool him off. You can also place your bulldog by a fan to help cool him off. Use your hands to spread the fur around to let out some of the heat from his body.
Let your bulldog tell you if he is too hot. He should be able to know when he's too hot. Pay attention to the signs he gives you during hot weather. If he wants to go in from a walk, take him inside.
If you dog starts to overheat, he may start coughing up phlegm. This is normal; however, it is a sign that your dog is too hot and needs to be cooled down immediately. Remove the bulldog from heat, put lemon juice in his mouth to get rid of the phlegm, place a wet towel on him, and make sure he drinks water., Too much vigorous exercise can cause breathing problems for your bulldog. However, obesity can also cause breathing problems, so your bulldog still needs to exercise. Just make sure to keep an eye on your dog to make sure he isn’t panting too much or overheating while exercising.When your dog starts to pant during exercise, stop and allow him to rest. Don’t make your dog do too much exercise during hot weather.
 Because of your dog’s face shape, there are other conditions that can arise. Your bulldog may have abnormal teeth patterns because of his face shape. He can also be prone to skin infections or abnormal eyelashes that can irritate the eye.Your dog can also be prone to hip and knee problems.
 Bulldogs are stubborn and mild dogs. This means your bulldog may not let you know if he is injured, feeling bad, hungry, or cold. Keep an eye on your dog to monitor him. If you notice any changes, find out why., By joining either the local or national bulldog club, you can connect with other bulldog owners and breeders. This can help you if you ever have questions or need help with your bulldog. This club can also help you find a vet who has experience treating bulldogs, which is important since bulldogs have specific health needs.