 Separation anxiety is a common reason why dogs are given up and put in shelters. If it wasn’t given up by previous owners due to the the behaviors associated with separation anxiety, a dog could have been abandoned or neglected, which could also lead it to develop anxious behavior.Alternatively, a previous owner may have spent all of their time with your new dog. The dog might not be used to spending any time alone or out of its owners sight.
Try asking, “Do you know anything about my new dog’s previous owners? Does it have a history of separation anxiety or anxious behavior?”

, Barking excessively when you leave, destructive behavior, and going to the bathroom indoors can indicate separation anxiety in addition to other potential issues. If your dog exhibits these behaviors, you should consider setting up a video camera to verify your suspicions.A dog might bark excessively when you leave, then go to sleep within a few minutes. If this is the case, the problem is likely boredom rather than separation anxiety.
Similarly, if you find that your dog is calm for a while then proceeds to chew or destroy objects, it’s most likely bored.
However, if you find that your dog barks excessively and constantly howls or immediately engages in destructive behavior the entire time you’re gone, it’s probably suffering from anxiety. In addition, look to see if destruction is concentrated at your home’s exits.
 If your dog predominantly goes to the bathroom inside without destructive behavior or barking, the issue is probably not separation anxiety. Try to notice when the issue happens, like after you offer a particular treat or a certain duration after feeding time. Call your dog’s vet or bring it in for a checkup to rule out incontinence or other medical issues.Have a little patience when it comes to puppies and accidents. If you find yourself coming home to messes, keep in mind that your newly adopted puppy might not have fully developed the muscles that help it control when it goes to the bathroom.

