 Pull off a piece of tape around 6 inches long, and place it over the stink bug, pressing just firmly enough to stick the bug to the tape. Quickly pick up the tape and fold it over, trapping the bug inside the tape. It will not have time to get off a blast of odor. Sometimes the bug doesn't stick to the tape on the first try, in that case apply the tape again and press a little harder. They stick to the tape much easier when they are upside down.
 If you see a stink bug in the house, cover your hand with a plastic bag or paper towel, carefully pick it up, and dispose of it immediately. The bugs release their noxious smell when they sense danger, and you risk getting it on your hands if you touch them.









Don't squeeze the stink bug when you catch it. You'll have a difficult time clearing the smell out of your house.
If you catch a stink bug during the winter, you can place it outside. Stink bugs freeze if they're outside in cold weather, so it won't be making its way back in.
You could also flush the stink bug down the toilet or enclose it in a bottle with a top and discard it.
 Stink bugs quickly drown when they are knocked into soapy water, and if you use a scented soap it will mask the smell. Fill a bucket or other container with water and dish soap, then place stink bugs in the solution after you catch them.









If you have stink bugs on your walls or curtains, you can knock them directly into the bucket. Place the bucket under the the stink bug and use a broom or brush to knock it off the wall into the bucket.
When you're ready to discard the bugs you collected, strain them out of the soapy water and throw them away or flush them down the toilet.
 When you vacuum stink bugs, make sure you change the bag right away, since the vacuum will otherwise smell like the bugs.









Don't use a central vacuum that doesn't require a bag. The smell of the stink bugs will permeate your home.
If you're dealing with a constant stream of stink bugs in your home, consider buying a vacuum specifically for the purpose of cleaning up stink bugs.
 Find an insecticide meant for on-the-spot treatment - rather than one designed for spraying your house's corners and killing bugs over time - and spray the stink bugs as you see them.









Once the stink bug has stopped moving, sweep it up and discard it in the trash can, or flush it down the toilet.
This method is effective, but insecticide may have an effect on the people and pets in your house, too. Try the soapy water or vacuuming method first.

