 Place your report card into the scanner, making sure it’s wrinkle-free and lined up precisely. Once it uploads the report card, the scanner will convert the data into an image file. You’ll be editing this image to make whatever changes you think are necessary.If possible, use a scanner somewhere other than home or school, like a friend’s house or public library, to avoid getting caught.
Delete the image file when you’re done so that no record of your caper is left behind.
 More powerful programs like Photoshop, Affinity or Acorn will be your best bet, as they’ll give you the greatest number of tools and options to work with. Load the scanned image into the editor window. Make a note of which grades you want to revise.If you don’t have access to a more sophisticated photo editor, you can use programs like Microsoft Paint or Pixlr, which is a free online editor similar to Photoshop.Be sure to load, edit and save the image in as high a resolution as possible. The better the quality, the less noticeable your corrections will be.
 Use the eraser tool to wipe out the original grade. Then, click on the text function and enter the new grade, making sure it’s centered in the slot. Match the font of the new grade as closely as you can with the original, or copy and paste a good grade over the bad one.Most computers use Times New Roman or Arial as their default fonts. Start with these when trying to make your new grades fit.For an especially convincing forgery, use the Eyedropper tool to match the colors of the original text and background exactly., When you’re happy with the way the new report card looks, run off a copy and examine it closely. Check for places where the text looks poorly centered or out of place. If you do it right, your new, glowing report card should be indistinguishable from the bad one.


Make sure the new report card is formatted correctly before you print it.
Save the original scanned image file and try again as many times as you need to get it just right.

