 Lana Del Rey is influenced both artistically and aesthetically by other artists. Read up on her influences to see where she draws her inspiration and to get some of your own.


Lana often calls herself “Gangsta Nancy Sinatra.” Take a look at photos of artists from the 50’s and 60’s to find inspiration for vintage hair, clothing, makeup, and music.Lana has cited Cat Power, Eminem, Nirvana, Amy Winehouse, Elvis Presley, and many others as inspiration for her musical style. Check out a few of these artists to get a feel for how Lana shaped her style.;
, Lana is known to not shy away from controversial topics and take on people who dislike her.Emulate Lana by expressing your own emotions.


Speak your own opinion, even if it is not popular. Lana took heat early in her career for her performances, but stuck to her artistic vision and made a successful career.
Respond to negative moments by looking at your accomplishments. Lana uses her successes to support the idea that she is doing well in her career. Use your own daily achievements as reminders of the good things in your life.
Express your emotions. Lana’s songs and art are deeply emotional. Let them inspire you to express your own emotions in creative ways.
 Lovestruck is a recurring theme through Lana’s songs and videos. It makes her moody, pouty, and occasionally risqué.


Imitate her lovestruck attitude for a convincing impression by casting long glances and pretending to be wrapped up in your own emotions.
Smile softly, giggle very lightly, and gently look off into the distance.
Try picturing someone you like to give you inspiration.
 Mimic her attitude on stage by using slow, graceful hand gestures. Lana rarely dances on stage.Move slowly around the area or performance space.
Shift your weight back and forth from foot to foot to create a slight side to side motion. Lana often fidgets this way on stage.
If you are imitating her on an actual stage, make sure to walk around and have fun with whoever might be on stage with you.Lana is known to interact with her band and dancers and make use of the whole stage.
 Lana is often smiling, friendly, and mimicking child-like behavior off-stage. Develop an amiable and innocent personality to match Lana’s.


When she speaks with interviewers, she tends to laugh a lot and smile. Watch how she laughs and smiles by watching interview clips on YouTube.
Try to make your giggle high-pitched and look away from people playfully when they ask you questions.
Speak slowly. Talk deliberately and smile when you talk. In interviews, Lana does not seem like she is in a hurry. She speaks slow and laughs often.
Talk without rushing yourself, and pause to make it seem like you’re thinking every once in awhile.
Remember that when you are emulating Lana, silence and breaks in the conversation are acceptable.
 Lana often plays with her hair, flutters her eyelashes, and preens on camera. Emulate her off-stage playing with your hair and eyelashes, and gently touching your face.


Use primping as an accent. Too much of it may cause your look to be disheveled or be distracting.
Alternate gently twirling your hair around your finger and pushing it back away from your face.
Run your fingers along the top of your eyebrows as if trying to straighten them.
Gently wipe along the edge of your eyelashes as if you are clearing something from the tips.
Remember to keep conversation going while you primp. This is supposed to look like a subconscious action.

