 Your baby will generally let you know when they’re hungry by smacking their lips, making sucking sounds, or getting fussy. While you never want to ignore these signs, try mixing up your baby’s feeding schedule by feeding them more often and in smaller doses over the course of the day.Most babies under four months will need to nurse or eat at least 8-12 times per day. Colicky babies may need even more frequent sessions to avoid engorging their bellies.;
, Try to position your baby in your arms so that they’re not lying completely flat on their back during and after feedings. Wait at least an hour after they eat to lay them down on their back. This should prevent your baby from spitting up the milk they’ve just eaten., One of the main culprits of colic appears to be air trapped in babies’ bellies. Avoid this problem by gently patting their back to burp them during and after your feedings.

Try burping every 2-3 oz. (59.14-88.72 mL) if you’re using formula, or each time you switch breasts if you’re nursing., Since your baby shares what you consume when you breastfeed, it’s a good idea to create a record of their likes and dislikes. Keep track of anything you add or eliminate and note how it affects your baby’s colic., Doctors may recommend that you cut dairy and allergy-causing products, caffeine, and cabbage or other green leafy veggies from your diet. Try skipping these foods and drinks for two weeks at a time and observing your baby’s responses.Allergy-causing foods to avoid are peanuts, eggs, tree nuts, whey, soy, and fish products. Leafy greens and cabbage-related vegetables on the restricted list may include broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts.
Check with your doctor before you make changes to your diet to ensure you’re still getting enough essential nutrients from what you eat.
 Hydrolysate formula contains already-broken-down milk proteins, which should help your baby’s digestion. If an allergy is causing your baby’s colic, you’ll notice improvement two days after changing formulas.Ask your doctor before you make this change, as they need to be updated on your baby’s diet.
You can also try a soy-based formula, but this may also cause allergies in your baby. Follow your doctor’s recommendations for which products you should try., If babies struggle to get milk through nipples with small openings, they may suck too much air into their bellies along with their food. Nipples with larger openings should allow your baby to suck gently and evenly., If your baby isn’t fully “latched” onto your breast, they may be pulling in too much air while they nurse. Get a proper latch by allowing the baby to pull your entire nipple into their open mouth once their tongue is down. None of your areola should be visible after the baby latches on.A good latch should result in a few minutes of “latch-on pain” followed by a deep pulling sensation in your breast. There should be few popping sounds.
 Popular remedies include gripe water, baby probiotics, and cell salts. The homeopathic industry is not regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States, and there have been few medical studies showing the effectiveness of these cures. Your doctor can explain the risks and benefits of these items before you use them.