 After a long day, before you retire and go to bed, remind yourself of your intention to wake up during an early arousal period of REM sleep.


We all have these periods every night, whether we are aware that we’ve woken or not. This has been proved exclusively through EEG measures of the brains activity during sleep.
These moments actually served a purpose for our more primitive ancestors who had to awake momentarily in the face of danger multiple times a night.
Two alternatives to setting your intention are by fumbling with an early morning alarm or drinking an abundance of water prior to sleep. Both of these methods are not as effective as the first, since they may keep you awake for a longer period of time than is desired.
Also, if your body naturally wakes up, you will feel a lot less fatigued than you would with a forced awakening. The goal is to not be too aware that you won’t be able to relax, but aware enough to focus your attention one-sidedly on your thoughts.;
,, Once you have awoken, either naturally or forcefully, you must instantly direct your attention to your thoughts.


Depending on how early you have awoken, you will probably feel an intense desire to just return to sleep and continue on through the natural cycle of sleep. Avoiding this urge is completely necessary with any type of WILD attempt, as you may find yourself drifting off again just as easily as you’ve awaken.
The only way to combat this is by bringing your attention to your mind and simply observing its intrusive nature or monotonous dialogues. Simultaneously try to relax the muscles of your body by lightly tensing and feeling the heaviness of the discrete parts of the body.
As you are continuously watching your mind, you may notice that you become so absorbed with your thoughts that you have completely forgotten your intention of inducing a lucid dream. This is one of the most common hurdles with any Mind Awake- Body Asleep technique in the field of lucid dreaming.
When you reach this phase, the most crucial adjustment you will have to perform is to gently redirect your mind to your thoughts, so that you become the observer again instead of the participator.
Under no circumstances should you become upset for indulging so easily into your thoughts or else you will just cause the problem to inevitably worsen. This will maintain your alertness as you gradually enter a deep state of relaxation.
 Eventually, you will be able to intentionally direct your thoughts so that you will become a part of them and enter your first lucid dream. In simpler terms, you must change your perception of the thought by changing it from an image into a full-sound physical reality that you will often experience in real life.


This step is achieved by obsessively focusing on one particular thought and not allowing any contradictory ones to enter your mind. Begin to incorporate all your senses within the thought, but do not force the sensations to occur, let them linger for a while.
When you have just about fallen back asleep, your thought will take on a life of its own to the point where you don’t even need to imagine it anymore. You are not the creator of the thought, but the participator in a scene exactly connected to the one that you were just contemplating about.
It is challenging not to become too excited at this point since you will marvel at the bewildering works of the brain and how they can construct the precise reality that you have imagined.
 Since the experience is short lived, you must remain in the right state of mind instantly.


Make sure to perform a reality check, then feel free to run around the confines of your thought induced dream world. Once the short dream period has ended, don’t move as you are likely to enter another one in about thirty seconds time.
Replace yourself into the original thought and allow your senses to be naturally integrated into the scene again. You may continue to do this until you have gotten bored or have simply lost interest.
To influence the dream surroundings, just simply use the same facet of your mind that you took advantage of to enter the dream in the first place.
So, if feel compelled to fly, just imagine yourself doing so and believe it will happen, since it most likely will.

If you are struggling with dream control, it may be helpful to just put it aside or announce what you want to happen out loud. Start with something basic, such as colours, and then incrementally work your way up the ladder in your next VILDs until you have achieved full dream control. Once you’ve reached this stage, you are ready to move onto more advanced dreams, such as DILDs or full-blown WILDs. Hopefully, your control and confidence will transfer nicely in your more vivid types of dreams.



