 Any kind/type will work, but white vinegar will make the least mess.
 This will allow you to add the baking soda to the vinegar without having it explode immediately. You will need several large spoonfuls of baking soda to make the rocket powerful. The easiest way to do this is to put baking soda on a square of cling wrap, fold the corners up, and twist the wrap several times to hold the powder. When you put this in the vinegar later, it will unravel slowly.
 When the time comes, you’ll need to cover the mouth of the rocket to hold the fuel inside. Of course, you don’t want to cover it so well that nothing comes out. The best way to do this is with a balloon:










Cut a piece of balloon that fits over the mouth and neck of the bottle. Make sure it’s big enough to cover the whole neck, but don’t use the whole balloon; save the extra for other launches.

With a marker, draw a dot in the center of the piece of balloon.

Poke a tiny hole in the center of the dot with a pin. The dot will let you know where the hole is later.

Set the balloon aside (along with a rubber band). You’ll need quick access to these when you launch, so don’t lose them.
 Try not to agitate the bottle, which will make the cling wrap unravel faster.
 The dot help you make sure the hole is centered. The hole may drip a bit, but when the rocket launches, it will allow the fuel to shoot out.
 Placing fins on your rocket that sit lower than the mouth will allow you to use the fins as a stand. (See Rocket Body below for tips.) If you don’t want to add fins to your rocket, see Rocket Launcher below for design instructions.










To make a faster, easier rocket launcher, shove a straight stick / thin piece of wood into the ground (a bamboo skewer might work, tape a narrow tube (a rolled up piece of paper or even a drinking straw might work) to the side of the rocket, and simply slip the tube over the stick to hold the rocket up. Make sure the stick sits firmly in the ground. Insert it at a 45-degree angle if you want the rocket to go farther.
 If you’ve made the baking-soda container properly, it should take at least a few seconds for the baking soda to release into and react with the vinegar.








