 Eating or drinking quickly can result in gulping extra air along with the food, resulting in unseemly burps. Slow your roll a little, compadre!


Eat in a relaxing environment. Eating in a relaxing place, without stress, is known to limit the amount of burping and flatulence you experience.;
, Chew food completely before swallowing. Talking while you eat also means your mouth is open and you are therefore more likely to swallow air along with your food.
 Carbonated drinks contain carbon dioxide gas. If you do drink carbonation, take smaller sips over a longer period of time.
 Straws take in more air along with the beverage. Slow sips take in the least amount of air.
 These habits all result in extra air being swallowed into the stomach.


If you can, avoid big yawning motions with your mouth. If you feel the urge to yawn, try to keep your mouth closed more than usual and wait for the urge to pass.
 Baked beans, lentils, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce, onions, chocolate, and fruits such as apples, peaches and pears can produce gas during digestion, resulting in burping, bloating, and flatulence.


Also, avoid foods that contain large amounts of air, such as mousses, souffles and whipped cream. The more air you put down, the more air has to eventually come back up.
 Heartburn may be the culprit if you burp a lot. The good news is that heartburn is made worse usually by certain foods and eating habits. That means that both heartburn and excessive burping may be reducible, if not correctable.Avoid eating big portions, as well as food right before bedtime. Stomach stretching after a big meal puts the LES, the muscle that keeps stomach acids from moving in the wrong direction, under lots of pressure.This often results in heartburn.
Avoid eating fatty foods. Fatty foods take longer to digest and sit around in the stomach longer. This causes the stomach to produce more stomach acid, and relaxes the LES.
Avoid overly acidic foods, like onions, tomatoes, coffee, salad dressings, red wine, and fruit drinks. Also avoid spicy foods, such as peppers, chili, and other spices.
Consider other factors relating to heartburn. Smoking, tight clothing, obesity, and lying down may all have a deleterious effect on heartburn.
 Some people gulp air as a nervous habit, even without realizing it. Have a friend keep an eye on you to see if you do this.
 You will gulp air along with it, resulting in chronic burping and possibly an upset stomach.
 Poorly-fitting dentures can result in swallowing air when you eat.
 This helps maintain their natural enzymes that aid in digestion.
 This can help break-up larger gas bubbles into smaller bubbles.


Try an enzyme supplement like Beano. This can help reduce the risk of unwanted burping as well as flatulence.
 Clothing that is tight around the waist can lead to abdominal discomfort and burping.
 Chamomile, raspberry, mint, ginger, and fennel may help reduce gas in the stomach.
 Excessive belching accompanied by indigestion, heartburn, nausea, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, or abdominal pain can be symptoms of medical problems such as acid reflux, or gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), gastritis, ulcers, lactose intolerance or gluten intolerance, or gastroparesis. If you are already aware that you have one or more of these conditions, controlling them could also help reduce or eliminate the burping.

