 You can do this either online, or at your local train station. They can be collected at the train station, booking them online or on-site.;
, This is so you can keep yourself busy either waiting for the train or on the train. Useful things to pack:


Snacks and drinks
Phone
Notepad
Camera

, Stop into different shops, and walk about on different platforms. Buy little souvenirs or things for the train.
 This can help you stay in touch, or report an emergency. Wi-fi can also help you pass the time, by surfing the web or watching catch-up TV.
 If there is no food/drink available on the train, your train ride will turn very uncomfortable and unpleasant. Either buy something to eat/drink on the train, or eat/drink at the train station.
, Stay on the platform near your train, to reduce chances of missing your train. Explore the other platforms to pass time as well, and see which destination that train is going. You'll be surprised how fascinating trainspotting is!

, Stand well away from the platform edge, and take caution when walking down the platform. Stay away from moving trains, and if the platform is very busy, consider moving away. If there is an unloading train, stand well away from it and always let others off first.
, Just simply relax. Have a nice sit down, have a snack, and surf the web. Do anything just to keep you busy.
 Stand well away from the platform edge, and take caution when walking down the platform. Stay away from moving trains, and if the platform is very busy, consider moving away. If there is an unloading train, stand well away from it and always let others off first. Be aware that trains can pass through the station at very high speed, so stand back and do not exceed past the yellow line. Also note, that passing trains can cause air turbulence, which if not careful, can result in you being sucked under the train onto the track.
,, Have a nice sit down, have a snack, and surf the web.
 Stand well away from the platform edge, and take caution when walking down the platform. Stay away from moving trains, and if the platform is very busy, consider moving away. If there is an unloading train, stand well away from it and always let others off first, because commuter trains can be extremely crammed and busy. Be aware that trains can pass through the station at very high speed, so stand back and do not exceed past the yellow line. Also note, that passing trains can cause air turbulence, which if not careful, can result in you being sucked under the train onto the track.
 This obviously reduces chances of missing your train!

, Stay on the platform near your train, to reduce chances of missing your train. Explore the other platforms to pass time as well, and see which destination that train is going. You'll be surprised how fascinating trainspotting is!

,, This can be great for beautiful scenery, bird spotting or taking great photos/videos of the landscape! But, don't do this if you know you'll get travel sick. This might not work on a subway train!

, Sitting backwards can make certain passengers feel travel sick - but if you're ok either way, that's even better!

, This can help you get off the train easy, quickly and simply. Only do this if the train is not busy.
 This can reduce the annoyance of passengers constantly getting on and off the train. Only do this if the train is busy.
 Use your phone, take notes, have something to eat/drink or take some scenery photos!

, Although tempting, you might fall asleep for the whole journey and miss your stop. Not falling asleep is better than ending up stranded in a completely different city! Only go to sleep if your destination is the last stop.
 They will be very grateful! This may seem harsh on you, but think if you really needed that seat as much as them.
,,