 Sometimes an argument or debate on a topic you’re passionate about will be unavoidable. An argument or debate necessarily contains a point of disagreement, and if the topic is something you’re passionate about then strong emotion is likely to be involved. Stay pleasant, especially at the outset, and you’ll have more opportunity to express your beliefs to a receptive ear.


Self-control is critical to maintaining a pleasant demeanor, even if you are seething on the inside. Use slow, steady breathing to help keep yourself calm.
If you tend to wear your heart on your sleeve, practice controlling your facial expressions ahead of time. Giving a scornful look as the other person speaks is a great way to turn disagreement into anger.
 Identifying common ground gives you a mutual starting place, so that your disagreements will seem less stark.


Some easy starting places are appeals to family, generosity, and other generally positive things that most people can support.
Use phrases like, “Wouldn’t you agree that…” or “I think we share the same feelings on…”

, Where facts may fail to convince, a moral argument may succeed. Even if you don’t win the person over to your point of view, appealing to their sense of right and wrong can assuage hard feelings.


The idea is to appear righteous, rather than shrill, in the other person’s eyes.
You must appeal to their moral standards, rather than trying to convert them to your own. A study found that conservatives could make their arguments appealing to liberals, and vice-versa, more effectively by framing them carefully.
For example, liberals found military spending more acceptable when the egalitarian nature of the armed forces was emphasized, as well as its ability to raise people out of poverty., Allow your debating partner to speak their piece with limited interruption. This shows that you respect their views enough to give them your full attention, and it allows you analyze their position for weaknesses.


Listen attentively. You want to appear engaged and interested, with a positive demeanor. Make occasional eye contact, and don’t fall prey to distractions like looking at your phone or watch. That can make you appear impatient or disrespectful.
Make a mental note, as they speak, of points of agreement that you can also use as a point of departure for a counter-argument. You’ll appear friendlier by using phrases like, “I think we both agree that ….. However, …..,” and so on., Even if you wholeheartedly disagree with what your opponent says, give them the benefit of the doubt by assuming their views are honestly held, with good intentions.


This is particularly important if you are talking politics. Political views are often deeply ingrained, and studies show people are inclined to maintain their beliefs even in the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary.
You are unlikely to overcome this cognitive dissonance in a brief encounter, so be prepared to accept the difference in opinion graciously.