 The ACLU has a national website (aclu.org) where you can find information about all the organization's active projects, and learn what you can do to help. Even if you aren't able to volunteer in person, you still can do your part to support the ACLU.The website provides extensive information about the different activities of the national organization, as well as links and information to activities spearheaded by particular state offices.
You also can find out information about your rights under the Constitution, and learn about various actions that threaten those rights.
 This tab will take you to a page that lists the specific issues in which the ACLU is actively fighting to protect the civil rights and liberties of Americans. You can scroll through the various campaigns to find one you want to support.When you click on each issue listed, you will be taken to a page that provides background information about the issue and how civil rights and liberties are threatened.
In addition to a specific call to action to support the ACLU's efforts, there also may be links on the page to other resources so you can learn more about the issue as well as find other organizations that are involved.
 For many issues, you have the option of signing a petition that indicates your support for the people whose civil rights or liberties are being threatened in that particular context. The petition is distributed to lawmakers with the power to stop those threats.Petitions are used to demonstrate citizen support for taking a particular action, or stopping a particular action that is currently taking place.
While signing a petition in and of itself doesn't necessarily cause any changes or stop the threat to civil rights and liberties, it sends a message to government officials.
A significant amount of signatures on a petition can put pressure on elected officials to take action in regard to the specified problem.
Read the petition carefully before you sign it and make sure you agree with it and want officials to take the action requested.
 For issues that involve the passage of a particular piece of legislation, you can send a letter to your congressional representatives that urges them to vote a certain way regarding that legislation.While you may have taken steps to write letters to your elected representatives before, sending a letter through the ACLU is somewhat different.
This letter is not unlike a petition, in that it may include the signatures of a number of different people. However, unlike the petition, a letter is specifically addressed to congressional representatives and calls on them to act in a certain way – typically, to vote for or against a particular piece of pending legislation.
 Some issues involve private businesses acting in conjunction with government authority, or granting government agencies access to data held by those companies. The ACLU fights to protect Americans' constitutional privacy rights.For example, law enforcement agencies can use social media analytics and search data to monitor activists exercising their First Amendment rights. This activity violates the constitutional rights of these Americans. The private companies who run social media platforms do not have to allow law enforcement agencies to use their services in this way.
If this is an issue that you feel strongly about, you can send a message to social media companies imploring them to block access to their platforms so that it cannot be used to conduct surveillance of people who are exercising their constitutional rights.

