 Create an On-Demand Filter to promote a business or event (including personal celebrations). Snapchat users within a specific area at a specific time will be able to overlay their snaps with your creation.

Filters created for businesses must display the business’s name.You can type it out with text in the editor, or import the company logo.
Filters cannot display hashtags, URLs, or social media handles.On-Demand filter pricing starts at $5. The final price is determined by the size of the geographic area, and the length of time the filter will be available.,,


If you don’t remember your Snapchat username or password, click the “Forgot your password link?” and follow the on-screen instructions.
 You can add custom text, colors, and logos (if creating a business filter) without having to use Photoshop or Illustrator. When designing your filter, use these guidelines provided by Snapchat.

If you prefer working in Photoshop, click Download Templates to download a .zip file containing a template (in .psd format). The template is a transparent .PSD file in the proper size (1080 px by 1920 px).
After editing your filter in Photoshop, save it as a transparent PNG-24 file (.png). To do this, click the File menu, select Save for Web and Devices, then choose the “PNG-24” preset. Make sure “Transparent” is checked before saving the file. Once it’s saved, return to the web browser to click Upload, then continue with this method beginning with step 10.
 The options displayed vary depending on location and time of year., As you click each thumbnail image on the left side of the screen, you’ll see the ways each overlay looks over the sample images.

Select a color from the Color Palette (on the right side of the screen) to change the colors of graphics.
To see the filter template on a different sample image, click another image under “Preview Images.”
Select the blank filter (the first option) if you want to start with a blank template that’s the correct size but contains no graphics. You’ll still be able to add your own text and images.
 You can click T+ (in the right panel) to add new text, or click “Your Text Here” on the image, if it appears.

Click the colored circle in the pop-up box to change the text color.
Drag the circles at each corner outward to increase the text size, and inward to decrease.
Drag the tiny circular arrow icon (above the selected text) left or right to change the text’s angle.
 If you have an image on your computer, such as your brand’s logo or a custom design, you can insert it into your filter.

Click the button with the upward-pointing arrow under “Insert” on the right side of the screen, then select the image.
Drag the circles at each corner outward to increase the size of the image, or inward to make it smaller.
Drag the tiny circular arrow icon (above the inserted image) left or right to change its angle.
 It’s at the bottom of the right panel., Use the dial and calendar at the top of your screen to pick the date and time that your filter starts and ends. The maximum timeframe is 30 days.,, You can define an area (between 20,000 and 5,000,000 square feet) by drawing a virtual “fence” on the map. Here’s how:


Click Draw Fence at the bottom center area of the map.
Use the + and – buttons on the bottom right corner of the map to zoom closer to an area.
Click a place in the map where you want to start drawing the fence. A dot will appear at the place you clicked.
Click additional points in the fence until you’ve returned to the first dot.
Click the first dot to close the fence. The selected area will turn red.
The price for the selected area appears at the top left corner of the map. The larger the area, the higher the price.
, In addition to entering your credit card information, you must also:

Enter a name for your filter (e.g. “Bill’s Graduation Party”) into the “Geofilter Name” field.
If your filter is for an event or private location, choose “Personal” from the dropdown menu.
If your filter is for a business or product, choose “Business” from the dropdown, then type the name and address of your business into the provided blanks.
Check the box next to “I agree to the Privacy Policy, Terms of Service, and the On-Demand Geofilter Terms and Conditions.”

, Snapchat will review your filter submission and send you an email once it is approved or denied. You should hear back within one business day, but it may take longer during holiday seasons.