 The two main positions that skateboarders use are called regular and goofy. Try out both positions to see what feels the most natural to you.


If your left foot is forward, or you are facing to the right you are in the position called "regular". If your right foot is forward, or you are facing to the left you are in the position called "goofy".;
, Make sure that when you stand on the skateboard, your feet are positioned just behind the bolts.This is the best way to position your feet for good balance. Placing your feet in the middle of the board will not give you as much control and it also makes it easier to break your board.


The bolts are what is securing your skateboard’s wheels to the board, so your feet should be just behind the wheels on your board.
 Before you try to balance while riding your skateboard, start by balancing on your skateboard while it is standing still. The easiest way to keep your skateboard from moving around too much is to place it on some carpet or grass. Then, stand on your skateboard and work on your balance.You can also try placing an object in front of and behind the wheels on your skateboard to keep it from moving around too much. Try placing a block of wood on either side of your skateboard, or position the board between two cinder blocks.
If you still find it difficult to stand on the board even when it is not moving, then you might try holding onto a railing or a wall to steady yourself and work up to standing on the board without holding onto anything.
 You do not need to lean back and forth or move much at all to work on your balance. Just try to keep your body weight centered and shift your weight slightly from your heels to your toes to stay stable on the board.








Keeping a slight bend in your knees is also a good idea. This will help to keep your center of gravity lower to the ground, which will make it easier to balance.
To improve your balance, you will need to practice balancing on the board often. Try to practice for at least 15 minutes every day.

