 Do you feel like playing a straightforward, melee, damage-dealing character? If so, you have two main options. Also, check out the next step below these for more versatile options that are still focused on melee combat.


The Nord is a great option for a first character. You'll be skilled at two-handed weapons, will get more money for selling loot, and have a Light Armor bonus and racial abilities that keeps you mobile and able to survive the early game.The Orc is phenomenal at surviving damage, and dealing damage in melee.With immediate access to Orc stores and trainers, bonuses to crafting armor and weapons, and bonuses to both one-handed and two-handed weapons, you'll have many options to choose from.;
, If you enjoy playing sneaky characters, but want to specialize in stealing and exploration more than combat, make an Argonian or a Khajiit. The higher starting Lockpicking and Pickpocket skills are particularly useful at the beginning of the game, since improving them at a reasonable pace requires succeeding on the attempts in the first place.Argonians have a better Lockpicking bonus, a Light Armor bonus, and a racial ability that regenerates health once per day. All of these will make life as a low-level sneaky character a bit easier.
The Khajiit have a better unarmed damage bonus, a better Sneak bonus, an Archery bonus, and tend to be more versatile. Pick this if you are not fully committed to the thief archetype, or you want to be a well-rounded combat character as well.
 Sneaky characters who are also good at combat prefer bonuses to Sneak, Archery, Alchemy, and Light Armor. The Khajiit and Wood Elf are excellent options, while the Dark Elf is a fine choice if you'd also like to dabble in Magic., There are several different types of magic, but you don't need to pick just one. High Elves have bonuses to all five, plus large bonuses to Magicka (the energy or mana used to cast spells). They are great for an overall mage character build and are a good starting race for newcomers.Bretons are versatile mages as well, though especially excellent at Conjuration. Bretons also specialize in more magic and sword gameplay, as they often specialize in skills that aid you in battle., Dark Elves have bonuses to offensive magic and stealth, and can be played as mage-assassins or mage-thieves. They are also great for the overall adventurer as they specialize in multiple skills.Imperials are quite strong at both melee combat and magic, especially healing magic. Imperials are very charismatic and are great for a merchant, or just an over all charismatic character. Imperials have a bonus in the speech skill which is a major benefit to thieves, merchants, and assassins. Finally, Redguards are the best at using one-handed weapons, but have fairly unfocused bonuses in general. Consider playing a Redguard if you want to try out several styles of play right off the bat, but don't expect to be too powerful at any one task. Redguards are good for one-handed and sword and shield users.