 These items can be used for defense by swinging them (like the players in the aforementioned sports) and use them to try to knock people down or stun them.;
, There are 2 things you can do with these. One is to wear the helmet and headbutt the burglar. The other is to hold them in your hand and swing them.
,,, A glass bottle can be used by smashing it over the trespasser's head to cause pain and give you time to find a means of restraint.
 The latter method causes more pain but is slower to be able to swing again. It is also an effective method of restraint.
 A loaded paintball fired at close range causes a lot of pain and a strategically placed shot to the groin can incapacitate the trespasser.(NEVER aim above the shoulders unless you want to possibly get in trouble with the police.)

, BB guns and air rifles look a lot like real guns to the untrained eye and should be able to persuade an inexperienced burglar to flee or surrender. If the burglar is not buying it (i.e he knows it's not a real gun) then use them same way as the paintball gun.
 A sliced lemon should be used to squeeze citric acid into a trespasser's eyes which should blind them and give you some time.
, Slip them over your hand and use to punch. If the shoe is a tall lady's one then you can hold the leather and swing it.
 A cattle prod can be used to shock people into submission. However it should NEVER be used unless you fear for your life. If you do need to use it aim for the limbs or abdomen, never aim at the torso or head.
 A small hole punch can be slipped over your hand and used like makeshift knuckledusters. Make sure the lower bit is on the flat of your fist as this is far less painful to you than placing them on your knuckles.
 can be used if you take a swig and hold it in your mouth. When needed, spit it as hard as you can into the trespasser's face which will either temporarily blind or distract the trespasser as well as freak him out.
 Firing water at high speed from a pressure washer at the trespasser is a good tactic because it hurts and it distracts along with temporary blinding if fired at the face.
 Use the handset by having it held in the hand and swung downwards to make a good bludgeon but this will probably break the phone.

