 When you’re getting ready to brush your dog, make sure they do not have their collar or any other accessories on.;
, Greater Swiss Mountain Dogs are a very large breed and can shed a lot during certain periods of the year. Plan to brush them outdoors, or in an indoor area that is easy to sweep, like a tile or hardwood floor.If you do brush them indoors, have a broom or vacuum ready to clean up the hair that will come out.
 They are an easy to groom breed but you may need someone else’s help to hold them still while you’re brushing them.


Since your dog won't have a collar on during brushing, another person can help keep them still. Also, many dogs enjoy being brushed, though it is a good idea for the person helping you to have a few treats handy to reward your Swissy for their good behavior during grooming.
 You can use a soft to medium bristle brush that has short and closely spaced bristles.They do shed a fair amount, even when they are not during the coat blowout periods, so you may need to stop and clean the hair from your brush as your brushing their coat.
 Their fur is very short so it is not prone to mats or tangles.They only need to be brushed once or twice a week. This will help keep shedding under control and removes dead hair. Make sure you brush in the direction that their fur grows. You can begin to brush their heads and move down the rest of their bodies until you reach their tails.


Be sure to brush their entire coat, but be gentle on sensitive areas like their faces and bellies.
 These dogs are bred for cold weather, so they have a dense outer coat and a thick undercoat to keep them warm. They do not shed much throughout the year, except for the twice-yearly times when the undercoat comes out. These periods are typically during the spring and fall. During these times, you will need to brush your dog daily to help the coat come out.You can use a shedding blade, undercoat rake, or rubber comb during these periods rather than your normal brush.During shedding season, try to brush them outside if the weather permits. They will shed a lot of hair so it will be easier to clean up and manage their hair when you are outdoors.
 The Greater Swiss Mountain Dog’s coat is very short, usually 1” to 2”, or about 2.5 cm to 5 cm, in length.They do not need their coat trimmed. They have a double coat that helps to insulate them during hot and cold weather, so do not ever shave your dog.

