 Decide on a realistic amount that you’re willing and able to spend. Don’t deviate from this figure. You’ll be much more careful about comparing prices and making necessary compromises if you know you can’t exceed a strict total. Having a fixed budget in mind might also force you to get more creative about picking out gifts, which means you could end up with more items than you originally expected for the same amount.Make sure your primary finances are in order before you set aside money for shopping.Be conservative. It’s always better to spend less now and not have to worry about financial security later on.
 Write down everything you know you need and prioritize necessities over casual purchases before you start looking at other things. For instance, if your daughter has asked for a new winter coat, and you want to get your best friend a toaster as a housewarming gift, pick these items out first. After your main shopping is done, you can start browsing freely if you have some spending money leftover.If you’re not shopping for anything in particular, think of what you could personally use in your wardrobe or around the house.
Write down the price beside each item on your list and make sure it corresponds with your budget.
 Don’t take sale advertisements at face value. You can find some remarkable bargains on Black Friday, but you might be able to track down an even better one somewhere else. Pore over newspaper ads, mailer promotions, store websites and shopping apps to find out who is offering what for how much. That way, you’ll know exactly where to go once it’s time to get shopping.For the sake of business, most stores are willing to match low prices with competitors, saving you money and the need for an extra trip uptown.Pay attention to less obvious stores that might be offering deals on the same products. For instance, you can find a variety of name-brand goods at drugstores, which are likely to be less crowded than mall shops and more popular destinations., Check the mail around Thanksgiving and sign up for store newsletters for a chance to receive coupons that could save you even more on Black Friday purchases. Coupons are an often overlooked way to be thrifty, and, when combined with slashed rates on promotional items, can help keep a little bit of extra money in your pocket. Tuck some coupons in your wallet or checkbook before you head out for your first stop of the day.To prevent overspending, only use coupons for the limited number of stores you decided on ahead of time.
In addition to coupons, there are websites where you can go to buy discounted gift cards that will allow you to save a few more bucks on Black Friday purchases.