 It needs to be 24 inches (60.96 centimeters) wide and 19½ inches (49.53 centimeters) tall. You can use plain or patterned canvas. If you are using patterned canvas, however, be aware that both the right and wrong sides will be visible on the front of the apron., Cut a piece of 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) wide cotton webbing down to 24 inches (60.96 centimeters). Fold it in half lengthwise, then iron it to make a crease. Tuck it over one of the 24-inch (60.96-centimeter) long edges. Make sure that the raw, cut edge of the canvas is nestled right inside the crease, then pin it in place.Cotton webbing is a thick, woven strip made from cotton. It is similar to backpack straps.
Choose a bight, contrasting color for the cotton webbing. You can also use twill tape instead.
You can use ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) bias tape instead of cotton webbing or twill tape. You don't need to fold it.
 Sew as close to the inside edge of the webbing as possible, about ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) seam allowance. Remove the pins as you sew, then trim off any excess webbing from the sides.Use a heavy-duty, denim or jeans-weight sewing needle.
 Turn the canvas so that the edge you just bound is facing you. Fold the edge upward by 7½ inches (19.05 centimeters) and press it flat with an iron. This is your pocket.If you are using patterned canvas, you can have the right or wrong side facing you. It depends on what part you want to have the pattern on it.
 Keeping the canvas folded, place a ruler along the bottom edge. Starting at the left side, make a mark with a fabric pen in the following places: 5½ inches, 9½ inches, 15½ inches, and 19½ inches (13.97, 24.13, 39.37, and 49.53 centimeters). Move the ruler to the top, bound edge of the pocket, and repeat the marks., Use a ruler and fabric marker to connect the top mark to the matching bottom mark. You will have a series of four vertical lines along your pocket. These will be your sewing guidelines., Start sewing at the top, bound edge and finish sewing at the bottom, folded edge. You can use a thread color that matches the cotton webbing, or a thread color that matches the canvas. Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing a few times for extra strength., Cut two pieces of 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) wide cotton webbing down to 12½ inches (31.75 centimeters). You can use the same color as you did to bind the top edge of the pocket, or a different color. Fold the bottom edge of each strip by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters), and press it flat with an iron., Take one of the cotton webbing strips, and align the bottom, folded edge with the bottom, folded edge of your apron. Fold the sides of the cotton webbing over the sides of the apron, just like you did the top edge of the pocket. Pin it in place and trim off any excess webbing from the top edge.Repeat this step for the other side edge of the apron.
 Begin sewing at the bottom edge of the apron and finish sewing at the top edge. Sew as close as possible to the inside edge of the webbing, about ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter). Use a thread color that matches the cotton webbing and remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing. Remove the pins as you sew., You will need at least 78 inches (198.12 centimeters) of 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) wide cotton webbing for this. It can be the same color as the ones you used to bind the edges of the pocket/apron, or a contrasting color., Fold the webbing in half first to find the center, then mark it with a pin. Fold the webbing over the top of the apron and pin it in place, just like you did when binding the top edge of the pocket. Leave the webbing outside the apron unfolded., Start sewing at the webbing at the left, side edge of your apron, and finish sewing at the right edge. Sew as close as possible to the bottom edge of the webbing, and remember to backstitch. Use a thread color that matches the webbing and remove the pins as you sew.Do not start sewing at the end of the webbing. You want the webbing to go from being 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) wide, to ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wide as it meets the apron, then back to 1 inch (2.54 centimeters).
 You can leave the ends of the webbing raw, or you can fold them over for a neater finish. If you want a neater finish, fold one of the ends over twice by ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters). Topstitch it down several times for extra strength, then repeat the process for the other end.Make sure that you are folding the ends on the same side.
 You can leave the apron blank, if you wish, or you can decorate it further. For example, you can paint designs onto the apron using stencils and fabric paint. You can also draw designs on using puffy paint/dimensional paint.

You don't need to decorate patterned canvas since it is already colorful.

