 You may want to delay the breakup because of how hard you know it will be, but this is not going to help the situation. Staying with your partner after you know you want to leave them is not helpful to you or your partner or considerate of either of your feelings. Just drum up enough courage to end your relationship. It will be better for everyone.This doesn't mean that you should not take your time in thinking about your decision. You cannot undo a breakup easily once it is gone.;
, Although it may seem appealing to end your relationship where you don't have to see your partner's face, this is a childish and harmful way to end a relationship, especially a long term one. It will be hard to tell your partner in person, but given how long the two of you have been together, your relationship deserves more respect than that.


Don't leave a voicemail, write them a letter, tell them over the phone, or tell them through email or social media. These are cowardly and hurtful., There is never a good time to end a relationship, but there are better times than others to break the news. Avoid telling your partner right before leaving the house, before you or your partner has to go to work, or at other busy times.


This will not give you and your partner adequate time to deal with the situation and give the breakup the attention it deserves.
You should also avoid telling them in public., You made the decision to end your long term relationship for a reason. When you tell your partner, you need to stand firm in your decision to end it. Let them know that you are unhappy and that you are not interested in trying to make it work.


If you know that your relationship will not last, make sure you don't give in to any pleas made by your partner. You are just delaying the inevitable ending to your relationship., You are going to be emotional in the moment when you break up with your partner. Practicing what you are going to say before you talk to your partner will help you feel more prepared. You will be able to think through everything you want to say so it will come out right.You can even write it down or type it out first so you can get your thoughts in order.

