 Baby turtles require lots of food to grow. Give them all the food they want and dispose of leftovers. They also take a lot of time to eat. Give them 30 minutes to several hours.
 Aquatic turtles must be in water to swallow., This will help keep their tank clean of food debris. If you feed your turtle in its tank, you will need to do your best to scoop out the food debris afterwards.Add just enough water to cover the turtle.
Use water from the tank so it is the same temperature and does not shock the turtle.
Give them 30 minutes to several hours to eat.
Pat the turtle dry when returning it to the main tank in order to remove any food debris.
 While turtle food contains all the necessary nutrients for your baby turtles, a well-balanced, varied diet is the best way to ensure your turtles are healthy.In addition, it may be hard to get your hatchling to eat at all, so provide variety until you find something he will eat. Foods appropriate for hatchlings include:Flake and pellet foods – You can find varieties specifically for baby turtles at your pet store. They have all the necessary vitamins and nutrients for your baby turtle.
Turtle sticks – Good for baby and adult turtles.
Live blackworms, crickets, and mealworms (especially good, as baby turtles are attracted to movement)

, Once your baby turtle is a few months old, you can expand the variety of his diet. Check here for the appropriate foods for your species of turtle. In addition to the turtle food and live insects above, appropriate foods typically include:Waxworms and small roaches
Small fish or shrimp
Cooked eggs with shells
Fruit (halved grapes, apple, melon, strawberries)
Vegetables (kale, spinach, romaine, but no iceberg lettuce or cabbage)

, They will live off the yolk from their eggs. Offer them food, but do not be overly worried if they do not eat.
 Turtles will not eat or digest their food if they are too cold. Use a water heater to bring the water to the correct temperature for your turtle., Many turtle will not eat if watched. If your turtle is not eating, leave it alone with its food.