 Obviously, you don't want to stop being friends with people you like; however, in the first week or two after you quit, you may want to avoid visiting them. Just be honest with them, so you won't hurt their feelings by turning down their offers to come over.Going to see these friends may be one of your triggers for smoking, and it's important to avoid those triggers if possible, especially if you're first starting out., When you're quitting, it's important to have the support of your friends and family. They can help remind you to stop when you want to smoke, plus they can act as support in situations where you need some backup.Of course, you should tell your friends that you're visiting that you've quit smoking; however, if they are still encouraging you to smoke, it can be helpful to have some backup in the form of another friend or family member. Take someone with you who will defend you if you need it.
 Of course, it has to be a personal choice to quit smoking, but sometimes, quitting together can help make it easier for everyone. Try to broach the topic before you go visit your friends.You could say something like, "I've decided to quit smoking. I completely respect your health choices, but I was wondering if maybe you'd want to try it with me. That way, we can all keep each other accountable." This tactic works best if you know that they're thinking about quitting anyway.
 While it does put a little bit of a burden on your friends, if they're good friends, they'll respect the fact that you're trying to get healthier. In fact, it can help if they put cigarettes out of sight while you're there.You could say, "I want you to know that I'm not judging your choices at all. Since I've decided to quit smoking, though, I was wondering if you'd be willing to not smoke around me or take it outside while I'm here. It's really hard for me to be around cigarette smoke without wanting to light one up myself."

, Sometimes, your friends are the hardest to say no to. Even if you're an adult, peer pressure can still affect you, so you need to be able to stand up for yourself if your friends ask you to smoke with them. Practicing ahead of time can help you stay strong.Stand in front of the mirror, and practice saying "No." Say things like, "No, thank you, I wouldn't like a smoke."

, Whether you're saying it to yourself or one of your friends is saying it to you, don't believe this line. Even one cigarette can throw you back into your addiction, making you crave cigarettes even more. It's better just to abstain altogether., If you're meeting your friends somewhere, pick a place that doesn't allow smoking. That way, the topic may not even come up, unless your friends ask you outside to smoke with them. Nonetheless, it's much easier to refuse in a non-smoking environment than it is in a smoking one., You may need to make some new friends to hang out with who don't smoke. Of course, you probably don't want to abandon your old friends completely, but if you only socialize with smokers, it's going to be hard to quit. You still need to socialize, so try making some new friends who are non-smokers.


Consider asking someone at work over to your house for dinner, or join local clubs where you can meet new people.

