 One of the most important parts of being an ally is practicing acceptance. To truly support your friends, work on being non-judgmental. Being open minded requires you to examine your own opinions and focus on being accepting. Push aside any preconceived notions or worries you might have.Maybe you have a good friend who comes out as gay. It is not your job to question anything about this.
Instead, try saying, “I’m really glad you shared this with me. Please let me know how I can support you.”
Avoid saying things like “Why?” or “Are you sure?”;
, If your friend is feeling oppressed, they likely need some support. Show them that you care by actively listening. When your friend talks, demonstrate that you are listening by maintaining eye contact and making gestures such as nodding your head.You can also show your support by asking questions and acknowledging what you’ve heard.
If your friend says, “I’m getting made fun of at school because I’m Jewish.”, you can say, “That must be hard for you.”

, When you are an ally, you need to make an effort not to isolate anyone. When you plan social activities, make sure not to purposefully exclude people. Work on being kind to everyone.If one of your friends says, “I don’t want to come to your party if you’re inviting gay people”, you can respond by saying, “That’s too bad that you feel that way. Jane and Tom are my friends, and they are welcome in my home, just like you. I will not uninvite them.”

, The words that you use are really important. Take care to use the terms that your friend wants you to use. If you’re not sure what to say, it’s best to ask instead of accidentally offending someone.Maybe you have a transgender friend and you are not sure what pronouns to use. You can just say, “I want to make sure I use the pronoun of your choice. Should I use he, she, or they?"
Don’t be nosy. You might want to know details, but think before you ask. You can think “Do I need to know this information in order to treat them with respect?”

, Remember that your perspective might be different from your friend's. Or maybe you didn’t actually witness the situation that upset them. The best way to be an ally in this situation is to let your friend know that you believe them.Maybe your friend was a victim of sexual assault. They might be afraid of reporting the crime because they don’t have proof. You can say, “I’ll stand by you. I believe what you have told me.”
Allow your friend to guide the conversation and just be willing to listen to them. Having someone who is listening to them non-judgmentally may be all they need.
 These days, there are a lot of opinions being shared on social media. People also post a lot of information from a wide variety of sources. It’s not your job to patrol the entire internet, but you can do your part to stop negativity on your social media accounts.For example, maybe a friend posts an anti-Muslim joke on your wall. You should delete the post, and send your friend a message saying that those types of comments are not funny or welcome. It is important to let people know your beliefs or they may keep saying or doing things that are offensive to you.
 You might be wondering about what it means to be oppressed. Take some time to learn about groups that are typically oppressed. These include non-Christians, people of color, members of the LGBT community, and sometimes women. Learning more about these groups can help you better understand what is offensive.Read reputable sources. This way you can be informed when it comes to what your friends post.
Being informed will help you recognize obviously biased or intolerant information.
 You get to decide who can comment or post on your accounts. Whether it is Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, or Twitter, you have the right to decide who you interact with. You should block people who repeatedly post offensive things.You can also report them to the site administrator. If blocking doesn’t work, for example, report the user to Facebook.
 It’s important to look for negative posts by others. It is equally important to be aware of what you write yourself. Before you hit “Post” or “Send,” take a minute to read over your words. What seems funny to you might be offensive to someone else. If what you have written is controversial, then it might be best not to post it at all.


Make sure that you haven’t inadvertently been judgmental towards an individual or group of people.
Don’t post information unless you know that it is accurate.
 Social media can be a great way to show your support for your friends. Try making supportive comments. For example, if your friend posts that they went to the Women’s March, you could write something like, “Good for you! I’d love to hear about your experience.”


You can also make positive posts of your own. For example, share a link for an article about how to be an ally., What you say and do is important. It is important to stand up for what you believe, even if it is in a small way. But you can also help encourage others to say and do the right thing. If you see or hear something that is oppressive or offensive, you should speak up. Use your words to show that you are an ally. Most simply, you can just say, "Stop."Maybe you are in the break room at work and you overhear someone make an offensive joke about women. You could say, “Please don’t say those kinds of things around me. They are offensive and inappropriate.”

, Sometimes you might need support in order to be an effective ally. If you’re a kid or a teen, turn to a trusted adult for support. If the other kids on your basketball team are using racial slurs, don’t be afraid to tell your coach.Even adults might need help with this. If necessary, report offensive comments by your coworkers to your boss or to HR.
 It’s great to want to be an ally for your friends. It’s also important that you stick up for other people, too, even if you don’t know them personally. Try to find ways that you can use your voice and actions positively.Maybe you don’t personally know any immigrants. You can still be an ally by donating clothing or household items to an organization that helps immigrants get settled in their new homes.
 Use your voice to help provide information for others. By helping to educate people about oppressed groups, you are fulfilling a key function of being an ally. The first step is to make sure that you are fully informed. Maybe you want to learn more about the rights of the LGBT community. Try contacting the local community center and asking what resources they recommend. Once you are informed, you can begin passing that knowledge along to others. If someone at a party makes an uninformed comment, you can say, “Actually, gay marriage has a higher success rate than marriage between two straight people.”
You can also educate your kids. Try saying, “Even though Abby used the word ‘homo’, we don’t do that in our house. It might hurt someone’s feelings.”
It is especially important to educate children early on and correct them as needed so that they do not grow up with faulty beliefs.
 Allies are really important in helping secure rights for others. There are several ways you can use your voice for good. Contact your representatives and tell them you don’t support immigration bans that target certain religions.You could also signs petitions, help make phone calls, or post flyers about important legislation.
Make sure to vote as well! This is the best way to make your opinions count.

