 If you don’t already have a nighttime routine established for your toddler, take the time to set one up. Having a routine helps your child prepare for the evening and gives them a sense of security. They know what to expect next and can prepare better.Once you have a routine in place it will be easier to help your toddler adjust to daylight savings time.


Set bed, nap, and waking times that allow your toddler to get about 10 total hours of sleep each day. For example, your toddler may take a two hour nap during the day and then get eight hours of sleep at night.
Pick meal times that allow your toddler to enjoy their meal or snack without feeling rushed.
Stick to these same times every day and incorporate other activities into your daily routine.
Establish routines for things like preparing for bed or meal time. For example, your toddler might have a bath, brush their teeth, read a book, and then lie down for the night.;
, The week before daylight savings time begins, gradually start moving your toddlers schedule up 10 to 15 minutes or so. The gradual adjustment will make the “spring forward in time” easier for your toddler to handle.Each day move your toddler’s bedtime forward 10 minutes or so. For example, if your toddler normally goes to bed at 8 pm, then move it to 7:50 the first night, 7:40 the next night, and so.
Move it up 10 minutes each night or so until the night that daylight savings time begins. Your toddler will go to bed at 7 pm, which will become 8 pm – their normal bedtime.
Adjust meal, snack, and other times accordingly. For example, you may want to serve dinner a little earlier each night or give them a bath earlier.
If it’s possible, adjust your whole evening routine so that everything happens a few minutes earlier each day. Also, if you generally wake your child in the morning, you can try to wake them a little earlier each day.
 Similar to when daylight savings time begins, moving your toddler’s schedule back a bit during the fall may help them manage daylight savings time ending.It takes about a week to adjust to the change, so adjusting the routine about one week in advance will help your toddler manage the change.


In the fall, move your toddler’s schedule back by 10 minutes each night. For example, if they normally have an 8 pm bedtime, then you can move it to 8:10 the first night.
Each night, push their schedule back by 10 more minutes. The night that daylight savings time ends they will go to bed at 9 pm, which, when the time changes, will be 8 pm. You may also allow your child to sleep a little longer in the morning each day.

