 This is optional but brining or marinating meat and then placing the meat on the grill will result in a whole lot of flavor.Brining will especially make for more juicy pork, chicken, or turkey. A basic brine is about 1/8 cup of table salt to 1 quart of water. Make sure you have enough to cover the meat. Broth may be used instead of water (adjust for salt), a little sugar (honey, brown sugar, molasses) may be added if desired, seasonings (almost anything) can also be added for more flavorful meat.
If marinating, be sure your marinade does not have too much sugar, or else it will burn on the grill.
 Placement is key when grilling, particularly if you are feeding a large party. If you're cooking for a lot of people, try to be deliberate in your placement of food, so that you can maximize the amount cooking all at once. That said, do not crowd the food together, as it needs some space both for better cooking and for you to be able to snatch it out or flip it.
 Some grills will have sections that get hotter than others. Keep that in mind when grilling, particularly if someone you are cooking for has a special preference regarding how rare he/she like his/her food. Once you've added the food, do not flip it or move it (unless you want to turn it slightly for cross-hatched grill marks) until you believe it's halfway done.If someone likes their burger more rare than the rest, put theirs on the side that's cooler. If your grill is pretty evenly heated, just put the food on slightly later than the rest to make it rare.
 Flame-ups are caused by fatty foods dripping onto the fire. You can stop flame-ups by removing the meat from the grill once the oil has risen to the surface of the meat. Shake the meat of it's grease then put it back on the grill at a lower heat.
 Try to limit flipping the food as much as possible. Frequent flipping can lead to uneven cooking, ugly food, and or losing a piece of food to the flames below.
 Experienced grillers don't need to check the food very often, but until you're comfortable, a thermometer plunged into the center of the food is the best method to be sure (instant read for small items, probe style if you're grilling a large item such as a whole chicken or pork tenderloin). If you don’t have a thermometer you can cut into the food, but keep in mind that slicing, piercing, or breaking a piece of food in half will make it dry out very quickly, as all the juices will run out of it.



Grilling burgers: Burgers made of beef are best cooked to medium or well-done because of the risk of bacteria being ground into the meat. If you grind your own beef from carefully trimmed cuts, this precaution is not necessary. Burgers made of chicken or turkey should be cooked fully. Veggie burgers should be cooked so that they are heated all the way through.

Grilling hot dogs: Grill hot dogs on a medium-high heat grill. They should cook for five to seven minutes before they are ready to be taken off.Grilling steak: Steak is often eaten raw when it's provided by a trusted source. Cook your steak to the desired doneness over a very hot grill. The internal temperature of a rare steak should be 130ºF (54.4ºC).

Grilling poultry: Chicken and turkey must be completely cooked before eating. If any of the meat is not opaque, it must be cooked further. In the case of a whole bird, a probe thermometer plunged into the deepest part of the breast must register that the bird is done. The internal temperature of a whole chicken or turkey should be 165º - 170ºF (73.8º-76.6ºC.) Another classic way of checking a bird’s doneness is to pierce the meat and ensure that the juices run clear. Keep in mind that when piercing the meat you will lose some of that yummy juice.

Grilling Pork: Pork in the United States no longer has to be cooked well done to be considered safe. A slight pinkness in the meat is both desired and delicious. A medium done pork roast has the internal temperature of 145ºF (62.7ºC). In other regions of the world, it may be wise to continue cooking until the meat is opaque.

Grilling vegetables: Grilling vegetables is a great way to make a hot side dish without heating up the kitchen. Most veggies do just fine on the grill if sliced, tossed in a little oil, salt, and pepper, and grilled. Keep in mind relative cooking times, as, say, carrots will take a lot longer than zucchini. Purchase a perforated metal grill-topper if your veggies are narrow enough to fall through the grates. You could also wrap your veggies in tinfoil and place them on the grill (just know that they won’t get any grill marks that way.)

Grilling with sauces: Most sauces, especially high sugar ones, such as barbecue sauce, should be added at the last minute, to avoid burning. Baste, turn the food over, and baste the other side. Wait for a minute or so for the sugars to caramelize, if you wish, but do not leave it too long, as burnt sugar is not very tasty.
 Put the food on a plate, platter, or other vessel and cover it with heavy-duty aluminum foil (if you don't have starving guests hovering already) for at least 5 minutes. Doing this allows juices to redistribute so that they do not run out as soon as the food is cut or bitten into.


In the case of large cuts, taking the food off the grill and covering when the thermometer registers 5 degrees (10 for an exceptionally large item) less than the recommended or desired doneness is a good idea, as resting it will allow "carryover cooking" to finish the job. The meat continues to cook after it is taken off the grill, as it is still incredibly hot. A large piece of meat cooked to exactly the right doneness temperature on the grill will invariably be overcooked by the time that it hits the table.
 A successful meal will, of course, have side dishes and beverages that you prepared ahead of time or alongside the main course. Don't forget the condiments.
 Do not forget to turn the propane off or else the tank will continue to leak propane.

