 Find out what their priorities are, and help them develop those skills. There may be many skill areas in which they struggle, and it will be up to the two of you to prioritize. Getting your child's input will help them feel involved and imagine what their life will be like.


For example, a young autistic woman may feel that her executive dysfunction will prevent her from taking care of herself, but she wants to improve her social skills so she can get a good job. In that case, focus your coaching on interacting with people, and don't worry about teaching her to cook or clean.;
, Assume that they will be able to do these themselves someday when they feel ready.


Offer to teach them individual tasks. For example, maybe they'd like to learn how to make scrambled eggs, or watch you do laundry.
Ask them to do one step of the task. For example, "Would you please fold your sister's shirts?"
Narrate the step-by-step process as you go through it. "First, we get a pan, a bowl, and a fork. Next, we crack the eggs into the bowl. Then we stir them with the fork..."
When they're ready to try it by themselves, write down a list of the steps they need to follow. Stay nearby while they follow the list.
 First your child can learn to scramble eggs, then make omelets, then start on more complex meals like spaghetti and meatballs.
 If they experience executive dysfunction, help them find a working to-do list system (e.g. ToDoIst). If they struggle with remembering to clean, suggest a robotic vacuum that cleans for them. Search the internet for solutions for various problems (and don't limit your search to autism—sometimes neurotypicals use the same coping tricks). A strong repertoire of strategies will help them become more independent.


Some of these mechanisms may be unusual, such as a cooking service or a worker who helps them get dressed. This is okay. Focus on making them be successful, not on making them be normal.
 Tell them they can do it. Review past success—anything from brushing their own teeth to writing complex computer programs.
 If and when your child says they are ready to move out, they will need plenty of support. Help them set up their new home and learn the new neighborhood. Assure them that you can visit as often as they'd like, so they don't feel that you suddenly disappeared from their lives.
 Consider health units, community services, et cetera. Help your child start setting up appointments.
 Transitioning an autistic adult to living outside of the home is no easy task, and it's certainly not one that you and the adult should try alone. Enlist your spouse (if any), your child's therapist(s) and/or social worker, and any other caregivers and mentors. Together, you can work as a team and help your child be ready for the outside world.
 These people can help your child talk through their issues, and brainstorm solutions. Meeting other autistic people (online or in person) will also help their self-esteem, and they can share tips.


Contact a volunteer organization and see if any volunteers are willing to work with your child.
Find an autism-related support group for your child to attend. (Screen it to make sure that there are no toxic influences.)
Consider starting your own group for autistic young adults!

, Listen to them, talk to them, and love them for who they are.

