 Hormones, particularly testosterone, play a role in the body's oil production and when too much is produced it clogs skin pores and increases the chance of an acne break-out. Consult your family doctor or dermatologist to determine the best treatment for your skin.Women who go on birth control pills often solve their acne problems.Though unproven, there is a theory that milk, which contains components related to testosterone, can lead to acne., A good way to keep excess oil from clogging your pores is to wash it away. Washing also gets rid of dirt and bacteria, which can contribute to acne too. Wash twice daily, as well as after excessive sweating (such as if you've been working out). However, don't overdo it, because too much washing will trigger an over-production of oil to combat dry skin.Always use a moisturizer after cleaning and exfoliating your skin.


Creams and lotions containing benzoyl peroxide kill bacteria that cause acne.
 It may be very tempting to pick or squeeze your pimples in efforts to get rid of them quicker, but you're likely to make your face more inflamed, plus you risk permanently scarring your skin or causing infection. Let you dermatologist or experienced esthetician deal with your pimples, as they are the experts., If you have chronic and stubborn acne, your dermatologist may offer you a prescription antibiotic lotion such as clindamycin or erythromycin (or maybe oral antibiotics). Tretinoin (Retin-D) is a medication that helps prevent skin pores from getting clogged, whereas isotretinoin reduces the amount of oil produced.The best medical treatment for acne is often a combination of topical and oral medicines.
Always follow your doctor's directions when taking prescribed medications.
 Numerous natural herbal remedies exist that may help to combat severe acne such as green tea (anti-inflammatory and astringent), lavender oil, chamomile, tea tree oil (antiseptic), or apple cider vinegar.Make a honey and oat face mask. Honey is a good antiseptic, whereas oatmeal cleanses, moisturizes, soothes irritation and relieves itchiness.
Make a bentonite clay mask, which unclogs pores and relieves itchiness.

