 Insulators like gypsum, mineral wool and particle board are known for their fire-retardant qualities. If you’re in the process of building a new house, you probably won’t have to specify that you want fireproof materials, as these features are now standard. That being said, it never hurts to ask what types of materials are being used in the construction of your home.Replace old and unsafe insulation with fire-rated materials as soon as it’s discovered.Installing fireproof insulation in older homes demands a lot of labor and expense, but it’s worth considering if you’re serious about safeguarding your family and property.
 As mentioned, there are many different types of sealants available that have been approved for firestopping. Use fireproof caulking to seal any visible cracks or spaces between firestopping blocks, wall studs and joists. It only takes a small amount to make problem areas fire-tight.Fireproof sealants are readily available at major home improvement stores.
Finishing your basement with a fireproof sealant is always a good idea, especially if your home has balloon framing or a similarly hollow construction that can create openings for drafts.
 For basements with windows, you’ll want to shop around for styles that meet prescribed safety regulations. You can also pick out windows that are made with fire-rated glass. These types of window glasses are treated with special compounds that reflect and disperse heat, making them less likely to shatter. With the right windows, you’ll be protected from fire whether it originates inside or outside.One popular alternative to conventional windows is glass blocks or panels, which will allow natural light to filter into the basement without becoming a safety hazard.
It’s also critical that your basement present some clear and unobstructed means of escape in case a fire does break out. Your windows will need to be at least 20" wide by 24" high and easy to open without any screens, grills or other covers., While not a form of fireproofing in the traditional sense, a sprinkler system can stop flames in their tracks before they grow big enough to wreak havoc. Sprinklers trigger automatically when exposed to heat, meaning you don’t even have to be aware of a fire for them to do their job. This makes them an exceptional first line of defense against fires that start in the sub-levels of your home.Get an estimate to see if it’s feasible to have water routed through a sprinkler system in your home.
If you do decide to put in a sprinkler system, don’t forget to clear your basement of any belongings that are vulnerable to water damage.
 Faulty electrical wiring is one of the leading causes of household fires. Schedule an inspection at least once a year to to ensure that your home’s wiring is safe. In the meantime, be on the lookout for fraying, splitting, shorting and other electrical risks that could potentially lead to a fire.Remember: when it comes to accidents and disasters, prevention is the best solution.
If your home is more than a few decades old, or you experience electrical problems with abnormal frequency, it may be time to have it rewired.