 Early spring and later summer are the best times, but any time in spring, summer and early autumn (fall) will result in healthy cuttings. Early cuttings will flower that summer, while later cuttings will provide larger plants ready to flower the following summer.;
, Select shoots that look healthy and are not flowering. (It is possible to use flowering shoots if you have no choice but it's best to avoid them.)

, Using a clean scalpel or sharp knife (secateurs can crush the shoots), cut off the shoot at a length of about 3-4 inches or 7.5-10cm. If the plant is a miniature, the length should be half that. Cut just above the leaf joint (node).
 Remove the lower leaves and scales at the base of the leaf stalks. Leave at least two leaves at the top.
 Root hormone powders are not needed for pelargoniums, and indeed may be detrimental to their growth. Some advise dipping the cutting in honey––that's up to you.
 Fill each container with cutting compost or peat-based seed compost. If you can't find these, make a mixture of equal parts of peat and sharp sand.


Container sizes: It is recommended that you use a container about 7.5cm/3 inches for individual cuttings, or a 12.5cm (5 inch) for up to five cuttings.
 Near the edges is best for drainage purposes.
, The watering should be very light and avoid covering the cuttings with water, to avoid the growth of botrytis.
 The cuttings need a warm place for rooting. Preferably use a heating mat or propagator but a warm, sunny windowsill will do the trick, provided they're shaded from direct sunlight (choose the side of the house without direct sun hitting it), or a shaded window. If the cuttings have bottom heat, cold air won't be such an issue for them.
 On the whole, keep the compost dry. Do your best to avoid getting water on the actual cuttings. You may see roots appearing within three days for some varieties, longer for others and longer if the air is cool. New top growth will appear once the roots form and if you tug the cutting gently, it will stay in place (thanks to its new roots).


If you planted several cuttings to a pot, transfer to individual containers once they have developed roots.
Rooting should start between a week to a month after taking the cuttings.

