 Some behavioral red flags include a loss of appetite, repeated head shaking, or aggression without cause. Make a list of your pet’s symptoms so that you can relay these to the doctor., When some puppies know that they are sick, they may try to run away from home because they have a natural instinct to hide in order to stay safe from predators while in a weakened state. Keep your puppy safe and inside so that it is not tempted to flee., Put together a comfortable bed for your puppy and try to lure it to the bed using treats or toys. Your puppy will likely be eager to rest if it is feeling ill.
 Try to calm your dog with a soft voice and soothing words. Your puppy takes its cues from you, so stay calm and reassure your puppy that it will be okay. They will pick up on your loving tone and will feel more at ease.
 Encourage your pet to drink water, as this will help to ease their stomach. However, drinking too much at once could have a negative effect on your puppy, so monitor its water intake. If your puppy is unable to swallow water without vomiting, contact your veterinarian right away.
 If your puppy is able to eat, feed it white meat, such as boiled chicken or boiled fish (cod or coley), with white rice. You should give your pet one cup of food per 10 pounds of weight each day. Continue this bland diet for one to two days following the day your puppy first became sick. You can then return your pup to its normal diet if the symptoms cease.If the primary symptoms are vomiting or diarrhea, you can withhold all food for up to 24 hours. Contact a medical care professional immediately.
Heat the food up to encourage your dog to eat when sick, since their sense of smell is far better than our own., Take your puppy to the vet immediately if it is unable to breathe. If your puppy is in an emergency situation, the vet will assist you right away. Go to the nearest animal hospital immediately if your puppy shows any of the below symptoms.Unconsciousness
Excessive bleeding
Known exposure to a toxic substance
Vomiting or diarrhea
Broken bones
Breathing difficulties
Seizures that don’t stop within one minute
Inability to urinate
Swellings around its face, eyes or throat
Loss of movement in the rear legs

, Look up the number for a local pet doctor either online or in the phone book. Clearly specify what you have observed the puppy's symptoms to be, and express your worries. It’s a great plan to choose an animal hospital that’s been accredited by the American Animal Hospital Association (AAHA), especially if there is a chance that your puppy may be seriously ill.


Sometimes, the veterinarian will know immediately what is wrong with your dog, so they may tell you over the phone to ease your concern. However, sometimes they will not be sure until they check the puppy in person.
 Ask for the soonest available appointment, and agree upon a meeting time. Take note of the agreed-upon appointment so that you do not forget. Try to be patient, since although your puppy's sickness is your number-one concern, the doctor may have a full schedule of appointments already. If you're worried, ask what you should do for your dog in the time leading up to the appointment.
 Due to its discomfort or pain, your puppy may be reluctant to get into the car with you. Some dogs also get anxious about visiting the veterinarian or about meeting new people.


Offer your puppy a treat to reward them for getting into the car. Drive carefully, and, however tempting, do not let the puppy sit on your lap while you drive, as this could be dangerous for you both.
 The doctor will have probably written a prescription for medication, so be sure to have this filled and give your puppy the proper doses. Be sure that your puppy gets plenty of water and rest.


It is important to follow the recommended care regimen exactly, since this will ensure a speedy recovery for your pet. Try to keep the environment around the puppy calm and quiet while it recovers.
 You may have to go to a follow-up appointment, depending on the severity of your puppy’s illness. Be sure to ask the vet about ongoing treatment or medication, such as flea medicine, which you will be responsible for administering to your puppy.
 Food such as chocolate and drinks such as alcohol or coffee can be deadly to dogs. Do your research and keep toxic foods out of reach so that your puppy does not accidentally eat these hazardous meals., Dogs can become ill or depressed if they do not get enough exercise or time outside. Certain puppy breeds will require more exercise than others, so be sure to do research about your specific dog type and learn their needs., In order to prevent sickness in the future, be sure to take your puppy to the veterinarian for regular check-ups and vaccine shots. Allow your veterinarian to determine the vaccination schedule for your dog, as this may vary depending on dog breed and size., Clean your dog’s teeth daily, give it weekly baths, and groom it each month so that its hair stays out of its line of vision. Be sure to clip your puppy’s toenails to prevent accidental scratching.


If your puppy begins itching behind its ears more than usual, check the ears for potential pests, such as ticks, that may be hiding there.

