 The glue from your patch will likely leave a residue behind. If the area where your patch was is now discolored or sticky, you will need to take further action to make your item looking clean and like new again.


If you used the adhesive remover method, launder your item first. This may remove the adhesive completely on its own.
 Squirt or pour more adhesive remover onto the patch. Massage it in using your fingers or a clean rag. Allow it to work for approximately one minute.


You can also make your own adhesive remover at home. Just mix two parts baking soda with one part coconut oil and a few drops of orange essential oil.This all natural adhesive remover works well at removing residue but not for removing the patch itself. It is a thick paste that is unable to easily soak through fabrics.
 Simply wash your item using whatever method you normally would. Do this as soon as possible to remove the solvent in case it may damage your item over time.


If the item is machine wash safe, go ahead and throw it into your washing machine with a normal load of laundry.
Hand soak delicate items using cold or room temperature water with a small amount of detergent.
If the glue seems especially stuck-on, try scrubbing it with a soft toothbrush after the adhesive remover has been worked in.
Apply some liquid laundry detergent directly to the residue patch as a pre-treatment.
If there is still some residue left after you've washed your item, try repeating the process with more adhesive remover. It may take a few tries to totally remove the stain.
Do not place the item in the dryer until the stain has been completely removed. Doing so may set the stain and make it harder to clean.,


Before soaking, first try saturating the spot with white vinegar and wash as normal. This works well for delicate items with caked-on glue from the iron method.
If spot treatment doesn't work, try soaking your item overnight. For white items, you may use undiluted vinegar. To keep colored fabric from bleeding, dilute the vinegar in water using one cup of vinegar per gallon of water.
While white vinegar is generally safe to use on clothing, always be sure to do a patch test first to be sure.Use white vinegar only. Other types may stain clothing.

