 First, you'll need a waterproof utility bag or backpack to hold your disaster supplies. This should be big enough to hold all your essentials, but convenient enough that you can grab it and go in a moment.;
, You'll need at least one gallon (3.8 liters) per person per day for drinking and sanitation. Stock up on three gallons (11.4 liters) per person so you're set for three days.
 This food could sit in your disaster kit for months. Pack long-lasting, calorie-dense foods such as protein bars and canned meals. Make sure all foods are completely sealed, to avoid attracting pests.


If you decide to pack canned foods, do not forget to pack a manual can opener.
Also pack paper plates, cups, and eating utensils.
 Pack one warm-weather and one cold-weather outfit. Having a dry change of clothes could save you from hypothermia during extreme weather conditions.
 Many people are not able to reach a doctor for several days after a natural disaster. At minimum, include disinfectant and medical bandages to clean and dress injuries. Adding additional tools is even better.


If anyone in your household needs medication, pack extra in here. If he only has a limited prescription, he should keep it on his person or somewhere he can retrieve it quickly.
 Include multiple flashlights and/or lamps, several dozen batteries, and a few glow sticks in case the batteries get wet. A couple lighters will also come in handy to light fires. Double bag each of these items in waterproof zip-locked bags, since they're vulnerable to water.


LED lamps last longer than most other types of battery-powered light.
 Include backup batteries as well, plus a battery-powered charger. Once again, double bag these items.
 Make copies of flood and homeowner's insurance, if you have them. Also copy your identification cards, birth certificates, and other documents you might need to prove your identity to a bank or government institution. Bag them and keep them deep in the container to ensure they stay dry.


Include an address book as well with local phone numbers.
 It should be easy to retrieve the kit at a moment's notice. Let everyone in the house know where it is.
 During hurricane season, your house should have at least one or two weeks' worth of bottled water. Each member of your household needs one gallon (3.8 liters) per day. This means your kit should have 7–14 gallons (26–53 liters) per person.


Don't forget to include extra if you have pets.
 Keep your pantry well-stocked, and include extra supplies just for disasters. Choose nutritious, non-perishable items such as canned fruits and vegetables, dried fruits, unsalted nuts, and peanut butter.


Minimize salty foods, which will make you thirstier.
 If you already have one in your travel kit, you may not need another. Still, an extra supply of disinfectants and bandages is never a bad idea.
 With power lines down and a storm raging, communications could be limited. A solar-powered or battery-powered radio can be a good way to pick up emergency information.


Depending on where your travel kit is located, you may want another cheap mobile phone, flashlights, and lighters.
 A few blankets in a waterproof bag could be vital after a hurricane. Baby wipes are a small comfort you may appreciate if you cannot take a bath or shower. Bug repellent and sunscreen are also useful.
 Once the worst of the storm passes, you'll want to start repairs and cleanup. The following will help you out:


Cleaning supplies such as mops, liquid bleach, bucket, push broom, utility knife, hammer, and pry bar for tearing out wet sheet rock.
Heavy-duty work gloves, leaf rake, garden rake, and bow saw to clear debris from yard.
Equipment for temporary roof repair: plastic tarps, hammer, and roofing nails.
 The best course of action is to listen to emergency broadcasts in your area. However, knowing some general information in advance can help you decide where to place your preparedness kit:


The hurricane may blow objects through your windows. Move garden furniture and similar objects before the hurricane arrives.
The safest place in your house is usually a basement room, or a room in the center of the house. If you can get under a staircase, it may protect you from falling beams.
Lean mattresses and large cushions against doors and windows for protection.

