 Bring him to a halt and reassure him with kind words. Always stay in control, especially if it is thundering, because there is a chance he might bolt. Remember not to let him sense your fear if you are afraid or nervous, because the horse will become afraid or nervous, too. Stay confident.If you are leading your horse, bring him to a stop and wait. Do Not tie him up! If he spooks while tied up, he could seriously hurt himself, or worse, you. If the horse rears or bolts while you are leading him, let go of the lead rope. There's no point in getting dragged and/or injured by a scared horse. Just as if you were riding, don't let him sense your fear.If your horse is in a paddock with other horses at the time of the storm, you need to get him out before he gets hurt without getting hurt yourself. As you approach him, don't look him straight in the eye, as he will see that as a threat. If he is head-shy, use extra caution. Try to halter him, but be careful! If he tries to kick, bolt, or bite, leave immediately and let him take his chances. If you do manage to halter him, lead him to a stall, or smaller paddock with no other horses (the stall is preferred).;
, They can tell you a lot about what he's thinking. If they are turned slightly back when you are riding, that means he's somewhat calm and is listening to you. It also means that he trusts you to lead him to safety, so don't let him down! If they are pricked forward, he is curious about something, possibly the distant lightning. And if they're slapped back against his head and you can see the whites of his eyes, watch out! He may bolt, kick, or rear.
 If he is not completely at ease, moving may help him relax and calm down. Don't go faster than a walk in bad weather, as your horse could slip or spook. Remember to watch his expression. Keep a firm grip on the reins or lead rope, but don't yank on the horse's head. If you are leading him, walk to the side, not in front. If you are walking in front of him and he bolts, he could step on your heels. If you are carrying a flashlight, take it out, especially if it's dark. Be careful not to shine it in the horse's eyes!

, If you have time, give him a good grooming. Check his feet for stones, and put a blanket on him. If his tack got wet during your ride, dry it so the leather won't rot. If his halter was soaked, switch it with a dry one until it dries. Hang your saddle pad over the stall door to dry. Before you leave the stable, give him a carrot for being so good!

