 Once you’ve successfully drifted apart from someone (meaning that they’ve gotten the message and have stopped trying to make plans with you), do your best to ensure that you don’t see them one-on-one. This means continuing to avoid making plans, of course. Also, avoid being paired up for projects or other collaborative work.
 If you are part of the same group, you will probably be invited to the same events or parties some of the time. Be as prepared for this, so you don’t feel guilty or startled. If possible, arrive and leave with other friends, so you don’t feel too exposed.


Sometimes other friends who weren’t involved stigmatize both people involved in a friend drift or breakup.Pay this no mind; just keep being polite to everyone.
 You probably feel like you had good reasons to drift away from this person, but that doesn’t mean you should spread rumors about them or hurt their feelings on purpose. Be as detached as possible, short of ignoring people when they’re talking.


Don’t talk too much with others about your decision to end the friendship. It may come off as badmouthing your former friend, which makes you look bad.
Don’t tell your friend any harsh “truths,” like “no one wants to be friends with you because you’re boring.” It’s a mean thing to do to someone who’s feeling particularly vulnerable, and it won’t help them grow., It would be wonderful if all friendships really were forever, but sometimes they’re not: instead, we meet people who teach us about ourselves and the world, and then we move on. Try to concentrate on protecting everyone’s feelings if you can, and on what you’ve learned from the friendship., The end of one friendship has probably taught you a lot about what you’re looking for: common interests, encouragement, and easy communication are all elements of a successful friendship.Put energy into those that you care about, so they can thrive.


Stay in touch. Social media is a terrific glue, but so is in-person contact. Use a mix of both.Plan adventures. Shared time is incredibly important, so make the most of it by arranging activities that both you and your friend enjoy.Be honest and learn from your mistakes. This is the best way to ensure that your loss of a friendship didn’t happen in vain.

