 A great exercise to include when you're experiencing PMS symptoms is walking. It's a low intensity exercise that you can do anywhere or anytime. In addition, walking feels like a more relaxing exercise instead of something more difficult or intense like running or a spin class.


Many studies have shown that walking is a particularly good exercise for relieving PMS symptoms like cramping, bloating and depressed mood.Try going for a 30 minute moderate to brisk walk during the days leading up to and during your menstrual cycle.
Better yet, grab a good friend, your spouse or family member for your walk. Along with the aerobic aspect of walking, the social connection of being with a good friend can help alleviate a depressed or irritable mood.;
, In addition to walking, yoga is another great form of exercise to do when you are experiencing PMS symptoms. Yoga is relaxing, is great for stress and can alleviate the aches and cramps associated with PMS.Some particularly good yoga poses to try include:


Seated twist. This is an easy pose that can help massage your lower abdomen and work to relieve cramps. While sitting, cross one leg over the other placing your foot flat on the floor. Your crossed leg should be bent with your knee facing the ceiling. Twist your torso in the opposite direction of the bent leg. Hold this position for a few seconds and then switch sides.
Wind pose. This is another great pose to help relieve cramps and bloating. Lay flat on your back to start. Bring both of your legs up to your chest in a bent position. Wrap your arms around your shins and hold for a few seconds.
Child's pose. This is a calming and de-stressing yoga pose. Kneel on the floor to start. Fold your upper body over your legs and allow your forehead to rest on the floor. Lay your arms on the floor behind you. Hold this position for a few moments.
 You may not associate being in a bathing suit or swimming with a PMS exercise. However, being in the water is a great way to get in some exercise and also help relieve some PMS symptoms.Swimming, like walking or using the elliptical, is a low-impact exercise. You avoid the hard jumping or pounding associated with exercises like running or jumping.
Swimming is also great for PMS because the water helps your body feel light and agile. Plus, the cooling sensation of the water can help you feel a little more relaxed and ease any aches or pains you may have with PMS symptoms.
You can try doing a few laps, do water walking or jogging or try out a water aerobics class. Aim to be moving or swimming for at least 30 minutes.
 Very similar to yoga, there are some stretches and flexibility training exercises that can also help relieve symptoms of PMS. These exercises are particularly good for cramping, tension headaches or back and neck pain.Try doing a forward bend. This can be done anytime you feel your neck, shoulders or back tightening up. Stand with feet hip width apart and allow your torso to fold over so your head hangs towards the floor. Let your upper body relax and all your muscles go limp. Hold here and repeat as many times as needed.
Try doing a reclined butterfly stretch. Sit on the floor with your legs bent into a butterfly stretch. The bottoms of your feet should be touching each other and legs bent. Recline down to the floor so you are lying on your back. Allow your legs to relax open.
Also try a reclined hamstring stretch. Lay on the floor with your feet straight out in front of you. Bring one knee up to your chest and gently pull your knee closer to your body with your hands. Hold here for a few moments and then switch sides.
Try a seated forward bend. Sit on the floor with your legs out in front of you. Spread your legs open so they're at a 45 degree angle from your body. Inhale deeply and fold your torso over in front of you. Hold this position for a few seconds while you exhale. Repeat as you desire.
 Exercise is one of the best remedies of the host of PMS symptoms that women experience the week or two prior to the start of their cycle. It can help relieve cramping, bloating, headaches, moodiness, aches and depression.Try to stay active the entire month to get the best PMS relief.


Studies have shown that the more active you are, especially in regards to cardio, the less likely you are to experience intense PMS symptoms.For example, those that participated in the 150 minutes of cardio weekly had less painful and intense cramping during their cycle.
Most health professionals recommend aiming for at least 150 minutes of aerobic activities each week. This could include walking, jogging, hiking, dancing, swimming or taking a spin class.
In addition to cardio, go for a day or two of strength training as well. These exercises don't affect PMS symptoms all that much, but will round out your workouts during the week.
 Even if you're not planning on being active during your period, it's important to drink a lot of fluids. When you're exercising, it's even more important to drink an adequate amount of fluid to prevent dehydration.It's important to drink adequate fluids before and during your menstrual cycle. Many women experience some fluid or water retention which can be eased by ensuring you're drinking an adequate amount of water and other beverages.
When you're exercising, you can help relieve the annoying feeling of being bloated or heavy. However, you'll need to take extra care to make sure you're replacing all the fluids lost through sweat.
You should aim for 10 to 13 glasses of clear, hydrating fluids. Aim to drink 1 to 2 ounces of water per kilogram of body weight. For example, if you weigh 70 kilograms (154 pounds), then you would need to drink between 70 and 140 ounces per day depending on your activity level.
Definitely skip the alcohol and caffeine during this time.Go for water, sparkling water, flavored water or decaf coffee and tea.
 Even without PMS symptoms, it is important to wear clothing that is comfortable during exercise. This is especially true if you're experiencing PMS symptoms. You'll want to feel comfortable in your clothes when you may not be feeling 100%.


To start, go for stretchy or looser fitting clothes. You may want to go for a stretchy pair of yoga pants or a baggy t-shirt instead of a fitted top.
Also, if you feel uncomfortable about the heaviness of your flow (or the possible start of your flow) consider wearing dark colored pants (like black, dark grey or dark navy blue).
Another component to consider is your sports bra. If you experience breast tenderness or swollen breasts as part of your PMS symptoms, wear a comfortable sports bra that will give you a lot of support if you're doing an activity like jogging or using the elliptical.
 Whether you're going for a swim, relaxing in the steam room or going for a jog, it's important to have the right type of products on hand to make sure you can exercise comfortably.If you're experiencing PMS symptoms, that doesn't mean you have to skip the pool or avoid swimming. Make sure to wear a tampon instead of a sanitary pad. It's a complete myth that you have to avoid the pool or ocean on your cycle.
Some women may feel more comfortable using a sanitary pad or panty liner with exercises. These will work just as well and can be a good back up if you're worried about leaking.
Regardless of which item you choose, you'll be OK to exercise. Even tough workouts do not cause an increase in flow.
 It can be difficult to get motivated and feel comfortable enough during your cycle to exercise. However, the more proactive you are with managing your PMS symptoms, the easier it will be to stick to an exercise routine.


Track your symptoms on a calendar or PMS app. This can help you start treating PMS symptoms or preparing for them before they begin. This can help you avoid getting to the point where you feel horrible and don't want to exercise at all.
A few days before you think you'll begin to experience PMS symptoms, try upping your water intake, increasing your aerobic exercise and minding your diet.
Also consider planning in special exercises during the upcoming week that can help relax you and ease your symptoms. For example, ask a friend to plan a few walks with you during the week, or sign up for some water aerobics classes at your gym.
 Diet can play a really important role in managing PMS symptoms. There are items that can help ease PMS and even prevent some symptoms. In addition, there are foods that can aggravate them as well.Try making these changes in addition to focusing on your exercise routine:


Focus on eating smaller meals. This can help reduce the feeling of being full or bloated during the day.
Also go for lean protein, fruits, 100% whole grains and vegetables. This balanced diet can help provide you with adequate amounts of iron and other essential nutrients.
You may want to avoid gas-producing vegetables to help minimize bloating. Consider skipping foods like beans, lentils, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, broccoli and cauliflower.
In addition, skip alcohol, caffeine, salty foods or high fat foods (like fast foods, fried foods or junk food treats).
 When you're experiencing PMS symptoms, it may seem easy to get overly stressed or anxious about things going on in your life. The hormone fluctuations do not make managing stress easy, so take care to find stress-relieving activities. Exercise is a great way to relieve stress and manage symptoms. The following practices can also help:


Talk to someone. An easy way to manage stress, moodiness or depression during your cycle is by talking to a friend, family member or therapist. Spend some time together or consider working out together.
Spend time meditating, sit down with a good book, watch a good movie or listen to your favorite music.
Consider doing acupuncture. It's been shown to help relieve stress and some common PMS symptoms., From vitamin supplements to herbal supplements, there are a variety of over the counter items that you can take to ease PMS symptoms. Give some of these ideas a try:


Go for a multivitamin. This all in one supplement has iron, folate and Vitamin E which are all great for PMS symptoms.
Include a fish oil or omega-3 supplement. Studies have shown that these healthy fats can also curb PMS symptoms.
Try herbal remedies. There are a few herbal remedies that may also help ease PMS symptoms. Try raspberry leaf, chaste berry or valerian root supplements.
 You may already rely on some of the common over-the-counter medications designed for PMS symptoms. However, these can be great medications to use proactively so you feel good enough to get in a good workout.Take ibuprofen or naproxen. These medications provide the best relief for menstrual cramps.
If you only experience mild cramping or headaches, you might do well with a pain reliever. Avoid a pain reliever with added caffeine.
If you experience a wider range of PMS symptoms, there are some medications that help relieve multiple symptoms. Most include a pain reliever, diuretic and medications to help you feel less bloated.
Regardless of what symptoms you experience, treat them immediately. The quicker you address them, the quicker you'll feel good enough to get in a PMS relieving workout.
 Holding a heating pad against your abdomen or lower back can also help to ease menstrual cramps.Try using a heating pad for 10 to 15 minutes at a time and then remove it and allow your skin to return to its normal temperature.

You can also try adhesive heating pads if you want to use one while you are on the go.
Another option is to take a warm bath. Try taking a bath after a workout to help soothe your cramps and relax your muscles.

