

This is a particularly easy way to carry stuff, because backpacks and messenger bags are very easy to find, if you don't already have one.
Backpacks and messenger bags can easily go with you when you get where you're going.
On the other hand, the weight of your cargo is on your body, and a bag or backpack holds sweat against your body, so backpacks may be best for short, casual rides and moderate loads.
Carrying a loaded backpack while cycling also raises your center of gravity and can cause balance issues while riding.;
, Many purpose-built bike accessories are designed to attach this way, including water bottle cages, frame pumps, lights, bike computers, and bells.

Rubber shims can keep strapped-on things from slipping or twisting, and can take up some of the difference if a plastic or metal strap is a little larger than what it's fastening to. If shims didn't come with your accessory, ask at your local bike shop, or cut pieces from an old inner tube.
Some frame pumps are designed to mount to the same screws as the water bottle cage.


A few racks attach only to the seat post. Most attach to standard mounting points on the frame near the rear axle.
Some racks attach near the front wheel or in front of the handlebars.
Some racks have a spring-loaded holder, sometimes called a "rat trap."
For loose items, you may need bungee cords or other tie-downs to secure them to a rack.


Handlebar baskets attach to the handlebars. They're good for small, light loads, such as a small handbag. They also let you see and access the contents easily.
Rear baskets attach to rear racks. Many can be folded flat when not in use.
Baskets may be used in combination with liners or bags, to prevent small objects from falling through openings.
Read the instructions and use good judgment to avoid overloading baskets meant for lighter loads.


These bags are usually smaller. They strap or clip to the seat post, and to the rails on the bottom of the seat post.
Under-seat bags make good, out-of-the-way places to keep basics, such as a patch kit and tire levers. Some larger ones could also carry a pack lunch, a windbreaker, or other small items.


As the name suggests, handlebar bags strap or hang from the handlebar.
Handlebar bags are good for smaller, lighter objects, and they keep objects at hand.
Some handlebar bags include transparent pockets for maps, route sheets, or phones.


Most saddle bags and panniers require a compatible rack to connect to. Make certain that the rack is suited to the load you will carry.
These bags hang to either side of the wheel. They can be used singly or in pairs.
Most panniers go on a rear rack, but some are designed to mount in front, as well.
It's possible to have more than one pair of panniers, and you might wish to have both if you are carrying camping gear for touring.
 Some purpose-built bikes are designed to carry cargo, with built-in, reinforced platforms or containers., Cargo trailers are not necessary for smaller loads, but they can help carry a wide variety of large and heavy objects.

Cargo trailers come in a variety of shapes, sizes, and designs, so shop around or build the trailer that is right for you and your purposes.The occasional warehouse club purchase may call for a light-duty trailer. If you plan on moving major appliances or larger furnishings, you'll need a larger trailer designed for a heavier load.
Trailers built for children or pets can also carry objects of an appropriate size and weight. The reverse is not necessarily true.
An empty trailer can bounce and rattle while riding. Even a small load, such as a full backpack, can help.
Make sure to secure the trailer completely and correctly to the bike.
Make sure to secure the load on the trailer.
Center the load over the axle of the trailer, or load it so there is slightly more weight on the end nearest the bike.

