 No matter what type of business you run, the layout of your store may be aiding shoplifters right under your nose. Think about the design and layout of your store, including where valuable merchandise is shelved, how your aisles are constructed (if you have aisles), and how traffic moves through the store.Limit entry/exit points in your store. If at all possible, funnel everyone entering or leaving through a single door that passes by the cashier.Aim for an open layout. If your aisles are stacked too high and prevent visibility across the store, a shoplifter will easily be able to slip merchandise into his pocket, under his shirt, or into his bag.
If you can't physically change the layout of your store, install surveillance mirrors at the ends of every aisle and/or above each aisle. That way you'll be able to monitor every customer, no matter where they are in the store.
Convex mirrors placed in corners and at the ends of aisles are the best way to improve immediate visibility to all parts of the store.;
, If you can't rearrange the entire store, one easy way to deter theft is by making valuable items harder to steal. Consider locking them in a merchandise cabinet, storing them behind the register, or both.Make sure the cabinet (or a display case in front of it) still showcases the merchandise that's locked up. You don't want to hide your goods, just prevent them from being stolen.
If you can't fit all your valuable merchandise into a cabinet, you should at least lock away the expensive items that can be easily stolen. Anything small, portable, or easily concealable should absolutely be locked away.
Limit the number of employees with access to the cabinet's keys.
 There's a reason why convenience stores tend to sell small items, like cigarettes, lighters, candy, and prepaid credit cards near the front register. It makes it easier for the employee on duty to watch over those items, and a would-be shoplifter will recognize the situation as such., Though it won't actively stop a shoplifting in progress, anti-theft policies often deter would-be shoplifters from trying in the first place. Make sure your anti-theft policies are clearly displayed at the front entrance so that everyone entering the store will see the notice(s).


Prohibit customers from carrying bags through your store. Display a sign that requires customers to check all bags at the front register, and implement that rule consistently.Post a sign at the door warning all customers that you will call the police to report any theft or attempted theft.
 Security devices are invaluable to have for a number of reasons. A would-be thief may see a surveillance camera and decide not to shoplift. If someone does decide to proceed, an active surveillance system can help you catch shoplifters in the act, and it gives you proof on film that an individual did in fact steal from your store. This can then be handed to the police as evidence if the individual is caught, or to help police look for the thief in the community.


Install surveillance cameras, either on closed circuit TV or hooked up to a recording device.
Even fake surveillance cameras can help deter theft. A shoplifter won't know that they're not real, and may be frightened out of stealing.Consider using electronic tags on all merchandise (or at least the most valuable merchandise). This can be a burdensome policy to implement since it means tagging and un-tagging every piece of merchandise, but it can help deter thefts., During a busy day, a store can very easily become messy. Items are sold and the shelves are not restocked, returned or unwanted items are left strewn around the store, and things generally look messy. This leaves your store highly vulnerable, though, as it makes it easier for a shoplifter to take something without it being noticed.If your shelves are stocked and tightly-packed, you'll notice more quickly that something is missing.
Keep the shelves and displays tidy. Clutter can distract you from the fact that something is missing or out of place.

