 Substances like coffee and liquor stay in our bodies for a long time-- anywhere from 3-8 hours. This can profoundly affect your ability to fall asleep and to enter deep sleep, which will make you groggy in the morning. Avoid caffeine in the afternoons and evenings to make sure it is out of your system when you go to sleep.
Drink alcohol in moderation and with plenty of water, as getting out of bed is doubly hard when you have a hangover.;
, Adults need 7-8 hours of sleep every night, children 8-9 hours, and toddlers and infants much more. If you are not getting enough sleep the night before then you will always feel tired when you try to wake up. Refer to the graph, but know that not everyone is the same... , Waking up in the middle of your REM cycle will leave you exhausted, and it is tough to get yourself out of bed when you were just in a deep sleep. Luckily, your body naturally begins to wake up several hours before you actually get out of bed, and if you can sync this process up with your alarm clock you will find getting out of bed much easier. To learn your sleep pattern:


Set a time to go to sleep every night for two weeks. Use a time, like vacation, when you do not need to get up at a specific time in the morning.
Go to sleep at the same time every single night, including weekends.
Make a note of the moment you wake up, even if it is before your alarm goes off.
Continue going to bed at the exact same time until you begin waking up at a consistent time.
Count the hours between this time and your bedtime, and you'll know how long your body's natural sleep cycle is. Start timing your alarm so you wake up when your body wants to. , While our sleep patterns are largely genetic, we can do several small things to make our body adapt to a new sleep pattern. The number one trigger for sleep is light. As light fades at night, our body produces melatonin, which naturally makes us sleepy. And when we see or feel sunlight in the morning our body is triggered to wake-up naturally and stop melatonin production.


At night, work with dimmed lights and try not to use bright smartphone or laptop screens before going to sleep, as bright light stops melatonin production.
Crack your curtains open or step outside quickly when you wake up. The sunlight tells your body to get started with the day.
 Resist the urge to sleep in on the weekends, as it disrupts your body's natural cycle and makes it much harder to get up on Monday. Your body expects to get up at certain hours, but if you change those hours frequently it can lead to sleep issues and difficulty getting out of the covers on work days.


The more consistent your can keep your sleep schedule, the easier it will be to get up.
Most humans can only adjust their sleep schedules an hour or so a day, so try to avoid rapidly changing bedtimes., Keep a pair of slippers and a warm robe by your bed, grind coffee, and organize your bag the night before so that you can focus on waking up, not on the chores you have to do. Just knowing that coffee is only a button press away can make a big difference on your desire to get out of bed.

