 Dressing like a lawyer for men is relatively simple. If you’re going to court, meeting a client, or going to an event, you should be wearing a well-cut suit. Generally dark suits in black, navy or grey will be the staples of your lawyering wardrobe. Combine a dark suit with a lighter shirt for a smart look. You can’t go wrong with a classic dark suit teamed with a white shirt and a plain coloured tie., You are not completely dressed until you have put on your tie. Although the requirement to wear a tie in the office might be diminishing in other areas, for lawyers it is still an important part of dressing appropriately. The tie does give you the possibility to add a little colour or pattern to your outfit, but avoid jokey or comedy ties at all times., The basic rule for footwear is to have well-polished smart leather shoes. People do notice what’s on your feet, and anything other than properly looked after leather shoes will simply not do. Brown and black are the basic colours that you should stick to in most instances.You can opt for matte leather if you don’t like especially shiny shoes.
If you take care of good quality shoes they will last a long time.
 You should think about how to present yourself beyond what clothes you wear. Law is an incredibly competitive industry, so the first impression you make is crucial. People will be judging you, and even if you have a sharp suit and immaculately polished shoes, an unhealthy and unkempt appearance could put people off.An un-ironed shirt, a two-day beard or an extravagant haircut will not necessarily make you appear as professional as you would like.
Make sure you are well groomed as well as well dressed.
 There’s no problem with a well-kept beard, but avoid stubble and soul-patches. You don’t have to make yourself look identical to every other lawyer, but you do have a responsibility to conform to certain standards of presentation. Always pay attention to how your colleagues dress and present themselves., Piercings and tattoos are becoming much more common than they were even a few years ago, but it's still advisable to opt for a more conservative look at work. For male lawyers, facial piercings are in most instances still considered inappropriate.Respond to the culture in your office, and respect staff who think a nose ring presents an unprofessional image.
If you have to remove facial piercings, just think of it as part of getting dressed for work.

