 Never write a training manual from memory. Go through the various processes and knowledge points that your manual is going to cover and be sure you are clear on everything. Make a list of all the important information and refer to this list as you write the manual, double checking to include it all.Even skipping a small step may confuse your users, so pay attention. For example, you could be telling someone how to enter data into a spreadsheet, but you could easily forget to mention “click File to open a new spreadsheet.” Or when describing how to use a piece of machinery, you may forget to mention flipping a certain switch that’s vitally important.
If you don’t review everything and you do forget something, users are likely to become distressed because something isn't working right. This is not the outcome training should ever result in.;
, Use the list you have made and begin to organize the information into a logical sequence of chapters, sections, or parts. You’ll most likely begin with the basics and work up to more in-depth concepts.


Before you write any content, make sure you have a good idea of where all aspects of the manual will fit together. You don’t want to mention something from what you think is a previous section if the manual hasn’t covered that information yet.
If you can write self-contained sections that don’t build on each other, this may be the right approach in some situations.
 Even if the manual is meant to be read straight through from start to finish, these navigational sections will help people when they need to go back to refresh their memory and study what they learned. The table of contents should have all the chapters titles and any section headings it makes sense to include. Make the index as thorough as possible, giving people lots of things to find throughout the manual.


Word processing programs often have templates for these types of documents. You can also find helpful resources online for how to structure these elements.
 At the beginning of each chapter or section, write 2-3 paragraphs that outline what will be covered in that part of the manual. You could include a list of objectives for the section, keywords that are good to focus on, and mention quizzes or activities that will be included.


Chapter titles should help people know what they’ll find, but they should be able to skim the preview and make sure the chapter has what they need to know.
 It is always helpful to wrap up and review what has been covered in a chapter. It’s a summary, so you can’t mention everything. Try to highlight what you see as being the most vital information that people should take away from the chapter.


You can mention the objectives again to give people the chance to take stock of whether or not they learned what they were supposed to.
 You’ll succeed more easily at writing a training manual if you have people to help you do it. You need people to check for errors as you go, make sure that the content is understandable, and help you consider all aspects of what you are training for. Plus you can delegate some of the work and distribute it evenly.If you can’t have a group to help through the whole process, at least consider asking people a few things at different points as you go to get second opinions.

