 If you are able to sell them in photography exhibits or art shows in your community, you may be able to retain the image and the money from them without the hassle of trying to protect them online.


You may choose to keep some photos off the Internet and post others, depending upon what is popular locally and on the Internet.;
, Use a watermark that does not destroy the beauty of the image. A watermark that is dark or obscures most of the image is unlikely to sell.
 You will need to take some time to get to know the features and get viewers.


You will need a Yahoo ID to sign up. If you have, you can associate your Flickr profile with your existing Yahoo account. You can also make a new Yahoo ID.
Make sure your profile is set to "Public" rather than "Private." You will not market photos well if the public cannot search for them.
 Research popular keywords that may be used to search for your photos.


You can use keyword tools like WordStream or Bing's keyword tool to find words that are commonly used to find photography.
 This is especially important if you want to sell travel or regional photography.
 Earn your followers over time and they will spread your photos even further afield.
 Make sure you are signed in using your Yahoo ID, or you will not see the necessary links.
 in the "Additional Information" section.
,


Getty Images is a large photo database associated with Google. It licenses photos to companies and websites.



Sign out of your Flickr account. View your profile when you are not signed in. There should be a "Request to License" link underneath your photos.
 If someone wants to license your photo, they will email you to ask if you want to accept the license and detail the terms.
 The decision is yours after you receive the email, although the price may not be up to you.
, This will help people to contact you or see your other work if they like your Flickr photos.
, You can arrange a sale of a photo license through your professional site and use your Flickr account to market and spread the word about your talent.



Unless you are using the Getty Images program, it is against the terms and conditions to sell your photos using this photo sharing program. Your account will be removed, if you do so.

