 As you apply for different positions, you can tailor your information for the specific job you are applying for without much effort.Study the job posting and the company's web site and mirror some of the words, phrases, and attitudes you see listed there. Pick and choose among your job history if you can so as to include only the information that is relevant to the job opening.
 Most hiring managers and recruiters spend less than a minute looking at each resume. It's important that all the important points and information about you be readily available at a glance. If you're in your twenties, you don't need more than one page.


This isn't an iron-clad rule however. If you have 15 or more years of experience, you don't necessarily need to fit all on one page. Take as much space as you need to fit the relevant information - no more and no less. , Using keywords related to your achievements and the job posting, and quantifiable numbers to describe your achievements, makes your resume stand out from the pack.“Improved,” “created” and “increased” are some of the keywords that stand out to recruiters when describing your accomplishments.Where possible, also repeat words from the job posting itself.List quantifiable information about your duties, if possible. For example, instead of “completed projects in a timely manner,” say “fulfilled 22 graphic design orders for 15 customers in one week.” , If you have field-specific certificates or skills, list those. You may want to include relevant freelance projects or job-related coursework as well.If you have space, list out any volunteer work you've done, using the position title (e.g. project coordinator) rather than "Volunteer." This adds to your experience section and can make you more appealing to a company. When listing skills, try to use the field-specific language (e.g. if you are applying for a job as a nurse, using language that a nurse might use in the field).
 Make it as readable as possible by changing the font from Word's standard Calibri to Helvetica, Arial, or Times New Roman. Save it as a PDF to maintain stylistic consistency across all computer systems.


You may wish to add some color,or use a non-traditional layout. Do not use too much color. A navy blue border can be enough to make your resume more unique. Choose or create a layout that optimizes your qualifications and experiences. Don't rely on a generic resume template.
Make sure whatever layout you choose still includes all of your contact and career information in an easy-to-read format.

