 Scalp massage promotes good circulation around your hair follicles, creating the right environment for hair growth. Use the tips of your fingers to gently massage your scalp in a circular motion. Take your time and massage every part of your scalp so that you stimulate blood flow to all the areas where you want to new hair to grow in.


Make massage a habit by doing it every time you wash your hair in the shower.
Brush your hair daily with a soft or looped-bristle brush for a gentle scalp massage. This is especially effective if you have long hair.
Getting a professional head massage could be educational, since you’ll learn the best way to massage your scalp.;
, Adding oil to the equation aids circulation even more than a standard head massage. The oil helps to unclog hair follicles and allow new growth to come in. Once or twice a week, plan to use oil to massage your head. It’s easiest to do it in the shower, then rinse away the oil when you’re finished. Here are a few popular oils you can try:


Coconut oil. This rich, emollient oil is great for your body in so many ways, and some say it helps hair regrowth. Pre-heat a tablespoon of coconut oil using a microwave (15 seconds should be enough to melt the oil) rub it between your palms, then use your fingers to massage your scalp
Jojoba oil. It’s very similar in texture to sebum, the natural oil produced by your scalp that lubricates your hair and keeps it healthy.
Almond oil. This is traditionally used in India to foster healthy hair growth.
 A good hair mask performs the dual duty of keeping your hair moisturized and healthy while also stimulating growth. Household goods like honey, egg whites, avocados, aloe and apple cider vinegar are all quite beneficial to hair. Apply a mask for 15 minutes, making sure to cover your scalp as well, then shampoo your hair as normal. Make sure you do not use a shampoo with added sulfate. Try the following masks:


For extra dry hair, combine equal parts honey, egg white, and argan oil.
For normal hair, combine equal parts honey, aloe, and olive oil.
For oily hair, combine equal parts honey, apple cider vinegar, and castor oil.
 Certain essential oils have been said to promote healthy circulation and stimulate hair growth. Adding a few drops of these oils to your oil treatments, masks, and shampoo is a good way to give your scalp an extra boost. Try adding five drops of one of these beneficial oils:


Lavender
Tea tree oil
Cedar wood
Rosemary oil
Argan oil
Coconut oil

, Many commercially-produced shampoos use sulfates as the primary cleanser. Sulfates strip the hair of its natural oils, causing it to become dry and brittle. This can lead to hair breakage and eventually hair loss. When you use a gentler, all-natural shampoo your hair has the chance to grow healthy and strong. Ditch the sulfates for a very gentle shampoo, and you should see results with a few months.
 Sometimes hair loss results from an underlying problem that you might not even be aware of. If this is the case, regrowth won’t happen until you get the proper treatment. If you’re not sure why you’re experiencing hair loss, see a doctor to find out what’s going on. The following conditions commonly cause hair loss:


Thyroid problems
Hormonal imbalances
Alopecia

