 This is a raunchy game, so you’ll want to play with someone you’re comfortable with! War is typically played with just two people, but feel free to play with more.While regular War isn't much of a party game, Strip war is an excellent one!


War also pairs nicely with your significant other and a bottle of wine. Consider making your next date night a game night.;
, Make sure you and your opponent are wearing the same number of items so you have the same amount of pieces to lose. It’s also important to determine which pieces of clothing are fair game. For example, it’s a pretty uneven (and boring) game if one person is removing socks and jewelry while the other is taking off their shirt and pants!


Figure out what people realistically will and will not take off. If not everyone feels comfortable removing everything, indicate that now.
 Keep the cards facing down so neither you nor your opponent knows which cards you have.Arrange your cards into a neat stack in front of you.


The cards that you're flipping over should be a surprise to both you and your opponent. It makes the game much more exciting when neither of you know what to expect.
 The numerical cards are self-explanatory. The royal cards rank King, Queen, and then Jack from highest to lowest. The card typically in question is the ace. Decide with your opponent if it should be the very lowest card (1) or the highest card, above the King., Whoever has the highest card of the two takes both cards and places them in a separate stack next to them. Continue doing this as you go through your entire stack of cards.Once you run out of cards in your deck, pick up the stack of cards you’ve won and continue with that deck. This continues until someone has won the entire deck.
 In other words, you strip when you've completely run out of clothing to remove. It's up to you and your opponent to decide which articles of clothing are removed, and in what order. You can plan the order in which articles of clothing are removed, i.e. shirt, then pants, then undergarments. If you’re feeling trusting, you can let the winner choose what article of clothing the loser has to remove.
 Because only one article of clothing is removed per hand, this method of Strip War requires lots of time. It is guaranteed to be raunchy, however, because you play until someone is completely naked!

