 Swelling is easiest to see in your pet's toes. However, if a pet's bandage is not on its leg, you may notice swelling in other body parts around the bandage, like the neck.There should be no signs of swelling. When toes swell, it looks as if the toes are spreading apart. This can be a sign the bandage is too tight.If your pet's feet are swollen, see a vet to have the bandage loosened. Do not attempt to loosen the bandages yourself.;
, An unusual odor coming from the cast can indicate a spreading infection. At least once a day, smell around the cast. If you notice an unusual odor, you should have this checked out by a vet., Casts can cause chafing and discomfort for your pet. To counteract this, dust any areas where the bandage rubs your pet's skin with baby powder. Make sure you talk to your vet first, however, to make sure baby powder is safe for your specific type of pet.If you notice a rash or other adverse reaction to the baby powder, cease use and contact a vet.
 It's vital to keep a bandage dry. Your vet can give you a waterproof covering to place over the cast when your pet goes outdoors. You can also wrap Saran wrap or plastic bags around the bandage and seal them with tape.Make sure to remove the plastic covering as soon as your pet gets back inside.
Never let a bandaged animal outside without a leash and supervision.
 If a pet is injured, it should not be as physically active as usual. Restrict your pet's exercise as much as possible. This will also limit damage to the bandage. Do not play with your pet while they are wounded. If you have a dog, keep walks short. For a cat, you may want to keep the cat in one small area of the home and keep it away from ledges and tables where it may jump and hurt itself., A special collar or cone may be necessary to stop your pet from chewing its bandage. If your pet is having a problem with chewing, stop by your vet's office and pick up the proper equipment. Chewing can cause infections and damage to the bandage, so it's important to prevent it.Check the bandage each day for signs of chewing. Even if your pet has not previously had a chewing issue, stress and anxiety can cause pets to begin chewing later on.
 You do not want a bandaged animal to overexert itself. This is especially important for bandages around the legs or feet. Keep your pet off of wood and linoleum floors as long as they are healing from the injury.If you have a lot of wood floors in your home, lay down rugs throughout your house to help your pet walk easier.
 Not only is a bandaged pet in a weakened state, children and other animals may pull at the bandage. To keep the bandage safe from damage, limit your pet's interaction with other animals and small children until the bandage comes off. If you have more than one pet, keep the bandaged pet isolated in a room with food and water until the bandage comes off.If you do let young children interact with the pet, monitor them closely at all times.
 Your vet will help you figure out an action plan for changing the bandage. The vet will tell you how often the bandage needs to be changed. Most bandages need to be changed once a week, but some may need to be changed several times each week. Ask your vet whether it's appropriate for you to change the bandage or if you should have it changed in a professional setting.Make sure you change your pet's bandage regularly. Set a schedule in your phone or write on your calendar when you need to change your pet's bandage.
 If your vet gives you the okay to change the bandage yourself, make sure you know how to change the bandage correctly before leaving your vet's office. Bandages are changed differently depending on their type and placement. You should only change the bandage according to your vet's instructions.While you're at the vet's office, make sure you ask any questions you have regarding changing the bandage. If your vet gives you the okay to change the bandage yourself, make sure you know how to change the bandage correctly before leaving your vet's office.
 As soon as you notice issues, such as swollen toes or a bad smell, call your vet. It's very important that you not attempt to loosen or otherwise adjust the bandage yourself. This could cause injury or infection. A bandage should only be adjusted by a professional in a medical setting.If you notice issues like swelling or a bad smell, go to an emergency vet if your vet's office is not opened. Swelling and an odor can cause complications like an infection. They should be treated promptly so your pet heals as fast as possible.