 To get hair like hers, you might want to dye your hair a light golden blonde. You can also get a sun activated hair lightener that brings out your natural highlights (like Sun In), that will slowly turn your hair into a natural looking blonde.


Grace has long hair that falls about three inches below the shoulder and has side bangs. To get your hair cut like hers, bring in a photo of Grace to your hair stylist and she will do her best to replicate it.
To curl your hair like Grace, wash your hair at night. Then, instead of drying your hair, braid it and go to bed. The braids will dry and when you take them out you have natural-looking, undone curls like Grace. You can also use a curling iron. Just make sure to make your curls look natural and undone.;
,


To get good skin, eat healthfully, exercise often, and drink 8 glasses of water per day.
Grace doesn't wear a lot of makeup. She keeps it natural looking. To do this, start with a clean face and apply a moisturizer for your skin type. Then even out your skintone with a light-weight tinted moisturizer. Apply mascara only to the upper eyelashes to open your eyes. Finish with some peachy cream blush and lipgloss- but make sure it isn't too shimmery, which just looks tacky.
 She wears many fitted, tailored sweaters in pale pink, yellow and aqua. She wears dark to medium-wash jeans and tasteful mini skirts. For church, she might put on white jeans or a nice skirt with a lovely blouse. She likes to keep her clothes simple, carefree and low-key.


She also likes to accessorize! Grace almost always wears her dangle cross earrings. She also loves to throw on light weight scarves, large lockets, and a simple cross necklace. She uses a large tan tote for school and she has a small yellow handbag for when she goes out.
Her most important and well talked about accessory is her promise ring. She wears a silver promise ring on her wedding finger to show that she will wait for marriage to have sex. There are great Christian stores that sell promise rings for good prices.
 Her body is naturally like this, so its not practical to strive for her skinny body. However, you can still pull off the Grace look if you eat a healthy diet and workout to make the most of the amazing body God gave you.


Grace is also a cheerleader! This is a great way to stay healthy and to tone your muscles. So join your high school cheer team if you would like to. It is fine if you don't though, you don't need to be just like her.
 She is very happy, bubbly, and optimistic, friendly and a type-A perfectionist. Say "Hi" to people in the hall, be very happy and always do your best in school and cheer.
 She also has a green, white, and pink quilt bedding. She also has a pink lamp on her white bedside table.

