 Letting your cat nibble all day, or free-feeding, can cause it to gain weight. This can also turn them into a picky eater. Gradually stop or avoid free-feeding altogether if you notice your cat is a fussy eater.Instead of free-feeding, many vets recommend feeding your cat at specific mealtimes.Avoid giving your cat table scraps, which can also contribute to fussy eating habits.;
, Most cats get hungry after twelve hours of not eating. Place your cat on a regular schedule of two meals per day. This can ensure your cat is hungry enough to not turn down food.Be patient when switching your cat to a schedule. Changing a routine can confuse them and may initially cause them to continue being fussy.Recognize that some cats (and especially kittens) may need more frequent feedings. Consult the vet when establishing your cat’s eating schedule.
 Being really hungry can make your cat eat.At scheduled mealtimes, place the cat’s food in its favorite spot for 30 minutes. Then remove it, even if the cat hasn’t touched the food. Repeat this at the next mealtime. At some point, your cat should be too hungry to refuse its meal.Contact the vet if your cat doesn’t eat after 24 hours. This can signal a problem and cause a potentially fatal condition called fatty liver syndrome, which slows the liver’s processing of red blood cells., Throwing your cat a ball or playing with a chase toy before they eat can stimulate their appetite. Try stroking or petting before mealtimes to calm your cat and get them ready to eat., Feed your cat a mixture of canned wet food and dry food.This can broaden their culinary horizons and ensure they get plenty of nutrients and moisture in their diet., Cats may have preferences for wet or dry food. They can also be sensitive to the freshness and temperature of foods. If your cat is fussy, give it fresh food or switch to a new brand if this doesn’t work.Replace dry food if you’ve had it for a while. Dry food can absorb moisture, especially in warmer months. Avoid feeding your cat food out of the refrigerator, which can make the meal lose its aroma. If a cat can’t smell its food, it won’t eat the meal. Heating the food in the microwave until it is just warm to the touch can make it more appealing.Switch to a new type of food gradually if your cat doesn’t like what it currently eats, as a quick switch can cause digestive issue. Mix the new and old food together gradually over a period of 7 days, putting more of the new brand in each day. Eventually your cat will be eating the new food exclusively.