 Once you receive a claim, review the reason code for the chargeback and figure out why you received it. Visa has specific codes for each chargeback claim. Once you have the reason code, you will be better able to provide supporting evidence to your bank., Once you have the reason code, you will need to build a case for why the chargeback is incorrect. Search your files for any receipts, bank statements or other records of the transaction. You will need this information later in the process.Be sure to keep both electronic and physical copies of all of your business's transactions.
If you are unable to find any proof supporting your claim, you will likely lose the sale and the merchandise.
 As part of your efforts to gather information on the chargeback, you may find it necessary to contact the purchaser directly. You, or someone in your billing department, should contact the purchaser and inquire about the nature of the dispute. You may be able to resolve the issue and not have to deal with the chargeback process further.In most cases, a purchaser will likely contact you with any disputes, which you can deal with promptly and avoid the chargeback process altogether.
 If your bank does not have a record of the disputed transaction, they will contact you for further information. They will likely request that you send a copy of the receipt and any other information detailing the transaction. For example, if the cardholder is claiming that a credit was not given for returned merchandise, you can resolve the problem by submitting evidence that you credited them on a certain date. A bank or credit card statement or a deposit slip will likely have that information.
Send any and all receipts, bills of sale, or other pertinent documents. If you do not have enough documentation to support your case, you will likely lose the sale.
 Always send as much information as possible to your bank to help them remedy the chargeback. It is important that you are timely about submitting your documentation to the bank. There is a limited amount of time during which you and your bank can respond to a chargeback.The time allotted for responding to a request may vary depending on your bank. Be sure to check their policies on chargebacks before beginning the process.
If you miss your window to submit documentation, you will likely lose the sale.
 If your bank has enough information, they resubmit or “re-present” the chargeback to the issuing bank. At this point, the issuing bank may re-post the transaction to the cardholder’s account., If your bank re-presents the chargeback and you lose, you may choose to send the issue to pre-arbitration. During this process, the chargeback is examined further and, if the issuing bank is not satisfied with the outcome, can send it to Visa for final arbitration. In this final stage, Visa decides who has final liability. The issue surrounding the chargeback can be settled at any time during the pre-arbitration and arbitration processes.
 Once your bank, the issuing bank, or Visa have made a final decision on the chargeback, follow up with the various entities involved to ensure that the issue is resolved. Make sure that you understand what you are liable for and how to protect yourself in the future.


If you deal with many chargebacks, work with Visa and your bank to find ways of limiting them.
 If you are unable to get resolution through Visa, you may want to consider suing the customer in small claims or civil court. However, the cost of litigation may make this route less attractive. You may end up spending more than what you could recover from the customer.


Talk to an attorney before taking any legal action.
 State your return, adjustment and cancellation policies clearly at the time of the sale. Your policy, or disclosure statement, should be printed legibly on the face of your transaction receipt near the signature line. Make sure that the policy is legible on all copies of the receipt.If the sale is online, include your disclosure statement in the pages before the “checkout” screen or near the submit button.
If you are unsure on how to display your disclosure statement, contact your bank.
Failure to properly display your disclosure statement may make it difficult for you to avoid receiving chargebacks. It may also make it more difficult for you to dispute them.
 Be sure to deposit any sales and credits receipts within one to five business days of the transaction. If you hold on to your credits for too long, you may receive a “late presentment” chargeback.In order to avoid this, set a designated time each week when you make your deposits.
 Be sure that incorrect and duplicate receipts are voided to ensure that transactions are processed only once. Also, be sure to not to make multiple deposits on the same transaction with different banks. This can result in a “duplicate transaction” chargeback.Keep detailed records of your transactions to avoid duplicate transactions.
 Let the cardholder know if the status of their merchandise changes. If the date of service changes, or if there are any delays in delivery, contact the customer and let them know about these alterations. This will help you avoid a “services not provided or merchandise not received” chargeback.If you can, try using an automated system to keep customers informed of their products shipping status.
 Although you will want to deposit your transactions quickly, avoid doing so before you have shipped the merchandise. If a cardholder sees a transaction on their statement before they receive their goods or services, they may view that as fraud and file a claim. Communicate to the customer that the merchandise is on its way before putting any money in the bank.