 Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl, then add the baking soda, salt, ground cinnamon, ground ginger, and ground cloves. Stir everything together until the spices are mixed evenly throughout the flour, then set the bowl aside.

Need something gluten-free? Use gluten-free flour instead!, Cut the butter into cubes, then put it into a separate mixing bowl. Add the sugar, then beat the two together using an electric beat set to high speed. Keep beating the two together until the butter turns light and fluffy., Beat the mixture again until the color and texture are even. Don't worry if the mixture looks curdled or lumpy., Pour half of the flour mixture into the butter mixture, and beat it until it is evenly combined. Add the rest of the flour mixture, and beat it in once more., Place a sheet of plastic wrap over the bowl; this will keep the dough from drying out. Next, place the bowl into the fridge, and leave it there for 2 hours., You can use rimmed or non-rimmed baking sheets for this., If you'd like, you can scoop it out using a cookie scoop instead. Place the cookie balls onto a non-stick surface, such as a sheet of wax paper. You can also place them onto your prepared baking sheet instead., Fill a shallow bowl or dish with granulated sugar. Take one of the balls of dough, and roll it around in the sugar until it is evenly coated. Place it on the baking sheet, and repeat with the remaining balls of dough. The sugar will give the cookies a nice texture.Don't flatten the balls; they will flatten and spread on their own.
 Check the cookies after 10 minutes first, then back them longer if needed. The cookies may have a cracked texture on top, and they will be soft and chewing inside., Allow the cookies to rest for a minutes on the baking sheet, then transfer them to a wire cooling rack to finish. Allow the cookies to cool for about 5 minutes first, then pull them off the baking sheet using a twisting motion, and transfer them to a wire cooling rack to finish cooling., They make the perfect treat for a cold, fall day as well as Thanksgiving. If you have any left over, put them into an airtight container, and eat then within 3 to 4 days.