 Before attempting to enter into a vendor contract, assess your needs. Try to determine exactly what services you’d like a vendor to provide. Determine a length of time that you’ll need the vendor to serve you if it is not a one-time event.


Consider using a Request for Proposal (RFP) for all vendors to fill out and respond to. This can later be incorporated into your vendor contract, since it will include the scope of work and expected performances.;
, An offer must be communicated clearly, have some commitment to follow through, and have definite terms. It may need to be negotiated, going through one or more counter-offers with the vendor, before the terms are agreed upon. For example, you may offer to pay a cleaning service $300 to clean your workplace every Thursday. The vendor may present a counter-offer, suggesting that they will agree to clean your workplace for $500 for the initial cleaning, and $300 per week after the initial cleaning.
 An acceptance takes place when both parties agree on the terms of a contract. If a counter-offer was involved, it is up to the original offerer to accept the counter-offer. Both parties must agree to accept the terms of an offer in its most recent state. For example, if the vendor offers a counter-offer of $500 for the initial cleaning and $300 per week after that, it is up to the person who originally tried to contract the vendor to accept that counter-offer. The business owner can decide to decline the counter-offer and find another company.
 A contract’s consideration is the good or service that is being agreed to in the contract. Often, one party’s consideration is a good or service and the other party’s consideration is a monetary payment for that good or service. It is best for the consideration to be equal, but a court will not evaluate the equality of consideration.


For example, if you are hiring a vendor to clean your workplace, your consideration is payment for the cleaning, and the cleaning service is the vendor’s consideration.
 Though not a necessary element of a contract, it is a good idea to include a provision for one or both parties to make changes to the contract without breaching it.


For example, though your contract may specify that a vendor will clean your workplace every Thursday night, the vendor may have a conflict and wish to clean on Wednesday nights instead. Adding a provision such as “changes may be made to this contract by mutual written or oral agreement of both parties” can enable such changes to be made more easily.
 The best way to establish a good legal contract is to have the contract drawn up (or at least checked) by an attorney. An attorney can help you evaluate possible vulnerabilities or loopholes within your contract and can help clarify legal requirements for the contract.
 Not all contracts need to be in writing. Each state has a Statute of Frauds that dictates the kinds of contracts that need to be in writing (such as contracts for real estate, to pay another person’s debt, and for goods or services valued over $5000). However, a contract can be more easily proven and upheld in court if it is in writing, so it is best to put any contract in writing.
 The parties to the contract should be explicitly named in the contract. This may mean the full legal names of the parties involved, or it could mean the official business name of the employing company and the vendor.


For example, your contract may say, “Tom Jones hereby agrees to contract Sarah Smith to clean…” or it might say “ABC Corporation hereby agrees to contract Shiny Cleaners to clean…”

, Be sure that the terms of the contract are clear, so that everyone involved understands the terms, and specific, so that the contract spells out exactly what is being contracted.


For example, the following statement is too vague for a contract: “ABC Corporation is hiring a vendor to clean the workplace.” More specific would be: “ABC Corporation hereby agrees to contract Shiny Cleaners to clean the workplace at 50 Main Street every Thursday evening between the hours of 5:00PM and 11:00PM.”

, A contract should provide, in detail, the consideration of both parties involved. If one party’s consideration is payment, the method and amount of the payment should be specified.


Use addenda if you need to get specific or detailed. Otherwise, your description of the vendor's services should reflect what you agreed on when the vendor was hired.
For example, the contract for a cleaning service may say “ABC Corporation agrees to pay Shiny Cleaners $500 for an initial cleaning, then $300 per weekly cleaning thereafter. Payment will be made by business check monthly upon Shiny Cleaners submitting an invoice to the accounts payable department in room 305. Shiny Cleaners will provide cleaning services including, but not limited to, vacuuming, dusting, washing windows, cleaning and sanitizing bathrooms, sanitizing doorknobs and light switches, and changing air filters as needed.”

, After you define the scope of work, be sure the contract reflects the performance expectations you have for the vendor.


Include penalties if the performance standards are not met. For example, if your office is not cleaned to your expectations, you should be able to ask Shiny Cleaners to come a second time that week or pay them a reduced amount to reflect the quality of the work done.
 Especially for vendor contracts that involve technology, make sure you retain ownership of all your intellectual property as well as software licenses.Talk with your web, technology and mobile vendors about how they can assure your information and digital properties remain protected and secure. Consider adding an addendum to your contract with these assurances in writing and how damages due to a security breach may be handled.
 Contracts should provide specific dates of service. For continuing service, a start and end date should be provided, as well as the date that the contract was signed. If there is no end date, the contract should provide for a means of terminating the contract in the future.


For example, the contract may state that “Shiny Cleaners will conduct the initial cleaning on April 2, 2015 and clean every subsequent Thursday until such time as either party wishes to terminate the service. Termination requires 2 weeks of notice by either party.”

, Some kinds of services may need follow-up services. The contract should provide for changes or updates.For example, if a technology vendor is hired to install a software product, the contract should allow for software updates will be handled in the future, including re-training of employees as necessary.
 Allow a place for all parties to the contract to sign and date that they agree to enter into the contract. Most signature blocks allow a place for a signature and a printed name.In the event that the contract is between two companies, an appropriate representative from each company should sign.
 It is important to avoid breaching a contract if at all possible. If you breach a contract by failing to uphold your “side” of the contract, you are opening yourself up to a lawsuit or arbitration that may end in your paying damages to the other party. For example, if you have a contract with Shiny Cleaners, you would be in breach of contract if you fail to pay them for the services they provided. Shiny Cleaners would be in breach of contract if they fail to show up and clean as contractually obligated.
 One way that a contract can be terminated is by both parties successfully completing their consideration in the expected timeframe.


For example, a contract for a one-time service is completed once the service has been performed and the payment is made. If you contract Shiny Cleaners to clean your home after you host a party, the contract is complete once the cleaning is done and the payment is made.
 A contract may be terminated if both parties to the contract agree to end it.In most cases, the first step for trying to terminate a contract should be simply talking to the other party involved; the other party may agree to terminate the contract without any damages or penalties.


For example, if your business is having financial difficulties, you may ask Shiny Cleaners to terminate your contract without the 2-week notice required within the contract. If Shiny Cleaners has been turning down new business because they are too busy, they may happily agree to a contract termination.
 There are ways to terminate a contract that do not involve breaching the contract.



Impossibility: a contract can be terminated due to impossibility if some occurrence (not caused by a party to the contract) makes the contract impossible to complete. For example, if your workplace burns down, Shiny Cleaners is no longer obligated to clean it, as that would be impossible. However, if you burned down your own business, you may have to pay Shiny Cleaners damages for their loss of income since you caused the impossibility.



Impracticality: a contract may be deemed impractical if some condition arises that would place an undue burden on one party. For example, if your teenage children have a paintball fight in your workplace, overturning desks and leaving paint all over the walls, it would be impractical to expect Shiny Cleaners to clean the additional mess without accordingly increasing their monetary compensation.



Failure of a condition precedent: a contract may be terminated if a condition that precedes another condition is not met. For example, if Shiny Cleaners does not show up to clean (a precedent condition), you are not held to your part of the contract (to pay them for cleaning). You can withhold payment without being in breach of contract because they first breached the contract.



