 By speaking clearly, you’ll make sure the doctor hears and understands what you say. Ultimately, without speaking clearly, your doctor won’t be able to understand what you’re saying.


Speak slowly. Don’t rush your words.
Talk at an audible tone. In other words, don’t mumble or speak quietly.
Avoid slang. For instance, avoid terms such as “tootsies” (feet), “noggin” (head), and “peepers” (eyes). These terms will slow communication between you and your doctor. Avoiding slang is very important since slang terms may mean different things to different people.
Enunciate your words. Say your words clearly and enunciate the syllables.
Be cognizant of any language barrier or an accent barrier between you and your doctor. If one exists, you will both have to work harder to communicate. If the problem is serious, you may need to find a doctor with whom you can better communicate.;
, By asking questions, you’ll compel your doctors to listen to you and to spend time answering your questions. In addition, you’ll show that you’re an active patient who wants to establish a true dialogue about your healthcare.


Ask them to explain medications and the uses of medications they prescribe to you. For example, if they prescribe an antibiotic, ask a verifying question such as “Doctor, will this antibiotic target the bacteria that is causing my infection?”
Ask them if they understood what you said. Simple verifying questions like, “Should I explain more?” or “Do you know what I mean?” might suffice.
Inquire about a diagnosis after they’ve recommended further tests. This is a great way to compel them to listen to your concerns and to spend more time communicating with you.
Feel free to ask them to run diagnostic tests, if you think they are jumping to a conclusion about your illness. Simply by asking them to run a specific test, you’ll compel them to engage you and think about their diagnosis a little bit more., By offering lots of information, you’ll increase the chance that they hear and process your thoughts and concerns. Without letting them know the details of your condition, they might jump to a conclusion that is inaccurate.


Avoid answering questions in “yes” or “no” terms. Your doctor may ask open-ended questions to get more details from you. These are questions that require more than a “yes” or “no” answer. If your doctor asks close-ended questions that do warrant a “yes” or “no” answer, then offer details along with your answer if possible.
Explain your answer in several sentences. Include relevant details that might give them better information about your condition. For instance, if your doctor asks you if you experience pain when you bend over, explain the pain. Say: "Yes. It hurts in my lower back and the pain radiates outward into my sides. It almost feels as if someone is stabbing me all over my lower back and sides."
Repeat yourself, if you don’t think they’re listening. Don’t use the exact same words when you repeat yourself. For instance, if you already told the doctor that you have a migraine and can't see correctly, tell them again: "I feel severe pain in my head, and my vision is sort of blurred.", By talking to the doctor as they examine you, you’ll make sure they’re paying attention and you’ll better understand what they’re looking for. In the end, you’ll be better able to talk about your condition.


Comment about any problems you experience while they are examining you. For example, as they begin their examination, say “I’ve got a pain in my lower back and in my side.”
Ask what certain problems they find may mean for your diagnosis. For instance, if you feel pain along your shoulder blade, ask them what that might indicate., Assessing whether a doctor enjoys their work is one of the most effective ways to determine if they listen to you. Ultimately, if a doctor does not enjoy their work, they’ll probably treat their patients as if they don’t care about them.


See if the doctor will chat with you. You might chat about the weather, events in your community, or about your family.
Notice if your doctor smiles and seems excited to chat with you.
Observe whether they seem happy. If your doctor is exhausted and makes cynical or insulting comments, chances are they don’t like their work. Thus, they may not actually listen to you.
Ask them how they’re doing. Your doctor will probably answer with a pleasantry or they might even be frank. By asking, you’ll create the chance for them to express how they feel – potentially giving you insight into whether they enjoy their work., Note taking is a great indication of whether the doctor is engaged, pays attention to what you’re saying, and if they’re actively assessing your condition. Without notes, the doctor will likely forget details and may not give you the treatment you need.


Your doctor should have a clipboard, your patient files, or a tablet to take notes on.
While your doctor may not take copious notes, they should make some notations while they see you.
Notes will help your doctor (or other medical professionals) to evaluate your condition or health history on subsequent visits., There are a wide variety of distractions that doctors face every day at the office. If your doctor is distracted, chances are they aren’t listening to you. Thus, they may incorrectly diagnose you and give you improper treatment.


Notice if your doctor is constantly looking at a cell phone or tablet.
Observe if nurses or other office staff interrupt your time with the doctor. If so, ask for privacy
Ask the doctor to limit distractions. For instance, if your examination room door is open and noise is coming into the room, say “Can we please close the door? I can’t hear you.”, Your friends are perhaps your greatest source of referrals for professionals, including doctors. By relying on your friends, you’ll tap their personal experience and save yourself a lot of time sifting through third party reviews.


Approach a friend and ask them if they like their doctor. For instance, say “John, do you like your general practitioner? I’m looking for a new one.”
Ask your friend whether their doctor is responsive. For example, say “Is your doctor responsive? Do they genuinely listen to your concerns?”
Explain that in the past you’ve dealt with doctors that don’t listen to you and don’t take your thoughts and concerns seriously.
Consider using social media to ask your friends for references to good doctors., Reviews are another great source of locating doctors who are responsive and listen to their patients. By reading reviews, you’ll be able to gather information about many doctors and from a variety of sources.


Visit websites that focus on medical professional reviews like Healthgrades, Zocdoc, and Webmd.
Also, try more general websites like Yelp and Consumerreports.org.
By reading reviews, you’ll have access to critical information about a variety of medical professionals., Doctors who are unwilling or unable to speak individually with their patients over the phone, may be doctors who are not responsive to the needs of their patients.


Doctors who don’t personally respond to their patient’s phone calls or messages may not be responsible and may not listen.
Evaluate the doctor’s office staff and message service. If the office staff are unresponsive, chances are the doctor may not listen to you.
If a doctor ever gives you their personal number, they are probably very responsive and will listen to you.
Remember that time is money. Time on the phone also comes at a price, a price that doctors are usually unable to bill to insurance companies. Don’t let this be the only way you assess your doctor’s responsiveness., There are a wide variety of signs you can look for when assessing whether your potential doctor is responsive and listens to you. Some warning signs include:


There are a lot of people in the waiting room.
You experience long wait times.
Your time with the doctor is very short. Doctors who breeze in and out of patient rooms may not be listening to their patients.
Your doctor relies on physician assistants or nurse practitioners to do the bulk of their work.
The doctor does not ask you questions or cuts you off when you are speaking.