 Regard the males as especially dangerous at this time of the year. Expect them to already be keyed up and aggressive due to fierce competition between themselves for mates.Hippos typically mate at the start of the rainy season, but may do so at other times of the year as well.Always be on the lookout for males fighting each other to the death, which is a contest for breeding rights to a female.


West Africa's rainy season lasts from June until September. South Africa experiences theirs between October and April. East Africa sees two rainy seasons per year, with one lasting from March until May, followed by a second that lasts from October through December., Expect hippos to act even more territorial as waterways shrink in size. Look for hippos crowding closer toward the middle of the waterway to remain submerged. Anticipate the added danger of having less and less maneuvering room for yourself. Also be aware that their food sources have most likely dried up as well at this time of the year, which will further agitate them.The later in the dry season, the more dangerous hippos will be. In West Africa, the dry season extends from November until April. Southern Africa sees its dry season from November until March. East Africa experiences two dry seasons, one lasting from December until February and a second between June and September., Hippos are nocturnal. During the day, expect to see them resting in the water to stay cool. At night, travel carefully, because hippos will leave the water to seek out food. Minimize the risk of startling them in the dark. Stick to open areas to increase both of your chances at spotting each other from a distance. Travel slowly to avoid stumbling upon them with no warning.Hippos may travel as far as 3 miles (5 km) from their waterways in the search for food. They may also resettle in smaller bodies of water farther inland., You should never interact with a young hippo no matter how they may look or how tempting it may be. Mother Hippos are ferociously protective of their young and will readily come to their defense if they feel that their young are threatened in any way. Recognize a fully grown hippo as standing at roughly 5 feet tall (1.5 m).Consider anything shorter than that as a calf, since calves will remain with their mother until they have fully grown.Remember that just because you only see the calf doesn't mean the mother isn't somewhere nearby.

