 Also known as the side-straddle hop, this is a jumping exercise where you swing your arms and legs outwards. It is great for releasing endorphins.;
, This exercise is performed by leaning on a wall in a sitting down position. You should have two right angles––at your hips and at your knees. Also known as the Roman Chair, this exercise benefits your quadriceps muscles.
 Formally known as press ups, this is an exercise where you lie on the floor with a straight back and raise your body up and down. It is great for benefitting your shoulder and chest muscles.
 Referred to most often as sit ups, the crunch is the most common form of exercise for increasing your abs. Do this one by lying on the floor with knees bent and lifting up your back.
 This involves the single complete movement of lifting one foot and putting it down on the spot. It is great for keeping or developing lean legs; increase the elevation as you improve.
 Crouch or sit with your knees bent. This exercise is great for having the perfect butt.
 Officially known as bench dips, start by positioning your hands shoulder width apart on a bench. Put your feet as far out as possible and lower your body up and down off the floor. Keep your shoulders tucked in.
 Referred to as a front hold, hover or abdominal bridge, this exercise is great for your core muscles. Hold a push up position, only exerting your weight on the forearms, elbows and toes. Maintain a straight back while doing the exercise.
 Jog rapidly on the spot lifting your feet as high as you can. Running is special for the aerial phase when both feet are in the air at the same time. This exercise is great for toning your legs.
 Position yourself forward with one foot in front, with knees bent and the other foot back. Keep your feet flat on the floor. Alternate feet patterns. This exercise is popular among athletes.
 Hold your body in a push up position and perform one. Then lift your right arm up and point it to the ceiling and return it to the mat. Alternate different arms.
 Begin by lying on your right side and supporting yourself with your right forearm, with your elbow planted at the side. Raise your hips so that they are in a straight line with your head. Alternate different sides.

