 If you want a subtle, sultry pout for your next photo, try parting your lips and sticking your bottom lip out just a little. You may want to practice in the mirror first because it's easy to overdo it and end up looking like a fish!To get your mouth position right for a photo, try saying the word “blue." It will force your lips forward into a pout. Models often use this tip during photo shoots.
You may want to complement the pouting look with a slightly squinting eye as well.It can take some practice to look seductive, so look at yourself in the mirror and make sure you don't look angry or sad.;
, Nothing brings more pizzazz to your pout than some lipstick! Make sure to choose the right shade for your skin tone and for the occasion. In general, women with warmer complexions should wear shades with yellow or orange undertones, while women with cooler complexions should wear shades with blue undertones. Choose a more neutral shade for the daytime and a more dramatic shade for evening.To help make your lipstick last longer, use a primer. If you don't have one, dab some concealer or foundation on your lips before you apply your lipstick., The size and shape of your lips is also very important. If you're not happy with the way your pout looks, there are some simple ways to make your lips look bigger with makeup.


Try using a plumping lip gloss or lipstick. These products work by increasing the blood flow to your lips, causing them to temporarily swell slightly.For a more dramatic look, try over lining your lips. To do this, trace around your lips with a lip liner pencil, extending a bit beyond the natural lip line in the middles, but not at the corners. Then fill in with a lipstick that is the same color as the lip liner., If you want to look seductive, there's more to it than just your facial expression. If you're taking to someone, try making extended eye contact and gently touching the person every so often. Also make sure to stand up straight and keep your arms uncrossed to show that you are open to others., To complete your seductive look, make sure to act the part. You will need to be cheerful and playful. It helps to raise your eyebrows, laugh, and maybe even break your pout on occasion by smiling or biting your lower lip in a flirty way., If you want to take a great pouty picture, you will need to make sure that the rest of your body is positioned perfectly as well. To look more photogenic, try extending your chin a bit and positioning your face and body at a slight angle. You should also be conscious of your posture, your hands, and your hair. You want your pouty picture to look as naturally flattering as possible!If you want to look flirty, tilt your head a bit.