 Although planting a tree in Creative mode is a little different, it’s still important to know what kind of tree you want to plant. Since you probably won’t need to take resources into account when playing in creative mode, you’ll want to look at the visual qualities of the different types of tree.


Acacia are the most unique trees in Minecraft visually speaking. While their trunks are brown and their leaves are green, the wood blocks themselves have a diagonal pattern and the trunks will often grow in a spiraling pattern. Acacia trees can also have multiple canopies.
Birch trees have leaves that are a pale green with white trunks.
Dark Oak trees are similar in appearance to the oak trees, but they are a bit darker in the color of both the trunk and leaves.
Jungle trees are the tallest kind of tree, dark in color and often seen growing vines.
Oak trees are the most commonly found tree and look the most like a generic tree. The trunks remain straight, and they don’t grow as tall as spruce or jungle trees.
Spruce trees (also known as pine trees) have the appearance of an evergreen tree. The bark is darker than oak trees or even dark oak trees, and the leaves are more dense with a slightly blue tint in color.
 Getting saplings in creative mode is much easier than getting them in survival mode since you already have access to different kinds of saplings in your inventory and you won’t have to go looking for trees.


Press E to bring up your inventory. You’ll notice right away that in creative mode you’ll have access to all blocks and materials, which includes saplings.
You can search items by hitting the search tab in the top-right corner of the window. Search for whichever kind of sapling you’d like to plant or just type in “sapling” to see all your options.
When you’ve found the sapling of the tree you’d like to plant, just left-click on its icon to put it into your item bar.
 When you’re in creative mode, planting things can be a lot easier, but if you want your tree to grow properly, there are still some things to keep in mind.


In order to plant a tree, the block that you’re placing your sapling on must be dirt, podzul, or grass.
You’ll need to have a light source near your sapling. If you’re planting your tree outside, sunlight will make an ideal light source. If you’re planting a tree inside, torches and glow stones both make excellent alternate light sources.
You’ll need to make sure there are no blocks directly above your sapling, as trees cannot grow through other blocks.
 Your sapling should still be on your item bar, so you just highlight it by clicking the number that corresponds to whatever slot it’s in.


For instance, if your sapling is in your second item slot, you’d simply press “2” on your keyboard, to switch over to the sapling.
You plant the sapling by right-clicking on the block where you’d like to place it.

