 If making changes to your diet and lifestyle or using other remedies does not seem to help, then see your doctor. It is also a good idea to see your doctor to rule out the chance of a serious medical condition.Your odds of having a condition like lupus are low, but hair loss can be a symptom of this disease, so it may ease your mind to consult your doctor for possible testing.
If the reason for your hair loss is known but it is causing you stress, talking to your doctor can be of benefit as well. Establishing the specifics of your particular condition can help your doctor to determine the best treatment options available.
 Minoxidil (known by the brand name Rogaine, but now widely available without prescription) is a topical lotion that can be used by men and women. It works better on thinning hair than on hairless spots, and must be used continuously in order to keep any beneficial effects going.Minoxidil has about a 35% success rate at stimulating hair growth.
Men and women can use minoxidil.
 Finasteride (known as Propecia) is a prescription pill that stops the conversion of testosterone into DHT, which is a major cause of male pattern baldness. It works best on thinning hair, and must be used continuously to keep up any hair regrowth.Finasteride has about a 66% success rate, but it should only be used by men.
Finasteride can cause birth defects, so women who are or may become pregnant should never use or handle the medication.
 In addition to medications, surgical options have improved as well. Hair plugs or skin graft surgeries may be an option for you. With this procedure, small portions of skin from the back of your head (with hair still growing on them) will be implanted onto your bald spots.Talk to your doctor if you think that this might be a good option for you.
 Low-power laser therapy treatments have shown some early promise as well.Low-powered laser therapy has been shown to increase hair thickness and improve the condition of those suffering from hair loss. Ask your doctor if this option might help with your condition.
 Hair loss can make you feel self-conscious and affect your confidence, so you may want to look into getting a wig or hairpiece while you seek treatment for hair loss. You insurance may even cover the cost of a wig or hairpiece, which will allow you to get a high-quality, realistic looking wig or hairpiece.