 This is a great option if you're willing to spend $30-40 for a professional-looking custom case. Many of these sites allow you to print photos directly onto your case, which can be tricky when crafting by hand.


Weigh the pros and the cons. It can be much more expensive to design and order a custom iPhone case online, but it may help your case look sharp and professional. This option may be right for you if you want to incorporate precise photographic realism into your design.
 There are many such sites; check out the features and the pricing for several websites before you make your decision.


Select "Create Your Own" or "Design your case" and follow the on-screen instructions.
Select your phone model (e.g. iPhone 4, iPhone 5S, iPhone 6 Plus) and choose the type of case that you want to customize. You should be able to pick between several "lite" and heavy-duty case options.
Each site features a different set of design templates. If you don't like the interface, the pricing, or the features offered at one site--try another site.
 Use the digital format to your advantage--don't be afraid to incorporate pictures that you took yourself or that you found on the Internet.


Consider using a photograph that you have taken of your favorite place, your dog or your iguana, your kids or your car. You should be able to upload picture files directly onto the website if they are saved on your computer.
Consider using a .JPG file of your favorite art piece. Be sure to respect copyright law, and ask the artist's permission to use an image if it is licensed. It is legal to use many copyrighted images for personal projects as long as you aren't reproducing an image for commercial use.
Consider featuring your favorite meme or your favorite quote. Memes are rarely trademarked, although the source material may be subject to copyright law.If you aren't sure, and you are able to identify the creator of the meme: ask for his or her permission to use the image.
Consider using a photograph of an inspiring scene: a beautiful sunset, a towering mountain, a lush rainforest or the open sea. Consider using a photo of your favorite animal or your favorite anime character; consider using the logo of your favorite sports team. If you find an image on the Internet, look for a copyright. If the image is copyrighted, ask for the creator's permission to use it.
 When you are completely satisfied with your custom iPhone case, place the order and pay. The custom-case company will print your design onto your chosen iPhone case, and you'll receive your case in the mail.


If your custom case arrives in the mail and it isn't exactly what you wanted, don't be afraid to contact the owners of the website. Find their email on the "Contact" page at the bottom or the top of the home page. Send the owners a polite email explaining exactly what went wrong, and ask them to send you a case with the correct design.

