 Your breasts may take several years to fully develop, but when they first start to grow, you will know that you have started puberty. Most girls get their first periods about two to two-and-a-half years after their breasts first begin to develop., Most girls start growing hair in the pubic area (between the legs) shortly after their breasts begin developing. This is another sign that your first period will probably come within the next year or two.You will probably notice underarm hair developing around this same time.
 Many girls will notice small amounts of white or off-white discharge in their panties during puberty. This is usually a sign that your period will start within the next few months., Your first period usually comes shortly after the growth spurt in puberty, or when you are growing rapidly in height. So if you recently shot up a few inches, your period might not be far behind. And your hips will get wider but don't worry. This might be an awkward phase., Premenstrual symptoms are caused by hormonal changes in your body, and they typically occur in the days immediately before your period starts. Some girls experience severe premenstrual symptoms, while other girls do not notice any symptoms at all. The severity of your premenstrual symptoms might also change as you get older. There is no guarantee that you will experience any of these symptoms before your first period, but if you do experience them, there is a good chance that your period is coming!, Many girls experience a soreness, tenderness, or swollen feeling in their breasts right before their periods. If you notice this, you should expect your period to come soon., Some girls also experience emotional changes in the days leading up to their periods. It is different for everyone, but you might feel unusually sad, angry, or irritable. These feelings will typically go away in a few days., Acne can occur at any time, so it is not necessarily a sign that your period is coming. However, if you notice a sudden increase in the amount of acne you have over a short period of time, it may mean that you will get your period in the next few days., You may experience cramping in your stomach or back or a bloated feeling in your stomach right before and/or during your period. These symptoms can range from mild to severe, and they may not be the same every month.If you experience severe cramps that interfere with your daily activities, you may want to treat them with an over-the-counter pain reliever. Exercise and heating pads can also help reduce your cramps.
Talk to your doctor if the cramps are severe and not improved by taking over-the-counter medications.
 The average age for a girl to get her first period is about 12 to 14 years old, but some start much earlier or later. It is perfectly normal for a girl to get her first period anywhere between the ages of nine and 15.Most girls do not start their periods until they weigh at least 100 pounds. If you are a bit behind your friends with growth spurts, your period may start a bit later, too. It's nothing to worry about, so just be patient.If you haven't had your first period by the time you are 15, or within three years of when your breasts first started to develop, you should consult a doctor.
 If you get your period much earlier or much later than your friends, you might feel different than everyone else. You might get your period when you are nine or 10, or not until you are in your mid-teens, and both are perfectly normal! It's important to understand that all girls get their periods at different ages., Genetics play a huge role in determining when you will get your first period. Try asking your mom and sisters when they got their first periods. While you're not guaranteed to get yours at the same age they did, there's a good chance that you will be around the same age they were.