 Rabbits are the closest animal to kittens on Animal Jam of course this is only my opinion.;
, Since you're a kit, it has to end with "kit". Be sure to choose a name that will suit your character and his or her traits that make them unique but don't pick a character that is in the books if you don't look like it.


Here are some examples of kit names: Bluekit, Tigerkit, Yellowkit, Whitekit, Sandkit, Darkkit, Dustkit, Swiftkit, Willowkit, Mousekit, Firekit, Cinderkit, Graykit, Brackenkit.
 Find one in a Clan, if possible.
 Most AJ clans do not have elders as they do not get to do much, but there has been a Clan with elders. If there aren't any elders, skip this step if you want to.
 If you want to, try to sneak out of camp and see the rest of the forest.
,, Say things like, "Takes small bites of rabbit," or, "Pads into the soft mossy bed." This attracts attention to you and raises your popularity in the clan. Remember not to have a hostile personality as a kit, as this will cause more people to dislike you but if you will turn evil be a bully but only when noone is looking.
 Also be nice, no hurting anyone unless you turn evil. If you hurt someone, especially another kit, the clan may banish you from the clan so only do it when no one is looking, as well as have a strong grudge against you. If someone hurts you, don't hurt them back. Instead, ask for help, but don't be manipulative. When someone asks you what's wrong, say, "(Clan member who hurt you) hurt me!"

, If there is a cat that is known to be a good fighter or mean in your clan, never annoy them, and try to stay away from them.
 If you do wander off a lot, your mother might get annoyed.
 You're only a kit and not ready to be told about the upcoming events of the forest but try to sneak a peak or listen from a little outside the nursery.
 If you follow all of these steps, you will be adored by the clan and grow into a great warrior or turn evil. (Remember to change into a wolf, snow leopard, or a bigger animal used for Clan roleplays along the way.)

