 If they still persist, tell them "If you don't stop, I will go to the bus driver/teacher/head of school etc." Don't be like an immature five-year-old saying "You're mean, I'm gonna tell"; rather, say it assertively and firmly. If they say something stupid like "Oh, I'm so scared," say "Well, you won't exactly be happy when you get a (form of punishment at your school)" and proceed to ignore him/her from then on. Remember, bullies are cowards so they probably are actually scared.
 Does the bully always stick out a leg for you to trip up on? Next time they do it/try to do it say 'Wow. Really? You would sink to that level? What kind of freakish joy do you get from tripping me (name of bully)?' Cross your arms, and look the bully in the eye (step 1 doesn't apply here) and wait patiently for the bully to put his/her leg down. You can even laugh a little and shake your head to show that this pitiful technique of the bully makes you laugh. Use the name of the bully so they realize your talking to them.
 Just think about Martin Luther King Jr. and his speeches against racism. If they call you dumb or some other dirty name, reply with something witty like, "It takes a dumb one to know a dumb one" or even funnier, "Stop stalking me! It's creeping me out!" This would be a good technique if they constantly following you. You can use this technique if they are repeatedly bothering you and you are sick of it, or you feel they have crossed the line and you will not let them put you down, but only respond to them once if you must. Ignoring is a far better technique.
 They don't know who you really are! Why should you care about what they say? When someone calls you dumb (lacking intelligence or common sense) how would they know that? They don't know your test grades. You are yourself and no one can change who you are. Never let bullies trample all over you.
 They are bad to the core because they take pleasure in being nasty to people, and sad because they spend their lives doing it and they're probably only doing it because they're jealous of you or they're taking out their own problems on someone else. If bullying gets out of hand and makes your life a misery, always an adult. It may be hard, but remember this is exactly how you will win against the bully.

