 Some herbs are eaten after they have been dried, while others are typically used fresh-picked from the plant. These "fresh" herbs include basil, chives, mint, tarragon, and rosemary. You can plant herbs in a sunny spot of your garden, or you can grow them in a pot near a window in your kitchen.This guide will focus on basil, chives, and mint. Consider the benefits of growing each herb:


Grow basil. Basil is a fast-growing herb, so you may need to sow it more frequently to ensure a fresh supply. It is, however, a versatile plant that is great for a first experiment into herb-growing. Basil needs well-drained soil and a good deal of sunshine.Grow chives. This small, grass-like herb is often added to soups, salads, and sauces; it's prized for its light flavor and aesthetic appeal. Chives need a lot of sunlight and soil with good drainage. Consider planting chives in your garden to repel carrot flies, Japanese beetles, and aphids.
Grow mint. Mint is a fast-growing, fast-spreading herb. It's a hardy plant, and it's perfect for one of your first attempts at growing plants. Mint grows best in damp, fertile soil with full sun or partial shade. You can use the leaves to spice up fruit salads, lamb and fish dishes, and even drinks like teas and cocktails.;
, Annual and biennial herbs such as basil, coriander, parsley, dill, and chervil are fast-growing, and you may need to sow them at intervals throughout spring and summer to ensure a continuous fresh supply. Perennial herbs like oregano, mint, thyme, sage, rosemary, and chives are slower to grow, and thus require a more permanent home.
 You can buy herb seeds and grow them from scratch, and you can buy already-growing potted plants. You can also raise most herbs from a small cutting of a mature plant. Visit a local nursery for seeds and starts.


If you want to grow from a cutting, try mint because it's one of the easiest to grow using this method.
 Find out how much water a given plant needs, how much light it needs, and its preferred temperature. They may also have specific needs in relation to the pH, the texture, and the humidity of the soil.
 Over-watering and under-watering are common causes of poor plant health. As a general rule of thumb, let the top of the soil dry out between waterings, but don't let the soil dry fully. You should fall into a routine as you become attuned to your plants.


Check by pushing your finger into the soil. If it's still moist beneath the surface, it can go a while longer. If it's completely dry, immediately give it a thorough watering.
Keep in mind that specific water needs may vary depending on the species. However, the finger-feeling trick works for most plants that don't naturally grow in particularly wet or dry areas.
 Not only does this look better than leaving stubs, it also helps the plant heal more quickly. Keep in mind that cutting the tip off of a stem will cause new leaves to appear along nodes, due to the way hormones are distributed throughout the plant.


Take your leaves from areas that you wish to be bushier. Use hand pruners to cut the stems. Using your hands is generally more difficult, and it increases the risk of damaging the plant., If you need use leaves faster than they can grow, you can split the plant (if it has multiple stems) or dip a cutting in rooting hormone and plant it to get more plants. Each option is a great way to get more herbs without spending any money on a new plant.

