 When your boyfriend really loves you, he'll be interested in you. He will respect your ideas and opinions, even when he doesn't agree with them. He'll pay attention to details about your likes and dislikes, and he'll accommodate your needs to the best of his ability.Does he ask you about your life?
Does he appear to genuinely care about your feelings and opinions?;
, If your boyfriend respects you, he'll initiate compromises even though you haven't asked him to. Whether he compromises on little things, like going to see a movie he doesn't care for because he knows you'll like it, or bigger issues, compromise is an important sign that your boyfriend really loves you.True compromise doesn't mean "I'll do this for you, if you do this for me." It's not a negotiation.
Does he insist on being right on a disagreement of opinion? Or is he okay with letting you have the last word?

, Most people in love have a need to touch the object of their attention, even without sexual activity. Does he seem interested in touching you? Does he feel interested in you when he's touching you? Public touches are a public display of affection, and demonstrate to the world that the person cares for you.If you're not sure how he feels when he touches you, check with your own feelings. Are you feeling loved? Or are you feeling like he's trying to "stake a claim" by touching you in public?
If he's shy, or if he's from a culture where public touching isn't acceptable, he may love you and yet rarely touch you.
When a man touches a woman's face, this is often a sign that he wants to be closer to her.
A touch on the shoulder or hand isn't necessarily an intimate touch in most cultures. However, if he touches you on the lower back, or gently moves his hand along your leg, this is often a sign of attraction.
If he only touches you in private, this is a warning sign. If he touches you ONLY in public, never in private, this is another warning sign.
Respect is required in the way he touches you. If you don't like the way he touches you, and he does it anyway, he's unlikely to really love you.
 If your boyfriend wants to keep you all for himself, not share you with his friends and family, he's unlikely to really love you. If he really loves you, he'll want to include you in all areas of his life.Including you in his family life may be difficult at first, especially if his relationship with his family is unsettled or rocky.
If he treats you differently around his family and friends, ask him why this is. If he's really in love with you, he'll be proud of you no matter what company you're in.
 Someone who loves you will be interested in your family and friends. Even if he doesn't like them, he'll be willing to spend time with them if you want him to.If your boyfriend avoids your family and friends, he might be shy. If he tries to get you to avoid them as well, he may be overly controlling. This is a bad sign.
If he doesn't care to get to know your family and friends, this is a sign that he doesn't really care about you.
 Someone who loves you will try to do the things you want to do, even if he doesn't care for them. For example, he'll eat in restaurants because you like them, or go to cultural events because you've asked him to. If all your activities revolve around his interests, this may be a sign that he doesn't really love you.Doing things because someone else wants to is an action of generosity. If he insists on your doing something for him, because he did something you enjoy, this isn't generous. It's a form of manipulation.
A man who really loves you will pay attention to what you like and dislike. He'll try to make sure you're happy, because your happiness matters to him.
 Sometimes people say that they are doing hurtful things "because I love you." If your boyfriend says this to you, this is a warning sign. Learn to Recognize a Potentially Abusive Relationship and ask for help.Abusive behavior isn't limited to physical violence. If your boyfriend really loves you, he will treat you with respect. He won't degrade you, call you names, or put down your accomplishments.
If you aren't sure whether to trust your boyfriend when he says he loves you, ask a parent or a trusted friend for advice.

