 If the key is beginning to wear, you may still be able to engage the pins needed to start the vehicle by inserting the key all the way, then pulling it back out slightly. Try to pull the key back out 1/16 of an inch, or approximately the width of a nickel, then attempt to turn it again.If this works, the key is likely over worn.
You should still replace the key as soon as you can before it stops working.
 If pulling the key out a bit fails to make the key turn, try wiggling it up and down slightly to engage the pins in the ignition. Be careful not to apply too much pressure. Wiggling the key can make the key contact the pins from a different angle, which may allow you start the vehicle.If wiggling the key works, it means the teeth on the key are too worn to properly engage the pins.
Replace the key as soon as possible if this works before the key stops working entirely.
 If the key is bent, it may make it impossible to insert it completely or turn the ignition cylinder. Lay the key down on a flat, sturdy surface like a strong table. Take a heavy rubber or wooden mallet and strike the key from above to flatten it against the table.You may have to strike the key multiple times in order to flatten it entirely.
Avoid using pliers or a vice to straighten the key, as you may bend it too far in the opposite direction and reduce the strength of the key.
 If there was any debris stuck to the key when you inserted it, it may have gotten caught in the pins of the ignition cylinder. Insert the key completely, then slide it back out. Repeat the process a few times to try to move any debris that may be caught in the cylinder.If this works, the issue will likely continue to occur until the debris is cleaned out from the ignition cylinder.
 If the key is too damaged to work, you will not be able to have it copied. A copy of a worn or damaged key will also fail to start the vehicle. Instead, you will need to have a new key cut by a dealership that services your make and model vehicle. Depending on the vehicle, the dealership may be able to produce a new key using your vehicle’s VIN number.You will need to provide sufficient evidence of ownership of the vehicle.
If a new key cannot be produced, you will need to purchase a new ignition module with matching key and have it installed.

