 You can do this with soft half halts and making sure you always have a "live" connection between mouth and hands. Don't let him bite the bit and pull your hands and don't let your reins go slack or rest your hands on his neck.


Most horses only do "pig-roots," which are a smaller version of a buck as proper bucking has the horse's head between its front legs with the back legs extended far above its rump.
A horse may buck because it helps him to balance. Some ex-racehorses tend to do this when cantering in an open field or arena.
 Communicate your intentions – your body weight is a really effective communication tool. Be relaxed with your weight centered over your horse. Visualize where you're going and let your head turn in the direction you're going – this will shift your weight and indicate that turn without much need for strong hand aids.


You need a firm command over your horse, but not too firm. If he associates you as a rider with pain, this may be the reason he's bucking you off.
 If you hesitate your horse will know immediately and might take this as an opportunity to buck you off. Keep solid contact with lower legs and if you start to sense a buck coming, try to keep moving forward – a horse can't buck without planting his front legs.


Don't let him stop. A horse might buck and then stop; the only reason he would buck was because he knew that his rider would stop him for misbehaving. Just keep going if that is the case, and he will learn that there's no reward involved.
 If a horse is prone to bucking, they will use this as an opportunity to plant those front feet and send you flying. Make sure you practice spacing out your strides in front of a jump to get a comfortable distance for that last stride. When you get it right, keep that forward momentum!


Encourage your horse with leg aids and give him ample room to stretch his neck by sliding your hands forward and letting your center of gravity move forward as well.
If a horse is bucking, this means they are lifting up their back feet. This can be very dangerous for you if you are on top of the horse and it can also be dangerous for the riders around you. If another horse is bucking, try to ride yours away from it by steering away.
 You must not share your fear or panic with your horse as it will pick up on it through your voice and smell. If you are on the horse at the time, then bend low on the horse, grip firmly, and keep your head to the side of its neck and away from its thrashing head. Speak as soothingly as possible while repeating its name.


Don't talk to it like a baby, but as if it were a scared child. After several seconds, you can try a firm and loud (but not angry) command to try to cut through to its learned responses. It is desperately expending nervous energy, so channeling that into movement is a good idea; however, do not encourage a gallop in that state lest you want to be on a runaway train.
Calming it of its fear or anger is all you can do. If you are on the ground, then keep your calm, turn slightly sideways and look downwards as to avoid its eyes. Speak soothingly and calmly. Considering it is in a panic, try smiling, yawning, sighing, or laughing. You will develop an instinct for relaxing when your horse gets out of hand.
 Often horses buck off inexperienced riders or riders they're not familiar with. In these cases, this will just take time. Get to know your horse and develop a relationship with him. That way when you ride him, he'll know he can trust you.


One suggestion to help you and your horse gain each others' respect is to get out of the saddle and just walk. Talk and soothe him first. Have him follow you around the paddock or bring him some treats and teach him some tricks! Developing a good bond with a horse is the key to respect and a real bond doesn't come just from riding.

