 Even if you cannot take care of your parent all the time, you can still be there for them during important times. You can visit them, go with them to appointments, or spend time with them. Even though it may hurt you to see them in their condition, don’t ignore them or refuse to go see them.For example, if they go into the hospital, make sure that you go visit them there. Go to doctor’s appointments or treatments with them. Go visit them in a non-medical capacity.
Being with them lets them know you care and can give them comfort during difficult times.
 When your parent is nearing the end of their life, they may want to talk about certain important things. This may include memories or stories they would like to share with you before they are gone. They may want to talk about regret and forgiveness, or even explore reasons they should be thankful. Don’t try to deter them from these conversations. Instead, encourage them and listen to your parent.Pay attention to what your parent says. Often, people try to tell loved ones messages or get them to understand something they may not understand how to say. Listen closely to what your parent says and try to get the message they want to convey.
 Dying people often feel depressed, anxious, and isolated. This may stem from people avoiding them because they don’t want to face the fact that they are dying. Maintaining a physical closeness is important in the last months of a person’s life. To help with this, touch the person and stay close to them.This may include hugs or holding hands. You may put a comforting hand on their arm. Sometimes, a gentle massage can help them not only relax, but also feel connected.
 People want to spend their final days in different ways. Some people like to have large groups around them and see all their family and friends. Others may like only one or two people with them at a time. Ask them what would make them comfortable or happy.You can also ask them if they would like to listen to music or watch television. This can often be comforting. However, some people don’t like noise and find it distracting and hard on their senses.

