 Every uncaught instance of insurance fraud translates into higher premiums down the road for consumers. Even when you are not directly the victim of the fraudulent activity, it can still mean more money out of your pocket in higher premiums when you go to renew your policy. Each time that insurance companies and proper authorities can stop fraudulent activity, it can save you money in the long run. This means that each and every consumer has a vested interest in reporting insurance fraud.;
, Building insurance fraud cases requires time and money for official agencies dedicated to investigating the activities. The more information you can provide them to substantiate your claim, the better. Collect all of the appropriate documents, names, dates, and other pertinent information available to you, and have the information on hand when you report the fraudulent activity. Agencies are very busy and are more likely to take your report seriously if you have the proper documentation.
 If you think you have been the victim of insurance fraud, start by calling your insurance company. Most insurance companies have internal, anti-fraud departments available to look into insurance agents and claims adjusters suspected of fraudulent activities.This step can also help you clear up any transcription errors or other clerical missteps that may have appeared as fraud.


Have as much documentation related to the claim or policy as you can when you call in order to help isolate the source of the fraudulent activity or filing error.
Even if you aren’t the direct victim of the fraudulent behavior, you can still report it to the necessary insurance company. If, for instance, you know that someone is defrauding a particular insurance company, you can still contact the company’s anti-fraud department, and they will begin an internal investigation of the respective claim or policy., The NICB is a non-profit organization dedicated to combating insurance fraud across a variety of industries by working closely with insurance companies and law enforcement.You can reach the NICB at (800) 835-6422, or you can also use this online reporting tool.Regardless of how you report the activity, options for anonymous reporting are available., Each state also has its own government-funded insurance fraud bureau. If you’d prefer to reach out to them directly rather than through a non-profit such as the NICB, these bureaus welcome citizen calls and tips.These departments handle everything from prevention to detection and investigation of suspected fraudulent activity.You can find a complete list of state insurance fraud bureaus here along with a website link, address, and telephone number for each., Insurance fraud related to Medicare can be especially costly to taxpayers. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has a specific process for insurance fraud cases pertaining to Medicare.You can report these instances to the HHS Office of the Inspector General at (800) 447-8477 or to the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services at (800) 633-4227.The HHS Office of the Inspector General also has an online reporting tool, which you can find here.Substantiated reporting of Medicare fraud can even earn you a reward of up to $1,000., Your state’s insurance fraud bureau can always help funnel you to the appropriate entity, but if you know for a fact that you’re dealing with a case of crop insurance fraud, then you can also contact the USDA directly.You can reach the Office of the Inspector General for the USDA at (800) 424-9121 or by email at usda_hotline@oig.usda.gov., Other agencies will always take the investigation of fraudulent activities more seriously if law enforcement get involved. Your local law enforcement agency may have a fraud division. Some instances of insurance fraud, especially those in the healthcare industry, may even follow under the jurisdiction of the FBI.You can contact the FBI field office closest to you to determine if your specific case falls under their jurisdiction.