 Focus on a theme of your own. You might want to make it really original, like the Great Sith War or the New Republic. You can also visit many different places for different planets, or just make one in the setting.


A Jedi could be walking around the neighborhood then attacked by two Sith. Or, you could make the story more complicated by putting it before or after the movies, or even in between.;
, Humor will improve the amateur movie, allowing for much forgiveness for the amateur setting and storyline! Add few jokes and punch lines to your movie. It wouldn't be a good one without it. Make sure that you understand people's styles, and make the humor fit to each of them.


Make your own funny scenes. For example:

Rebel 1 and rebel 2 are walking.
Rebel 1 collapses.
Rebel 2 calls his commanding officer.
Rebel 2: "Sir, my partner collapsed and is not breathing, what should I do?"
Commander: "Make sure he is dead, then tell me."
Rebel 2 shoots rebel 1.
Rebel 2: " Now what?".


Make a parody of the original movies. Parody is both fun and clever. Creating a parody script will teach you a lot about analyzing and writing.
 You'll need this for the actors to follow and to know that your film has a fully fledged storyline.
 You'll need at least one set to film against.


If you live near a city or in one you could make it in Coruscant (see episode 1,2,3).
If you live in woods, it would be a good idea to make the movie in Kashyyk (see Episode 3) or Endor (see Episode 6).
If you live in a place like Arizona (desert), you could make it on Tatooine (see Episodes 1, 2, 3, 4, or 6).
If in the mountains, make it on Hoth (see Episode 5). Or, if you live in the mountains with either forest or snow (never use both, unless you are creating your own planet), you can make forest moons like Endor or Yavin 4, or ice planets like Hoth.
If you have a big field, you could make it Naboo (see Episode 1 or 2).
If you live near a swamp, make it Dagobah (episode 5).
 Do not just film the thing with toy lightsabers and guns and make swoosh sounds with your mouth. Download Lsmaker or FXhome visionlab Studio (both have a lightsaber effects program). Add other sound effects from the internet.
 You can play it on your guitar but you can make it better by adding the real deal. You can get music from the internet as well.
 This will depend on your budget and computer type; do the research to get the best for what you can afford.
 Remember how Harrison Ford (aka, Han Solo) flew the Millenium Falcon in circles just to lose the Imperials in that asteroid field in "The Empire Strikes Back?" Well, to get characters with a good personality like Solo, you need actors with an equally good personality.


Don't try to use characters from the movies too much, they won't anything like the real thing at all (unless you have a really good makeup artist), and people will get confused. Try to make your own characters, or try to make the character you know and love from a different time (for example, you could make someone Luke Skywalker when he was growing up on Tatooine).
Droids are recommended, but optional. If you decide to use droids, you can get some costumes, and if the color of it doesn't fit you, you can either bleach it or tie-dye it.
 Get people who are happy with the camera, directing actors, making costumes, doing makeup, writing scripts, editing on the computer, etc. Wherever you have strengths, take on the role, otherwise find others to help you.
 Include a lot of popcorn. And let it roll.

