 You can play Bubble Witch Saga on Facebook on your web browser or on your mobile device with the game app.


Launch the game on Facebook. Open your Facebook account on your PC web browser. You’ll find a panel on the left. Scroll through it until you see the Apps section. This section contains the apps on Facebook that you use and are linked to your account. Click on Bubble Witch Saga from this list. The app will load within Facebook. Select the level you want to play and click on it.
Launch the game’s mobile app. Look for the Bubble Witch Saga app on your mobile device, and tap on it to launch it. Select the level you want to play, and tap on it.;
, Get to know the current level and get an idea how deep or how many bubbles you need to go through to clear the level. Know also the points needed to get at least one star.


If you don’t get at least one star even if you clear the level, you will lose.
 Start playing the game by shooting the colored bubbles. Bubbles are cleared when you hit your bubbles to the same-colored bubbles up top.
 Each level’s requirements for the number of stars vary, so you have to know how much you need per level. The point requirements for one, two, and three stars are indicated on a score bar beside the main scoreboard. You will be able to see your progress here, with every star earned clearly visible beside it., The bubbles you shoot follow the path indicated by the dotted line. You will know where your bubble will land by observing the direction of the dotted line. You can also bounce the bubble off the walls to reach those hard-to-reach spaces.
 If you can, go for the gaps and aim higher. If you’re able to clear out higher bubbles, the lower bubbles attached to them will fall off and bounce towards the jars at the bottom, giving you extra points.
 Do not settle with just clearing out a few bubbles. Go for huge combos by clearing out a huge collection of same-colored bubbles with one shot. You can also get some chain reactions. You will be able to clear out the level faster and get huge points with that.
 Towards the bottom, right on top of the jars, you can find some colored spiders. These spiders give you score multipliers. If you have some bubbles that can fall off, get them to hit these spiders to give you more points.
 These are the game boosters. Use these sparingly as they can cost you real money. Use these only as a last resort and when you’re confident that you can complete the level. Otherwise, it will be wiser to just restart the game.


The Magic Potions and Magic Scrolls can be equipped for use pre-game. On the pre-game window, click on the Magic Potions and Magic Scrolls you want to use for your game. The costs are indicated on each of the items. Click or tap the items to purchase and equip them.

