 The best time to think about  the 9th grade is when you are in 8th grade. You will be the youngest and the smallest of all high schoolers. The twelfth graders are big hulking brutes and are known for making life tough for ninth graders, so you need to come up with a plan so that your head is not stuck in the toilet.;
, The high school has many different learning opportunities. Some students have been in little league and enjoy baseball. They should go to try outs, before the end of the school year and earn a place on the team. Most teams seemed to practice over the summer, therefore you must find your spot at the end of your 8th grade year. Becoming a member of a sports team is one way to avoid being a 9th grader who is alone. Alone makes you a target.


If you are not sports minded, consider joining the band or ROTC. Band kids are usually nice and have nice parents. The choir is another group you might join. Then you will have instant friends and someone to hang out with, even if they are not your friend. The drama club is also a good bet. Lots of after-school activities in these areas. You will get to know different grade groups if you are part of these groups and they can offer some protection.
Dance Team, Year book, School Newspaper and Cheerleaders are some of the other group areas to consider. A student can become a part of any of these groups for just the first year of high school while they learn what high school is like. If you are in the Drama club and so is a twelfth grade football star, he might stand up for you when you are in a bind.
 Funny is okay. High schoolers do not like annoying 9th graders. Twelfth graders seem to enforce better behavior on most 9th graders.
 Deciding what kind of crowd you hang with can have a big impact on your life and happiness.


Ninth grade girls should be careful about who they date. Do not rush into boyfriend hood until you find out a boys reputation. Some boys are bad news and you do not want to get that kind of reputation.
Male students will be exposed to many girls that are drama queens and trouble makers.
Be careful who you friend on Facebook. They can send those post to anyone in school and say anything about you. Misinformation is what it is called. You can be suspended for Facebook post. Don't get sucked into a drama.
 You will earn most students respect and a better social position if your are the best at something. For example weight-lifting, running, cooking, writing, drawing, acting, dancing, singing, football, golf, swimming, comedy, craft making, marching, playing an instrument, speaking Spanish or French, math, chess.....just something. You have a year and a summer to find something.
 Get a feeling for the layout, and if possible try to meet some teachers ahead of time. See what the students are wearing and how they are wearing it.
 First impressions are important; they last until you graduate. The rest of the school is interested in the new crop of 9th graders. Don't be the girl in the tight pink spandex shorts and flip flops unless you want to be seen that way for all four years.
 High schoolers are shallow and self centered. Some of them will change friends everyday. Do not tell all your secrets to someone too soon. Get to know them first.
 Politeness and courtesy go along way in this world. You may need something from one of these people sooner or later and they can help you or not.


For example, you forget your lunch money, and you have been rude to the lunch lady. She chooses to insist you pay or do not eat. However, you took the time and trouble to learn her name and greet her with a nice hello and on that day you forgot your lunch money, she states it is no problem with a smile and tells you to bring it tomorrow and she will cover it for you today.  Courtesy throughout life will always get you further along than disrespectful behavior.
 You do not want people to think you carry a lot of money on your person. It will eventually cause trouble. Remember first impressions last along time and it is hard to change a person's view of you after they have formed it.
 Be sure to bring at least a notebook and a sharpened pencil. The teachers are checking over their students and forming their own impressions. Showing educators you are prepared to learn will help them form a good opinion of you.

