 Influential people usually have seniority that they’ve built over a career or a lifetime. Pick hobbies or work that you feel you can sustain.;
, Talent and influence often go hand in hand. You can gain a reputation as someone who should be heard by distinguishing yourself in your work. , Put in extra hours to get a promotion or earn more respect in your company. , Attend conferences and parties or become part of a community organization.
 An outgoing, respected person is going to have more influence than a quiet person, because they are willing to make and use connections.
 Determine what you want to gain from social situations, board meetings, meetings with managers and other affiliations. Work toward those goals.
 Become useful to people and soon you will offer them advice. Being an adviser is being an influencer.


This is especially important if you do not have a high-paying job or a lot of money. Being a leader is the best way to gain power to influence others.
 Strive to remember names and information about people so that you can be influential during social situations.
 This is a great way to start helping others and gaining a reputation for it.
 Smiling, laughing and complimenting are great ways to influence people. If people are comfortable around you, they are more likely to do you favors.
 Your ability to stay in touch with people will make you more socially powerful. There are several ways to increase your social proof and stay in touch:


Start a LinkedIn profile, if you are gaining influence in the business world. Call an old friend once a week. Do it just to catch up, instead of only calling when you need a favor.
Give to charity. Become an advocate of charitable organizations that your friends are involved with.
Write personal Christmas cards. Write a tailored and thoughtful hand-written note to the person.
Develop social media profiles. If you are involved in an Internet business, having thousands of Twitter or Facebook fans on your professional profile will give you social proof that you have influence.
 You will not be able to influence others if you are afraid to ask them for things. Start trading little favors early, so that you can influence important decisions later on. Understand that most influential people believe in reciprocity. As soon as you start doing favors, you will build an influential connection.
 Start a yearly event, such as a summer 4th of July part, a company Christmas party or a Halloween mixer where you invite people from your social and business circles. Both you and the event will become influential. , Look at people as you talk to them. Nod, and use other affirmations, to show that you are listening.
, Successful name-dropping means suggesting connections or meetings within your circle. If you are at a party and you want to meet new people or introduce people, use the names of people that are already in the circle.


Don’t name drop people outside of the social circle. Name-dropping can quickly change to bragging, if you suggest you know politicians, celebrities or musicians that aren’t relevant to your contacts.
 During the course of any conversation, you should aim to connect an interest, hobby or person. You can reference it establish common ground with a future topic.
 If you are trying to influence someone, give them a call to see how something has been carried out. The aim is to gain positive assent from the person; however, you should not nag them.

