 When you're ready, you'll need to accept that your loved one will only live on in your heart and memories. There is no "right" amount of time to grieve; it changes with every person. So move on when you are ready. You are surrounded by a family and group of friends that care for you and love you very much, and you are stronger than you think.The "stages of grief" are guidelines for emotions felt commonly after a death. They are not, however a series of boxes that you must check off, and new research shows that they may not exist at all., Talk to your boss, teacher, and family about how you are feeling as you readjust to life after the death. Everyone moves at different paces, but everyone needs to get back into the swing of normal life at some point. Some days will be more difficult than others, but being honest with the people around you as you restart the daily grind will help you navigate the "real" world again., This is not a bad or unnatural response. Rather, it is a reminder of how special someone was in your life. Birthdays, holidays, anniversaries, and special days may be hard to cope with for the rest of your life, but don't feel like you are "stunted" because you can't get over them. Even sights and smells can trigger memories of a lost loved one. There are, however, ways to cope:


Start a new tradition on that day, potentially tied to their memory (like visiting the grave site).
Be prepared with a distraction. Make plans, go out of town, or have friends over.
Take time to reminisce. Why does this make you remember them? Chances are that the memory is a good one, and it will be helpful to remember great memories when feeling down., There are other people who understand you pain and will help you cope with death. A simple internet search for "Death Support Groups" in your area can help you find a group near you. There are often specific groups that deal with cancer deaths, loss of spouses or parents, and moving on after a major loss.The US Health Department has a detailed list of support groups and ways to contact them on an online support group database.
 Some deaths are too much to handle alone. There are, however, professionals who can help you cope with the death of a loved one, especially if you cannot function or have lost the will to live. These people will help you come to terms with your grief and understand intense feelings of sadness.Guidance counselors, school therapists, and mental health professionals can all offer guidance and support while you cope with the death of a loved one.

