 This means you don’t want to fully inflate balloons but instead make sure they become the size you desire for the garland.


Tie the end of each balloon.





;
, Using your Sharpie marker, draw a small circle around the top (opposite side from your knot) so you know how far your garland will be wrapped.


Wipe a thin coating of petroleum jelly all over the balloon surface. The jelly is important as it will prevent the twine from ultimately sticking to the balloons.
 Prop the broom handle across two chairs. You’ll need to size up the handle to determine how far apart the chairs should be situated.


Tie a piece of string around the balloon knot and tie it around the broom handle so that the balloons are hanging.
Lay your drop cloth underneath the balloons in preparation to catch any errant glue mixture.
 Combine PVA glue with 2 tbsp. cornstarch and 2 tbsp. warm water. Mix well.


Add more warm water as needed. You want the glue to be smooth but not too runny.
 Make sure the twine is thoroughly soaked so you may need to submerge and dip it in and out of the glue until each area is completely covered.
 Run the twine around horizontally and vertically until the balloon is well covered.


Don’t forget to avoid the area you already marked off with the Sharpie marker--that part should be left alone.
Cut the end of the twine when finished with the first balloon and press twine in place. Then start on the next balloon repeating the winding process.
 Place drying balloons in a cool, dry area for best results. Humid and wet will only mean that you will need additional dry time.


Test twine balls before popping balloons by touching them for hardness and dryness.
 Carefully extract the balloon from inside the twine ball.
 String balls together using the clear fishing wire first. Then add your twinkle lights.


Thread lights through the tops of each ball (where the balloon knot once was). Make sure the light is pointed down, through the ball so light comes through the other side.
Intertwine the fishing wire with the twinkle lights so you ultimately have one strand.
