 If your chain breaks, you can remove the broken link and reattach the chain for a temporary fix. However, the shorter chain won't be able to fit around all of your gears, severely limiting your range. You can purchase new links, however, at any bike shop and many sport retailers



Master Links are made to fit easily onto any bike, anywhere. They are easy to install quickly, too, making them handy to keep in your saddle bag on long trips. They are, by far, the most common links used by home mechanics.
 Most links have an arrow on them that needs to point in the direction the chain goes when pedaling. The rest are concave (bending in) on one side, and this side needs to face towards the wheel and the rest of the bike., You'll notice that the master link has a figure-eight shaped space for the pins, instead of the normal rounded pins and pin-holes for the rest of the chain. If the chain is not already unlocked, do it now.


Some master links come as two asymmetrical halves -- a C-shaped piece with both pins and an outside plate. To fix these chains, simply thread the C-shaped pin into the both open holes of the broken chain, then fit the plate on top.
 Each of the pins on the two halves of the master link needs to go into one of the ends of the chain. Make sure that the pins go in from opposite sides of the chain as well. You are going to hook the chain back together using the figure-eight hole, and they need to line up.
 It's as easy as pushing the pins through the wholes. Note, however, that this connection is currently very loose.


Some mechanics use a tensioner, a simple C-shaped wire that hooks into the grooves of the chain, to hold it taut while linking. While not necessary, a set of hands or a similar tool to keep the chain close together makes life much easier.
 You want to force the pins into the other sides of the figure-eight hole to lock them in place. If you don't have a pair of pliers handy, there is one more trick to tighten everything. Flip the bike over so it's upside-down. Holding the back break down, slowly pedal the bike. As the brake holds the wheel, and thus the chain, in place, the pressure of pedaling will pull the other side, tightening your master link., While you can fix the chain in a variety of ways, as noted, a broken chain usually needs a replacement. Beyond breaking, old chains expand as the pins inside wear down. This might not sound like much in theory, but it matters when riding. The chain handles and transfers all of the force from your feet to the wheels, and a loose chain means you're doing a lot more work for a lot less speed.