 Many errors are timed and will vanish before you have time to call through to the helpdesk. It is important to know exactly what the error said because in most cases this will accurately pinpoint the cause of the problem. Calling it the "screen thingy that went out" is not very helpful...;
, Many applications have sub-version numbers and those numbers matter to the help desk. This problem may have be resolved in version x.0.2

, (See related article.)

, If you have an Internet connection, search the error in a search engine such as Google. You might get the solution to your problem.
 Leave it off for a minute or so, then reboot the computer. Restarting is a simple action that solves a lot of random problems, and may save you the trouble of calling the Help desk to begin with.
 It is on your bill. Most tech support operators have to maintain an average call length, so if they spend the first few minutes hunting for your customer records, the part of the call where you receive the actual help may be rushed.
 If you're not sure of the Helpdesk phone number, check the documentation the company gave you (you kept it, right?). Alternatively, you could contact the vendor you bought the hardware from to find the number.
 Most help desks have just enough staff to keep customers from going elsewhere, and not one person more. Always remember that it is not the operators' fault; they're working as hard as they can. If you can't be seated in front of your computer for ten or fifteen minutes of troubleshooting, it might be best to put off calling until you can. It's very rare for a helpdesk to solve a problem without your involvement.
 The support staff is there to help you. It is very difficult to help when someone is irrational and angry. If you are upset, walk away and call once you have calmed down.
 The operator will ask you for the information gathered in the first few steps, and take you through the process of identifying the cause of the problem, and finding a solution.

