 Even the most shy or fearful of cats will still have an interest in food and treats. Sit calmly on the ground holding a treat in your hand, and extend your hand towards your cat. Be patient, and the cat should cautiously approach your hand. Let the cat sniff, nibble, and eat the treat. This will help socialize the cat by allowing it to have a positive interaction with you.Of course, cats are notoriously picky eaters, and yours may not enjoy every variety of treat. If the cat doesn’t seem to want the treat you’re offering, buy another flavor, and try again.
 As the cat begins to warm up to you and to become more comfortable in your presence, you can start to socialize it through play. Use a toy that allows the cat to keep its distance from you, such as a long ribbon or a “fishing pole” toy with a toy mouse or fish on the end. Wiggle the ribbon or toy on the floor to catch the cat’s interest. Once it catches on, flick the toy around the room for the cat to chase.Keep the pace of the play slow at first; if you become too agitated and loud, or move too quickly, you may startle the cat and cause it to run away.
Be patient, and allow the cat to play and interact with you at its own pace.
 Although the cat may have constant access to kibble, you can feed it a special treat, like wet canned food or tuna fish. A couple of times during the day, place a dish of wet food or tuna on the floor near your cat. Even if the cat is hiding, it will likely emerge to eat before long. Sit by the food while the cat is eating; this will help the animal become used to your presence.Socializing your fearful cat by feeding it wet food will help the cat form positive associations between you and the food. This will help to decrease its fear.
Make sure that the cat always has plenty of water. Although there may be points where you take away the cat’s food (e.g. once it’s finished eating), you should never take away water.
 If your cat has been hesitant to allow you to touch it, or seems skittish around you, you can initiate physical contact while it’s eating. The cat will be happy and relaxed while eating, and petting it then will let the cat form positive associations between your touch and the food. Slowly reach towards your cat and begin to lightly stroke its fur. Begin by petting the cat on its back, and use a light, slow touch.When you reach out to pet your shy cat, do not reach directly toward the cat’s face. This will startle the animal, and it may be perceived as a sign of aggression. Instead, reach from behind the cat.
 While you may be staring at your cat out of interest, or trying to pique its curiosity, it may be seen as a sign of hostility by your cat. Direct eye contact between cats is a sign of aggression, and may indicate that the aggressor is about to attack.If you find yourself having eye contact with your fearful cat, blink your eyes slowly. This is a sign of love or trust between felines. The gesture will communicate compassion, rather than aggression, to your cat.
You may also make eye contact with your cat when bringing it food, water, a treat, or toys. Your association with these pleasant objects will lead the cat to trust you and become less shy.

