 Your partner will likely have many, many questions. He or she may want to know what were the circumstances of meeting the other person, and whether it was a long term affair or a short, one night stand. He or she will spend time reflecting upon the past months or years of your life together and wonder about your past actions and motives. Total disclosure detailing all the sexual details or your relationship with the other person is not appropriate when you first tell your mate that you've cheated, but it's important to be forthcoming if your partner asks for details.Take your time as a couple to process the many questions your infidelity will bring to the surface. Respond fully and openly to your partner's questions as they come, but expect that new questions will emerge over time.
Be mindful of your partner's readiness to hear details even as you fully answer his or her questions. Never cover up information, but if your partner is not yet asking one type of question -- about your motivation for cheating, for example -- exercise patience. He or she may have enough information to take on board. Wait until your partner asks, then carefully provide a transparent response., You've known about your affair for as long as it's been happening. This painful information is new to your partner. Even if he or she had suspicions, only now have those suspicions been confirmed.The time it takes a relationship to heal after cheating varies, but expect that this process can easily take 1-2 years., Be realistic -- is forgiveness a possibility? If you see any hope for your future, commit to do the hard work that will be necessary to restore trust.When considering your relationship's future, consider the feelings of all those who will be affected by your decision. If your relationship involves children, for example, the stakes may be higher than they would be for a couple. Couples married for decades may have relationship networks and shared experiences that bind them more tightly than those who have dated just a few months or even years.Recognize that even if your partner sees hope for forgiveness, the actual process of forgiveness could take considerable time.
Avoid making rash decisions. Give yourself sufficient time to ensure you're making decisions based upon careful reflection and not simply reacting during the heat of an argument.
 You may find individual therapy an important tool for examining your motives and addressing your own behavior. Couples counseling can be an important step in helping your negotiate the complicated terrain of forgiveness.


Counselors or other trusted figures can provide objective, nonjudgmental support to help you process your feelings.A trusted third party also provides a safe referee for the sometimes painful discussions you'll need to have with your partner.

