 chop up some onions and garlic until they are finely diced. You can use use any kind of onions but green onions or leeks produce the best results as they are the most pungent. Shred up five large leaves of cabbage.
 Get a pint sized clear glass jar with a lid and scoop the ingredients into it.
 Add a small lock of either human hair or animal hair to the mix. The hair should rest on top of the mix and be intact as a bundle; this makes the next step easier. (Optional) For an even nastier stench, add one match head to the bundle of hair.
 Close the lid on the jar and then poke two holes in the lid to allow oxygen to flow into the jar (this will make the bundle of hair burn better inside the jar). Next use a magnifying glass to shine a beam through the jar and onto the bundle of hair until it starts to smoke inside the jar. you want to burn as much hair as possible.If you went with the optional in the last step, shine the beam on the match head.
 Put two pieces of tape over the holes in the lid and let the smoke filled jar sit in direct sunlight and leave it alone;this heats up the ingredients and lets them blend, and permeate everything in the jar. once the smoke inside the jar has settled, take the pieces of tape off the both holes This is to help the ingredients decompose inside the jar.
 after about a week, open the jar and take a whiff to see if its stink has blended enough. Only do this outside, NEVER in your house or anywhere else you don't want to badly stink up. Remember, the longer you leave it, the more wicked it's stench will be. A good indicator that it's ready is being able to detect a whiff from a few feet away after two or three weeks.
 Either open or break the jar in the area you want to stink and watch as people rapidly clear away from the obnoxious, haunting, suffocating stench. An alternative way of doing this is instead of using the whole jar, screen the rancid juice from the putrid mix with an old strainer into a small 2 Oz. pump spray bottle (one of those small clear plastic ones used for travel) and spray where you want to stink, just don't get caught and don't get any of this on you otherwise you will be in for a very smelly time.

