 In a medium saucepan, heat up the milk, sugar and salt. On a chopping board, use a paring knife to scrape the seeds from the vanilla bean carefully. Add these seeds to the milk, with the scraped bean pod. Take the saucepan off the heat, cover with a lid, and allow infusing for at least an hour.


Next, you will need to chill the heavy cream in an ice bath. You can make an ice bath by filling a large bowl halfway with icy water. Place a smaller bowl into the water, into which you will strain the cream. Let the heavy cream sit in the ice bowl until cooled.
In a large, clean bowl, whisk the egg yolks until combined. Take the vanilla-infused milk mixture and warm it up again. Once it is warm, gradually stir it into the bowl with the egg yolks, adding a little at a time and whisking constantly to combine. Once all the milk has been combined with the yolks, pour this mixture back into the saucepan.
Place the saucepan on a low heat and stir the custard constantly. Make sure to scrape the bottom of the saucepan with a spoon or spatula to prevent any of the mixture from sticking. When the custard forms a light coat on the back of the spoon or spatula, it is ready. Strain the custard into the heavy cream, and then stir in the vanilla extract.
Place in an airtight container and refrigerate until chilled, preferably overnight.
 Stir the mixture vigorously with a rubber spatula. Transfer the mixture to a freezer-safe bowl or container (if not already in one). Cover tightly with plastic wrap or an airtight cover. Place in the freezer.
 Once the edges of the mixture have begun to freeze, remove it from the freezer, and stir it well with a handheld mixer. Make sure that you break up any frozen bits, as this is what will give your ice cream a smooth consistency. Cover and return to freezer for two to three hours, stirring every 30 minutes or so while the mixture freezes.


You can also use a spatula, wire whisk, or a stick-blender to stir the mixture, however using these methods will require a little more elbow grease. Use a handheld mixer for the best, smoothest results.
Stirring the ice cream mixture while it freezes is important when making ice cream without an ice cream maker. If you just leave the ice cream mixture in the freezer until it is frozen, you will end with a solid block of icy dairy, which is lumpy and difficult to scoop.
Mixing the ice cream while it freezes prevents large ice crystals from forming and produces a smooth and creamy ice cream.
 The mixture should be thick but still too soft to scoop, almost like soft-serve ice cream.


If the ice cream is not thick enough, return it to the freezer for additional freezing time before beating again.
If the ice cream has thickened properly, you can stir in any additional ingredients at this point, such as chocolate chips or cookie chunks.
 Make sure to leave at least a 1/2-inch of space at the top. Cover with plastic wrap and place in the freezer. Allow the ice cream to freeze until firm.


Serve your vanilla ice cream on its own or as an accompaniment to warm fruit pies or chocolate cake.

