 You may experience physical or emotional abuse in your time as a caregiver. This is because many people who experience a stroke have personality changes that can cause them to become abusive to those closest to them.Abuse may include physical actions such as hitting, biting, or scratching. It may also include emotional abuse, such as calling you names, yelling at you, or making unreasonable demands of you.
Remember that this behavior has nothing to do with you or anything you are doing. You cannot change it by changing your behavior. However, you can use some strategies to stop the abuse, get support, and get help for the patient.
 If you experience abuse from your patient warn him or her that you will not put up with it. For example, if your patient begins to yell at you for something trivial, then let him or her know that if the yelling does not stop that you will walk away.Try saying something like, “I don’t deserve to treated like this and if you do not stop then I will leave the room.” If the patient does not stop, then walk away. Go to another room or go outside for five minutes or more if necessary. Do not return until the patient has calmed down.
If the patient starts yelling again or abusing you in another way, walk away again. Keep doing this to show the patient that you are serious and that you refuse to put up with his or her abuse.
 If the abuse continues despite walking away when the patient is yelling at you, then talk to the patient’s other family members about it. Let them know what has been happening and what you have done to try to stop it. Request their help with the situation.Bringing in other family members may help because some stroke survivors will target their caregiver and be more reasonable around other people. Therefore, you might request that another family member helps you when you are providing care to the patient to serve as a buffer from the abuse.
Another family member might also be willing to provide care for the patient part of the time to take some of the pressure off of you and give you some relief from the abuse.
 If the abuse continues despite bringing in other family members, then enlist the help of your family physician. Tell him or her what has been happening and what you have done to try to stop the abuse. Your patient’s physician may recommend a psychiatric consultation for the patient to determine if he or she is suffering from a mental health condition as a result of the stroke.Your patient may need to undergo therapy sessions and/or take medication to help control a mental health condition, such as depression or bipolar disorder.

