 Passports can be obtained at post offices, government offices and passport offices all around your country.;
, Dutch is the official language, though almost everyone speaks at least a little English in Holland. Learn to say please, 'alstublieft' and 'Bedankt', thank you at least. Take an English to Dutch dictionary to smooth things along on your trip.
 Use traveler's checks if possible, or change your currency to the Euro. Some tourist-heavy areas will accept American credit cards, though smaller businesses will require cash Euros.
 The Netherlands uses Type C and D electrical outlets, while most North American outlets are A or B. Take a converter for any electrical appliances you plan on using.
 Amsterdam is home to the Van Gogh Museum, the largest collection of works by Van Gogh in the world in addition to many exhibitions on 19th-century art. For art lovers there is also the Kroller-Muller Museum, the Mauritshuis in The Hague, and many more galleries throughout Holland. Look at visiting Efteling, the Netherlands Open Air and National Heritage Museum near Arnhem etc.
 Be sure to pick a time of year when you will be comfortable and have the best experience. Research when The Netherlands has its most famous holidays or parades, or when it celebrates famous monarchs. Queen's Day and the Sinterklass feast are two of the most famous celebrations in the Netherlands.
 Winters are especially cold in the Netherlands, with temperatures dropping down below 32 degrees Fahrenheit, or 0 degrees Celsius. Be sure to bundle up, bringing heavy coats, hats, scarves, sweaters and gloves. The summers are warm with light rainfall, averaging temperatures of 72 degrees Fahrenheit or 22 degrees Celsius. Holland is relaxed about clothing, so shorts and t-shirts are fine tourist garb, along with a raincoat or umbrella to combat the occasional shower.
 For instance, if you happen to be visiting during Queen's Day on April 30th, you would want to wear plenty of orange, as will most of the locals. A suit and tie are required at more upscale establishments, but the cities are relatively informal. It is not unusual to see men in jeans at the opera. Take hiking gear and comfortable footwear in case you want explore one of the Netherlands many national parks.

