 You'd also need to own the latest expansion (currently Warlords of Draenor) to be able to play the maximum-level content, but this is not required for roleplaying. You could get the Starter Edition instead, but then you will be locked out of the majority of the game content and some important functions (such as joining guilds and using in-game mail), which can greatly restrict your roleplaying experience.;
, When you log in, choose a realm marked "RP" or "RP-PvP". There are competing schools of thought on whether the normal RP realms or the RP-PvP ones are the best for roleplaying. Some say that being in danger of getting killed by another player on RP-PvP realms makes for a more realistic and immersive experience, others point out that very few of the people engaging in PvP actually roleplay themselves, and that most of them are your typical "griefers" you'd find on a regular PvP realm, who would actually go out of their way to break the roleplayers' immersion. Population-wise "Medium" populated realms are best for beginners, as they are neither deserted nor overcrowded.
 Pick Horde or Alliance, and then your specific race. Then, choose your class. Don't just pick a class or race "because they look cool". Read the info about them on the side (Wowpedia is a great source on Warcraft lore), and follow your instincts. Have a reason for your choice! Note that on an RP realm you are expected to have a more immersive name for your character, one that a character of your chosen race and gender can realistically have. While the languages spoken by Warcraft's races have not been fleshed out enough to permit constructing a realistic name based on the language's vocabulary and grammar, each race's names tend to have a number of specific phonetic qualities (orcish names tend to sound harsh and guttural, draenei names often have long vowels, etc.)

, Make sure that the backstory fits the Warcraft setting and timeline (don't create outlandish backgrounds that have no basis whatsoever in Warcraft lore or are impossible chronologically – one common mistake is to have a night elf character born in Darnassus). Make your character realistic and well-rounded. Everyone hates overpowered "Mary Sues", and one-note characters centered around a single idea are also boring.
 It's interesting, and you might learn something! (though if you did your research on your race's background, you should already know most of the facts given there)

, Think about every situation from his or her point of view. 