 Sit on your bottom on the ground. Stretch your legs long and open them up as wide as they will go. Point your feet and place your hands on the ground in front of you to balance yourself. You should feel this stretch in your hips and your inner thighs.Stay in this stretch for fifteen seconds.
Try to open your legs wider each time you do this stretch. The goal is to eventually be able to do a split.;
, Sit on your bottom with your legs extended in front of you and your arms lifted straight overhead. Fold at your waist and reach your arms towards your toes.Stay in this stretch for fifteen seconds.
You may not be able to reach your toes right away. Keep trying and as you get more flexible, you’ll get closer and closer to touching them.
 Stand with your left leg in front of you and your right leg behind you. Bend your left leg at a 90 degree angle, and rest your right leg on the ground to support yourself. Rest your hands on your left leg and use them to push your left leg even deeper into the stretch.Stay in your left lunge for 15 seconds.
After 15 seconds, switch and do the same thing on your right side.
 Stand with your feet apart (they should be slightly wider than your shoulders). Reach your right arm across your body, and use your left arm to support it and lock it into place.Pull your arm tight until you feel a stretch in your shoulder.
Hold your arm stretch for ten seconds, before alternating and doing the same stretch on the left side.
 Stand with your feet apart (they should be slightly wider than your hips) and your arms outstretched. Lean over to your right side until your right arm hangs down towards the ground and your left arm reaches over your head, parallel to the ground.Pull your left arm taut until you feel a stretch in your left shoulder and the left side of your body.
Hold this stretch for ten seconds on the right side, before switching sides and reaching with your left hand.
 Lie on the ground on your stomach with your arms stretched out in front of you (your body should be in one straight line). Lift your arms and feet off the ground; your arms should be in line with your ears and your feet should be lifted a little higher than your hips.Stay in this stretch for fifteen seconds.
As you get more flexible, try to lift your feet a little higher.

