 No law says you must leave your home after a divorce. If you have no money, you might be best off sitting tight until you’ve managed to save up enough for an apartment. Of course, you’ll need your ex spouse’s permission—especially if they were given the house in the divorce decree.

If your ex doesn’t want you in the house, volunteer to stay in the garage or in a guest house.
Staying in the house isn’t an option if there’s been any history of domestic violence, or if there is a restraining order against you., You should split shared costs, such as property taxes, insurance, electricity and—if you can afford it—the mortgage. Sit down with your spouse and talk about what you will contribute.If you don’t have any money, volunteer to do things around the house. You can cook all meals, make repairs, and clean.
 Try to limit contact as much as possible. Staying in the house will be uncomfortable for everybody, but a detailed routine can make things easier. If your ex thrives on conflict, then limiting contact will be beneficial.For example, you might get up an hour earlier than your ex and come back home an hour earlier. Schedule when you’ll use the bathroom and the kitchen.
 You might have been a slob while married, but now you need to clean up after yourself. Become the ideal roommate. Follow these rules:Wash your own dishes.
Eat only the food you buy. If you want something your ex bought, ask first.
Volunteer to clean shared spaces, such as bathrooms, and mow or rake the lawn.
 Your ex might hit the roof, and who can blame them? It’s terribly rude to start dating in front of your ex-spouse. If you want to date, then meet outside the home and don’t bring them back.There’s also no reason to advertise that you’re dating. Keep that news to yourself.
 If you have children, they will be harmed by constant fighting. As long as you are staying in the house, you need to commit to living peacefully. You can defuse tension by practicing the following:

Listen to your ex-spouse and avoid getting defensive. If your ex complains about your habits, avoid the temptation of starting a tit-for-tat argument.After all, your ex might have a legitimate grievance.
Don’t revisit the divorce. You’re living at home for financial reasons, not because you want to pick apart why you divorced in the first place.
 Staying in the house should be a temporary solution. Some people get comfortable being part of a couple even when they are no longer married. For your own personal growth, you should move out as soon as you can afford it.