 While medical procedures are the most foolproof method for having a girl, they are also the most expensive. They can cost anywhere from several hundred dollars to tens of thousands of dollars. Sometimes these procedures are not available in every country, leading to additional travel costs as well. Set a budget in order to plan how you might pay for the procedure.
 While side effects from these procedures tend to be mild, these techniques are relatively new and involve a certain amount of risk. Talk to a trusted doctor to decide what risks you are comfortable taking on.
 It is possible to sort sperm into Y-chromosomal and X-chromosomal sperm using a technique known as cytometric sorting, after which an egg is fertilized with the desired sperm using artificial insemination or in vitro fertilization. Because X chromosomes are slightly larger than Y chromosomes, sperm that lead to girls are able to absorb more fluorescent dye than sperm that lead to boys. The sperm can then be separated, and the desired sex of a baby can be chosen.Sperm sorting is highly effective, though it is not 100% effective. It can, however, be costly and might not be available for all prospective parents.
 Many reproductive clinics offer to sort sperm by their speed of movement. Because sperm carrying female genetic material tend to be heavier (and therefore slower), this sorting can make a specific sex much more likely, though not guaranteed., This procedure can be done on embryos created using in vitro fertilization. It allows doctors to identify embryos of a certain sex, thus providing gender selection prior to embryonic implantation. In addition to identifying (and potentially selecting) embryos of a certain sex, chromosomal disorders and conditions can be identified using PGD. Though highly effective, the procedure is costly and invasive, and it raises ethical dilemmas about the appropriateness of sex selection of embryos. In fact, gender screening is banned in some places. Certain countries, like Britain, make exceptions only when there is a medical necessity to screen for gender, such as gender-specific genetic diseases.Other doctors similarly support post-fertilization sex selection in cases of medical necessity, but reject post-fertilization sex selection practices because of personal preference.
The procedure works by identifying the gender of an embryo while it is still in the lab before it is placed in the womb, and claims 100% accuracy.