 Most schools tend to send a letter home to your parents, explaining about your detention. If you happen to be one of those schools, try to get home every day before your parents do. That way, you'll be able to check the mailbox for any letters from school that will drag you into the danger zones. If you do find a letter from the school, dispose of it immediately.


Don't dump the letter into the trashcan at home, as your parents may easily discover it. Instead, toss it into the dumpster where your parents would never go rummaging through. This erases any risk of your parents finding the letter in the trash. Plus, the walk to the dumpster shouldn't be far and it's good exercise for you!






Make sure the school letter contains the reason for your detention, and not something else. It would be really bad if that letter was informing your parents about a scholarship for you, or something else.





;
, Preventing your parents from finding out about your detention gets slightly trickier when the school phones your home to speak to your parents. To get out of this, be the first to snatch the phone up and pretend to be your parents.


It's best to choose one of your parent's voices to practice beforehand. Make sure you've gotten extremely good at it before trying it. Listen to your parent speak and take note of the speed, the pitch (high or low) and the tone. All of these are very important when it comes to developing your voice to sound like your parent's voice. It doesn't have to sound exactly perfect, but well enough that the school phoning your home will be fooled.






If you're a guy, it's obviously your father's voice that you will disguise yourself with.






For girls, the whole ploy would crash and burn if you went after your father's voice, so stick with your mother's voice.
 Go up to your teacher(s) and get the date of your after school detention from them.


Asking them with a polite tone and the proper words would help, especially when they see that you're having a good attitude about it. Having a bad one will probably turn them off and they may consider increasing your time in the detention.
 Be sure it's something that you would normally do, or something that actually goes on (ex: a club); otherwise, your parents may get suspicious.


For example: if you know your math teacher is available after school for free tutoring lessons, tell your parents that you'll be in his/her lessons for a little while. Or, inform your parents that you'll be trying out a sports club that is an half-hour or hour long. If your parents ask how it went, tell them you didn't really like the club you picked, or that you think your math teacher was or wasn't good with tutoring.







