 "Action" on a guitar denotes the space between the fretboard and the strings. The strings on a guitar with high action are higher off the fretboard than are the strings on a guitar with low action. You want low action because the higher the action the more force is required to press down the strings. Luckily, just about any guitar's action can be adjusted. Bring it in to your local music shop and ask them to check the action. Typically you want the action at about 1/16" at the 1st fret and 3/16" at the 12th fret. If your action is too high, you will be absolutely amazed at how much easier it is to play once you get it adjusted.






;
, Certain strings come in different gauges or diameters. Light gauge strings are easier to play than medium or heavy gauge strings, and they'll cause less finger soreness.
 Beginners have a tendency to press down on the strings too hard. Relax your fingers, and press down just hard enough to make sure the string firmly contacts the fret. To see if you're pressing too hard, fret a chord or string as you normally would, and then release the pressure just a little bit. If it still sounds fine (or better), try to break your habit of pressing too hard.
 After a few weeks of regular playing, you'll develop calluses on your fingertips, and that should end the soreness. In fact, as long as you continue to play regularly, you'll maintain your calluses and never have to worry about sore fingers again. The key to building calluses is to play regularly, but not to play too much. If you try to play for several hours on your first few days, you may get a blister or two instead of a callus. Tincture of benzoin (benzoin resin in alcohol) is good for preventing blisters and it also protects the skin. Blisters or cuts can make it almost impossible to play, and they're slow to heal, so don't overdo it.
 Certain products can dull the pain to help you get through it. One of the most popular is apple cider vinegar, which is also a popular home remedy for painful sunburns and sore throats. Just soak your fingertips in the vinegar for about 30 seconds before and after playing. Lightly icing your fingertips before and after playing can also help alleviate soreness. Topical anesthetic products containing benzocaine--toothache creams, for example--can also be applied before and after playing. Follow the manufacturer's directions for these products, and discontinue using them if they seem to cause an allergic reaction.
 Everyone who learns to play the guitar has to deal with sore fingers at the beginning. It's worth it. Just keep playing regularly, follow these tips, and you'll get past this stage in no time at all. Learn to love the pain and associate it with everything that you love about music and the guitar.








