 Are you writing to family and friends? Are you writing to a past donor, or soliciting a first timer? Do they have a pre-existing interest in your mission? How old are they? What sort of social media do they use? What sort of magazines do they buy? These sorts of questions will help you determine the optimum content, tone, and layout for your letter.First-timers will need more information about your organization and what you are trying to achieve.
When writing to past donors, be sure to always thank them for their donation and tell them what the money they gave has achieved.When writing a letter for a mission trip or church fundraiser, be sure to ask for spiritual as well as financial support. You should always end by asking the reader to pray for your success, regardless of if they donate.;
, If you don’t know what your target audience likes to read, or their gender, income, age, etc., you’ll need to do some research. You can hire a market research firm to help, or you can do the research yourself.Google can help you track down research that others have already done on your target audience. Search for blog posts, magazine articles or survey results.
You can also create a survey to ask for feedback from current donors.
 Direct mail works better for “traditional” audiences: senior citizens and those that donate to political campaigns, universities, and art campaigns. Email works better for younger audiences, especially those that give to education, research, and technology focused causes.Email letters are typically shorter, and will require a link to a site for online donation.
Regular letters are longer, more graphic intensive, and should include a stamped envelope and reply card.
 Before you ask for money, you need to know exactly how much you are asking for and why. Then, you need to break that amount down, deciding in what increments your likely donors will be able to donate, and what you will be able to do with those increments.For example, if you are raising $25,000 for an expedition to research ways to create new habitat for elephants in Africa, and your donors are likely to give in $100, $500, or $1000 increments, then you might tell them that $100 will pay for a local guide for a day, $500 will pay for a team member’s housing for a week, and $1000 will pay for their travel to Africa.
 Connecting your specific goal to your larger mission will help to involve long-term supporters, as well as making this an entry into future giving for first-time donors.In the example above, the organization’s mission might be to protect endangered wildlife. You might have determined that elephants are becoming endangered primarily because of shrinking habitat, and increasing habitat by a certain number of acres will halt the decline in the species.
 Donors like facts and figures. Including quantifiable facts in your letter will show donors that you have done your research and are prepared to accomplish the goals you set out.To continue with the elephant example, the organization might want to include the number of remaining elephants, the number lost each year, the extent of their current territory, and the amount of territory lost each year, for starters.
 Emotion drives donations more than reason. True, emotionally compelling stories are a powerful way to interest donors and to show them the tangible impact their dollars will have.


In our elephant example, you might include a story about a herd that was dying off until it was given access to more land, or about a group of elephants you want to help, but can’t until this trip is complete.
 Always use the reader’s name. A letter to “Dear Supporter” or “Dear Sir” will grab their attention in the wrong way. Most likely, it will be the last thing they read.Remember: your letter should be focused on the donor you are writing to even more than on your work. Use “you” a lot. And instead of using “I” or “me”, use “we” or “our” to help make a connection., Most readers will only glance at your letter on the way to throwing it in the trash. That means you’ve got to draw them in fast. Think of your headline as an advertisement to get them to read the first sentence.A headline is usually 1-2 lines, printed in bold or a larger type than the rest of the letter. Including several compelling headlines throughout your letter will help to make it more skimmable.To write a compelling headline:


Start with a headline that leads into a story about a person or situation that your organization helped or is trying to help. For example: Brenda Johnson is dying. Her kids need your help, and so do I.Use lead-ins that get the reader involved. Starting your headline with a phrase like “Just imagine if…” or “Think about…” helps to involve them in the letter.Start with an open-ended question like “How many people in our city go hungry at Christmastime each year?” or “Why are more and more children dropping out of school?”Start with a surprising fact intended to shock the reader like “Every day 7,400 people become infected with the HIV virus” or “1.2 million students drop out of high school each year.”For a letter with a more light-hearted tone, try starting with an exclamation: “It’s that time of year again – the Big Spring Pie Bake off is almost here!”, The goal of the headline is to get the reader to look at the first paragraph. That paragraph needs to hook them so they continue reading. The most effective way to solicit donations is to make an emotional appeal, so you want to lead with a narrative that connects to the reader.This is the ideal place to include your case study. Either use direct quotes from the case or tell the story.Here is a good example of an opener from a fundraising letter mailed by Covenant House, which draws the reader in with a vivid scene establishing an immediate emotional connection:“She stood on the curb looking scared and lonely in a skimpy halter top and bright red lipstick. It was two in the morning. A chilly breeze whipped up in the street and seemed to make her shiver. She was a child . . . just a child. We pulled our Covenant House van up to the curb and rolled down the window . . . .”

, After hooking the reader with an emotional appeal, its time to include facts and figures to quantify the problem you are trying to address. Use facts to demonstrate the scope of the problem and to contextualize your introductory case study.
 Your introduction should have described the general problem you are trying to address. Now is the time to focus on one particular aspect of the that problem and how you are going to address it. Remember: readers want concrete information about what you will achieve.For example: Instead of something vague like “We help homeless children on the streets of London”, tell the reader exactly how you help them: “We have 50 homeless shelters in the capital providing the warmth and food which could save over 150 young people’s lives with winter.”Try to connect your initiative to the story or case study in your introduction.
 Good letters will have a climax – a point where the emotion you evoke, the sense of purpose, and the chance to make a difference come together. The ask should immediately follow this moment. Here’s an example from a fundraising letter for an abused woman’s shelter of how to effectively build to an ask:


Start with a compelling story of a particular client – let’s call her Maria – being abused to get the reader's attention.
Give facts and figures to highlight the problem of spousal abuse in your area to show the scope of the problem.
Focus on a particular aspect of the problem: the shortage of shelters for abused women in your area. Make clear the danger this poses for women who are abused and then must return home because they cannot find shelter.
Tie the problem back to your original story. Talk about the problems Maria would face if she did not have a shelter to go to. At this point, the reader should be alarmed and emotionally invested in the outcome. They are ready to help. It is time for the ask.
 You should list suggested donation amounts that are appropriate for the particular donor. Also, be sure to state the impact of the gift so donors know exactly what they are giving. For example: your donation of $25 will feed and clothe a hungry child for a month., You’ve gotten the reader this far. The last thing you want to do is lose them in the home stretch by making it difficult to donate.


For regular mail, always include a stamped return envelope and a reply card. The card should list gift options and include a blank space so they can enter a different amount. For best results, allow them to donate by check, by entering their credit card information or by going online. Always also include an address, email and phone number where they can contact you.If sending an email, there should be a clear, bold link to the site where they can make their donation. Make sure your donation page is simple, with an intuitive layout, clear security and privacy policy links, and an address, email and phone number where they can contact you.Whether soliciting by regular mail or email, consider giving donors the option of pre-authorized monthly payments.
 The reader needs to know how important their donation is.You can use numbers to show the consequences of not acting (i.e. x number of children will go hungry).
Don’t forget to tie the results of not donating back into the case study or personal story you are using. For example: “Make sure that women like Maria have a safe place to stay.”

, Don’t feel the need to add extra information just to take up space. The average fundraising letter is 3 pages, but don’t be afraid to write one that is shorter or longer, so long as you have something to say.Try to avoid huge blocks of text. Plenty of white space will make the letter easier to digest.Letters to family and friends – whether for a mission trip or to raise money for a cause like a relay race to fight cancer – are typically shorter. Try to keep them around one page.
 Also, be sure to remind them one more time why their support is so crucial.
 Although it is at the end, the PS is one of the first things readers will read when scanning your letter.It is also a last chance to drive home your message. In one or two lines, your PS should present the specific goal you are trying to achieve and make a strong ask, in language that is different from the headlines and subheadings elsewhere in your letter. Try to include:


Exactly how much money you would like the donor to give.
Why you’re asking.
What the money will do.
For example: P.S. School starts September 6. Can I count on your donation of $25 to buy a dress for a little girl?

, Make sure that you are using plain, conversational English so that your message is easy to read and crystal clear. Get feedback on your first draft to improve it. And finally, make sure to proofread your letter before sending it out.

