 Consider the possibility that a romantic relationship between you and the sister could have repercussions on your relationship with your friend.Family loyalty runs deep, and you may find yourself running into problems with both siblings.


If you and the sister break up, your friend may take her side and be angry with you.
The sister may not want to pursue a relationship with you if she sees how upsetting it is to her sibling.
 Observe her behavior and determine if you think she might like you. Because of the potential of damaging your friendship, you might not want to pursue her unless you know you have a good chance of being successful.


For example, maybe she is talking to you a lot, making eye contact and smiling. Those could be signs she is interested in you., If the only thing you know about her is that she’s cute and is related to your friend, spend some time learning more about her. Her personality may make her more or less attractive to you.Talk to her while at your friend’s house. Ask her about her interests and favorite things. Find out what you have in common besides your friend.
For example, you could ask “Are you going out for the swim team again next year? Which events did you do this year?” or “I heard you have Mr. Winters for geometry. How are you doing in that class? It was impossible for me.”
Try to get to know her without your friend present, but do not try to ditch your friend to do this. Wait until your friend leaves the room, for example.
You may find out that while you enjoy hanging out with the sister in your friend’s presence, you may find that the dynamic changes when you and the sister are alone. For example, you may enjoy the way your friend and their sister tease each other in your presence, but you and the sister do not have that same component to your relationship.
 If your friend is okay with it and if the sister seems interested, you may decide to ask the sister out. Find a moment when the two of you can be alone without your friend present and let her know how you feel.


Acknowledge that the situation is strange. The sister might be uncomfortable with the idea at first. She might feel loyalty to her sibling and not want to hurt their feelings. Give her some time to think about it.
You could say, “I know it’s weird because I’m Brian’s friend. But we’ve been hanging out so much together this summer, and I’ve gotten to know you better and enjoy your company. So I was wondering if you wanted to go out sometime.”
Let her know that you have talked to her sibling about it. You could say, “I told Tina how I feel and she is okay with me asking you out. We talked about it for a long time. I didn’t want to cause any problems in your family.”
If she doesn’t seem interested, let it go and move on. It is not worth pursuing her to risk your relationship with your friend.
 See how it is hanging out with just the sister. See if you have any romantic connection, or if she is just someone you care about as a friend or “like a sister.”


If she seems to like you, too, take things very slowly. Do not rush the relationship. You do not want to move too fast and cause hurt feelings that could damage your relationship with your friend.
If it doesn’t seem like you have a connection beyond just a friendship, stop dating her. Don’t force the relationship to happen. It could complicate your relationship with your friend and their family.
For example, you could say, “I really like you, but I think we are better as friends. I don’t want to hurt your feelings, but I also don’t want to end up hurting your family’s feelings, too. I really like your sibling and think that trying to make this work will just create bad blood between all of us.”

, Understand that a relationship with their sister changes the dynamics of your friendship.Your friend might be jealous that you are spending more time with their sister than with them.


Balance your time between the sister and your friend. You may want to be spending all your time with the sister, but keep in mind that you were friends with her sibling first.
Make a special effort to do things with just your friend. Invite your friend over to your house, without the sister present, to do something that you both enjoy.
Keep your relationship with your friend’s sister separate. Do not invite your friend out with you and the sister, for example.