 Your passwords to access your accounts on apps or websites should consist of a combination of numbers, upper- and lower-case letters, and special characters that is difficult to guess.

Don't use the same password for more than one website or account. This limits the damage to you if a hacker happens to crack one of your passwords.;
, Password managers store and auto-fill your credentials for different sites, allowing you to create a complex and unique password for each site without having to worry about entering the password itself more than once. While you should absolutely keep track of you passwords on your own as well, a password manager will help make your device much more secure.

Highly praised third-party password managers include "Dashlane 4", "LastPass 4.0 Premium", "Sticky Password Premium", and "LogMeOnce Ultimate".
Most browsers have a built-in password manager that stores and encrypts your passwords.
 This is an obvious piece of advice, but one that bears revisiting: with the exception of some school services, you shouldn't ever have to provide a site administrator with your password for them to access your account.This logic applies to IT workers and Microsoft or Apple representatives.
Similarly, don't tell people your phone or tablet's PIN or passcode combination. Even your friends might accidentally tell someone your passcode.
If you do have to give someone your password for some reason, change it as soon as they are done with whatever they needed to do on your account.
 In addition to keeping your password a secret, you should change the passwords on your various accounts and devices at least once every six months.


Be sure not to use the same password twice (e.g., your Facebook password should be different than your bank password, etc.).
When you do change your password, you should change it substantially. Don't simply replace one letter with a number.
 Two-factor identification requires you to enter a code sent to you in a text message or another service to access your account after you enter your user name and password. This makes it more difficult for a hacker to access your information, even if they are able to crack your password.

Most major websites, including popular social media networks, have some form of two-factor authentication available. Check your account settings to learn how to enable this feature.
You can set up two-step verification for your Google account.
Popular app alternatives to receiving a text message include Google Authenticator and Microsoft Authenticator.
 Any company that has information from you must have a privacy policy that details how they use that information and the extent to which they share it with others.Most people simply click through the privacy policy without reading it. Although the reading can be cumbersome, it's worth at least skimming it so you know how your data is being used.
If you see something in the privacy policy that you disagree with, or that makes you uncomfortable, you may want to reconsider sharing information with that company.
 Simply closing the browser window isn't always enough, so make sure you click (or tap) on your account name and select Log Out (or Sign Out in some cases) to manually sign out of your account and remove your login credentials from the site.
 Phishing scams – instances in which a malicious page pretends to be a login page for a social media or bank account – are one of the easiest ways for you to get hacked. One way to spot phishing scams is to look at the site's URL: if it closely resembles (but doesn't exactly match) a reputable site's URL (e.g., "Faecbook" instead of "Facebook"), it's a fake site. For example, enter your Twitter login information on Twitter's official page only. Avoid doing so on a page that asks for the login information in order to share an article or something similar.
An exception to this rule is when a university uses an existing service (e.g., Gmail) through their home page.

