 When you gossip, you're using information about others as entertainment. This is a natural human practice, but it can easily get out of hand. Two good rules for gossiping: don't gossip about your friends, and don't say anything you wouldn't want traced back to you.;
, Everyone in your group contributes to the mood of everyone else. If your friends are upbeat and positive, you will be happier, and vice versa. You can also get depressed and unhappy as a group.Together, try to focus on the positive. If you've all been complaining for a while, change the subject to something lovely.


You don't have to shut down all negative conversations. If anyone in your group is sad or upset, let her express how she feels.
However, sadness and negativity are different. Encourage your friends who are putting themselves and others down to be more positive.
 A great way to keep your friend group low-drama is to respect everyone's differences. Instead of pressuring everyone to like the same things, acknowledge the very different ways you all find joy. If a friend is happy about something, celebrate with her! Even if you don't care about the same thing, you can still recognize her happiness and encourage it.


Say your friend is excited about being picked to compete in a science fair, and you know nothing about science. Let her know you support her by asking questions and congratulating her. Even if you find science boring, you can get interested in the ways it interests your friend.
An easy way to practice is to not say "gross" or "ew" if your friend is eating something you hate. Her "yum" will be yummier without your "yuck."

, You can be friends with many people, have just one best friend, or have a group of friends you spend a lot of time with. If you do have a group of friends, avoid forming a clique. A clique is a group with intense power dynamics. It has leaders who decide who is "in" and who is "out."Cliques are drama-factories, because everyone is anxious about losing their place.


Ask your group: do we exclude other people when they want to be included? Are we always together? Is it safe to have other friends, or do we feel like we can only be friends with each other? If any of these things are true, you might have a clique.
Ask yourself: can I be who I am? Am I teased for doing things differently than my other friends? If so, you may be in a clique.
To deal with a clique, break the rules. Cliques can change quickly when members aren't afraid.
Make other friends, and let your other friends know that you still want to be their friend. However, say you want to be free to hang out with anyone, that you don't want to be bossed around, and that you don't want to be mean to anyone.
Do what you like. Don't be pressured into activities you don't actually enjoy. There is space for you to live the way you want to live.
 Be suspicious of anyone who tells you you have to abandon anyone you care about. When two of your friends are fighting, don't take a side if they ask you to. Let them work it out, and only contribute your opinion if you think it will help resolve the conflict.


There are cases when one friend might have seriously hurt someone else. You might have to make difficult decisions when you want to support someone who is hurting.
However, choose carefully, and don't let others pressure you before you have had time to think things through by yourself.
A good way to measure is to ask "was my friend forced to do something she or he didn't want to do? Was anyone physically harmed? Was anyone lied to or manipulated?"

, Don't get teased or pushed into a fight or a fit. If a friend is mad at you, ask your friend to speak in a calm voice. You don't have to let anyone yell at you—walk away if you feel uncomfortable. If you are mad at a friend, wait until you are calm and then tell them calmly.


When you feel upset, or are in an argument, avoid starting any sentence with "you." Instead, use "I" statements: "I felt hurt when you said I was copying my sister. I love my sister, but I don't want to be just like her."

, You are going to meet people who try to start drama. Sometimes close friends of yours will do bizarre things, and sometimes total strangers will be mean out of nowhere. Know that everyone has complicated reasons for doing what they do. If someone is being negative, that usually means something negative has happened to them.Stand up for yourself. Report any bullying to an adult, and take distance from anyone who is cruel. Keep yourself calm by reminding yourself that you don't know what that person might be going through.
 When you feel overwhelmed with drama at school, step back and look at the big picture. You might be on this planet for 100 years. What will matter the most to you in 100 years? What will matter the most in 20 years? In 5 years?


People their deathbeds regret not being true to themselves.Have a sense of humor. The things that seem really dire to you as a tween may feel totally silly when you are older.
It's fine to have strong emotions and to want things badly. However, it is important to understand that your feelings will change.
 It's hard to get caught up in drama if you have a life of your own. Join clubs at school, join a team, get a part-time job babysitting, walking dogs, or mowing lawns. Read books that aren't homework. Make art. Sign up for extracurricular classes outside of school, and make friends who don't know your friends., You can get caught up in drama really quickly by telling lies. Lies are hard to maintain, even really simple ones. When you are caught in a lie, your friends might start thinking of you as a liar. Telling lies can also damage your ability to solve your problems.


Lies are shortcuts, and when you tell one, you are often getting around a problem without solving it.
For instance, if you lie and say you are doing your homework so that your parents will stop nagging you, you will eventually get in worse trouble for failing your classes.
 If someone tells you a secret, don't share it. Don't even tell one person. As long as your friend is not in danger, they have the right to privacy. However, if a friend tells you a secret that could mean they are in danger of being hurt or getting in trouble, tell an adult. Your teacher or your parents or guardians are good options.


Safe secrets you shouldn't tell: your friend has a crush, your friend feels dumb in class, your friend is annoyed with another friend but is trying to get over it, your friend has her period, your friend is seeing a therapist.
Dangerous secrets you should bring to an adult: your friend is throwing up her food or hardly eating at all, your friend is dating an older guy, your friend is cutting, your friend is taking drugs, your friend is being bullied or abused at school or at home.
 Find adults you can talk to who will listen to your concerns. If your parents are good listeners, talk to them. If you have a teacher you trust, talk to that teacher. Adults can help you keep small dramas in perspective, and they can help identify things that are truly worrying. For instance, you might be bothered by a friend suddenly being rude all the time, but an adult might be able to see that the friend is exhausted from trouble at home.


If you don’t have any adults you can count on, consider signing up for a mentoring program.A program such as Big Brothers/Big Sisters or Across Ages, will match you up with an adult who can talk with you and take you on adventures.Look online for mentoring programs in your area, or ask for recommendations from a counselor at your school.

