 This is very important to do first as it determines what kind of clay you'll be working with. Don't rule out clays that need a kiln -- you can buy a small one for your home if you're serious about this hobby. Here is the rundown on the methods and varieties of clay used with each:


Oven bake, air dry, or polymer clay. These do not require use of a kiln; they either air dry or are baked in a standard oven. Due to expense, they are best used for small items such as jewelry, ornaments, etc. The oven and air dry clays are similar in look and feel to normal clay. Polymer clay comes in many bright colors (kind of like playdoh!), and can be made into beautiful designs which become plastic-like when fired.
Handbuilding with standard clay. The possibilities are endless for hand built ceramics. It does, however, require the use of a kiln. But otherwise the investment needed is very low. Clay itself is inexpensive, about $6-10 per 25 lb bag. A rolling pin, newspapers or cloth, and other ordinary household items are all that are required. With a book on handbuilding, most anyone should be able to start making pieces on their own.
Wheel throwing with standard clay. Again, a kiln is required. And once you are an experienced thrower you will undoubtedly want a large kiln, since you will produce pieces much more quickly than in handbuilding. You can learn to throw from books or even better, videotapes, and some people do, but it is difficult. Most people with no experience, buying a wheel and trying it out on their own, would get frustrated and give up. However, if you are patient, you can build your throwing skills, never firing anything (a large kiln is expensive -- but maybe you have access to one?) but instead recycling the clay to be thrown again. It is tempting to want to finish each piece at the beginning, because you are very proud of it, but soon you will hate the look of those early pieces! So not even firing them at all would be a fine strategy.;
, Now that you know what method you'll be employing, you can choose your clay. Most clays require a kiln, but many novelty brands will fire in a kitchen stove. If you just want to play with wet clay, don't even worry about firing it. A basic rule: wet clay and dry clay will not work together properly -- just make sure your clay is the same consistency.









If you are going to fire your clay, choose between high and low fire.

Low fire is usually best for bright colors and detailed decoration. The glazes are very stable at that temperature, the colors stay bright and they don’t move during firing. The drawback is that the pieces are not fully vitrified (the clay isn’t fully fused) so you are counting on the glaze to make the piece waterproof. This makes them less suitable to dinnerware or items holding water. The glaze is more likely to chip because it hasn’t interacted with the clay as in high fire. However, if the proper clay and glaze are used, it can be quite strong. The clay used for low fire is called Earthenware.
Mid to High fire uses clays that are called Stoneware or Porcelain. Bright colors can still be gotten in oxidation kilns (electric kilns), less so in reduction kilns (gas kilns). Pieces are very strong, when fired to temperature the clay is waterproof on its own, and can be used for dinnerware and ovenware. Porcelain can be made very thin and still maintain strength. Glazes at these temperatures interact with the clay bodies giving speckled, individualized pieces that many people find interesting. The glaze typically moves (a lot or a little) so detailed designs would get blurred., Working with clay can get a bit messy, especially if children are involved. Cover any area that you don't want to get exposed -- lay a tarp or newspapers on the floor or do your work in the garage or other non-living space.









Never wear clothes that you don't want to get dirty or stained. If you have long hair, pull it back. It'll be less messy and won't get in your eyes.

