 If you've already decided that you don't want to scramble to teach isolated histories of many world countries, you could focus on teaching themes. If you teach a theme, you can highlight a variety of world histories over a large period of time. You might use a theme like humans and the environment, humans and other humans, or humans and ideas.For example, if you're teaching about humans and technology, you might divide your class into groups. Assign a time period or region to each group and ask them to note every instance of new technology. Once they've done this, ask them to argue their most important technology against the other groups' technological innovations.;
, You could also break the course into set periods of time instead of trying to cover the earliest recorded history to the present. If you do this, try spending a week or two covering each era, but be sure to present it from different historical viewpoints. For example, you could do a modern era that covers post-World War II history to the present. Other big eras could be:From prehistory to the beginning of agricultural societies
Early encounters (1200 BCE to 500 CE)
Age of empires (300 to 1500 CE)
The state and globalization (1400 to 1800)
Industrialization (1750 to 1914)
Modern war (1900 to 1950)
Postwar challenges (1950 to present)

, You may find that even though you're teaching the course using themes or eras you're still teaching about isolated cultures. For example, you might have spent a week focusing on the plague as it devastated Western Europe. Remember to connect the individual lessons to other civilizations and cultures. Try to include a variety of histories to do this. Look at women's history, economic history, philosophical history, and indigenous histories.


It's fine to spend one week teaching a time period in a specific region, like Western Europe in the 15th century. To connect with other civilizations and cultures, spend another week discussing the history of 15th century South America. You can then cover their encounter from both perspectives.
So if you were teaching about the plague, you could discuss its origins in China, its spread along the Silk Road, or its impact on religion, learning and the economy.
 Check with your school's administration to ensure that the way you're teaching the course and your expectations follow guidelines and requirements held by the school. Structure your course so that they learn information that is tested by the school.


For example, if your students will be tested on the French Revolution at the end of the term, you need to at least cover it in class.
If your school requests understanding of themes and events, consider assigning an essay. Your students can write about how a current event connects to a past world event of their choosing.
 Once you've determined how you're structuring the course, create a detailed outline or syllabus that you can give your students. You should list the required readings, lesson topics, assignments due, discussion days, and exam dates.


Go over the syllabus with your class on the first day. Encourage students to ask their questions about the course or world history. You may even want to ask them if they have any historical questions they'd like to discuss during the term.
 You might feel like you have so much material to cover that you need to assign a lot of reading. This can overwhelm your students, making them less likely to closely read the text. Instead, divide a reading assignment into smaller parts. You or your students can paraphrase the text. Chunking the text can make it easier to understand.For example, if you're having the students read an excerpt from a primary document, choose several difficult sentences or phrases. Create a worksheet that lists these chunks of text. Next to the text, give students a space to write the main ideas of each of these passages in their own words.
 Many teachers mix lecturing with having their students read silently. Instead of keeping the classroom quiet, call on students to read passages of primary sources or the textbook aloud. This can engage students who learn better through listening and it makes the students more involved in learning.If the text is long, go around the room and have each student read a sentence or two. This can also help students pay better attention during class.
 Students learn well when they feel like they're not just being lectured to. Make your students curious by asking the right questions. You should ask factual questions, inferential or interpretive questions, and universal questions that create discussion. For example, after reading a primary document you might ask:Where and when did this historical event take place?
What did the author mean by writing this passage? What did he/she want us to understand?
How does this passage challenge our understanding of (the main theme)? Have things changed significantly in our time?

, Since you'll probably be spending a significant amount of time lecturing, your students will need to record important notes. Many students have never been instructed on how to take effective notes. Teach them two-column note taking where they record key ideas on one side/column of paper and write their own responses on the other side/column.For example, they might write "Magna Carta" with key dates/places on one side. On the response side, they could write, "Held all accountable to rule of law for the first time."
Your students need note-taking help if you see them writing down every word you say or not writing anything at all.
 Students can become bored by simply reading the textbook every week. Encourage curiosity by assigning primary documents or historical novels. Ask your students to act like historians by considering what these documents or novels tell about the time period or region you're covering. You could also show a historical movie and talk about how accurate it was or what the inaccuracies tell about its creation.


You can assign speeches, poetry, novels, advertisements, political cartoons, or letters.
 After a lecture or week of instruction, ask your students for their feedback. This will help you gauge how much your students understood and what you may need to clarify. When you're ready for their feedback, ask them to write down:3 things they learned
2 questions they still have or things they're confused about
1 thing they really enjoyed

, Your students should be able to tell that you're interested and excited about the material that you teach them. In turn, they may feel more curious about what you're teaching and will pay more attention to lectures. When you lecture, you should focus on the questions about history instead of overwhelming your students with names and dates.Remind your students that they can meet with you during your office hours or ask questions after class. Make your students feel like they can come to you if they're struggling or are confused by a particular lecture.
 Students may quickly tune out to your course if you rely completely on completely on lecturing. Get the students to interact with you and one another by holding weekly discussions. You can hold discussions about primary documents that you assign before the class or about different sides in a historical debate.For example, you might divide the students into two groups that debate if World War II was inevitable or preventable.
 Since you'll be covering a large geographical area, vast time periods, and a number of civilizations, you may want to give several assessments over the course of the term instead of one final at the end. This will also give you a chance to do a variety of assessments like:Biographies of people (either major historical figures or common people that lived during the period you've covered)
Mapping projects: have the students create a poster or annotated map about a place. This gives them a chance to show off geography skills while including a timeline of basic information.
Defending a timeline: give your students a handful of important historical events to place on a timeline, but limit them in how many they can use. Make them argue and defend why their timeline contains critical events.

