 Positive reinforcement helps to reinforce positive behaviors and is more effective than negative reinforcement. This can help to encourage your child to do the things you want them to do more often.For example, if your child gets a good grade in school, then praise them for the good grade. If they help out around the house, praise them for helping out.
 Small children are like sponges when it comes to picking up habits and behaviors from adults, and even teens (although they won’t admit it) take cues from their parents. If you regularly whine, complain, grumble, snap back, or otherwise talk back when dealing with other people, your kids will normalize this behavior. Don’t just tell them that talking back is inappropriate; show them.Instead of snipping to your spouse “Can’t you take out the trash for once — I’m busy!” try “Can I do it in a little while, or can you take it out this time while I finish up what I’m doing here?” Remember that if you frequently model a type of behavior, such as making rude comments to your spouse, then your child will think this is unacceptable.
 With children, statements as routine as “It’s time to get cleaned up for dinner” can lead to explosive outbursts. While kids can have famously short attention spans, they can also have difficulty transitioning from one activity (especially one they’re engrossed in) to another. Therefore, build in some adjustment time for them.Try, for instance: “In ten minutes it will be time to stop playing and wash up for dinner.” Give five- and two-minute reminders as well.
 More often than not, the back-talk has little to do with any personal animus towards you, even if you are directly accused of being mean or unfair. While it’s natural to feel insulted when you’re challenged or called names, ignore this inclination and look for deeper causes of the back-talk.Especially if you are noticing an uptick in talking back, do some sleuthing and talk to your child about possible causes like school stress, relationship troubles, bullying, and so on. See if the back-talk as a warning sign and an opportunity to help your child.
 Talking back isn’t the most helpful way to process and express emotions, but kids and adults often use it for that reason anyway. Work with your kids to develop better ways to deal with anger, anxiety, frustration, and other emotions that can boil over into back-talk.Encourage emotional expression through activities like journaling, drawing pictures, squeezing or bouncing a ball, deep breathing, taking a walk, or simply having a conversation. It may be easier to encourage younger kids to embrace these methods, but even strong-willed teens can come around once they see the benefits.
 You aren’t likely to be able to eliminate back-talk, but you may be able to corral it. Try setting aside a defined time each week — Saturdays after breakfast or whenever else — when your kid can freely (but respectfully) express their grievances, gripes, and groans. This might be especially helpful with teens.Think of it as lifting the lid off a boiling pot of water to release the steam every few minutes instead of letting it boil over unexpectedly. Ideally, you’ll turn a potential point of confrontation (antagonistic back-talk) into an opportunity for a fruitful weekly conversation.
 Talking back is not a justifiable way for a child to express displeasure with your rules and expectations, but constant back-talk may indicate that a “policy review” is warranted on your part. Every parent knows just how fast kids grow up, and sometimes the rules can lag behind the reality.Don’t cave in on the spot and move bedtime or curfew back an hour, or the child will think that whining works. Instead, agree to sit down in the near future and discuss a change, then announce any changes at a point after the meeting (so it is clear that it is your decision and there is no room for debate).
 This can be one of the toughest things for a parent to do — allow your kid to fail or flounder when you know it’s going to happen. If their back-talk is a refusal to do something you know they’ll regret not doing, you may be serving them best by letting them find out the hard way that actions (and inactions) have consequences.For instance, if they snap back at you every time you ask them to get started on their history report or encourage them to start preparing for the baseball team tryouts, you may need to simply let them deal with the bad grade or not making the team.

