 Usually you will want to choose a type of tile that reflects your decorating colors, sports team or theme. Go to a hardware store to look through the various choices of glass, ceramic or stone.


Another option is to create a tile mural with pennies. By placing pennies in a design, you can lay down a copper surface on your bar top.;
, Go to the store with the measurements of your bar top, so that the staff can advise you on the quantity of tile and other supplies you will need.
 Remove your tile colors from the container and plan your design. Although you do not to use all the tiles at once, it is a good idea to set up the main images and take pictures or draw sketches, so that you stay on track once you begin to set your tile.
 Open the windows and apply the diluted product according to package directions. This strong cleaner will ensure you don't have any dirt or products that will corrode your mortar.


Rinse the TSP thoroughly off the bar counter surface. Wear gloves and long sleeves while cleaning the bar top.
 Most thinset water is mixed with cool water. It will need to set for a while, so ensure you follow package directions well before you start to make your tile mural.
 Use the un-notched edge of the trowel to spread the first layer. Smooth it well to maintain an even surface.
 This time, use the notched edge of the trowel to spread the mortar. Create uniform grooves in the mortar across the entire surface.
 Press the tile in only slightly. You do not need to push it to the bottom of the mortar.


Be sure to set the tiles carefully to avoid getting mortar on the front of the tile. If this happens, remove the tile and clean it, then replace it onto your mural.
 Near the edge of the bar top, use tile snips to cut ceramic or glass tiles into diagonal or smaller shapes that fit within your borders.
 You will want to ensure there isn't any errant mortar before you let it dry.
 It will need to set at least overnight.
 Follow the package directions to ensure the right ratios and timing.
 Make sure you get a good layer of grout between your tiles.
 Drag it across the top of the tiles. Allow the rest of the tile to set for 10 minutes.
 Wipe the surface of the tiles thoroughly. Rinse and squeeze the sponge if it no longer cleans the tile.
 You should remove any chalky film on the tiles with the dry towel.
 It may need to dry for up to 24 hours.
 This will help to avoid mold and mildew in your bar counter. Apply 2 coats, if your product suggests that it will create a better seal.
 Add trim to the counter top if desired.

