 Before you choose a career consultant, you will need to know if you want to improve your current work situation, find a new job or explore an entirely different career field.;
, Talk to colleagues and members of your professional network. Others who have worked with career consultants may be able to recommend someone.
 Almost all consultants have websites, and you can learn something about their backgrounds, experience and other clients.


Take note of what the consultants did before they launched their own career consulting business. Look for people who worked in the field you want to work with, or have experience in your current industry.
 You can meet with them in person, or schedule a phone interview.


Talk to consultants outside of your local area. With the use of instant messaging, Skype and other technologies, you can work with a consultant anywhere in the world. Do not limit yourself to the professionals available in your immediate area.
 Ask them how their process would work for you.


Look for a willingness for the consultants to share examples of what they have helped other clients achieve. This will give you an idea of how you would work together.
 Some career consultants may charge per session or have a flat fee.


Talk about your budget. A career consultant that you really like might offer different options that you can afford.
 Many consultants build their reputation and business by publishing books, articles and presentations that might be helpful to you. What they write can give you insight into their level of expertise.
 The consultants you interview should be willing to provide you with a list of current or former clients you can contact for a reference.


Ask the references if their expectations were met, and if they had been able to achieve their career goals with the help of their consultant. Look for specific examples.
 Some career consultants are willing to send you free newsletters, tips and other information just for registering on their websites.


Sign up for and purchase more intensive consulting work if you like the results of the free information you receive.
 The Salvation Army and Goodwill offer career services to low income communities.
 They can also make referrals.

