 you want people to like you for who you are, so bring your best self to the forefront.


check out books like David Zyla's The Color of Style, or color me beautiful.

see what astrology has to say about your personality. everyone has faults, and you need to accept your faults as part of who you are. along with your strengths, which is what astrology does best.
take tons of quizzes like "the big 5" or "OCEAN" every week or two to keep your finger on the pulse of your personality.;
, Dabble in grunge, punk, goth, emo, prep, and hippy styles of dressing, because a blend of it all is hipster and indie, and your only guideline for that is to be yourself. Turn your closet and bathroom into a grown-up dress-up trunk. Experiment and find a perfect look that captures your interests and personality, and adapt that to be able to fit into any situation.
 Commonly called mind vomit, say loud and proud absolutely every last thought you have. have the social skills of a 12 year old, saying exactly what you think three seconds after you think it. it's okay to start screaming something about tampons in the middle of the lunchroom. when it goes quiet, laugh hysterically at everyone else's shock to cover your embarrassment. Curse when you feel like it, just use cover ups in front of the elderly and young, like "cheez-whip" to cover "Jesus" and "Oh my golly" to cover "Erma Gerd," "frack" to cover "f*ck", etc.



It doesn't even have to be funny, but you doing it will end up being so. Like Nike says, "Just do it."
be spontaneous and loud, waving your hands all over to emphasize your sentences. Italians are experts at this. look up Italian hand gestures and watch your own mind be blown.
 do the twist in the middle of the lunchroom. don't worry about looking weird. don't worry about what people think. don't care, cause you're you, and you are a-ma-zing.
 Act like you know all about their subject matter, and what you don't know, ask them. say hi to everyone you run into, and if you forget their name, ask it.
 have to be constantly reminded to shut up in libraries.
 if you're willing to learn, you'll be interested, and interested eventually leads to unhealthy obsessions and tons of fun. be a nerd, but a happy nerd. the definition of nerd being: a person who gets really obsessed about weird stuff and has tons of fun being obsessed. that's not bad, but you also need to be able to tone down obsessions and keep quiet. look up "living with pure-O" for more information.
 Update your status as often as you can with your most mind numbing activities; we all need to know that you are thirsty right now. post statuses with childlike simplicity: ""i am happy.""

,