 Press the paper towel into the affected area to soak up as much of the wet paint as you can. This will minimize the severity of the stain it leaves behind. Work from the outside of the spot inward, folding the paper towel periodically to make sure you’re using a clean section.Don’t wipe or scrub the spot, as this will only spread the paint around and enlarge the stain.An absorbent towel will work even better for soaking up the wet paint. Dig out an old one, however, because it will likely be permanently stained afterwards.;
, Add a few drops of a mild liquid dish soap to a container of warm water and stir. For best results, use a standard detergent or even hand soap—anything stronger may damage the leather.Avoid soaps and detergents that are advertised as “extra strength” or contain “grease-fighting” agents. These typically contain harsh additives that can strip the color the color from dyed leather and cause cracking or splitting.Soap and water will be useful for cleaning most water-based paints, including interior color and arts and crafts paint., Dip the brush into the soap solution, then shake off the excess water. Wet the paint spot and begin scrubbing it gently. After a few minutes, wipe the area with a clean towel and resume scrubbing. Repeat until the stain has been removed completely.An old toothbrush or nylon dish scrubber will work well for this purpose.
Use just enough force to coax out the stain. Otherwise, you may leave noticeable scratches or scuffs.
 Since leather is a natural material, it’s especially susceptible to water damage. You’ll want to make sure that you’ve dried the surface thoroughly once the paint is all gone. If you don’t, the residual moisture can cause the leather to crack, split or blister.To dry leather safely and effectively, pat it with a microfiber towel or soft kitchen sponge.
Consider treating the surface with a specialty conditioner. A good leather conditioner will enhance the color and texture of leather items while protecting them from spills and other accidents in the future.