 Stand tall and show your pride in who you are. Imagine if you looked flawless... what would your posture be like? Now adopt that posture. Any time you find yourself slinking back to un-confident body language in the halls, remind yourself how fabulously attractive you are, and go back to your awesome walk.


It's okay if you don't feel fabulously attractive. Keep telling yourself, and keep pretending you are. Eventually, you'll believe it. You can shine.
 There's a good chance you've learned to be resourceful and quick in order to protect yourself from the insults you've already heard. Use that quick and agile thinking, and put forth a calm, confident appearance. Others are drawn to confident, funny people. Look around - the most attractive people are not with the most handsome partners. They're with the funny and kind ones. Funny is money - use humor to help defuse tense situations, and you'll draw people in.
 Be friendly and compassionate to others, and practice random acts of kindness. View each person as a potential new friend, and react to them in the most positive way. Usually, when you treat people well, they will also treat you well.
 Your personality won't "click" with everyone, and that's natural and not a bad reflection on you. Don't assume it's because you are transgender.


If you don't wind up with the traditional "in-crowd," that's all right. That clique is hard to crack for anyone. There is no need to push it. Seek out other interesting and fun people and be popular in your own way.
Some people are legitimate jerks. This is because they are bad, and it has nothing to do with you. They are not worth your time.
 People love to talk about themselves, so ask them questions to keep the conversation flowing about what they like. Show that you are interested in what they have to say.


After leaving a conversation, try mentally summing it up. "So Jordan's puppy Spots is teething, and he's trying to get her not to bite before he introduces her to his girlfriend." This way you are more likely to recall the details later, and Jordan will be pleased you remembered.
 Focus on the upsides: the sweet girl you talked to today, your success in Spanish class, or your father's kindness. Reflecting upon the positives can help you stay afloat during the negatives.
 Try joining clubs, doing volunteer activities, joining a sports team, and/or joining an LGBT+ group. Find your interests, and search for a group centered around those interests. This will help you meet people who share your talents and passions, and you can make great new friendships.

