 Plan to not be present for a potential buyer’s inspection, but leave a note outlining where the inspector can find the things they need to look at. In particular, oddly located water heaters or furnace systems may be hard to find, and the inspector will appreciate your pointing them out. Identify hidden entries to beneath homes with pier and beam foundations.Provide proof that the septic system is in working order. The inspector will not conduct an inspection of your septic tank. It is up to you to provide proof of a recent professional inspection that states the condition of the septic tank.
Don’t leave a loose pet at home, as you do not want the inspector to be startled or otherwise have to deal with an animal.
 Keep and provide a file of any documentation regarding maintenance and repairs of the home. These should include, at the very least, evidence of finance inspections, receipts for any repairs, and any insurance claims you’ve made on the home.Be able to prove, with paperwork, that you’ve addressed any issues that have previously arisen in regards to the home.
Depending on the area you live in, any remodeling would have required permits that also need to be included.
 Many home inspectors will arrive at a home quite early. Some prefer to do a quick run-through before a Realtor or potential buyer arrives if they are also attending the inspection. , Remove any clutter from areas that may need to be inspected. The cabinets beneath any sinks will need to be clear, and access to built-in fixtures such as water heaters must be entirely accessible. It’s also best to get basements or attics as clear as possible, as underground walls and attics will need to be thoroughly inspected.Even in storage rooms — in particular attic storage areas — you will need to pull boxes into the center of the space so that structural components such as trusses and exterior wall conditions can be readily assessed.
 A home inspector will not personally ignite a pilot light, flip electrical breakers, or turn a home’s water on. Make sure everything is turned on and in working order before the inspector arrives so this does not impede the inspection.If the home has been empty for some time, run faucets and other water sources to make sure water is flowing and does not contain unsightly sediment from sitting in pipes for a while.
 It seems obvious, but this is an important step, as there are several things that may obstruct an inspector. Make sure any gates are unlocked, and keys are left in lock boxes. Let the inspector know beforehand about preferred methods of entry to the home.Check to see that any sheds or garages are also accessible.
 If it’s winter, make sure snow or ice will not obstruct entrance to the home nor cover anything that will need to be inspected. In addition to making sure the driveway is safely accessible, remove snow from any windows and clear any built up snow from the foundation of the building. Finally, remove any icicles that have formed on the home or other structures on the property., Though you don’t necessarily want to simply leave all the lights on in your home, making sure lights are easily found and have working bulbs is important. Lights with broken or absent bulbs will force the inspector to determine whether the fixture itself is inoperable, a time-consuming and potentially frustrating task.Consider leaving lights on in small spaces — such as crawl spaces, attics, and furnace rooms — that are hard to see into or don’t have light sources with easily accessible switches.
 Avoid shoddy fixes or minimal adjustments — they may be noticed by a home inspector and will indicate that you have not put meaningful care into the home. Additionally, you should notify potential buyers of recent things you’ve done to the home, including repairs, replacements, or plans to do so in preparation for a sale.