 Nuri is a young boy who has been playing golf for a year; he possesses strong fundamentals and an uncanny love for the game. He was invited to the Realms of PangYa by Pipin, a Cross Chronos Clan member from the island of PangYa.


Nuri has an optimistic personality and is extremely patient, opting for safe plays over very aggressive ones.
Nuri is 15 years old; he loves watching action movies, video gaming, and taekwondo.
Nuri's specialty is Irons
His strength is control and stability. He has excellent basic skills and great club control, but lacks power and distance.;
, Hana was invited by Quma, another member of the Cross Chronos Clan, to the Island of PangYa because of her great talents in ball control. Hana is a very composed character and is a steady player known for her ability to curve her shot. Hana lacks power but more than makes up for this with her great focus and calm play. Hana is 14 years old who loves collecting hair ribbons and reading fashion magazines.


Just like Nuri, her specialty is Irons.
Her strength is control and stability.
 An ex-cop with a short temper. He receive his invitation to complete in the Albatross18 golf tournament from the Cross Chronos fairy, Lolo. Even though he has only been playing PangYa for 3 months, his great passion for the game and hard work continually improve his skills. Because of his quick-temper, Uncle Bob may demonstrate some behavior that most would not consider the most sportsmanlike but all in all, he's a good man who can pack a wallop behind his shot. Uncle Bob is a 41 year old man with a great ability to put spin on the ball.


His specialty is using wood clubs
Uncle Bob's strength is power and spin control. Good for players who wants to reach long distance.
 Cecilia's SE Asian name is Angelina. A lady full of beauty and grace for daintiness who loves to operate heavy machinery. Cecilia served as the Captain on the naval battle cruiser Silvia. She was known not only for her beauty and elegance, but for her leadership and nautical skills. She's 27 years old (25 in PangYaSEA) and has exceptional accuracy and a strong sense of direction but a perfectionist she was, cause her to overthink her shots, making her control slightly unsteady. She loves reading books on politics, diplomacy, military, mechanics, etc.


Cecilia's specialty, just like Uncle Bob, prefers wood clubs
Strength is accuracy. For players who are having difficult time hitting PangYa.
 A professional tennis player from Britain. Losing his parents at a very young age, he was left with nowhere to go and no one to turn to. Playing tennis helped get his mind off things but his real childhood dream was to become a fighter pilot. As he pursue his dream, he flew into a bad storm that ended in a terrible plane crash. He soon woke up on PangYa Island when the Chronos Clan found him washed up on the shore. Max decided to enter the Albatross18 tournament after discovering that the Silvia Battleship's captain, Cecillia, will be there. A chance for Max to pursue his dreams in becoming a fighter pilot. Max is 23 years who loves collecting supercars, do bike-riding and piloting airplanes.


Max's specialty is wood
Have good strength for reaching long distances. An all around character with accuracy and control.
 A young stubborn pirate and a captain of the famous ship, Lunar Tomb. Kooh has traveled to many exotic places with his crew. She maybe young but she has a great sense of control and power. Kooh is in search of her father who has been missing for some time now. He has been missing since his fight with the Demon King. Most of the people are convinced that Kooh's father went over to the Demon King willingly and the crew now believes that they were betrayed. That's when Kooh took over and led the people. Kooh is in search of her father to find out the truth, but her memory of him will always remain within his cannon that Kooh brings with her. Kooh is 11 years old who loves to mend her father's cannon, annoying her crew, collecting dolls and weapons.


Kooh prefers Irons.
A good character for players who are comfortable with high power and control. This character is advisable for new players who wanted to learn special shots and spins.
 A daughter of a lineage of excellent magician on PangYa Island. Though not a pure wizard but Arin had exceptional talent. She graduated at the top of her class in the Wiz School of Magic. Possessing two different types of magic, she has mastered an advanced technique that incorporates the merits of both. Despite of her young looks, she has 10 years experience as a skillful magician and is a very popular lady. Yearning to meet the PangYa player Max, she made a determined decision to participate in the PangYa tournament! Dreaming to play with Max, she trained hard for nine months, standing undefeated against pro after pro as her ability continued to grow. She have a pet named Hato who can transform into a club by means of magic. She's 20 years old who loves cooking.


Her specialties is Irons.
A character with high power in par with Kooh and Lucia.
 The descendant of the demon king who was locked away by ancient heroes of PangYa. The ghostly figure who appears every now and then is named Karen. She was once Kaz's lover who sacrificed her life when Kaz began to transform into a demon. Kaz lost a portion of his memory due to the trauma. Kaz is 18 years old who loves to mend swords, practicing fencing and do meditation.


Kaz specialize any type of golf club. A very good character for players who wish to try different approach of the game.
Has a balance built but most players equip him with +Power items.
 The famous pop star in PangYa. She enjoys dancing and singing, captivating her fans all over the world. Lucia is one of the newly released characters in PangYa and most of the female, even male players use her for hitting high power. She's 17 year old and loves collecting jewelry.


Lucia is not sure yet which specialties to choose.
As mentioned, she have high power but low control. Advisable of intermediate players.
 Was born from the Demon King's heart and Nell was found and raised by Cadie, the greatest witch of Pangya Island. Cadie is unaware of Nell's past but often displays mysterious power that belongs to the Demon King or perhaps an inception from Cadie. Nell's age is unknown and she loves spending time with Pepper.


Specialty club is all and she's ready to learn new things.
She have been playing golf for 1 year.
 The newest character released in PangYa world. Spika has landed on PangYa Island, though her initial landing was by pure accident. Her curiosity about the world made her decide to stay on the Island. Her current goal is to conduct research about the magic energy of Pangya Island and the bring the technology back to her planet Zephyr. You can always see her with a device called Roi. Her favourite food in PangYa is Wizberry Snowflakes, a famous dessert made with ice from the alpines near Wiz Wiz. She's a good friend of Cecilia due to their common enthusiasm for technology. Spika is 16 years old who loves breaking and rebuilding devices.


Her specialties is woods.
Spika have a high power and control.
 Just like real golf, you get to use all 14 different clubs which are divided into several categories. Each category has different characteristics which must be learned to know each strengths and weaknesses of each.


Wood - Wood have 3 kinds of club. 1w can reach 230 distance, 2w reaches 210 distance and 3w reaches 190. Woods are best for long distance but suffer from poor accuracy and control.
Iron - Irons send your comet high into the sky. These clubs are accurate and easy to control. Commonly used for chip-ins. 4I have 160 distance, 5I have 150, 6I have 140, 7I have 130, 8I have 120 and 9I can reach 110 distance.
Wedge - These clubs will send your ball up at an even steeper rate than normal irons. Use them near the green or in the bunker. Also useful to get through any obstacle in the game. Wedge have 2 kinds of club, PW have 100 distance and SW have 80.
Putter - A putter is used almost exclusively on the green. Putter have 1 club which is PT with 40-30 distance.
 After selecting a club and determining where the comet should land. Use the space bar or right mouse button to start and execute your swing. You will notice a bar moving towards the right, this determines the power level you want. For example, if you want the comet to and approximately 220y. Simply press spacebar to execute the swing then press spacebar again once the bar points at the exact distance you wanted.


To hit the comet, tap the space bar a third time when its on the white line between the pink bar. The closer you get to the white PangYa Bar the better you hit. If you land precisely on the PangYa bar, the ball will at its furthest and straightest.
Hitting PangYa good practice and timing. Players who play a couple of games find this easy as time passes. A high control and accuracy also helps in achieving a PangYa shot.
 Woods and Irons are great at getting the comet to the green. You have to use a putter to move the comet onto the green. Once you reach the green, you will be able to see the distance between the ball and the golf hole. You will be able to see grin on the ground as well with dots. Use these dots to plan your putt. Therefore, if dots appear mostly on the left of the squares, aim your shot to the right.


You will also see the difference of the hit bar between the Iron and wood, and putter. In putter, you will be able to see a green mark, showing the distance between the ball and the hole. Note that the small dots on the hit bar indicate the slope of the green. If the dots are sloping up its means that you need to add more power than normal to reach the cup. If the dots are sloping down, you need to decrease the power. A dot in the middle indicates that the slop is flat.
 During the game, you can press tab to see the score board. Scoring in PangYa is like golf in real life. The score is based on the regulated par. Meaning, the shorter strokes you do, the higher points you get but this vary on how many par hole is listed. For example, the hole 1 have par 4. This means that you have to do do less 4 strokes into the hole. If you go beyond 4, you will get a + score. Remember, the lower the strokes, the higher chance you win.


Hole is made with 3 strokes left is called Albatross (-3 Score)
Hole is made with 2 strokes left is called Eagle (-2 Score)
Hole is made with 1 stroke left is called Bridie (-1 Score)
Hole is made with no strokes left is called Par (0 Score)
Hole is made with extra stroke is called Bogey (1 Score)
Hole is made with 2 extra strokes is called Double Bogey (2 Score)
Hole is made with 3 extra strokes is called Triple Bogey (3 Scores)

, Pang is the name of the currency in the game. You can earn PangYa by finishing a game, make a good hole in and other basic pang bonus. Basic Pang Bonus will be listed below.


Over Drive - When you're doing a tee shot the ball flies farther than the distance set on the club.
Approach - When the ball is at least with 60y of the hole.
Nice Recovery - When the ball safely arrives in the bunker or rough but makes it to the fair or green with a super spin.
Super Pangya Shot - A long drive and combination.
Power Spin - A hole in using a power backspin.
Power Curve - A hole in with a power topspin
Crash Combo - A hole in with a power curver.
Beam Impact - A successful hole in after collision with objects.
Long Putting - A hole in after hitting the light beam.
Long Chip In - A hole in from putting from at least a 17y distance.
Cobra Shot - A successful chip in.
Tomahawk Shot - A successful Cobra shot.
Team Battle Judgement - A successful tomahawk shot.
Happy Bonus - When a member of the team gets a hole in one.
 Take note that when the ground is tilted to the left, the pink portion of the hit bar will be larger on the left, increasing your chance t hook. When the ground is tilted right, the pink portion of the hit bar will be larger on the right, increasing your chance to slice. In the game, when standing on a steep slop, your posture will be poor and hitting the comet will be difficult but not impossible. Best to avoid going to the rough grass since usually the slop there is uneven.
 On PangYa, there are forests and other obstacles that disrupt the wind and causes turbulence. Even if the wind at the tee is blowing North at 2m. If a clump of trees disrupts the wind, it may change the speed and direction. When teeing off, make sure to take such obstacles into consideration and plan for changing winds.
 Upgrading your clubs will increase the stats you wanted such as power (for increase of distance), control (decrease the movement speed of the bar) and accuracy (the white pangya bar between the pink bar.). To upgrade your clubs, simply move to My Room by clinging the My Room button. Choose Item and then Club Set. You will be able to see the club listed there. Click the Upgrade button then select the stats you wish to upgrade.
 As you continue playing the game and taking part of the tournament. You will be able to get rare items such as clubs, clothes and other boost items. In the game, Lounges are a great place for players to sit back and relax after a long day on the greens. Players can create shops so players can sell items they no longer use or want to other players. To join the Lounge, simply go to the Lobby then choose any Lounge you wanted to join.


Inside the room, open the shop menu by right clicking your character.
A window will appear where you can put your items and assign prices.
Press Open Shop if you're ready to sell.
 In the Lounge, you will see players with shop icon over their heads. Simply click on the shop icon to open the window to see the items in the list. If you're planning to purchase the item, click the Purchase button, check the item amount or price and then press complete purchase.
 Tomahawk shot is very useful to have an extra distance. Most players use this when they're about to ran out of moves or to attempt a hole in one. To do a Tomahawk Shot, you need 1 power gauge to perform this. Start swing with a minimum of 80% power then after the half-way mark, push Up, Down with arrow keys. Land a PangYa and your shot is complete. It takes practice to perform this but easy to achieve if you have a high control stat. Control stat decrease the movement of your bar which helps greatly in landing in PangYa.
 When there is a low hanging obstacle, you can use Cobra Shot. Cobra shot go straight and at the same time low before climbing steeply. Just like Tomahawk, you need 1 Power Gauge to do this Special Shot but instead of pressing up, down after the half-way mark, you will be pressing Right then Up with arrow keys. You need to land on Pangya as well to make your shot complete.
 A high flying shot that peaks quickly before descending. You can use this shop when there is a tall object near you. The same as the other special shots, you need 1 power gauge to use this. You have to press Right then Down and on Pangya to complete this shot.