 The video will promote and sync to a song which has already been recorded. Start with a completed and professionally recorded track of the song.


If there is singing in your video, you will want to play the track while filming so the performers can sing along.
You will use the professionally recorded track when editing the video. There is no need to record sound when filming a music video.;
, Each video should tell a short story. Take the imagery and the lyrics and combine them into a story which you will make into a short film. While you want the video to represent the song, it does not need to literally interpret the lyrics. Successful music videos tend to be more conceptual than literal.Listen to the song objectively. You are likely very invested in this song, but take a moment to step back from the work you have done on it already. Listen to the lyrics and the tone and see what images come to mind.
What mood does the song evoke? What are some scenarios you can imagine which would also elicit this same mood?
Where do you see this video taking place? Imagine the setting best matched to the song.
 Who do you want to have in the video? It is possible that you will want the band in the video, but you may also consider treating it more like a film with actors, or even a dance piece. You can combine these elements in different variations.


One of the first cinematic music videos was Michael Jackson’s “Thriller.” Michael Jackson played the lead role along with an ensemble cast. Together they created a miniature horror film.Sia's videos like “Chandelier” and “Elastic Heart” are good examples of videos focusing on dance performance. Sia does not appear in her videos, but hires dancers and choreographers to perform to her music.OKGO has several great examples of videos which feature the band combined with imaginative choreography. The band is often the only performers in these videos, but they sometimes utilize other dancers as well., This is almost like creating a comic strip version of what you want the video to look like. Draw out the entire video in frames to have a true idea of what it is going to look like. This will also help you convey your vision to the camera operator.You don’t have to be an amazing artist, just do your best to draw the general idea. It’s even fine to use stick figures.
Describe the action and camera angle next to each frame of your storyboard.
If there are lyrics in a specific shot, you can write them underneath the frame.
 Once you have a setting in mind, you will need to scout around your area for a place which will match your vision.You could rent a space like a theater, event space, or film studio. Some free options could include public parks, abandoned warehouses, or a public school after hours and on weekends.
You will need permission to shoot any video on private property. Be prepared to explain what you are doing and ask for permission.
Visit the location at the time of day you plan to shoot to assess the light in the area.
Be sure your location has enough power supply for the equipment you will be using.
 Now that you have a concept and a storyboard, you will need to find real people to play the characters in your video. Reach out to friends or put out a casting call.


The performers could be paid actors and dancers, yourself, your friends, or the band.
Try finding actors and dancers at your local college. You can pay them or offer them a copy of the finished product for their reel.
Put an ad in Craigslist or another online site for connecting performers with gigs.
 To really create a quality product, you are going to need some help. Don’t try to do this on your own. The more creative minds and skilled hands you have available, the better.


Hire a camera crew to operate the camera or cameras for the shoot.
Enlist help from artists to decorate the set and create the look you are going for.
If you have dancing in your video, you will want a choreographer to create the dance and train the dancers.
Costume designers will be able to dress the performers to match your vision.
Bring on a hair and makeup artist. This is especially important if you have excessive style needed or theatrical makeup. If the look for the shoot involves everyday hair and makeup, make sure your performers are willing and capable of doing this on their own.
 Plan for more time than you think you will need. Shooting a professional looking music video may take several days, especially if you are shooting at more than one location or have a complex narrative to capture.


Make sure everyone on your cast and in your crew is available at these dates and times. If someone is not available, leave yourself time to find a replacement.
Remember to leave time for setting up and tearing down scenery, hair and makeup, costume changes, and moving camera equipment around for different shots and angles.
If this is an outdoor shoot, or even shot in a room with windows, the time of day will drastically affect the lighting. You may need to shoot for several days around the same time of day in order to have consistent lighting in the video.
 If you really want your music video to look professional, the best thing you can do is hire professionals. The second best thing you could do is use equipment which will make your product look good. At the very least you will need a decent video camera and a tripod to hold the image steady.The PXW-X180 Full HD XDCAM Camcorder and GY-HM650 ProHD Mobile News Camera are equipped with a wifi remote, which allows you to control the camera from an iPad or an iPhone.
Sony PXW-X200 has a fast aperture, which makes it ideal for adjusting to different levels of lighting, including really dim settings.
AG-AC160A AVCCAM HD Handheld Camcorder allows you to shoot in one speed and play back in another to create a slow motion effect.
AG-AC90 AVCCAM Handheld Camcorder is a great handheld camera with built-in image stabilization to keep the shot steady.
FDR-AX100 and HDR-CX900 are very similar except that FDR-AX100 allows you to shoot in 4K Ultra HD. These cameras also have wifi, stabilization, and the ability to shoot in MP4, which is optimal for web usage.
 The location you have chosen may be close to perfect, but you will likely need to dress it up and make some adjustments to get exactly what you are looking for. Set the scene with the imagery from your storyboards.


You may need to furnish your set with the furniture you imagined.
Add elements like flowing cloth, a fire pit, or a nice car in the background to create the mood you are looking for.
You may need to bring in extra lighting to enhance the visuals.
 You want to vary the point of view by using a variety of camera angles. Use the 180 degree rule when switching angles in order to maintain consistency for the viewer.If you have 2 people facing each other, you would imagine an invisible line between the two of them. When switching angles, you can move within a half circle on one side of that line. Never cross this line, or more than 180 degrees. If you cross this line, it will appear as if the two people are facing the same direction rather than facing each other.Eye level is the most relatable and realistic shot you can use.
A high angle, with the camera above the subject, looking down on them, will reduce the power of the subject.
Low angles with the camera looking up at the subject will empower the subject.
Bird’s eye from directly above gives the viewer an all-knowing impression.
Slanted shots, or Dutch tilts, are common in music videos. Instead of the camera being level, it is tilted at an angle to the horizon for an off-kilter, dramatic effect.
 You don’t want to just leave the camera in one place when you film your video. If you are always shooting from a distance, you will not be able to see the faces, emotions and reactions of the characters in your video. If you are too close, you won’t get the whole picture. Some examples of different shot types are:Close ups have a feature of the character or object you are filming take up most of the screen and are good for detail work.
Wide shots show the character or object in its entirety on the screen.
Over the shoulder shots allow the viewer to experience the point of view of one of the characters because the camera is shooting over the shoulder of that character with the other person or object in their view. Seeing a little of the other character’s shoulder still gives the perspective of that person.
A cut away is used to move away from the main characters or objects and shoots something other than the subject, like the scenery or background.
 Once you have filmed everything from one angle, move the camera to another angle and do it again. Film several takes from each angle so that you have plenty to choose from when you move on to editing.


This will ensure that you have everything you need. You will be able to choose the best takes in editing.
Having a lot of "B-roll" or extra footage will allow you to make more changes in the shots and angles to create variety in the video., There are several options available to the everyday user. Some of them are free and others can be costly. Consider your options and your budget. Test out any software which may already be included on your computer. There are several options for user-friendly editing software:Final Cut Pro is often considered the best video editing software for a Mac. It has been used to complete high-profile, feature films and is common among independent filmmakers. It costs around $300.
A cheaper and user friendly version for a Mac is iMovie, which is only $14.99.
A good option for Windows users is the Sony Vegas Movie Studio with features including text, transitions and effects. It is a more affordable option at $49.
 Do not use any sound from the filming of the video. You want the professional recorded version to sync with the video footage.


If there is singing in your video, take the time to make sure that the visual of the singer is synced to the recording of the song.
 Edit together the different shots and angles you have used in filming to create a dynamic video. Match the cuts and shots with the changes in the song, including the change in rhythm or key, or the action of the story.If there is a large crescendo in the song, maybe you match that with a long shot which zooms into a closeup. If there is an abrupt change in the beat, you can cut quickly to a new shot.
Music videos often use a “jump cut,” which abruptly cuts from one shot to another. This could be a shot with a lot of action immediately switching to the stillness of the artist singing into the camera.
 You want the video to look consistent in it’s coloring. This final polish will give it a really professional look.Some of the shots may be dimmer than others and need to be brightened, while others may be over exposed.
You can also change the tone of the video by changing the tone of the colors. Red are warmer tones, while blues are cooler. Also, darkening the image can make the mood more ominous.
 When you think you are finished, you are not actually finished. Watch the entire video again and be critical as a viewer. Recall your original concept and look back at your storyboards. Ensure that the video is telling the story you meant it to tell and is conveying the tone you originally imagined.


Make notes of anything which seems inconsistent, or any moments which lost your interest and could be corrected.
Go back and make these final edits.

