 Run down to your local hardware store and purchase a can of WD-40. WD-40 is a common household lubricating oil that can be used on everything from bicycle chains to door hinges. If your lock isn’t in real bad shape, a little squirt of WD-40 will probably be all you need.WD-40 is generally a great product to have on hand whenever there’s a need for an all-purpose lubricant.Avoid using any lubricants that aren’t appropriate for home improvement use, such as cooking, botanical or sewing machine oil. Most oils will just attract dust that then forms new layers on the locking mechanism, making the problem worse.;
, Hook up the red applicator straw that comes included with the can of WD-40. These straws are thin and flexible and fit right over the opening of the nozzle where the oil comes out. The addition of a straw will allow you to penetrate deep into the inner workings of the lock, lubricating it more effectively.


Some newer containers of WD-40 feature permanently-attached straws. Keep an eye out for these, as they’re just what you need.A straw will also keep the spray of the lubricant confined inside the lock where you want it, rather than all over your front door.
 Place the end of the straw into the opening of the lock where you normally insert your key. Guide the straw as far in as you can to make sure you’re hitting every part of the locking mechanism that might be sticking with the WD-40.
 Press down on the button on the rear of the WD-40 canister to begin releasing the lubricant into the lock. Don’t be afraid to use a liberal amount of oil—a sticky lock needs the attention. Hold down the spray button until the WD-40 begins to overflow from the lock opening.Wearing gloves while handling lubricants can help prevent a slippery mess.
 Let the WD-40 sit for a few minutes. This will give it a chance to start breaking down the dust and dirt accumulated inside the lock that’s impairing its movement. Once it’s had some time to set up, slide your key in and out of the lock a few times and observe how smoothly it moves. If it doesn’t meet resistance, your work is done. If the lock still sticks a bit, you may need to try a more heavy-duty lubricant such as powdered graphite.Make sure you’ve properly coated each part of the locking mechanism by running through the locking and unlocking action a few times. After you've applied WD-40 to the lock, the interior pins should disengage with no resistance and the cylinder should easily rotate when you turn your key.
Lubricate the locks around your home with WD-40 regularly to keep them maintained.

