 There are several different types of thermometers, including digital and glass (mercury) models.The most common way to take a temperature for an older child or an adult is to place a digital or glass thermometer underneath your tongue to measure your body’s heat, but there are several other thermometers that use alternate methods for temperature taking.



Digital thermometers can be used orally or rectally (see below) or under the armpit (though this reduces the accuracy of the reading). The thermometer will beep when the reading is complete, and the temperature displays on a screen.

Tympanic thermometers are used inside the ear canal, and they measure temperature with an infrared light. The downside to this style of thermometer is that a buildup of earwax or the shape of an ear canal can skew the accuracy of the reading.

Temporal thermometers use an infrared light to measure the temperature. These thermometers are great because they are quick and least invasive. To use this type of thermometer, you slide the thermometer from the forehead to the temporal artery, right above the top of the cheekbone. It can be difficult to master proper placement, but taking several readings can improve the accuracy of the reading.

Pacifier thermometers can be used for babies. These are similar to oral digital thermometers, but perfect for babies who use pacifiers. The peak reading is displayed when the temperature is measured.
 After selecting a thermometer, take your temperature according to the method that the thermometer is made for (either orally, in the ear, on the temporal artery, or rectally for a child (see below). If you have a fever above 103 °F (39 °C),you have a baby over 3 months with a fever over 102 °F (39 °C), or you have a newborn (0-3 months) with a fever over 100.4, call the doctor immediately., The most accurate way to take a child’s temperature is through her rectum, but you should use extreme caution so that you do not perforate the child’s bowel. The best thermometer for rectal temperatures is a digital thermometer.


Place a small amount of petroleum jelly or ky jelly on the thermometer probe.
Lay your child on her stomach. Get another person to help if necessary.
Carefully insert the probe one-half inch to one inch into the anus.
Hold the thermometer and child still for about one minute, until you hear a beep. Do not let go of your child or the thermometer to avoid injury.
Remove the thermometer and interpret the reading on the screen.
 If the fever is relatively low grade (up to 102 degrees for an adult or a child over 6 months), reducing it entirely is not necessarily recommended. Fevers are produced by the body as a sign that there's another issue going on, so making it go away can mask a deeper problem.


Aggressively treating a fever can also interfere with your body's natural method of getting rid of a virus or infection. A lower body temperature might produce a more habitable environment for foreign bodies, so it can be better to let the fever run its course.Letting the fever run its course is not recommended for individuals who are immunocompromised, taking chemotherapy drugs, or who have had a surgery recently.Instead of trying to get rid of the fever, take measures to make you or your child more comfortable during the course of the fever, such as rest, drinking fluids, and staying cool.