 Change to a new location if you are feeling angry. Changing scenery helps in two ways; it allows you a break from the person or situation causing your anger and it gives you something new to focus on that is not your anger. If possible, take a walk outside. Notice any wildlife or nice nature things. Even if the weather is poor, a walk in the rain might “cool off” your anger. Being outdoors can improve your mood.;
, Meditation helps you control your emotions both in the moment of anger and in the long term. To meditate in the moment of anger, first remove yourself from the situation causing the anger.Take slow, deep breaths. Maintaining this breathing will likely bring down your elevated heart rate. Your breaths should be deep enough that your belly extends on the “in” breath.
Visualize a golden-white light filling your body as you breathe in, relaxing your mind. When you breathe out, visualize muddy or dark colors leaving your body.
Once you are calm from your meditation, think about your emotions and decide how to deal with the situation that angered you.
Daily meditation in your own home may also help you control your anger later in the day, which can help you avoid having to take a “meditation escape” midday.
 Progressive muscle relaxation involves tensing and releasing your body in progressive stages. Consciously tensing your own muscles can help you redirect the outlet of the anger you’re feeling. To practice progressive muscle relaxation, take a few deep breaths, then do the following: Begin with your face and head muscles. Hold the tension for 20 seconds, then release it.
Work your way down your body, tensing and releasing your shoulders, arms, back, hands, stomach, legs, feet, and toes.
Take deep breaths, feeling relaxation from your toes all the way up to your head.
 If the situation or person that angered you is one that you cannot avoid in the future, give yourself a break before you respond if you feel angry. Waiting until you have calmed your mind and body to return to the stressful situation can allow you to return with a more rational response.If you cannot physically leave, you can still give yourself a delay by stopping to count to 10 (or 20, or 50, or 100) before you respond.

