 Let them know about your concerns. The teacher, or another professional, will begin collecting information about your child's scholastic performance.Once enough information has been collected, the teacher or learning specialist will provide your son or daughter with a series of learning strategies or supplemental learning activities.
A school cannot collect information about your son or daughter without your written consent., Make sure that your son or daughter's weaknesses are actually being addressed in the supplemental learning plan that has been provided by the specialist.


Do the expectations of the learning plan accurately address your son or daughter's needs?

, These routines are designed to help your son or daughter become a more-effective student. Furthermore, this routine will help learning specialist more accurately diagnose a specific type or kind of LD. Like any exercise, however, these activities will only work if they are followed exactly as planned.


No further action is usually taken if these learning plans produce positive results., The "Individuals with Disabilities Education Act" ensures free-screening for your child. So, if your son or daughter does not show any significant improvement from the activities that have been provided by your learning specialist, then you should have your son or daughter formally evaluated.


Your son or daughter's teacher will be able to provide you with more information regarding the process.
Formal screening will include a series of tests and interviews.
The committee may suggest special education.
 After the committee has finished evaluating all of the information, you will meet with them to create an "Individualized Education Program" for your son or daughter. This program will outline the learning objectives for your child, and will also provide you with information regarding the services that your school or school district offers.You have the right to be part of this process!
If you have specific learning goals for your child, they should be discussed at the post-evaluation meeting.
 Depending on the specific learning goals and LD, it may take quite some time to see any significant improvement from your child.


The "Individualized Education Program" may have a timeline of development. This is only a guide, not an exact rule.
 You have the right to have your son or daughter re-evaluated if the "Individualized Education Program" that you received is not producing significant results.LDs are very difficult to diagnose, which means that re-evaluations are not uncommon.
Because symptoms tend to over-lap, even highly-trained experts can misdiagnose a specific type or kind of LD.

