 Jeans are the perfect school staple that can be worn just about everyday. Jeans come in a variety of different colors and washes so you never have to feel bored wearing them. Also, you can mix up the fit by having skinny jeans, boy-cut jeans, or flare jeans., Longer skirts that hit the knee are a great way to stay casual, but step up your look. Wear flowing skirts that fall away from your body, and pair them with casual tops likes T-shirts, long sleeve shirts, or blouses. You can choose any pattern or color skirt that you want, just be sure the fit is not too tight or too short.
 An easy way to look chic for school is to find simple tops you can wear repeatedly. Find classic cut tops such as crew necks, V-necks, and collared shirts. Buy neutral colors like black, white, navy, brown, and gray that are solid colors or have stripes. You can mix and match these tops with any style jean or skirt.The majority of your tops should be neutral. You should only have a few special tops such as a shirt with rhinestones or words that you wear occasionally.
 Modern fashion includes all sorts of styles and color combinations, but there are certain colors that clash together and should not be paired up. To create an outfit that is complimentary together, keep color in mind. Colors that are directly opposite of each other on the color wheel are considered complementary such as blue and orange, pink and green, and yellow and purple. Wearing complimentary colors creates an attractive, color-rich palette.


For example, you could wear a pink shirt with a green cardigan, or a blue skirt with an orange sweater. Keep the color wheel in mind, but do not be afraid to match other colors you think work well together.
 Everyone needs to have essential pieces in their wardrobe that can be easily mixed and matched to any outfit. Here is a list of pieces you should invest in and how to wear them:


A plain white T-shirt is great on its own or for layering. You can wear it under a sweater, over a tank top, paired with a cardigan, tucked into a skirt, or left free with a pair of jeans.
A striped shirt, in any color, looks great with a solid, floral, or plaid skirt or jeans. Add your favorite cardigan, and you will create a classic look.Dark denim looks great on everyone. Whether the jeans are skinny, bootleg, or flare cut, they will pair perfectly with a striped shirt, floral blouse, or sweater.
Over-sized cardigans are a must have for current trends. You can never have too many cardigans to pair with your T-shirts, blouses, tank tops, or button downs. Start off with basic colors such as black, blue, and brown, and then accumulate more in brighter colors and designs that you can pair with just about any top.
 As the seasons change, and your outfits, your shoes should as well. It can be boring wearing the same flats, tennis shoes, or boots everyday. Allow yourself several options for shoes, and just be sure they are all comfortable.


Ballet flats are the perfect shoe to dress up or dress down, and they are very comfortable.Have a black and brown shoe option. This will help you always have a pair of shoes to match any outfit.
Steer away from wearing high heels to school. Unless you have a special school function, there is no need for a shoe over three inches. If you do wear a shoe like a stiletto, you might get other students questioning your shoe choice.
 You can make your casual outfits more interesting by adding jewelry such as a bracelet, earrings, necklace, or ring. Do not go overboard with your look as it is better to keep it simple by just adding one or two pieces.


Statement jewelry, like larger necklaces, may not be the best way to go for a school look. Opt for more delicate pieces when you are trying to create a look that is school appropriate.

