 Every motorcycle has certain specifications as to which type of grip is best suited to the model. It's important to choose a grip that works with your motorcycle to make sure your ride is safe and comfortable. If you aren't sure what type of grips are best for your motorcycle, ask a motorcycle mechanic or the dealership where you bought your motorcycle.









Examine your handlebar. There are ape hangers, beach bars, clubman bars, Motocross bars, drag bars, and other styles of handlebar, each requiring different grips. Take this into account when you make your purchase.
Make sure the grips you buy are the right diameter and length. Most motorcycle grips are either 7/8" or 1" in diameter and about 5" long. To figure out which diameter and length you need, measure the old grips before purchasing new ones.
Some motorcycles produce greater vibrations than others. These need thick, padded grips to protect your hands from becoming numb after a few minutes of riding.
 The type of grip you buy should depend on what conditions you'll be encountering on your motorcycle. If you like to go off-roading, you'll need to be able to grip the handlebars without your hands slipping. If you like to ride long distances on the highway, it's more important to choose comfortable grips that won't make your hands hurt.









Grips made of rubber are designed to absorb sweat so that your hands won't slip, no matter how wet or sweaty they get. They provide the best grip and control of all hand grip materials. Choose these if you ride for sport, especially during the hot summer months.

Grips made from soft foam with leather straps are more comfortable, and they prevent your hands from hurting when you have to grip the handlebars for several hours at a time.
 Aside from the practical factors that play a role in what grips you choose, your personal preferences as a motorcycle rider will also inform your decision. Determine your preferences in the following areas:









Cost. The price range of grips runs from very low to very high. If you ride your motorcycle infrequently, a cheap pair of rubber grips will do the trick. If you ride frequently or over long distances, you may want to invest in something more expensive.
Comfort. You can buy ergonomic grips designed make your hands and fingers as comfortable as possible, but many people do just fine with standard grips.
Style. Choose a pair of grips that matches your motorcycle's style, especially if you're investing in grips that are on the expensive side of the price range.

