 You can either print the forms from the ATF website or obtain the forms by contacting an ATF office in your region.


Go to the ATF website provided to you in the Sources section of this article, then click on "ATF F 5310.12 (Form 7)" from the column on the right of the website. You will be taken to a webpage that displays instructions for filling out the application.






Click once again on the link that reads "ATF F 5310.12 (Form 7)" in the right column to access the application. You can then print the application directly from your Internet browser.
Return to the instructions page, then click on the link for "ATF F 5330.20." This link will display the Certificate of Compliance, which you can also print directly from your browser.
Call the ATF headquarters office at 1-800-800-3855 to locate your region's field office from which to obtain the forms if you do not have Internet access.;
, These cards can be obtained from your local police station or law enforcement office.


Visit the nearest police station in your area. You must bring a form of photograph identification to obtain the fingerprint cards. In some cases, your local police department may charge fees for the cards.
 The photographs must clearly display your face and be sized at no less than 2 inches (5.08 cm) in height and width.
 Application fees will vary depending on the types of guns you plan on selling. Fees can be paid by money order, check, or by credit card.


Collect 200 dollars if you plan on selling guns that fall into the non-destructive category, such as handguns. Collect 3000 dollars if you are going to sell destructive devices that may include explosives, missiles, or poison gas.
 You will be required to enter any information regarding your gun dealer business; such as the business name and address and types of guns you will be selling. You will also be prompted for your personal information and criminal background, if any.
 This form will prompt you for information regarding your citizenship status and ask you to certify that you comply with federal firearms laws.
 Your documents will include the FFL application, the Certificate of Compliance, fingerprint cards, pictures of yourself, and the fee.


Address your envelope or package to ATF's main office at: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, P.O. Box 409567, Atlanta, Georgia, 30384-9567.
 After the ATF office receives your paperwork, you will be contacted by an ATF agent for an interview and an inspection of the business location from which you will be selling guns or firearms.
 After you have met the approval of the ATF, they will issue you the gun dealer's license within 60 days of turning in your initial paperwork.
 Depending on where you reside, you may be required to obtain other gun dealer's licenses in addition to your FFL.


Visit the Legal Community Against Violence (LCAV) website provided in the Sources section of this article. This website will allow you to locate the gun dealer's laws in your region.
Click on the state in which you reside. You will then be taken to a full description and explanation of the gun laws in your state.
Scroll down and click on the link for "Dealer Regulations." You can then review the detailed information for any additional gun licenses you must acquire or training courses you must complete as required by your state.
Contact your state or region's Department of Public Safety to learn about the gun dealer laws in your region if you do not have Internet access.

