 Dogs appreciate routine and it helps them feel secure. Work to establish a routine with your dog right away. Give meals at the same time, let him out to go potty, and take him for walks at a predictable time each day. Here is a sample schedule that might help you: :7:00am: wake up and let dog outside
8:00am: feed dog breakfast
8:30am: let dog outside
1:00pm: let dog outside
5:00pm: let dog outside
7:00pm: feed dog dinner
7:30pm: take dog for a walk
9:00pm: let dog outside
10:00pm: bedtime

, A dog that has just been neglected needs a loving and responsible pack. Make it feel loved and let it know that you will care for his future needs. Loving the dog doesn't mean that he should be given free rein to do what he wants. He actually appreciates the security of having someone in charge and will thrive when given kind guidance.


Pet your dog regularly. Do so carefully. Many neglected dogs will be hand shy. It may even respond violently, if it has been the victim of physical abuse. Until you understand your dog’s temperament be gentle and very careful, but make sure to pet him every day. By making physical contact with your dog, he’ll learn to trust you and will be comforted by this contact., Remember that dogs are social creatures by nature and they love to play. Play is a great way to bond with the animal and to help it get the exercise it needs. Play is also a great way to teach your dog how to behave around you. Pick out a variety of toys like tennis balls, pull toys, squeak toys, and frisbees. Take the dog outside and let it run around with these toys., Once your dog has regained his health, you can start to train him in basic obedience. If the dog is not trained, then be patient and never chastise him for getting things wrong or being disobedient. Ignore puddles or accidents - and instead praise what he does right. Start by teaching simple such as essential commands such as "sit".


Try “click-and-treat-training”. In this type of training, the pet is empowered by having the opportunity to find a way to make you click and thus receive a reward. Once pets figure out how the game is played, they may prefer the “game” over the reward. Tell your dog to “come” and click. Do this repeatedly. Then try just clicking and see if the dog comes.