 Taking her out to dinner and a movie is nice, but that's not where the romance is: the romance is in knowing how to treat her right. Listen to her. Ask her about her day, and ask her what she thinks about her favorite subject—whatever that may be. (You do know what her favorite subject is, don't you?) Compliment her on her looks, on how she dresses, or the way she smiles, as long as you are sincere.


Don't be too coy about the compliments. If that dress she's wearing makes her look hotter than Arizona in August, tell her. Don't be crude, but if she's packaged her assets to be admired, let her know that's appreciated!;
, Suggestive comments or even direct comments, sprinkled into your conversation, let her know that you find her desirable.
 You'll find women prefer their partners confident, not insecure. This may require bluffing, but keep this in mind: the more you "bluff" confidence, the more confident you will become. It's sort of a win-win situation!

, When the time is right, and you'll know when that is, kiss her. Do not go for a tonsillectomy on the first kiss—you'll be the guy she still laughs about 30 years later—but don't start with little butterfly kisses, either. Kiss her like you mean it, and tease her lips with your teeth and tongue.


Respond to her reactions: if she pulls away when you try to kiss her, it may not be time for that just yet. Go back to step one next time, and try again. If she does respond, pay attention to her body language. If she's kissing but guarded, don't continue to the next step until her body language lets you know it's ok to proceed.
 Caress her body, paying attention to the secondary erogenous zones first. Dig your hands into her hair, and pull her towards you, kissing her harder. Bunch her hair in your hands, and pull (gently—don't be a Neanderthal!). Pay attention to her neck, shoulders, and arms.
 Tell her how much you enjoy being with her, that you love the way she kisses, the way she looks, the way she sounds. Let her know that she makes you feel good, too.
 The inner arms, like the inner thighs, are fairly sensitive, and when kissed and stroked, can really start to heat things up. Continue exploring her body, gradually heating things up as you sense her getting more and more turned on.
 Pull her on top of you, so that whatever you want to kiss is near your lips. Roll yourself on top of her, and kiss her harder than you have so far.
 By now, the turn-on portion of the program is complete. We trust you to take it on your own from here. Don't forget to wear protection!

