 Maintain friendships with people who make you feel safe. Seek out friends who are understanding, accepting, and supportive of who you are. Spend time with friends who help you reach your goals, reduce your stress, and boost your self confidence.Keep in mind to avoid friends who don’t share with you, who don’t respect you, or who focus more on their own problems than getting to know you.Watch out for friends who demean you or belittle you. Avoid friends who gossip about you or spread the lesbian label.
 Avoid focusing too much on the label and all the stress or conflict it may be bringing you. Reframe your thinking and encourage yourself for who you are.


Challenge negative thoughts.Instead of thinking, “This will never stop” you might think to yourself, “I can deal with this and it won’t last forever.”
Avoid bullying yourself.Don’t say to yourself, “I should just give up. They’re never going to leave me alone. I may as well just give into the rumors.” Try to remind yourself, “I am okay with who I am, even if they’re not.”

, Your sexuality is just one part of you, whether or not you agree with the label. Pay more attention to your overall strengths as a person. Focusing on your strengths will increase your happiness and improve your self-confidence.Engage in activities that make you feel more confident or competent.
Write down what you like most about yourself.
Build new strengths by trying new activities or volunteering.
 Be comfortable with yourself, whether you're a lesbian or not. It is okay to be a lesbian and it's okay to be more masculine than feminine. Feeling like you have to hide who you are because of a lesbian label could make you feel worse about yourself and will be exhausting.Look for powerful female role models who may not fit the traditional idea of what a woman is supposed to be like. For example, Serena Williams, Danica Patrick, Hillary Clinton, or Lady Gaga.Look for strong lesbian role models if you are a lesbian or are questioning your sexuality. For example, Ellen DeGeneres, Rachel Maddow, or Ellen Page.
Remember that becoming aware of and accepting your sexual identity can take time., Attending counseling sessions is a great way to resolve tough life situations. Counseling can help you build skills to be more assertive. If being called a lesbian when you’re not is really bothering you and you’re having trouble coping with the situation, a counselor can help you build coping skills and build your emotional resilience.

