 One way to make sure you drink enough is to measure out your water in the morning. You can use refillable water bottles, water jugs, or even a pitcher. Pour in the amount you need to drink (10 cups), and you have a visual reminder of what you need to drink that day., You don't need to just stick to water to help you stay hydrated. Milk, juice, and herbal tea also count. However, be aware that milk and juice will add extra calories to your diet. Also, it's not a good idea to drink some herbal teas while you're pregnant, so check with your doctor or nurse about which ones are safe.You can also drink veggie juices. Just make sure to stick to the low sodium varieties., Drinking flavored waters can help you drink more because they taste good. If you want to avoid artificial sweeteners, pick ones that just have flavoring and not any added sweetness. These beverages are available at most grocery stores., Another way to encourage yourself to drink more is to make your own flavored waters at home. Try dropping a few pieces of your favorite fruit (or even a veggie!) into a glass of water, such as a couple of slices of orange. You can also try a few slices of cucumber or some mint and some muddled blackberries. Having flavored water can encourage you to drink more.
 While you don't need to completely cut out caffeine while pregnant, you shouldn't drink more than 200 milligrams a day, which is about 2 cups of coffee.However, because caffeine is a diuretic, meaning it makes you urinate more, you may want to cut it out altogether, as it can increase dehydration.Always check with your doctor about things like drinking caffeine while pregnant. Only your doctor knows your personal health profile and how outside stimulants will affect you.
 Some water bottles have built-in tracking devices that tell you how much water you drink. Another option is a tracker that you can attach to any bottle. It measures how much you drink, as well as reminds you to drink if you haven't done so in a while. Most of these devices will interface with a smartphone, making keeping track easier., Your diet actually provides a portion of your water intake for the day. Leafy greens like spinach and lettuce, for instance, provide a good amount of water, as do other veggies like cucumbers or tomatoes. Eating more of these types of veggies can help you stay hydrated., Another option for upping your hydration level is to eat more watery fruits. Watermelon and cantaloupe are excellent choices, as are other melons. Fruits like strawberries and oranges also contain a good amount of water., Smoothies are a great way to both get your veggies and fruits in and increase your water intake.Try a green smoothie for the highest nutrient hit, with greens, fruit, and a liquid. You can also add in protein like yogurt.The ratio you should follow is one part greens, one part liquid (like milk or almond milk), and one and half parts fruit, such as one cup of spinach, one cup of milk, and 1 1/2 cups of mango and blueberries. Blend it together well with a little ice. You can also add things like flaxseeds or nut butters.
 Soups are also high in water content, particularly brothy soups like chicken noodle soup, miso soup, or French onion soup. You can also sip on some vegetable broth before dinner. Just make sure to keep an eye on the salt content, as prepackaged soups can contain a significant amount., When you're pregnant, you may be susceptible to vomiting due to morning sickness. You may also have trouble keeping anything down. These problems, combined with the fact that you need more water, can lead to dehydration.If you have severe vomiting and nausea, also called hyperemesis gravidarum, talk to your doctor. This condition is usually diagnosed by the fact that you vomit four or more times a day, are becoming dehydrated, lose weight, and/or are becoming lightheaded or dizzy.
You may be able to take nausea medications to help with this condition.
Also, try eating small, bland meals so that you are less likely to throw them up, such as oatmeal.
You can also try other alternative methods for treating nausea, such as using a pressure point band. Wearing a pressure point band on the wrist helps some people with nausea. Also, ask your doctor about vitamin B6 and the use of ginger to help with nausea.
 When you're dehydrated, you'll likely feel more tired and lightheaded. You're urine will be darker, and you may have more trouble defecating. You may get a headache, and you'll likely feel extra thirsty with a dry throat and mouth.If you're showing these symptoms, make an effort to re-hydrate yourself by drinking extra work.
 If you are showing more extreme signs of dehydration, you need to seek medical attention immediately, as they are more serious. Dehydration can harm both you and the baby if left unchecked.Call your doctor or go to the emergency room if you haven't urinated for 8 hours. Another severe symptom is a quick or faint heartbeat. Blood in your stool and fainting are also bad signs.
You may need to have fluids given to you intravenously.
 With a larger body and a baby growing inside you, you need to make sure you are drinking more water than you normally do. The Institute of Medicine suggests that pregnant women should get at least 10 cups of water everyday., One reason you need more water is water helps you absorb nutrients and carry them to your baby through blood cells. Without enough water, your baby doesn't get the nutrients it needs.Water also helps with digestion and the removing of extra waste (that the fetus is producing) from your body., Water also plays an important role in creating the placenta, which is how your fetus draws nutrients from you. Therefore, it's important to get enough water for this process.Water also helps create the amniotic sac later, which is where your baby grows.

