 The recommended amount of water includes eight glasses of water per day. Vegetables and fruits make up two glasses, but remember that you still need those six glasses of water in order to have a wonderful complexion!


Note that having a glowing complexion isn't mandatory, but consider it as an added bonus if you manage to achieve it. Keep in mind that while you may not notice the changes in your complexion and/or the glow, others may. Don't get frustrated and give up - remember that this is best for your health.
 Keep in mind that eating all of that ice cream - including any toppings that you might use - means an increase of calories, not including any other snacks and meals you might consume throughout the day. Some of the calories that come into your body must be burned to avoid weight gain. Also, a healthy ice cream princess wins over an unhealthy ice cream princess!

, Pleasant tank tops, T-shirts that include ice cream graphics on them, and shrugs are recommended as well. Your shoes should consist of either flip-flops or ballet flats, but you can purchase both if you wish. Remember that ice cream princesses glow with creativity in their style. Therefore, avoid sticking to one color all the way. Find colors that complement your skin tone and body type and wear them all! Each color is unique in its own way, but keep in mind that not all of them might match you.


If you have trouble finding the right style and color for you, ask your parents or a sales clerk at a store for help and advice. You could also get a friend's recommendation for extra bonus.
 Despite the fact that all your friends may be wearing it, ice cream princesses should appear as natural as possible. You are beautiful in your own way - you don't need makeup to look nice! While makeup may make you feel beautiful, it doesn't necessarily give you a beautiful appearance. People normally find themselves drawn to natural girls, and if you're a natural girl, you're on your way to become an even better ice cream princess.


When you find yourself longing for makeup, remember this: Be natural like almonds.
 Avoid applying any heat to it, which includes curling and straightening it. Not only will heat damage your hair, but you aren't letting yourself be as natural as possible. Although this step isn't mandatory, refrain from torturing your hair into beautiful, twisted designs that may harm it in the future. Instead, wear your hair in natural, beautiful styles that will not only keep it shiny and glowing with health but also complement your face shape and gorgeous outfit. However, don't feel inclined to follow this step if you know it's not you.


If you're the type that enjoys crazy styles, try styling your hair into an afro or wild braids.

