 Stock your fridge with leafy greens, tomatoes, carrots, and peppers. Veggies do well with a bit of moisture, so keep them in a drawer set for high humidity.It’s recommended that women consume about two cups of vegetables daily. Men should consume about three cups. Veggies should comprise at least a fourth of your total food consumption.When purchasing lettuce, go for darker, leafier varieties, like romaine. These contain more nutrients.
Remember, there’s no need to keep onions or potatoes in the fridge: just store them separately in a cool dark place.Storing them together will make the potatoes develop eyes.
Mushrooms are a great addition to your fridge, and can be added to a wide variety of dishes, including stir fries, pasta dishes, and omelets.;
, Milk, cheeses, and yogurt are all packed with calcium and vitamin D. Keep your fridge stocked with dairy to ensure healthy, strong bones.Most milk, cheeses, and yogurt contain between 20-30% of your daily required calcium, which is 1,000 to 1,200 mg for most adults. Do your best to get three servings of dairy per day.
Go for opaque milk cartons. Opacity will keep milk fresh longer than transparent containers.
If you don’t like the taste of milk or other dairy products, go for soy or rice products fortified with calcium. In moderation, you can also try chocolate and other flavored milks for tasty calcium sources.
 Stock your fridge with leaner choices such as tofu, chicken, turkey, fish, and 90-95% lean beef. Remember to store meat products in the coldest part of your fridge and on the lowest shelf.Eggs are a great, versatile source of protein. Keep them on a lower shelf to ensure they stay fresh longer., Avoid the temptation of ice cream, candy, and other unhealthy snacks by swapping them for healthy options like hummus and fruit.Keep oranges, apples, and other fruits in low humidity drawers.
Try eating hummus with baby carrots or sliced cucumber for an extra healthy snack option.
 Since sodas contain nearly no nutritional value, do your best to keep them away from your fridge. Instead, keep a pitcher of water handy, and if you need a fizzy fix, try keeping carbonated water in the fridge. Try adding flavor using mint leaves or slices of lemon, orange, or cucumber., Keep low-calorie condiments, such as mustard, salsa, and vinegar on hand. Choose a few non-creamy dressings for salads as well as a favorite marinade or two for grilling lean meats., Establish the fruits, veggies, dairy, and proteins that you like best and keep them routinely stocked. Go to the grocery store regularly, such as every few days or once a week. Before you go to the store, take an inventory of your fridge and pantry and make a list of the items that are out of stock or running low.Use a pen and pad to make a written list or, if you prefer, use your smartphone's notepad or other convenient list app.
Be thorough when you take your inventory so you don't waste your trip to the store.
Do your best to commit to your list and avoid making impulse purchases. Being prepared with a written list will help you avoid the temptation that comes with wandering through aisles.
 Do your best to limit how much you purchase from the store's middle aisles. Most grocery stores include the produce section, meat and seafood departments, and dairy refrigerators on their perimeters. Fresh foods are typically better for you than the canned and boxed items you'll find in the aisles and frozen food department.Buying fresh foods will help you reduce fat and sodium from your diet. Buy your fruits, veggies, dairy, and proteins, then grab your whole grains and head for the checkout line.
Avoiding junk foods, soda, and prepackaged foods will be great for your budget in addition to your health.
 Check online for a nearby farmer's market to find fresh, quality produce that's affordable and seasonal. Many markets set up shop weekly, and some will sell items at a discounted price toward the end of the market's hours of operation. Similarly, community supported agriculture (CSA) groups source produce directly from local farmers, usually on a weekly basis and for a flat rate.Fruits and veggies are best tasting and cheapest when they're in season and freshly picked. Your taste buds and wallet will both love weekly trips to a local farmer's market or a regular delivery from a CSA group.
Search online for a nearby CSA and check their website to find out how to join. Alternatively, consult your neighbors or friends in the area who might be knowledgeable about local farms and CSA groups.Remember that you always can choose your items at the farmer's market, but usually a CSA will package a set amount of seasonal produce for you without your direct input. Carefully read the terms of any CSA group before joining to avoid getting stuck with 20 pounds a week of veggies that you don't like., Joining a warehouse or club store can help you cut your grocery budget in the long run. Furthermore, buying items like cereals, pastas, beans, rice, and other long-lasting or non-perishable items can help save time, provided that you have a little extra storage space.For meats sold in bulk, separate the package into meal-sized portions and refrigerate a few for immediate use. Freeze the rest of your portioned meats for later use. For example, dividing 36 drumsticks into smaller sets before freezing will avoid the inconvenience of having to thaw the entire package when you only needed a few pieces.
Many warehouse and club stores also carry seasonal produce in bulk, which is especially helpful for households with enough people to avoid spoilage and uneaten items.
 Remember that losing weight is about eating plenty of healthy foods, not just eating less food. Try committing to a set of fridge rules, such as “no trans fats or no high sugar foods allowed.”Double up on the fruits and veggies, but cut down on juices. Eliminate those calories from juices by swapping for water.
Always go for non- or low-fat options for milk, yogurt, and other potentially high-calorie items instead of skipping out on them altogether.
Try keeping a motivational message or picture on your fridge door that you’ll see before opening it up for a snack.
 Keep plenty of quick, go-to snacks on hand, like fruits or fat-free Greek yogurt. Go for sugar-free jams and fruit spreads. Get calcium from low-fat or skim milk and yogurt, and keep cheese consumption low.Keep cabbage on hand for a low-sugar source of vitamin C.
Go for fruits that are smaller than the size of your fist for diabetic-friendly portion.
 If someone in your family has a serious food allergy, try to eliminate that item from your fridge. Keep allergens like milk, eggs, or wheat products only if the allergen can be carefully sealed and separated from items everyone in the household consumes.Ask a doctor for more information about the severity of an allergy. For some, a reaction is so severe that they cannot come into any contact whatsoever with the allergen, so it must be completely eliminated from the fridge or pantry.
 If you or someone in your household has specific dietary needs, it's a good idea to talk to a medical professional. A registered dietitian nutritionist can help you develop a meal plan that best fits your health needs. Ask your regular doctor or a local health clinic for a referral, and check with your insurance provider about your coverage options.Weight management issues, digestive issues (such as celiac and Crohn's diseases), diabetes, food allergies, cancer, and heart disease are all conditions that benefit from consulting a registered dietitian.
 Setting aside time once a week for food prep will keep your meals easy, organized, and properly portioned. Invest in tupperware containers with multiple compartments, and measure out quantities that are consistent with your dietary needs.For example, measure, cut, and store cup-sized servings, like three medium stalks of broccoli or a green pepper.
If you’re on a strict weight-loss diet, measure out a quarter-cup sized healthy snack, like fruit or carrot sticks with a separate container for a tablespoon of peanut butter.
Try to divide leftovers into healthy portions using multi-compartment tupperware instead of storing large quantities of individual items together.
 In addition to keeping healthy portions, proper containers will keep your food fresher and safe to eat. Always keep food covered or wrapped tightly, in tightly sealed bags, or in airtight storage containers.Eat ready-to-eat foods like lunch meats as soon as possible, preferably within a day or two of purchase.
Keep your food safe and healthy to eat by limiting the amount of time you keep the door open. Opening the door too many times or for too long a period of time can increase the temperature and encourage pathogen growth.
 Keep meat products on bottom shelf so drippings don’t get on other food items. Store leftovers and ready to eat items on the top shelf. Maintain a temperature of 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.44 degrees Celsius) or lower, and keep some space between food items to maintain temperature.Keep eggs and milk in colder parts of the fridge, like toward the back and on lower shelves. Avoid storing these items in the door to avoid bacteria growth.
Remember to set your high and low humidity drawers for veggies and fruit, respectively.

