 Cut a 4 inch strip of duct tape. Make the tail thinner by cutting a half inch strip out of the length of the tape. Fold this in half along the length to have a tail which is 4 inches long and a quarter inch wide. Trim off any excess sticky edges., Measure 10 inches and cut a strip of tape with your scissors. Place this strip of tape on the work surface and cut another strip to match. Place your tail on the left end of the strip of tape on the table. Press it on so that extends up from the top left of the 10 inch strip. Match up the edges of the two 10 inch strips of tape and press the sticky sides together.Trim any edges that don’t exactly match to make sure there are no sticky parts exposed.
 Lay your tape lengthwise on the work surface. Measure and mark every quarter inch along the bottom of the strip of tape. Cut straight up from these marks toward the top. Stop the cut about an inch from the top of the strip.The top portion will be covered, so you don’t have to stop every cut exactly one inch from the top. Just make sure there is enough tape left so the fringe won’t break off.
 Cut a strip of duct tape four inches long and one inch wide and set it aside. Starting at the left side of the strip of fringe, where the tail is, tightly roll the strip of tape until you reach the other end. Wrap the top of the tassel with the one inch wide strip of duct tape., Using a hole punch, punch a hole in the top of your bookmark about half an inch from the edge. Thread the tail of the tassel through the hole in the bookmark and fold the tail evenly over itself. Tape the end of the tail to the other edge of the tail where it meets the top of the tassel.


Wrap a small piece of tape around the edge of the tail to create a large loop, or place a piece of tape along the length of the tail and tape the whole tail together to flatten it except for a small loop running through the hole in the bookmark.
You want to leave enough space between the hole and the edge of the bookmark to keep the tassel from pulling through the end of the bookmark.

