 One of the most important factors in staying motivated to practice music is the enjoyment and satisfaction you gain from playing your instrument. Students who fail to identify with their instrument are less likely to stick to their craft. Remind yourself of the reasons you liked your instrument in the first place.Think about the unique beauty of your instrument and the design that went into making it. Handle it gently and examine its texture, curves and details. Look at your instrument as if it has its own personality, and consider the great potential it has to assist you in elevating your skills., Attending concerts or musicals as an audience member can be inspiring. Participating in these events yourself as a musician can be motivating factors to continue practicing an instrument. Watching musical movies also has the potential to boost your creativity.Use the inspiration from musical events to practice with performance in mind. Think about how skilled musicians played their instruments during performances and channel their examples as you play your own instrument – even when you’re just rehearsing., If you have musical instructors, ask them to allow you to select parts of your practice. Students may learn faster if allowed to choose some of their own music or practice routines. When you practice at home, try playing current music or other pieces that you enjoy.There are various online sources where you can find free sheet music to practice with.
 Ask people whose advice you trust – such as your music teacher or parents – who they consider to be musical greats. Also ask them which pieces by those artists they found to be the most moving. Write down the names of the musicians and specific pieces of music. Then go to an online music source such as YouTube, iTunes or Spotify and listen to some of the songs. Watching performances by musical geniuses can spark your enthusiasm for playing your instrument!If the person you’re asking also plays an instrument or has in the past, ask if he or she knows of any tips for making practice fun.
 Make up songs. Make up words to instrumental melodies that don’t have vocals. Think outside the box: trying to mimic a bird’s song or the refrain of a ballad on your instrument can be a fun way to practice playing by ear.If there is a portion of music you’re struggling with, try improvising the piece by changing chords or notes until you get a better feel for the piece., Invite any peers who also practice instruments to participate. Host a recital for supportive family members and/or friends who love music. They will get a free, personal concert, and you will have an extra incentive to practice! Pick a piece that you love and will enjoy practicing repeatedly.Whether or not you want to schedule a live recital, view every lesson you take as a mini-recital., Distracting yourself can actually boost your creativity. When you are feeling frustrated, take a break and do something that requires more muscle memory than thought, so that your mind can wander. When your brain shifts modes in such a way, you can experience a “creative pause” – new solutions, ideas, and motivation can unexpectedly pop up.For example, try taking a shower, doing the dishes, mowing the lawn or folding laundry. Allow your mind to wander and try not to focus on thinking directly about any obstacles you are facing in music practice.
 Playing music with others can result in social, creative improvisation. You can join in and pick up the rhythm, sound, or tunes of others. Don’t save playing your instrument alongside your peers for lessons or recitals; try practicing and rehearsing with other musicians, whether their instruments are the same as yours or different mediums.There is also software such as Jamulus which allows you to collaborate with other musicians in online jam sessions.


If you don’t have a peer who can practice an instrument alongside you, try asking someone to sing while you play.
 Try playing harder songs. You must take on new challenges in order to develop new skills. However, the challenge should be matched to your skill level.The music you are working to excel at should not make you bored – if it does, it’s below your skill level.
The music should be complex to you, but not so difficult that it makes you anxious. If you find yourself getting discouraged, take it back a notch and practice something not quite so hard.

