 For most climates, early spring works best. Temperatures should not drop below 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-6 degrees Celsius) however). In notably warm climates, fall planting is generally recommended.;
, The ideal amount of sunlight is 8 to 10 hours, but the strawberries need at least 6 hours daily. If you live in a particularly hot climate, you may want to choose a spot that receives a little shade in the afternoon to prevent the berries from getting scorched.


Avoid planting the strawberries too close to the root zone of a tree. The shade provided by the tree's branches can be overbearing, but the roots of the strawberry plant can also be strangled out by the heavy roots of the tree.
Also avoid planting strawberries in a location where other strawberries, raspberries, or solanaceous plants like tomatoes have grown before. Growing your strawberries in these locations increase the likelihood of growing berries with verticillium wilt.
 Strawberries rely heavily on potassium, though, so you should focus on maintaining a high potassium content. Green sand, kelp meal, and organic sulfate of potash are good options to raise the potassium content.
 Strawberries can grow in soil with a pH between 5.0 and 7.0, but they do best between 6.0 and 6.2. If the soil pH is too high, you can lower it organically by mixing organic coffee grounds or elemental sulfur into the soil. If the soil pH is too low, you can increase it organically by using ground oyster shell, dried eggshells, or dolomite lime that is certified organic.
 Use clean shears to trim the roots to about 4 to 5 inches (10 to 13 cm) in length.
 Fill a large bucket with water and stir in some fish emulsion for added nutrition. Soak the plants for a full hour before planting.
 Stick the trowel straight in the soil as deep as it will go and firmly move it back and forth until you create a hole.
 Gently insert the roots of one plant in the newly created hole.
 Carefully remove the trowel and firmly pack soil around the plant at the area where the roots and plant meet.
 As the strawberry plants grow, they will expand, so the extra room is necessary.

