 There are ways you can reduce government's interference in your checkbook at tax time!


Contribute money to a 401K account or IRA. Don't pay off your student loans. You will be able to deduct the student loan interest.Buy a house, contribute to charity, take college classes, save your receipts, and have your taxes done by a professional who knows tax laws better than you do.
 In the most simplistic sense, living off the grid can mean not connecting into government provided electricity. Survive on your own.



Solar energy or your own generator can provide power instead.Try not to use light at night. Perhaps use candles.
Make your own food by gardening. Settle on land that offers available water so you don’t need to depend on government for water., In urban areas especially, surveillance cameras and police devices are able to track your movements through your vehicle’s license plate. Get rid of the GPS device in your car.


Instead, walk or ride a bicycle when you can. In addition, avoid toll roads, toll bridges and HOV lanes because they are monitored with surveillance cameras. Take a cab and pay cash. Rental car information can be tracked.
Avoid parking in garages and lots with surveillance cameras and, if you use public transit, buy the ticket from the machine instead of using a new card payment system.Avoid driving on interstate highways.
 Don’t take the same exact route every time you go to the store or to work. Mix up your routine.


Don’t get deliveries to your home because that will create a record. Use maps instead of GPS. Buy a shredder to shred all paper documents when you are done with them.
Get a post office box so that purchases can’t be traced back to your home. This will make it harder for the government to trace you, not just data mining sites.
 Ordering streaming videos from a service like Netflix can put you on the grid. Instead, order DVDs. Get a game console with single player games so you don't need Internet.


Don’t order books from the library with a library card as these can also be traced. If you really want to disappear, get rid of all trophies and old personal items.
 Earn so little as to be exempt from paying taxes (and consider freeganism to survive). Squat for somewhere to live.


Alternatively, Live in the Wilderness or Survive in the Woods. Make sure you are paid in cash, or cryptocurrency like bitcoin.
Settle in a mid-sized city in a place that is not overly cold. Bigger cities have too many cameras and smaller towns won’t let you disappear enough. 