 Once you have planned an event or activity, it is time to get the word out. Social media is lots of fun, but it is also a great way to let a lot of people learn how to support your cause. Make a list of possible social media outlets you can use to market your plan.Use Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter to spread the word about your fundraising activity. Don't make your friends feel like participation is mandatory--just let them know the opportunity is available.
Ask your friends to share your posts and help you reach more viewers.
 In addition to using social media as marketing, you can use it for actual fundraising. There are several reputable websites that will help you set up a charitable giving site. Once you've entered all of your information, you can introduce potential donors to your site via outlets such as websites, Twitter, and Facebook.


Make donating easy. Chose a website that is user friendly and allows your donors to quickly enter their financial information.
Choose a site that is shareable. Your donors can easily share their donation on their own social media pages.
Clearly explain your cause. If you are raising money to help a friend who is overwhelmed by bills for her cancer treatments, make sure your motivation is clear.
 Reach out to everyone you know to recruit possible volunteers and donors for your cause. Speak to your coworkers, your neighbors, and the people at your gym. Don't be pushy, but don't be afraid to tell them what you are working for.Make sure to clearly communicate your goals. Don't just vaguely mention your plans--be specific.
Once you have recruited a network of helpers, make sure to meet regularly so that they feel like part of the team and can help you with the planning and logistics.
 You want to spread the word as much as possible about your fundraising activity. That means that you need to reach out to people that you don't know. Print off flyers and posters and post them around your town. Make sure that they are visually appealing and clearly convey which cause you are working for.If you and your friends are not artistic, don't worry. There are plenty of free online templates you can use to create great flyers.
Many national organizations (such as breast cancer awareness groups) will provide you with free marketing materials. Reach out to them to see what they can offer.
Put the materials in as many places as you can think of. Try the local library, coffee shops, your gym, and your church. Just make sure to get permission before you post anything.
 You might want to advertise your event with local news outlets. Contact your local paper, radio, and television stations. Ask them if they are willing to advertise your event. If they are, make sure that you have an information packet ready to give them. You want to be certain that they provide the public with accurate information.If you have an advertising budget, you can also purchase an ad in the newspaper.

