 When shopping for oil, you may notice two different types: refined and unrefined. Refined oils have been processed, and usually have little taste or nutritional value. Unrefined oils tend to be more pure, and are packed with nutrients. The label on the bottle or jar will tell you whether the oil is refined or unrefined. Here is how long you can expect both types of oils to last:Refined oils will usually last 6 to 12 months if stored in a cool, dark cupboard (or fridge, if necessary).
Unrefined oils will usually for 3 to 6 months if stored in a cool, dark, cupboard. A refrigerator is the best place to keep these oils.
 If it smells bad or has a slight odor of wine, the oil has gone rancid. Toss the oil out., If the oil tastes metallic, a little bit like wine, or just plain bad, it has likely gone bad, turned rancid, or oxidized., This might help you to understand why it went bad. Once you've figured out the reason, avoid making the same mistake when storing the next bottle of oil. Here are some things to look for when dealing with rancid oil:


Check the expiration date: If the oil has gone bad because you didn't use it in time, get a smaller bottle the next time you go shopping.
Was it was stored in a plastic container?: Some types of plastic leach into the oil and cause it to taste bad.
Was it stored in a metal container?: Some metals, such as copper an iron, are reactive. They create a chemical reaction when they come in contact with oil and give it a metallic taste. Oils should never be stored in such containers.
Consider where it was stored: Some oils need to be kept in the fridge while others need to be kept in a cool, dark cabinet. Oils should be kept out of places that receive too much sunlight or are subjected to fluctuating temperatures.
How was it stored?: Was the cap on the container whenever the oil was not in use? Oil can go bad if it oxidizes.
 This is especially important if the oil is usually solid at room temperature. It may seem like a quick and convenient way to get rid of used oil, but it will only result in a clogged drain. The best way to get rid of used oil is to pour it into a leak-proof container, such as a jar or zippered plastic bag, and then to throw the container into the trashcan.