 Draw a large circle; this will be Albert's head.


Imagine the circle as a sphere and draw two perpendicular lines wrapping around it. The vertical line determines the center of the face and the direction the head should be facing. Along this line is also where the nose will be located. The horizontal line will determine where the eyes should be placed.;
, Inside both circles draw a large dot to serve as the eyes. Make sure to draw the eyes proportionate to the head. Between the eyes and along the vertical line draw an oval shape with an opening near the top right corner to form the nose. Once again, make sure to keep it in proportion with the head.
 Simply give him two bushy eyebrows that cover about a third of each eye. Make them smooth on the bottom and wavy up on top as shown.


Give him a considerably large mustache right beneath the nose starting at the horizontal line of the initial circle. Draw the mustache smooth at the top and wavy on the bottom.
For the actual hair, draw out a shaggy outline around the upper half of the head and along the sides, bringing it back up on the right side and over and above his eyebrows to form the bangs.
 Then draw two incomplete rectangles with rounded corners to form the arms. Have the right arm facing down, following the form of his body. The one on the left should be facing up and outward at an angle.
 The line should be lined up with the vertical line previously drawn for the head. Alongside this line on the right side draw three small circles to represent the buttons of the coat. For the collar, draw a 'W' shape right beneath the head with the center of the 'W' aligned with the line in the coat. At the end of each arm, simply draw one circle for the hand to the left to represent the palm of that hand. Now, draw the fingers using simple oval shapes.
 Have this one taper downward to form the pants. Draw a line inside slightly to the left and branch out another smaller line from the base of the pants almost up to the coat.
 Have them overlap a bit. At the upper right corner of the right circle, draw yet another circle about half the size of the first two for the back end of the shoe. Draw a line through the bottom half of each circle. This will represent the tread of the shoe.
 Then erase the sketch lines. Add some color to your illustration. Your picture is now complete

