 Communication is absolutely essential to a long and prosperous marriage. Listening is one of the most important tools for understanding your wife’s ideas, decisions, and interests. Be an active listener the next time she wants to talk about her favorite things and really listen to her; she will appreciate it. Besides, listening shows her that you are serious about what she has to say and not taking her for granted.During a general conversation make eye contact, give her your undivided attention, and acknowledge what she is talking about.
Listening demonstrates that you are trying to understand her on a deeper level. Remember when you first dated and how you were so interested in everything she had to say? Try to rekindle that and get her excited about you again. Be empathetic to what she has to say.
Show you're really focusing on her with body language and verbal confirmations, such as leaning in slightly when she's speaking, maintaining eye contact, nodding, holding hands, saying, "Yes," or, "I agree," and asking questions when she pauses.
 Loyalty is similar to trust in that they are the foundations to any happy and long-lasting marriage. Betray either and it will be nearly impossible to regain them. Be faithful to your wife emotionally and physically; she needs both.Being loyal is important in proving that you will be there for your wife both emotionally and physically whenever she needs you. When a crisis occurs, she knows that you will be there to support her with kind words and helpful actions.
Loyalty means that you keep your promises. Don’t do anything that will discredit your words or disappoint your wife.
Respect your wife’s weaknesses and discretely compensate for those weaknesses, as she likely compensates for yours. Loyalty is not shaming or getting angry at her because of them.
Say only kind things about your wife to others. It is okay to share frustrations with a trusted friend, but never shame your wife. A loyal spouse does not badmouth his or her wife behind her back.
 Setting long-term goals are an important part of planning for a long-term relationship. As long as you and your wife are consistently working towards achieving goals together, there is a good possibility that you will stay together for the long-term. Do you want to move to a larger house or build an addition onto your current home? Do you want to take a vacation somewhere exotic? Sometimes those goals get lost when times get busy. Sit down with your wife and reestablish the goals you want to achieve over both the short and long haul.Try thinking about and then writing down your goals separately. Once you are finished get together with your wife and compare notes. Are there any that are the same or similar? Make them your “together goals.”
Redefining goals with your wife will establish the direction you take in the upcoming years. This demonstrates to her that you care about your marriage’s success and proves to her that you are planning for a long life together.
When you share serious long-term goals with your wife, you will give a sense of maturity and security. Something that will make her care deeply about you.
Celebrate success. As you accomplish your goals over time – celebrate them. This is something you achieved together as a couple and a milestone should be rewarded and celebrated.
 Security can mean many things: physical, financial, and emotional. This does not mean getting a gym pass to gain muscle to protect your wife at the bar; rather, it means to reaffirm your love for her by supporting and being there for her when she needs you.Invest time and interest in your wife and children. This will make your wife feel more secure about your relationship and provides good family teamwork in all that you do.
Provide security for your wife by being assertive. Communicating with your wife assertively will make both of you feel more satisfied and fulfilled by enhancing your emotional honesty, expressing your feelings clearly, seeking your wife’s opinion, and telling her you needs in non-threatening way.
 Show your wife that you will be there for both good times and bad. Being a pillar of strength will go a long ways in securing a long future with your wife. Protect her and don’t allow other people to say derogatory things about her. Instead, make her feel protected and safe.Be understanding when your wife goes through a rough patch at work or at home. Make sure you give her a big hug, tell her you love her, and let her know that everything will be alright. Taking the time to do this will help her to fall back in love with you.
Also, be kind to others. Women love to see their spouse be generous, patient, and understanding. When you do this to other people it will generate a warm spot in her heart for you.
 Everybody needs space, even your wife. She is probably taking on the dual roles of caring for the home and working a full-time job. Give her some space by taking the kids out all day and giving her the freedom to do whatever she wants, even if it is just lying around the house all day watching television. Encourage your wife to have a “ladies night out” with her friends to relax and have fun without the worries of everyday life.
Encourage her to pursue a hobby that will let her concentrate on something other than family all of the time.
 Whether you have serious issues to resolve or just need a third person to talk to about your daily marriage life, couples therapy, or marriage counseling, is a good way to recognize and resolve any type of conflict in your relationship. Therapy is a good way to communicate with your wife and to show her that you take even the smallest of issues seriously.Counseling is a proactive step to strengthen bonds and gain a better understanding of your spouse at any time, not just when you are in crisis.
Therapy can train you to use skills needed to solidify your marriage, such as open communication, problem-solving, and how to discuss differences of opinion.
Attending counseling sessions will help you to analyze both the good and bad of your relationship and identify the sources of conflict.

