 If you’re already worried about feeling awkward or standing out at the gym, there’s nothing worse than aimlessly walking through the gym. To avoid this, make a specific workout plan before you get to the gym. Decide in advance which machine you’ll start with, which free weights you’ll use, and how many sets and reps you plan to complete with different weights.If you establish a regular gym routine, you’ll feel—and look—more confident in what you’re doing.;
, It can be intimidating and mentally exhausting to spend three or four hours at a gym if you’re not used to working out around large groups. Help cut back on your social anxiety by keeping your workouts brief at first. You can begin by going to the gym twice a week, for only 30 minutes each time.As you start feeling more comfortable at the gym and your social anxiety decreases, you can start staying for longer workouts and visiting the gym more often during the week.
 If you’re concerned about working out next to strangers in a crowded gym, ease yourself into the experience by visiting the gym when it’s slow. Visit the gym early in the morning (aim for 6:00), during the mid-afternoon when most people are still at work, or late at night.Be sure to check a new gym’s operating hours online before you show up for an early morning or late-night workout.
 Music will give you something to focus on, and can pump you up and excite you for your workout. With earbuds in, you’ll feel less concerned with what other people around you are doing, and be able to focus better on the machine or weights that you’re using.Make a playlist of upbeat, energetic songs that will give you energy and help motivate your workout.
Remember to have polite gym etiquette when listening to music. Don’t turn it up so loud that others can hear, and pause the music if you remove your headphones or earbuds.
 When you feel anxious, you may notice your body’s physical responses, which may include blushing, sweating, or shaking. You may fear that everyone knows that you are nervous. This excessive focus can create an endless loop of anxiety. While at the gym, try to focus on what is happening in the moment.Casually watch other people, or better yet, focus on your workout and the weights and machines you’re using.
If you are taking an aerobics class, focus your attention on what the instructor is saying to remain engaged in the workout.
 It can be stressful to go to a gym and feel as though the entire room is watching you. You may worry that others will judge your body type, your fitness level, or even your gym clothes. Remind yourself that everyone at the gym is there to improve their overall health and appearance as well.It may help you feel better to realize that everyone deals with some level of social anxiety when they first start visiting a gym.

