 Sounds weird, but once you really get into DIYing, you might produce lots of works just for the fun of it, and then find out you have nowhere to put them or use them. If you really enjoy doing artful projects, you should try to find a gallery where you can show your works or put them up for sale on the internet.
 Take a good look at the pictures and read the instructions multiple times. Take notes and do some research. Don't be afraid to do research from a multitude of sites featuring different people doing the same craft or kind of project your doing to get different viewpoints and comments on techniques and products.

Be careful with what sources you get your information from. Old books are very useful for learning basic techniques and getting ideas but there are downfalls such as the brands or products in the book are out of production or changed in a different way that are no longer used in today times. Many new books are practically old books that have been spiced up with new illustrations or graphics but may lack explanation of some of new terms and basic techniques. Some are incomplete unless you order the DVD or go to a website for further info. Many shows and magazines are mostly ads and belong in the garbage. Youtube videos can be from anybody from a complete amateur to a skilled professional doing a task.
Try to get advice from a store that relates to your field instead of the clerk or sale associate at the huge supercenter that sells everything but knows little about anything.
Choose the learning format that is right for your brain. Some people learn better by reading and others learn better by watching instructional shows and DVDs. If you learn by dvd better than in a book don't choose that complicated book. With a books it's better often to have one with a multitude of illustration of the steps and one of the complete project. Save the less illustrative ones for more advanced DIY people. It also pays off to have a good reference book for quick lookup of terms used in the trade in case you forget the difference between a Phillip screw and a standard screw. You can also enroll in courses or join a club focusing on the product your doing.
 Will you need someone who assists you? Do you have an appropriate workspace (think of spray fumes or loud machines)? Do you have the necessary time and patience (for example to wait for something to dry before proceeding?)Do you have all the tools? What exactly are the materials and where can you get them? What precautions will be necessary?, Get the highest quality tools you can afford at your budget. Just because somethings expensive doesn't necessarily mean higher quality. Just look for signs of good craftsmanship and find a brand with a decent warranty. You can spend a dollar for straight pins for sewing or nails for hammering but be more serious for investments like a new saw or mixer, sewing machine.

Be careful when purchasing some other not too obvious things. Some cheap tool sets aren't made for really heavy duty jobs.There's a reason why grandma never brought a certain brand of thread.
Also make sure your tools are in excellent condition. Dull blades and scissors will more likely slide and slip rising the possibility of injury and messed cuts. Dull scissors will leave ragged edges in paper or fabric. It's a huge obstacle to have your blender break down while mixing a frosting.
 It's better to buy a little more paint than you calculated than running out of it during your paint job. It's also good to have a back up supply of materials in case of mistakes or for any surprises your project will spring on you., Many DIYs are messy. Paint, glue and even cake dough may get sprinkled on hard-to-clean surfaces, some projects involve nasty debris (saw dust, Styrofoam particles), some produce potentially toxic fumes (spray paint, varnish).It's better to prevent or reduce these problems in the first place by protecting your furniture with old blankets, covering the floor with cardboard, or simply going outdoors. But keep in mind that your neighbor may not be happy about the wind blowing Styrofoam pieces into his swimming pool!, You don't have to be perfect but at least have some sort of system to keep things in order. It's frustrating to have to dig in a messy pile of nails, bolts, screws of all sizes in a pile just thrown in a bag. Keep every size in the same area or container but isolated in separate bags or compartments., It's too easy to make costly and careless mistakes due to mislabeled containers or labels being absent. Many baking/cooking reality show mishaps happen because of mistaking what looks like flour instead is baking soda! Expensive silk fabric in a plain bag get's thrown out later that day because it's mistaken for cheap polyester satin practice scraps., This refers both to your mental state and physical readiness. Make sure you are in the mood to invest time and care in your project. DIY projects demand concentration and patience, you shouldn't be distracted by ruminations about your private life or time pressure. Also take care of your body: Wear safety goggles, a mouth patch and gloves whenever necessary. Don't sacrifice your health for creativity!, Every new material ingredient or even different brand has new specifics you need to become familiar with. If a manual is included online or in print read it thoroughly. If not do reference reading material or video tutorials. You can ask a pro or chat online with one of the trade if needed., Especially if you are trying something entirely new and/or handle expensive material, a test run is recommendable. Test your tools for proper function on scrap wood first before cutting into the main expensive wood.Before you give a table the "stressed look", try the technique on the underside, where a beginner's mistake won't be visible later on. Try a cake recipe a few days before the birthday of the person you want to give it to so you can do necessary adjustments. Before cutting into a new fabric you're unfamiliar with practice sewing and cutting on a scrap piece made of the same material., Look over the instructions, supplies and procedures over and over again. Reading the entire project thoroughly will yield new details and little extra steps, terminology or something like a "mini project" within the project. Before you start say a crochet project make sure you know how to do all the various kinds of stitches., There is a lot of (admittedly funny) cake fails on the internet. Most of them happened because the baked goods weren't left to cool before applying the decoration or because the cream or frosting wasn't thick enough. When you watch those DIY Nightmare shows on television the participants who hastily and carelessly are the ones who get to major snares and catastrophes in the end or on the way., One classic mistake is not taking precise measure or using the wrong proportions of substances or materials. Many recipes for baking or chemical formulas in paints or building require exact measurements. Make sure you know how to convert measurements and know your way around fractions and decimals when measuring or wrong calculations will lead to disappointment, expenses, and headaches., It's easy to let egos or the cost of a specific material cause a DIY doer to try to change the specific material or rule and take the easy or cheap way out. This most likely will cause trouble in the long run. Before attempting to change the original recipe or specific brand try the original version first. Know the rules and learn the trade and make adjustments later. However if some brands or materials are out of production or prohibited in your region, contact a pro or forum for advice on a suitable replacement., It can happen to everyone and it pays to change things up and be adventurous. Are you tired of going to the same supercenter that sales everything every time to get a bag of nails. A trip to the fabric or crafts store can yield a new wood burning tool, mini drill or knife or even a perfect piece of suede or camouflage fabric for the man cave. A sewing person could benefit from using a large heavy duty tool chest to store all those spools of threads, sewing machine accessories, needles, bulky yarns instead of a tiny sewing box. Don't be intimidated by something outside of your comfort zone rather it's a large tool or dainty lace., Despite the "yourself" part of DIY, you don't need to do it all on your own; on the contrary, many projects request an assistant, like re-upholstering a heavy sofa that needs to be lifted and turned. Or you might realize that you are stuck or that something doesn't work out as expected. Ask an experienced person before proceeding, may it be your grandfather, a shop employee or the WikiHow community. All experts at any skill level need assistance one time or another. No one master is a master of everything even in his or her own field.

You don't have to every single thing in a DIY project yourself. If you run into a plumbing problem while remodeling your kitchen and know nothing about the subject get a plumber. If you can't sew a simple stitch don't be afraid to ask your partner/friend/spouse/local expert or service do it for you. If you successfully finished construction the kitchen sink cabinet and don't want to risk breaking or messing up the expensive granite countertop hire the contractors to do this for you. Small charges and asking for help can save you from making costly mistakes.
 There might come a moment when you are frustrated. Maybe things don't work out as they should, maybe you realize that you just don't feel strong enough any more. In that case, leave your project for a while (making sure that the object of your creativity is safely put away) and do something completely different. Have a cup of tea and watch your favourite TV show, take a walk through nature or meet a good friend in the coffee shop. Who knows, maybe your friend can give you the necessary motivation?, Yes, sometimes we have to admit that we can't do it ourselves (DIO?). There is no shame in that - Michelangelo was an amazing painter and sculptor, but he probably could't sew a pillow cover if he tried. You have to try new things to see whether you are good at them or not. If you don't have the necessary talent or patience to do thing A, there's a chance you have it to do thing B. Just keep on getting inspired!