 Fill a long shallow pan with the Italian ice puree. Using a long shallow pan (like a 9x13 baking dish) will help the mixture freeze faster. It will also make it easier to scrape or mix in a machine. Cover the pan with plastic wrap to prevent the Italian ice from absorbing smells from your freezer.If you want the mixture to freeze even faster, place the shallow pan in the freezer before you start making your Italian ice puree. This way, the pan will already be cold.
 Traditionally, you should freeze the Italian ice for 30 minutes before scraping through the mixture with a fork. The mixture will be slushy. Freeze it again for another 2 hours until the mixture is firm. This will a crystallized Italian ice that you can serve.If you used a syrup base instead of the puree, you'll need to freeze the mixture longer before initially scraping. Freeze it for 1 1/2 hours, scrape the mixture with a fork, and then freeze it for another 1 1/2 hours before serving., If you don't want a crystallized Italian ice, you can use hand mixer with beater attachments. To do this, freeze your mixture in a long shallow pan (like a 9x13 baking dish). Once frozen, remove the mixture and put it in a blender. Cover the blender with the lid and pulse the blender until the mixture is shaved. This will make a lighter Italian ice.If you don't have a blender, transfer the frozen mixture to a large bowl. Use a hand mixer with beater attachments to blend the mixture until it's as smooth as you want it.
 If you don't want to watch the Italian ice and scrape it periodically, you can also freeze it in an ice cream or gelato maker. This freezing method is hands off and will make a much smoother Italian ice. Pour the cold pureed mixture into your machine and follow the manufacturer's instructions.You should still be around when freezing the Italian ice in the ice cream maker. Most ice cream makers should only be run for about 20 to 30 minutes. If you run your machine too long, the frozen mixture will start to melt.
 Scoop the Italian ice into cones or small bowls. If you'd like to drink the Italian ice as it melts, you may want to serve it in a tall glass with a straw. You can also add an optional garnish to show what flavor it is. You can garnish with:


Sliced strawberry
Lemon or lime wedge
Thin slice of watermelon
Sliver of mango

