 That means: Be born again, and so believe and say that Christ is your personal Savior, pray and repent to the one, true God for salvation, and be baptized.


Your way to get salvation is explained here: "8 For by grace you have been saved through faith; and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God; 9 not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10 For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them." (Ephesians 2:8-10);
,
~ "Do not think more highly of yourself than you should."


Serve God as a patriotic Christian as much as possible and as best you can.
Thank God for and accept His grace and faith ("faith is the gift of God").
Support high ethical, moral values and consider supporting those who have them.



Seek ways to be revived in everyday life, or to revive again:~ Restore America individually, one by one.
~ "Put on the whole armor of God."
~ "Renew your mind."

Recruit for the sake of Christ into the Godly cause of service to your fellows. Each one bring one, and so your efforts may re-double -- and pray that God may "revive us again" as Christian patriots for reviving a higher meaning in America.
: good for even the very "least among His children." Be Blessed by observing the teachings of Jesus and the Gospel -- "do all things as to the Lord" -- good is done for Him, but evil is done to Him.


Jesus said, "Whatever you do to the least of these, my Children, you do to me." and"Whatever you do not to the least of these, my Children, you do it not to me."
Jesus said, ""You have heard that it was said, 'YOU SHALL LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR and hate your enemy.' But I say to you, 'love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven; for He causes His sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous.' "


, So then, "individual responsibility to fellow citizens is an inherent component of patriotism." but some say that "a person has more moral duties to fellow members of the national community, than to non-members."

,


Pay taxes. "Render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's and to God that which is God's -- and honor to whom honor is due." Jesus said. Jesus paid taxes in the Bible.
 Examine ways to support the greater ideals of America that align with Godliness in real Christian patriotism;
~ As much as possible support your country and its peoples;
~ Question and seek what is best for the good of the people;
~ Quest for making the country the best it possibly can be "under God".


Do more than just identify with one's home and country's potentials and ideals. Try to understand them and to actualize your part in some of those ideals.
 Go beyond the call of duty individually to be of service in times of crucial events, cross roads of faith, hope, love for God, liberty and the pursuit of happiness (such things as against which there is no law).


Help to improve your own and others understandings of the purpose of serving mankind involving your nation's special, fundamental beliefs including to support the Nation even when faced with tough times and provide constructive criticism and/or praise (where it is due) to help improve the situation.
Do extraordinary individual helpful activities to try to assist in rolling back bad ideas and results of non-helpful changes by events in everyday life, work, play, or in public life.



Try to improve the concepts, and mood. Consider joining into your community, city, state or nation as an individual in possible team efforts even if the team never communicates, meets or assembles anytime, anywhere, but you may contribute your voice (so to speak).
Consider flying a flag, or to learn the National Anthem, and read up on heroes of your nation that may inspire you and your beliefs.
 Explain that the people work as a team called America, and study up on your home country's system to help support it which is potentially a special honor. This not only gives you basis to be proud of, but also gives children a good knowledge of the nation's uniqueness (for good or evil).
