 Call, visit their website, or visit the shelter in person. See what the atmosphere is like, and observe how healthy and happy the animals seem to be. If you still think that this is the right place for you, ask for an application to be a volunteer. Most shelters will give you a form to fill out, along with a list of basic guidelines.


Don't be shy! Ask the staff any questions you have about volunteering.
If possible, talk directly to the owner or an employee of the shelter. An employee or current volunteer will usually reach out to the owner for you if he/she isn't available when you're around.
 This may be a physical form, or it may be online. You may need to provide a birth certificate and photo ID. Fill out the application carefully and truthfully, and make sure that all of your information is correct.


You may have to complete a criminal background check. Shelters want to make sure that their volunteers are trustworthy people.
Look for a phone number if you can't find an application. Call the shelter and ask whether they are looking for volunteers. Alternately: simply visit the shelter in person when you have a free afternoon.
 Different shelters have different requirements, which often depend on the specific work that you'll be doing. If you want to directly handle animals, it helps to have prior experience with animals. As a general rule, you must:


Be at least 16 (sometimes 18) years of age. If you are under that age, some shelters run family volunteer programs where parents and children come in to work together. Check in with several shelters. If you aren't old enough to volunteer at one center, you might be old enough to volunteer at another.
Be able to commit to a long-term volunteer position. Some shelters require a commitment as long as a year, so that they know it's worth their time to train you. Many shelters require a minimum of one regularly-scheduled shift every other week. Shifts may run for two hours or longer, depending on how much work needs to be done.
Be able to fulfill the physical duties. Most volunteer roles require that you are able to stand or walk for up to 3 hours. You should be able to lift 20 or more pounds.
Be able to hear, see, and interpret animal behavior and body language. This is most important if you'll be working directly with animals.
Be able to keep a positive attitude. It can be hard to emotionally handle a stressful workplace.
 Many shelters have a training session for new volunteers before they can officially start. This usually includes a tour of the facility, instructions on the jobs you will be doing, meeting staff, etc. Depending on the shelter, you might have to RSVP for a group training session that they hold once a month. Other shelters will train you whenever you can be available. Ask the shelter staff for more information.


Do anything else that the shelter says you need to do before starting. For example, you may need to vaccinate yourself against common animal-transmitted diseases.
 Perhaps you can volunteer after work or school, or on weekends in the mornings or afternoons. The owner of the shelter will usually tell you what you can do at the certain scheduled time: bathing the animals, socializing them, feeding them, etc. Some shelters have designated "shifts" for volunteers, whereas others just let helpers drop in when they have time. Some shelters only allow a certain amount of volunteers at a time. Ask the staff which days and time slots are available and find one that fits in with your schedule.
 Don't be discouraged if the owner tells you that s/he doesn't need any volunteers at the moment. Don't give up if there isn't an available time slot that works for you. Ask the shelter to put you on a volunteer waiting list. Once you're on this list, they may call you and ask you to help out once something opens up.

