 Before you can use this method to create a coded message, you'll need to know what you want to encode. You can choose almost any word you might want. However, it's a good idea to favor shorter messages, as longer codes may be more difficult to create.
 The keyboard code method works by using one row of keys at a time. The message itself is spelled out using letters from different rows on the keyboard. These different letters will build the message and keep it hidden amongst seemingly normal words. Check out some of these examples to get a good understanding of the keyboard code:


There are three rows on the keyboard, one starting with Q, the next starting with A and the last starting with Z.
You will need to think of words that use only one row of letters, with the exception of the letter you are using to build your code.
You will spell out your code one letter at a time, hiding it in another word.
 This method works by spelling a word with one row of keys, with only the coded letter being on a different row. Words that have this quality in your document will be focused on, taking the odd letter from each code word to rebuild your original message. To get a better understanding of how this works, check out these examples:


“Terra” would hide the letter A. T, E and R are all in the top row of the keyboard while the letter A is in the second row. Because letter A isn't part of the row the other letters are, it stands out and is read as part of the coded message.
“Rag” “art” “now” would hide the code word RAN.
 Once you have some words to use for this method, you can encode your entire message using the keyboard code. It's important to remember that you don't need to use every word to build your code. Only words with an odd letter out of one row will be read as part of the code. Make sure your key codewords correctly spell out your message before sending it out.


“Don't rag on me so much. Writing things is an art. Now, send me another message.” would encode the word RAN. The keywords are the rug, art, and now and they hide the letters r, a, and n.
Only the words using the keyboard code will be decoded.
Not every word will be part of the code. In fact, many words in your document will not be used as part of the code.
Be careful not to accidentally include words that might be part of the code. Use only words that are made on one row of keys or all three, if they aren't part of the code.

