 Think about any troubling conditions or situations that might be related to why you feel badly about yourself. For many people, typical triggers may include work meetings, school presentations, interpersonal problems at work or home, and significant life changes, such as leaving home, changing jobs, or separating from a partner.You may also need to think about people who make you feel badly about yourself. You can't control anyone else's behavior; what you can control is how you respond and how you let their behavior impact you. If another person is unjustly rude, mean, or dismissive or disrespectful towards you, understand that he may have his own problems or emotional issues that is causing him to act negatively towards you. However, if this person is triggering your low self-esteem, it is best if you can walk away or remove yourself from situations where that person is present, particularly if they respond negatively if you try to confront him about his behavior.
While other people's opinions and ideas have their place in your life, don't set your life according to them. Listen and take on board what works for you. You are the governor of your own life. No one else can do that for you.
 For a lot of us, negative thoughts and beliefs can become so normal that we just assume them to be accurate reflections of reality. Try to be aware of some key patterns of thinking that harm your self-esteem:Turning positives into negatives - You discount your achievements and positive experiences. For example, if you get a promotion, instead of seeing it as a reward for your hard work, you diminish your personal responsibility: "I only got the promotion because the boss lives in my neighborhood."

All-or-nothing or binary thinking - In your mind, life and everything you do only has two paths. Things are either good or bad, positive or negative, etc. For example, if you don't get in to your top-school but get into five others, you still insist that you're a total failure and worthless because you didn't get into Harvard. You see things as either all good or all bad.

Mental filtering - You see only the negative side of things and filter out everything else. This usually results in distortions of individuals and situations. For example, if you made a typo on a report, you assume that the report is now worthless and that your boss is going to think you're stupid and not up to the job."

Jumping to negative conclusions - You assume the worst when there is almost no evidence to support that contention. For example, "My friend didn't respond to the invite I just sent a half hour ago so she must hate me."

Mistaking feelings for facts - You infer that how you feel is reflective of a larger fact. For example, "I feel like a total failure, so I must be a total failure."

Negative self-talk - You talk to yourself in negative terms, including put-downs, name-calling, and self-deprecating humor. For example, if you're five minutes late, you scold yourself repeatedly and call yourself "stupid."

, Repeat these negative thoughts to the point that they become absurd or almost as if someone else is saying the words. Think about how if you repeat the same word over and over again it begins to break down (try doing this with "fork" for an example). You could also write your negative thoughts down using your nondominant hand in order to see them differently. It probably won't even look like your handwriting!


Such exercises can help you get some distance from your thoughts so you can observe them with greater objectivity, almost like you are an outside observer. You will also see that these negative and self-defeating thoughts are really just words, nothing more. And words can be changed., Though the old adage is typically to change or resist certain negative thoughts and feelings, this can in some causes only compound your poor self-esteem as you realize this is easier said than done. Instead, accept these thoughts without necessarily validating them. Negative thoughts come into your head. They exist. They may not be right but they do exist. You don't have to like them, but you do need to accept that you're having those thoughts.Instead of trying to control negative thoughts, endeavor to lessen the power they hold over you. Realize that negative thoughts are counterproductive and try not to let them fundamentally affect how you feel about yourself or your value in the world.
 Transform the negative things you think about yourself into positives.For example, if you tell yourself you are ugly, you could tell yourself that you look nice today. If you tell yourself you never do anything right, tell yourself that you do lots of things right and give some specific examples. Consider doing this exercise in a journal to keep track of your positive thoughts. Read them before you go to bed and when you get up.
Make signs on post-it notes with these positive statements and put them where you can see them, such as on the bathroom mirror. This can help reinforce these statements and ingrain them in your mind. Hopefully, over time, the positive thoughts will supplant the negative ones.
 Comparing ourselves with others almost always results in lower self-esteem.Your friend won a scholarship and you didn't. Your sister got a job right out of undergrad and you didn't. A colleague has 500 Facebook friends and you only have 200. The more you compare yourself to others, the more you are going to feel as though you come up too short. These comparisons are unfair, not least because they assume each situation is equal. Maybe your sister got a job really quickly because she did a practical program with lots of openings. Or maybe your colleague has so many "friends" because he will add just about anyone he meets. Keep in mind, moreover, that you don't know the ins and outs of anyone else's life but your own. Sure, your friend may have a scholarship, but maybe his parents can't afford to help him and he works 20 hours a week at a part-time on top of school. What you should focus on is yourself. Compete against yourself. Challenge yourself to be better. You want the scholarship? Then challenge yourself to get it next year but putting in more hours of school work outside of class. Remember, the only behavior you can control is your own, so that's what you should focus on.

