 Visit the registration page for AP Archive: https://www.aparchive.com/register. You will be asked to provide the following information:


full name (first, middle, and last)
email address
password
phone numbers (work, mobile, and home)
mailing address
business information, such as company name and job title

, You can search for footage on the AP Archive homepage. The Advanced Search function allows you to narrow your search results. For example, you can narrow by date range or decade.


There might already be an AP compilation on a subject. Click the “AP Compilations” link at the top of the homepage to check.
If you need help finding video footage, then contact AP by email at info@aparchive.com. You can also call someone in your geographic area. Find the appropriate phone number on the “Contact Us” page., Most video footage has been digitized, so you can view the footage on the AP site. AP provides access to the screener for free. However, you can’t use the screener footage unless you have a license.You can edit the screener footage if you want. This can speed up the process, as you will know exactly what footage you’ll want from the master.
 After you register, an AP sales representative will contact you about your research. This person can answer any questions you have and discuss licensing rates for the master footage.The rate will depend on the following factors:


Where you will show the video—DVD, Internet, TV, etc.
The territory where you will show the video—e.g., North America, one country, etc.
How long you want to license the footage for.
The amount of footage you use.
 After getting a quote from an AP sales representative, you can create a license by selecting “Order History” in the top navigation. Then click “New License” and complete the form.


The license agreement will be sent to you by email.
Print off the license agreement, sign it, and scan it. Send the scan to your sales representative. At that point, you can request the master footage., After you return the signed license, you can download the master footage to your desktop in digital form. You will click “Request Footage” and then “Master” as the format. Also select your delivery method. The digital file will be available for download in your “Order History.”


If you are a new customer, you must pay AP a minimum payment before you can access the master footage., Edit the master footage and then go to “Order History.” Click on the “Licenses” tab and then “Declare” on your license. Tell AP how many minutes and seconds you used. AP will bill you based on 15 second increments., Before you can broadcast video footage, you may also need to get permission from others who are in the footage. For example, if you are licensing footage of a band performing, you need the band’s permission to rebroadcast the footage.


AP recommends that you work with a clearance company to streamline the process of getting all necessary permissions. The AP’s preferred clearance company is All Rights Clearances.You can work with a different clearance company, if you want.

