 You can not skip through any of the scenes, but it is quite helpful to watch them. it is also helpful to talk to everyone you meet because they could give you some good advice and sometimes even items or equipment.;
, After finding your first sword, an easy way to make money is by slashing through bushes. Most of the time, they drop rupees. Another easy way to find money is by picking up rocks and breaking them by throwing them. Also in the first building to your right after you cross the bridge to the kingdom is a bunch of pots which also drop money when broken. Later in the game, you'll be able to upgrade your wallet to hold more rupees by collecting Gold Skulltula tokens and breaking the curse on the family in the House of Skulltula in Kakariko Village.
 Sometimes when you are stuck or unsure what to do, your fairy may be able to help you by telling you where to go or by telling you what you have to do.
 Getting heart containers is a lot of help, but you may need the Boomerang or the Hookshot/Longshot to be able to get some of them. Deku Nuts are very useful, too - stunning enemies can very helpful in getting in hits and/or getting out of tight spots. Another useful item is the Hylian Shield. This item would be helpful in dungeons with fire enemies because if you brought a Deku Shield, it would burn up the instant it touched fire. Beware, however, that Like Likes can steal your Hylian Shield if they eat you. Get the item upgrades, too. It's always useful to be able to carry more bombs and arrows.
 Early in the game, Lon Lon Milk will be very useful, as it heals 5 hearts per use and has two uses. You can get it for free by playing Epona's Song to a cow. Later on, Red and Blue Potion is useful, healing all of your hearts (Blue Potion also heals your magic fully). When they become available, be sure to have some bottled fairies on hand at all times, as they'll automatically revive you if you lose all of your hearts. You can find them in certain fountains, in dungeons, and by playing Zelda's Lullaby, Epona's Song, the Sun's Song, or the Song of Time next to a Gossip Stone.

