 Both Judaism and Islam have certain requirements and restrictions. Ask your friend how you can accommodate their religious needs, and let them know what you can and cannot do. This will foster a healthy friendship where both of you understand each other’s needs.


For example, you could say to your friend, “I would love to meet up with you next week, but I can’t eat lunch because it’s Ramadan. I’m fasting until sunset.” Perhaps they will suggest a non-food related activity.
You can explain to your friend that you cannot eat foods that are haram. In return, do not try to feed your friend foods that are not kosher., Just as there are many branches of Islam, there are also many different types of Judaism. While your friend’s religion likely plays a big part in their life, you should not make assumptions or generalizations about their religious beliefs, political affiliation, or personal morals. Instead of assuming, ask them about their personal beliefs.


For example, do not assume that your friend has a particular belief regarding the status of Israel. If you want to discuss it, you can ask, "What are your opinions on Israel? I'm not judging, but I do want to know what you think." If they have a different opinion than you, you can say, "That's interesting. That's not exactly what I believe. Would you be willing to discuss this sometime?" If they say no, it just means that it's a personal issue, and they do not want to cause a rift.
 You might feel as though it is your duty to convert your friend to Islam, but this may cause you to lose a friend.Remember that they may believe as strongly in their religion as you do in yours. Instead of trying to convert them, have an open dialogue with them. Talk about your religion if they ask you. Instead of pressuring them to convert, simply talk about your beliefs and your practices. If they are attracted to Islam, they will ask you for more information.


You can invite your friend to attend your mosque with you. If they are uninterested, do not press the issue. This gives them an opening to learn about your faith, but it does not pressure them. You can say, "If you want, you can come with me to my mosque sometime. There's no pressure, of course, but if you ever want to learn about my religion, the option is open."

, In some parts of the world, religion and politics are tightly entwined. Certain subjects may be touchy for you and your friend. While you might mean well by bringing up political subjects, your friend might think that you are lecturing or criticizing them. This will make them defensive. You might want to avoid politics altogether. If the subject arises, you can help lessen the tension.


Let your friend know that your political beliefs do not change how you feel about them. You can say, "I know this might a touchy subject, and I don't think that the Jewish people are responsible for this. I just think that some individuals did something wrong."
If the subject of violence or terrorism comes up, you might want to state something like, "People of all faiths and nationalities do bad things. It's just unfortunate that everyone else is blamed for it."

, You might feel as though your religion prevents you from being friends with people of other faiths, but many Muslim scholars believe that the Quran allows you to be friends. In fact, you are encouraged to be kind and generous to people of all faiths.If you are confused or worried about your friendship, you can ask your imam for advice.

