 Pray to the Father in Jesus name.



Little faith is not as useless, or as common as one might think.
 Find faith through the Son of Man, Son of God, Jesus Christ.
 No! That is not it.


"God resists the proud.";
, Spend time in prayer. Try to do God's will in any ways that you can in your life -- and especially to desire God's will in all your being and doing by as much as possible.
, If you do believe and have faith in something -- then, you will focus in those areas.
 Realize that merely acting up or acting out in the area of an obstacle would not be of itself (of that action) necessarily spiritual or anything Godly.


God clearly allows but does not do evil as "God is Love".
 Keep your faith in God. If you waiver in your belief in yourself that will be okay.


When you see someone who is sick pray for them and see God do the impossible by healing them.
 Wavering in your own little faith is not the problem. Because wavering "about yourself" is not doubting God.
 Do not doubt God. Do not waver in faith that God is good, but that is not about your little faith.
 Love God. If you waiver in respecting God, then that is not Godly faith, and you should not expect anything.
 Act rightly, but acting in the strength of the flesh (people) is not the key.
 Taste and see that the gift of God is good. Test your ideas to see if they are really good -- and that would be only in God's will. Your health, blessing, wealth and well being is in faith, but how do you manage it? "The love of money is the root all evil."

, "Love your enemy." Jesus said that. Your destroying your enemy is not necessarily in or of faith. That which is not of faith is harmful and hurtful to other people, for instance: Act Like a Christian in Any Circumstance.



Escape the Condemnation of Hell According to the Word of God in the Bible. Place the focus on believing in the one who can do it -- not on the problem.
 You individually do not need machines or dynamite for moving mountains of flesh (friend or foe).
, He is at the right hand of the Father always. Jesus said: "What you ask in my (Jesus Christ's) name and believe, nothing doubting, that it will happen, and you shall have it."

,, "Ye ask, and receive not, when ye ask wrongly, that ye may consume it for your lusts.",