 Sadly, looks are one of the first things people judge you on. So when at school your hair should be down with hairbands or clips in it. However, if you have a sports lesson that day, maybe try to put it up in a messy bun or ponytail. If you have short hair you are lucky because as long as you hair is clean you can pull off most styles. You should clean your hair every other day.;
, If you go to a private school, then you should avoid having bright coloured nails. Try a french manicure or just a clear polish. If you don't go to a private school you are lucky as you can wear any colour unless it is against the rules but try to stay away from neon colours. At weekends, wear all of your bright nail varnishes and polishes.
 The way you smell is very important. Nobody is going to want to hang around with someone who smells foul. Shower everyday, and use a nice smelling shower gel. I would recommend Soap and Glory, but never use any products tested on animals as these are easily detectable! Wash your hair every other day with nice smelling shampoos and conditioners.
 Think of Massie Block, is her skin red and spotty? No. It doesn't matter if you have acne, you can still have amazing skin. All you have to do is work a little harder for it. Go to your doctor and ask for a special cream for it and moisturize all over your body everyday. If you have sensitive skin I would recommend "Burt's Bees" as it makes your skin smooth, soft and it lasts a long time. If you have sensitive skin stay away from scented creams. If your skin is perfectly fine you can use any creams but again I would recommend "Burt's Bees" and use it all over your body everyday.
 If your school has uniform then find out what its rules are and see what you have to work with. Here are some ideas. Wear ballet pumps. If you wear a blazer add cute badges to it like flowers and bunny rabbits. Carry a girly bag, for example a pink bag with flowers and smiles. If you go to a school without a uniform, then wear whatever you feel comfortable in but try to make sure its as cute and girly as possible. Cher from Clueless wheres knee high socks with blazers and white shirts. The girls from mean girls wear mini skirts (try to avoid the very short ones though) and cute slogan t-shirts. Lastly Massie Block and her friends wear anything designer. try to follow their examples. If you can afford designer clothes, don't worry just try to find things that don't look cheap and tacky.
 Smile at people around you say hi to anyone you meet. That's the thing about the girls in movies. If they were real then people may envy their looks but a lot of gossip would go round about them too. Never start rumors because it the end your hurting someone and they will probably start one about you in return. Always act carefree as if nothing bothers you. If someone insults you then just laugh it off as it shows confidence and the person will be annoyed that there insult hasn't bothered you.
 Find good friends, if they are pretty and popular it helps but it isn't too important. Find friends that you an trust, have a laugh with and will be there for you when you need them. In return be there for them and surprise them once in a while with cute little things to show them how much you love them. Don't be boring and certainly make sure that you surprise them every once in a while. Host parties, sleepovers, days out and take plenty of photos to put on your Facebook or Myspace and put them around your room.
 Yes you have heard it a million times but nobody wants a faker. Be bubbly and stand up for your friends and what you believe in.

