 Surveyors may have selected a representative sample (a sample size that represents the general population) or a planned sample (a sample that focuses on the opinions and views of a certain subset like Millennials).Knowing what type of sample you have and how large it is will help you figure out how valuable the information is.


Generally, the larger the sample size, the better. If the sample size is below the threshold that you’ve determined is relevant, you will not get an accurate picture of overall sentiment.
Identify samples that are too narrow.For instance, if half of a business’ customers are women and half are men, but the survey is administered mostly to women, it won’t offer a truly representative sample of that business’ customers.;
, The inquiries may be presented as verbal descriptions or summaries, and/or as raw survey responses.


Use the category headings to better understand how groups of questions work together to answer or explore a single idea. For example, a survey about transportation habits might have a series of questions regarding individuals’ transportation habits on the weekend, with questions pertaining to this issue grouped in a separate category.
 Survey results are typically presented, at least in part, as numbers and percentages.For example, in a publication's survey to 100 readers about their opinions of article length, 82% might respond with "about right." In other words, 82 out of 100 people were content with the publication's article length.


Look for abbreviations. Survey questions may be presented as abbreviations or in code form. In this case, a chart key or explanation is generally included somewhere on the survey report elaborating on the abbreviations and/or codes.
 Alternately, they might differentiate between individuals who are white, black, Asian, Native American, or Hispanic. Look for breakdowns of data by age, race, economic status or other characteristic.
 Pay attention to color, direction, and line when looking at tables, charts, graphs, and other visual representations of survey data.


When reading graphs and charts, look for labels on the horizontal and vertical axis. These indicate what is being measured on each axis.
Look for color-coding on bar graphs. A graph may also make use of different colors to denote specific groups or responses.
A chart may present survey data in the form of dotted, solid, bold or otherwise formatted chart lines to distinguish different data sets.
 The report's conclusion will summarize survey findings in a general way and -- possibly -- suggest next steps, if any are necessary.The implications might require specific actions, and the authors of the survey report might suggest that more studies or surveys are necessary to learn more about whatever topic the survey was interested in.


Determine if the survey data requires action. For example, the survey data might indicate that your employees are very unhappy, and that you should therefore make necessary changes to specific tasks, manufacturing processes, or workplace arrangements.With your survey data in hand, you can make informed decisions about important matters.
 A survey is a method of gathering information by asking specific questions of a group of individuals.The survey asks standardized questions of different people, and the answers are evaluated later by the researchers who designed the survey. The information this group (or “sample”) provides can be used to better understand attitudes or preferences about some topic (often a political, economic, social, or organizational topic). The main types of surveys you might read include:


internet surveys (questionnaires administered online)
in-person surveys (surveys given to you by a person in a controlled environment or on the street)
mail-in surveys (surveys that you get in the mail, complete, and then return to sender)

, The survey may be designed to gauge the popularity of a product or assess compliance to a regulatory requirement. Whatever the purpose, it should be stated explicitly on the survey or explained directly to you before the survey is administered.Surveys that do not state their purpose are unethical.
 Some surveys have directions that require you to circle one of several options (yes, no, or maybe). Other directions are more complicated and operate on a scale, usually 1-10 or 1-5.Reading the directions is important for understanding what responding with a value of 1 means compared to responding with a value of 10.


For instance, if answering a question like “How satisfied are you with your product?” you might be very satisfied and therefore circle 10. If the directions set 10 as very dissatisfied, however, you will have answered the question incorrectly.
Surveys are often broken down into sections, with a new set of directions at the top of each section. Read slowly so you understand the directions of each section. Don’t assume directions will remain the same throughout the survey.
 Be careful when reading survey questions. Small changes in wording can dramatically alter the meaning of the questions.For instance, a question that reads “How often do you go to the movies?” is not the same as a question asking, “How often do you watch movies?” since the latter could include watching movies at home as well as at the theater.
 Certain questions lead to other questions.For example, a survey may ask, “Do you smoke?” with an option to circle yes or no. After answering, the survey might then provide specific directions like “If yes, go on to the next question. If no, skip the next question.” Follow these directions carefully.


If there are no follow-up questions or directions, just move on to the next question. Continue until you’ve completed the survey.
 If you’re filling out a survey in person it is possible to ask questions for added clarity.For instance, suppose a survey asks, “Did you go to the movies more than three times this month or less than three times this month? Circle one.” Your answer might be neither if you went to the movies exactly three times that month. Therefore, you should ask the person administering the survey how they wish you to respond to this question.


Mail-in or online surveys, unfortunately, do not offer the chance to ask questions of the person who is administering the survey. In this case, just answer as best you can.
 The quality of the survey results depends on the honesty of the individuals responding. If you are given a survey, be honest in your responses. That way, the data the researchers are interested in collecting will be accurate.