 People who flat out deny their involvement in wrong-doing are less likely to be believed than people who cop to committing a lesser offense. Admitting you did something wrong, even if it’s not the wrong thing you were accused of, may help convince your parents of your innocence.If you stand accused of skipping school, explain that you didn’t skip school, but you did give someone a ride home when you know you weren’t supposed to.
If you’re accused of throwing a party when your parents are out of town, explain that you didn’t have a party, but you did invite a few close friends over to hang out.;
, One trick investigators use when trying to separate the innocent from the guilty is to have the suspect tell their story backwards. Most suspects practice their story in chronological order, so being able to confidently tell your story out of order will make you appear more truthful.Even if you’re telling the truth, repeating your story out of order will be difficult. Don’t be too rehearsed about it or your parents will know you’re lying.
Rehearse your gestures as well as your words. If your gestures look forced, that’s a clear indicator that you’re not being forthcoming.
 Avoid using placeholder words like “Well” or “So” or “Look” and instead focus on giving clear and concise yes or no answers to questions.Don’t give yes or no answers to longer questions or it will look like you’re avoiding answering the question.
For questions requiring longer answers, be concise and keep your answer focused and courteous.
 The more details and information you include in your story, the more it seems like you’re lying and trying to cover up the truth. To tell a believable lie, keep your story short and deliver it confidently.The longer your story is, the easier it is to get tripped up by details.
The best lies are the ones that are rooted in truth. Include as much truth as you can and fudge only on the details that will get you in trouble.
 If you truly want your parents to think you’re innocent, don’t keep telling them that you are. Repeatedly stating that you’re not guilty only makes you look more dishonest.Honest people don’t use lines like, “Would I lie to you?” so you shouldn’t either.
The more defensive you get, the more dishonest you seem.

