 If you're asking yourself whether you have a crush on a guy and care enough to do some research on the topic, then chances are, you probably do. You may be second-guessing yourself because the guy is an old friend, or an unlikely target for your affection, or because you're just plain confused.


But don't overthink it -- having a crush on someone doesn't mean you want him to be your soul mate. It just means you like him and want to spend more time around him.;
, This is another easy way to tell if you have a crush on him. Why would you spend a lot of time thinking about a guy if he wasn't special to you? If you find yourself thinking about the guy every few hours, or just wondering what the guy is up to all the time, then you probably have a crush on him. Here are some ways to tell if your thoughts say you have a crush:


If you catch yourself daydreaming about the guy in class.
If you think about the guy as you drift off to sleep. Bonus points if you ever dream about him, even if it isn't in a romantic way.
If you find yourself always wondering what the guy is doing or what he's up to.
If you're always wondering what the guy would think about certain things. What would he think of your new dress, your new haircut, the movie you just saw, or the restaurant you just tried?
Notice how often you think about the guy each day. Once a day? Maybe not. Once an hour? Probably a crush.
 A lack of concentration is another sure-fire sign that you have a crush on a guy. If you're completely focused on yourself, your grades, and your friends, then you don't have time to think about a crush. But if you can barely read a page of your book for homework because your thoughts keep drifting to him, then this is a sign that you are crushing hard.


If you're feeling so distracted by the thought of your guy that you can't even hold a conversation with one of your friends for more than five minutes, then you have a crush.
If you can't read more than a paragraph of your homework assignment without picturing your guy's face, or wondering if he did his homework, then you have a crush.
If you find yourself drifting off with thoughts of your guy in the middle of a movie, or even during a thirty-minute TV show, then you have a crush.
If you're so distracted that you can't focus on taking notes in class and find yourself doodling the guy's name, then you are definitely crushing.
 Chances are, this isn't your first crush, so think of another guy you've crushed on in the past and compare it to that. Though no two relationships or crushes are the same, if you've thought about a different crush the same way before, then chances are, this guy is your new crush.


Try to remember if you thought about a different crush this way before. What kind of thoughts did you have? If you're having similar thoughts about a new boy toy, then it's likely that you have a crush.
Know your crushing style. Were you also in denial when you were falling for your previous crush? If so, then this is a sign that this is your way of easing into a crush.
If you've never had a crush, then you may not have anything to compare your crush to. If this is the case, then you probably do have a crush and just don't know what it feels like!

