 Optimistic people--those who look on the bright side-- tend do better in life, in everything from work/school to relationships. They not only do better in the lives they lead, but they also lead longer ones.The good news is, you don't have to be naturally optimistic to reap these benefits. Optimism can be learned.


Researchers believe optimism can be taught through a range of behaviors, including by being shown affection, by having the chance to take risks and fail, and by watching others who are optimistic., The very first step to turning lemons into lemonade is being aware of your negativity. If you are blind to your tendency to only see the bad side of things, you won't be able to transform this habit. Track your thoughts on a daily basis, becoming attuned to the negative assumptions you make.When you notice a negative thought pattern, override this thought by coming up with something more positive to say. For example, you might ail a test in school and conclude "I'm not good at anything!" Transform this thought into something like "Math is hard, but I am really good in English and History."
If you are a lifelong pessimist, it will seem insincere to override your natural negative thinking. Fight against this fake feeling; it will get easier in time.
 People in a range of jobs and industries practice visualization to help them find success--professional athletes and CEOs included.Visualizing success accomplishes four things: generates creative ideas to help you reach your desired outcome, programs your brain to look for and notice the resources you need to succeed, draws positive people and situations to you (i.e. activates the law of attraction), and give you the necessary motivation to take appropriate action.Visualization is a fairly easy technique to master. Set aside a few minutes each day for quiet. Close your eyes and envision yourself living life as if your goals were already achieved. Notice what's happening in vivid detail, activating your senses to make the vision seem more real.
 Becoming an optimist can be freeing and life-affirming, but if your inner pessimist struggles against it, just have back-up. One fitting quote says, "I'm an optimist, but I'm an optimist who carries a raincoat." Expect the best, but have a plan in mind in case the worse does happen.This strategy helps you balance your budding optimistic self with your overly negative pessimist one. You direct your energies towards the better outcome occurring. But, you also have prepared yourself and thought out an alternate plan to deal with the worst outcome, if it should occur.

