 If you believe an animal in your area is being abused, report the situation right away to your local animal control or humane society offices. If you cannot find the direct number, call your local city offices or, if you’re in the United States, call 311 to get the necessary contact information.Record what you observe. Make a note of what actions or symptoms you believe are part of the abuse. If possible, offer to include photo or video in your report.
Be prepared to testify after you call in an abuse investigation.
 If you see an act of violence in progress against an animal, call 911 or the local police station right away. Direct intervention is not recommended, but you can have emergency services dispatched immediately if the animal appears to be in a life-threatening situation.


If the animal is in a truly dangerous situation, such as locked in a car or having an act of violence performed against them, call 911 right away and stay nearby so that you can inform them of the dog's condition. An officer will be dispatched as soon as possible.
If the animal still needs help but is not in an immediately threatening situation, such as being chained up outside or with a skin condition that is not being treated, report the matter to animal control as soon as possible.
 Speakers from humane societies and rescue agencies are generally eager to speak to the public about animal abuse and proper animal care. Call your local humane organization to have a speaker come in and talk about the issues. They often speak and provide literature to::


Church groups
Offices or teams of coworkers
School groups
Social clubs
Campus organizations
Groups of concerned private citizens such as a neighborhood watch organization

, Rescues and shelters are often understaffed and underfunded, and depend heavily on volunteers to ensure that they can provide for the rescue animals. Contact your local shelter or humane organization to ask them about volunteering.Call the organization directly and let them know, “I’m interested in volunteering with you. How can I get more information about getting started?” Be prepared to provide them with your availability when you call.
Be flexible regarding what you are willing to do. Volunteers will do everything from playing with the animals to cleaning up kennels and play yards. This is all necessary work to keep the animals happy and healthy.
Try to keep a consistent volunteer schedule. You don’t have to work too many hours, but show up for the ones you say you will work. This is necessary for the shelter to function smoothly.
 If you have children or if you work with children, work to teach them respect toward living things. Helping to foster a more mindful future is one of the best hopes for stopping animal abuse long-term.Teach children by example. Use kind tones and compassionate words toward your pets and other animals, rather than telling them to “shut up,” or saying other things a child would perceive as hurtful.
Practice non-violence with small animals from insects to rodents when they find their way into the home. Relocate them without killing or seriously hurting them.
Bring your child with you for volunteer shifts at local shelters.
Include books and movies in your child’s entertainment that show kindness and positivity toward animals.

