 It’s common for ill or injured children in the hospital to feel like they’re being punished for doing something wrong.Talk to your child and let them know that they did not do anything to “earn” or “deserve” being sick or hurt. Let them know that everyone gets sick and needs help sometimes. It may help to talk about a time that you or another loved one were in the hospital, got better, and went home happy.


Try engaging your child’s imagination in a positive way. Tell them a story about a big white castle full of magical healers who like to help people feel better. Use the names of your care team and other details from the hospital. Try to show your child that the hospital is a positive environment, not a punishment.
It may be especially challenging to convince your child that painful procedures like IV sticks and blood draws are “good for them.” Use positive language about treatment. For instance, if your child is scared of getting an IV explain that it’s medicine to make them feel better. Try using terms like “magic potion” or “all-better juice” to create positive associates with medicine.
 To your child, doctors and nurses probably just seem like strangers in scary clothes who do things that make them uncomfortable. Find out the names of your child’s staff, introduce them, and let your child ask them questions.Changing the nurse from a stranger to a person with a name, hobbies, and maybe children of their own can improve how your child relates to their care team.


This can help your child get to know the people around them and build a friendly, comforting relationship.
 It's likely that every couple of hours a healthcare professional will stop in to check on your child. They may check blood pressure, start a new IV line, or do some blood draws as ordered by your child's physician. Explain to your child that this happens to make sure they are getting better.
 Some hospitals staff a Child Life Specialist, a team member who is available to help ease the stress and fear of hospitalized children, and advocate for their needs. Find out whether this professional is available in your hospital; if so they may be a valuable asset.Many hospitals can also provide information and support for parents and family if you are feeling overwhelmed.

