 Make sure she's clean of any trace of blood, placental fluid, or fecal matter. Good hygiene reduces the risk of bacterial infection following birth.


You may see leaking fluids, called lochia, for several weeks after giving birth. These fluids are natural and normal, resulting from the shedding of your dog's uterine lining. Healthy lochia should be odorless, and may range in color from greenish-brown to blood-red. If your dog hasn't licked her pups clean within a few minutes of birth, you should wipe the puppies' face and nostrils with a damp, clean cloth to remove the placental sac. Give the pup back to its mother immediately.
If your dog appears uninterested in cleaning her new pups, you may need to rub them with a clean cloth to stimulate breathing.;
, You may want to take your dog outside for a pee and/or poop while another person replaces bedding with clean, dry cloths.


Continue to replace soiled bedding regularly, ensuring that the area remains clean.
Keep a stash of clean bedding near your whelping box for easy access.
 Your dog may sleep for several hours following the birth, while her pups nurse or sleep. When she wakes, she should appear alert and interested in her new puppies.


If your dog doesn't appear interested in her new pups, this may be a sign of infection.Check her for other signs of distress, such as whining, dilated eyes, or foul-smelling discharge. If these are present, contact your veterinarian immediately.
Though your dog may sleep more than usual, you should be attentive to any signs of discomfort or restlessness.



If your dog doesn't want to drink water, try offering her chicken broth.
 Although she may sleep more than usual, when she's awake she should appear bright-eyed. Your dog should have a good appetite.Feed your dog several meals a day, rather than one or two larger ones. You can increase her food intake several weeks prior to the birth, and continue for several weeks following birth. It's not unusual for a nursing dog to consume 3-4 times her regular amount of food.Many veterinarians encourage feeding puppy food to your dog during this time for its higher caloric value. This may need to be introduced gradually with your dog's regular food for best results.
Include special treats to whet your dog's appetite. Consider offering cottage cheese, eggs, liver or other nutrition-packed delicacies.
Make sure your dog always has easy access to fresh water. Add chicken broth to your dog's dry kibble to help supplement your dog's liquid intake.
 Your dog may have a slightly elevated temperature in the first 24-48 hours following birth. A rise in temperature is normal, and should not be accompanied by signs of illness.


Signs of infection in dogs include: restlessness, disinterest in puppies, foul-smelling discharge.If you notice any of these signs, contact your veterinarian immediately.
 Normal nursing glands, or nipples, should be soft and enlarged from milk production. If the glands are hard or red, this may indicate presence of infection.


If your dog appears to be avoiding nursing her pups, check her mammary glands for signs of infection. Mastitis is a bacterial infection of the nursing glands, and easily treated with antibiotics. Contact your veterinarian for assistance.
You can easily check your dog's nursing glands by squeezing them. If your dog reacts with pain to your touch, or if you notice that the nipple is hard and/or hot to the touch, this is likely an indication of infection.
Your dog's milk should be white and smooth, with no signs of clotting. Signs of mastitis include coloration of the milk (usually pinkish or yellow)

, Metritis is inflammation of the uterus, and may be a result of an undelivered placenta or an experience of trauma during delivery.


Signs of metritis include: fever, foul-smelling discharge, loss of appetite or decreased interest in puppies.
If you notice signs of metritis, seek veterinary assistance immediately.
 Eclampsia ("milk fever") is a result of depleted calcium, and can result in muscle spasms, seizures and death.

Signs of eclampsia include: restlessness, muscle tremors, and weakness.If you notice signs of eclampsia, seek veterinary assistance immediately.
 For the first week, she will spend most of her time with them. A healthy dog will be interested in her puppies, and happy to have them nurse.


Ensure the puppies have a clean, safe place to nurse. Make sure bedding is clean and dry. Move the whelping box out of high traffic areas.
Keep the whelping box warm. Ideally, the temperature should be around 85 degrees Fahrenheit for the puppies' first week. If your home is warmer than that, bring in a fan to keep the puppies cool. In cooler weather, bring a heating unit nearby to make sure the new pups are kept warm.
Clip the puppies' nails to prevent them from scratching their mother.
 Within the third week, puppies will start to be able to lap liquids. When this occurs, they can start to be weaned. Offer milk replacement for one meal per day. This will help teach them to "lap" liquids, as well as supplementing their nutritional intake. After two days of this, begin to mix milk replacement together with puppy food to create a very mushy meal.


Continue to gradually increase the amount of solid food over time. The texture of the food should go from soup to Cream-of-Wheat to oatmeal within about a week's time.
Puppies will continue to nurse as they are weaned. By week 6, they should be offered soft, moist food as well as puppy kibble. Puppies should be completely weaned by week 8.
 Puppies will be increasingly aware of their surroundings beginning in the third week. They will start to develop teeth, and the need to chew. You can help them by providing toys to focus their attention, and stimulate their play skills.


Start to accustom the puppies to the sounds of everyday life. Bring in new people, one at a time, to play with the pups. Turn on your household radio near the puppies for 5 minutes at a time.

