 It is important that you don't just let the dog go and let it jump all over a new person, even if the dog can't actually knock that person over or injure it. Instead, make the introduction gradually so that the dog is never allowed to act inappropriately towards the elderly person.


This is where a leash comes in handy, because you can let the dog sniff the new person and the new person can pet the dog but the dog can be stopped from jumping or generally getting too active during the introduction.
This gradual introduction may be most effective in a neutral location, such as outside at a park. This reduces the chance that the dog will be protective over its space and act badly.
 There are some things a dog should never do to an elderly person and the dog needs to know that. For example, a dog should never jump up on an elderly person, as this could cause them to fall over. Your dog needs to know that it is never to jump up and that that kind of behavior has negative consequences every time.


If you are trying to stop a dog from jumping up on your elderly family member, then you should also stop it from jumping up on anyone else. Consistency is key to training dogs to eliminate negative behaviors., Encouraging excitement when the dog is interacting with an elderly person will only create more of a problem. Instead of asking your dog "Are you excited the Grandma is here?" and riling it up, you should act like nothing out of the ordinary is happening when your grandma comes to visit.In many cases, your dog will look to you to gauge what its reaction to a new person should be. If you are calm and happy to see one, the dog may give that reaction too. If you scream and shout in excitement that someone has arrived, your dog will probably mimic your reaction as well.
Talk to the dog in a calm and quiet manner. This will promote calmness.
 If your dog is active but responds really well to commands, then you should teach those commands to the elderly person the dog is interacting with. This will help to assure that the elderly person is safe by allowing them to have some control over the situation.


Commands that might be of particular help are sit, stay, and lay down.
It's also good to teach the elderly person how to tell the dog to go to its bed. If the dog has been trained to follow that command, it will then know that it needs to leave this person alone and go calm down in its bed.