 Know that having a home that isn’t 100% clean isn’t a big deal. If the chores have to wait a day so that you have the energy to spend quality time with your family, that is more than acceptable.Your kids won’t remember that your rugs weren’t vacuumed or the clothes weren’t always put away, but they will remember that you tried your best to spend as much time with them as possible.
If you can afford it, invest in a housekeeper to help you preserve your energy.
Give your children age-appropriate chores so that they can help take on some of the housework responsibilities.;
, Accept your new reality that you will have some good days, and you will also have some bad days. One way to combat the bad days is to celebrate when they are good.


Go for a walk, catch a movie, or participate in an activity in which you can’t normally.
Keep a diary of how you felt during the good days. This will help you identify factors that contribute to having good days and will also help you stay positive during the tough times.For example, in your diary, you could write a detailed description of a wonderful day you had out with your children at the park. Include how you felt physically and emotionally, what you did, and how your children acted. When you are not feeling so well, you can reflect back on good days like this as a reminder of special times you've shared.
 Do your best to avoid setting limitations for your children because of your disease. If you live with chronic pain and are hesitant to participate in certain activities, do what you can to not let your children see your fear or anxiety, as it may cause them to feel the same way.


Instead, emphasize healthy living by doing as much as a healthy person would, when you can. Doing so can help your children and those around you enjoy their lives as much as possible.Try to eat a healthy, well-balanced diet, exercise according to your physical abilities, and encourage everyone in your household to get enough sleep. Leading a healthy lifestyle will not only support your physical well-being with a chronic illness, but it will also lift your mood and make you feel more positive about your condition.
Be compliant with treatment recommendations, which might include medication, physical therapy, specific exercises at home, psychotherapy, or other interventions.
 Know that you don’t always have to say “yes” to everything you are asked to do. Although you likely don’t want others to think that you are using your illness as an excuse to not participate in everything, you do need to take your health and well-being into consideration.


Be especially cautious of committing to recurring obligations. You never know how you'll feel when that day rolls around, and you may end up resentful of having to participate.
For your children, create a special word or phrase that lets them know that Mom or Dad isn’t feeling up to it. You can simply say this word to signal to them that today just isn’t a good day for you. Consider words like “Out of commission” or “Temporarily down for upgrades.” Such phrases offer a light way to discuss a difficult subject.
 Devise a plan that allows you to count on others for child care. Healthy parents find taking care of their children all of the time difficult, so attempting to do everything by yourself as someone with a chronic illness can be quite challenging, if not impossible.


Ask friends, family, and other loved ones to take your child sometimes so that you can rest or have some time to yourself. Doing so is especially important when you’re not feeling well.For instance, simply say "Mom, I haven't been feeling well the past few days. Can you take the kids over the weekend so that I can recuperate a bit?" More than likely, your loved ones will be thrilled to help out--they just may not know how they can.
You can even arrange for recurring "time off" to ensure that you get your rest regularly. This can be as rigid or flexible of a schedule as you want, and it keeps you from having to ask each time and feel guilt.
 Chronically ill people who seek out social support feel a greater sense of peace and life satisfaction.You probably cannot do much to change the condition of your health, but you don't have to manage it alone.


Say to a friend or family member, "I've been feeling really down on myself lately. Why don't we go see a movie over the weekend?" Or, you could simply say "I'm in a bad place. Can we talk?"

, Enlist the help of others when it comes to holding your children accountable for their actions. Since discipline is all about being hands-on, parents with chronic illness may have difficulty catching up with little ones and putting them in time out or instilling whatever type of discipline they deem appropriate.Therefore, they may need the help of a spouse, partner, or other close friend or relative. If the parents don’t have help, they risk the chance of letting the child get away with too much, which can lead to serious behavioral problems.
Have regular discussions about house rules, what is acceptable and not, and how consequences will be administered with anyone who is disciplining your children. It's important for all parties to present a united front.
 Plan playdates with friends’ kids to keep your kids occupied and allow them to have some fun, so that you can sit back and rest. When other kids are around, they can “entertain” your child so you don’t have to.


When you feel up to it, call your friends and pick up their kids for a play date so that you can return the favor.You can also sign up your child for an extracurricular activity of their choosing to help keep them socially engaged and give you a break.
 Join a support group so that you can talk with others who are experiencing the same difficulties and joys that you are, too. Support groups can offer emotional support, as well as ideas on how to maneuver through obstacles and challenges your illness can bring.


Online support groups are also available for those who don’t want to leave their home or who can’t find support groups in their area., Know that you are not your illness. You are capable of having a good life, but you’ll need to first try and stop focusing on your illness. Excessively ruminating or worrying about the future will only lead to depression or anxiety.


Try to stop asking yourself, “Why me?” and “What if it gets worse?” Although easier said than done, focusing on the positive aspects of your life instead of the negative can make your situation more manageable.Try designating a short time every few days to allow yourself to process negative emotions and "feel sorry for yourself." When this starts to pop up at other times, redirect yourself to save it for that designated time so that you can grieve properly and also find a positive balance.
 Take care of yourself before you care for others. As a parent, putting your needs before your child’s or even your spouse’s is probably foreign, but your health is paramount.


If you are feeling worse because you aren’t able to care for yourself, everyone else suffers, too. Make sure you go to the doctor’s, get the rest you need, and take time for yourself to make everyone’s lives better., Gain a greater sense of control by working with your health care providers to develop a treatment plan for your illness.


Research doctors in other branches of medicine who may be able to provide you with insight. Consider alternative treatments like acupuncture or herbal supplements. Feeling like you are doing something to get better can help ease your anxiety about having a chronic condition.
 Visit a counselor or therapist to talk about what you are experiencing. Finding a therapist who specializes in chronic illness can make all the difference in the world, as not all counselors are helpful in this area.


A therapy session can help to get things off of your chest and help you devise a plan as to how to make your life more manageable and acceptable.It’s an especially good idea to talk with a therapist if you’re experiencing symptoms of depression such as: fatigue, difficulty concentrating, and feelings of hopelessness.
 Consider helping others who struggle with the chronic illness you have. This puts a positive spin on something that can often feel like a negative aspect of your life. Contact local support groups and become involved in whatever way you can.