 If you will be watching pornography alone, you do not need to discuss your preferences with others, but if you will be watching pornography with your significant other, you should discuss each other’s preferences beforehand.Watching pornography together can be an exciting and fun experience, and in some instances, it can bring a couple closer together.Deciding on a genre or fantasy you are both interested in watching. Establishing what both of you are not interested in will ensure a comfortable experience.
Ask, “What type of pornography would you want to watch?” Also ask, “What type of pornography would make you uncomfortable?”
Never force your significant other to watch something that makes them uncomfortable.
Don’t interrogate your significant other, and don’t be angry if they are not interested in watching pornography.;
, Nighttime is often ideal since there is less of a chance your friends will visit or you will receive a call. If you share a room, only watch pornography when you know your roommate will not be home. Additionally, choose a time when your partner is not tired or stressed, and always ask them if they are in the mood to watch pornography before playing a video or opening a magazine.


Ask your partner, “Is now a good time to watch pornography?”
Check with family members to see if they are planning on coming home.
Watch pornography in your room if you live with others; do not watch it in the living or family room.
 To do so, lock the door, close the blinds, and double-check to see if others are home. You may also want to check your phone to see if there are any texts or calls you need to attend to right away, before watching pornography.


Tell your roommate you need a small amount of time alone if you share a room.
If your room does not have a lock, close the door and put a chair or large object in front of the door. This will move and alert you if someone is trying to open it.
Getting caught watching pornography can be embarrassing, so make sure you are alone before you begin.
 This isn’t just for couples—even if you are enjoying pornography alone, be sure to dim the lights, light some candles, and put away any distracting clutter.Some people even like to play romantic music while enjoying pornography.
 There is a great deal of free content available on the Internet, along with paid subscriptions to certain adult entertainment sites. You may prefer magazines or DVDs, however.
 Adult DVDs and magazines can easily be found at a local adult entertainment store. If you are not sure if there is one located around you, use a search engine to find the nearest one. However, going to a store is not necessary since plenty of pornography is available for free online.
 There are many popular adult entertainment sites that are free, such as Pornhub, xVideos, YouPorn, and so on. One option is to pick a site to visit. You can also type “porn” in a search engine or search for a genre of pornography you would like to watch, such as “lesbian porn.” Each site offers a plethora of pornography for you to choose from.


Whether you want to watch straight, gay, or group pornography, it is all available online.

Turn off the safe search on the search engine you are using; otherwise, the pornography sites may not come up.
 You don’t have to watch a video if it makes you uncomfortable. If you are with your significant other, you can tell them, “I don’t like this video. Let’s watch a different one.” If you are by yourself, simply change the DVD or go to a different website. Watching pornography should be a comfortable experience.
 Just because you are watching pornography doesn’t mean the communication between you and your significant other stops. Check in with your significant other throughout the experience. Make sure they are doing ok, and if they seem uncomfortable, ask if anything is wrong.


It’s ok to laugh and be silly while watching pornography.
Ask your significant other if they like the pornography.
Ask your significant other what they would like to do while watching the video, DVD, or looking at the magazine.
 Some pornographic videos can be over an hour long. You may want to fast forward the DVD or video to find a part you like instead of watching an entire video. Also, if you are watching pornography online, you can watch a few different videos until you find one you feel like watching.
 If you are new to this experiment, see what feels good. Remember there is no pressure to perform or reach orgasm, so feel free to explore.

