 Studies have shown that this drug may be effective in treating inflammation that occurs as a result of osteoarthritis.This herb acts by reducing the enzyme that degrades cartilage therefore helping bones to become stronger.


This herb can be found in a cream form that can be applied on the affected joints three times per day, or according to the instructions of your doctor.
A study that was done by a journal called Phytomedicine showed that 30 patients who had been treated using this drug experience a reduction in knee pain. These patients also reported that they had improved function of the knees and could walk for longer that they were able to before.;
, Studies have shown that this drug can also be used to reduce swelling in the joints, and to treat conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis.


Boswellia cream can be rubbed on the painful joints and it can also be taken orally to help with pain relief. When the cream is being applied to the painful joints, it is advisable to follow the instructions of the manufacturer.
The recommended dosage in the treatment of arthritis is 400 mg thrice daily. The acid that is contained in boswellia is effective in reducing inflammation, as it deactivates the hormones that cause the inflammation in the first place.
 Boswellia has anti-inflammatory properties and is effective in the treatment of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.


There is a special extract in boswellia called H15 that helps to reduce inflammation in bowel diseases. Ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease are conditions that are caused by an inflammation in the gastrointestinal system.
The recommended dosage in the treatment of Crohn’s disease is 1200 mg, taken three times daily. The dosage for ulcerative colitis is 350 to 400 mg three times daily.
A study that was done showed that the extracts of boswellia have proven to be as effective as mesalazine. This is the drug of choice used in treatment of ulcerative colitis., Boswellia can help in the reduction of leukotrines that usually cause the contraction of the bronchial muscles. When the bronchial muscles contract the patient is unable to breathe easily and this is one of the symptoms of asthma.


The herb also helps to reduce the synthesis of leukotrines that cause inflammation in the body. When leukotrienes are overproduced in the body, the immune system is activated and this leads to an asthma attack.
One study showed that people who used boswellia had reduced symptoms of asthma. Another study that was done in Germany in 1998 showed that the herb could be used to cure asthma.The recommended dosage when it is used in treatment of asthma is 300-400 mg three times daily.
 The herb contains boswellic acids that help to reduce and stop the growth of cancer. These acids help to prevent the negative effect of certain enzymes on DNA.


Studies have also shown that the herb can fight breast cancer in the advanced stages.It can also reduce the spread of cancer in brain tumor and malignant leukemia. Boswellic acid is also effective in reducing the spread of cancer in pancreatic tumors., Boswellia can be applied externally on skin that is chapped and dry. Boswellia helps in the rejuvenation and renewal of the skin because it promotes development and growth of new cells.It also helps in the production of sebum, which prevents the skin from drying out.


This gives the skin a more youthful appearance, which is why most skin products have boswellia as one of their ingredients.
It is advisable to follow the instructions of the manufacturer when using boswellia in the treatment of skin problems.
 It is also important to speak to your doctor before using any herbal products.
 The recommended dosage of boswellia capsules is 300 to 500 milligrams orally, taken three times daily. However, this dosage may be higher in patients who suffer from inflammatory bowel disease.


Products that contain 60% of ingredients that are made from boswellic acids can be taken three times per day. The recommended dosage of these products is 300 to 400 mg.
 It is recommended that you stop taking the drug after 8-12 weeks, because the safety of ingesting the drug for a longer period has not been proven.
 This herb should not be used by pregnant women because it stimulates the flow of blood in the pelvis and the uterus. This increases the flow of blood when one is menstruating and can induce miscarriage in pregnant women.

