 In most cases, sweet’s syndrome can resolve on its own. But keep in mind that medications can help speed up your recovery.
 If you do decide to start treatment, the treatment of choice for Sweet’s Syndrome is oral steroids to reduce inflammation. The steroid is usually prednisone, administered at 30 to 60 milligrams daily. Symptoms will clear up in a few days after treatment but therapy may last weeks.Steroids are tapered down to lower doses to help prevent relapse and prevent the body from going through steroid withdrawal. Since prednisone is similar to our body’s hormone cortisol, high dose steroid use can abruptly decrease the production of cortisol. When steroids are stopped suddenly, the body’s levels of cortisol are too low to compensate. Therefore, it’s necessary to taper down to lower doses to help our body start producing cortisol again.
Symptoms of steroid withdrawal include severe fatigue, body aches, weakness and joint pain., Prescription steroid creams may also be used to reduce inflammation. But these will only affect the area they are applied to. Use a prescription steroid cream when lesions appear in one or few places only.
 Steroids will help reduce inflammation at the RA site. Steroid injections provided by your healthcare provider may also be performed, but each area will need an injection of steroids. Typically used if located in one area only.This will provide rapid relief but repeat injections may be needed by your healthcare provider. You will need to discuss with your doctor to establish proper dosing, regimen and timeline.
 Your doctor may also provide you with a prescription for potassium iodide or colchicine. These drugs typically result in rapid resolution of Sweet's syndrome symptoms and lesions. Along with steroids, they are also considered first line treatment.


These drugs may be administered to you by themselves if you cannot take steroids due to side effects or conditions such as severe diabetes.
 Second line treatments include immune system blocking drugs such as Indomethacin and cyclosporin along with antibacterial drugs dapsone and clofazimine. However, indomethacin and clofazimine appear less effective than corticosteroids, potassium iodide, and colchicine.Take as directed by your healthcare professional.

