 How you prepare for this meal will depend greatly on the circumstances and surroundings. Is this a quick lunch; a party with friends; a “working lunch” with a business contact; something for the kids? Each of these situations require different methods of preparation and consumption. If you must be mundane and a quick lunch is your objective then these are the proper steps to follow.;
,


The Dog: The standard sausage hot dog made from beef or pork is the most common. You can also choose turkey or chicken, or, if you have dietary restrictions, even vegetarian, halal. Beef hotdogs, especially kosher dogs which are made from only the best cuts of beef (and usually have garlic in the recipe) are generally thought to be the best. They also typically cost more, but are well worth the price adjustment.
The bread bun: Ordinary white bread buns are most commonly used, but potato buns are much better and it is also becoming more common to make your own "New England style" buns out of a loaf of Italian bread.
Chips: Many people include potato chips or corn chips. Lay's is a popular brand potato chip that goes great with hot dogs, and the Kettle Cooked variety seems to go best.
Side dish: Potato salad or beans (baked beans or pork and beans are appropriate) go great with hot dogs.
Accompanying drink: The soda of your choice will always do, but Root Beer (Barq's) is recommended.
Garnishes and Condiments: Mustard, ketchup, relish compliment hot dogs well. More are listed below.



Microwave oven: For the quick-and-dirty preparation, this works adequately. For a thawed, standard hot dog, between 30 and 60 seconds is quite enough. Hot dogs are precooked so you are only heating them to the right temperature. This method is for people who don't care what the thing looks like, smells like or what it tastes like, and are most likely more afraid of hunger than they are interested in eating a meal. One more note about the microwave method: If you cook them too long they will pop like popcorn. Some people enjoy watching this process and eating the strange shaped fragments.
Pay Fry: This is the preferred method. It takes a bit longer, but the taste is well worth the effort. Use a non-stick spray and turn the dogs frequently. The objective is a golden brown with just a few dark streaks.
Boil: For straight from the hot dog cart taste you can boil the dogs. They're already cooked so just leave it in until it's hot or it splits!
Optional: Slice the dog before cooking. This will allow you additional serving options.
 Even a fast lunch is more appealing when served appropriately. This takes very little time, and you'll drastically improve the quality of your meal.


Plate, napkin, or neither? Many people enjoy eating hot dogs with just their hands with a napkin nearby. If your dog is loaded with toppings, definitely go for a plate to catch the falling goodies.
Garnish: Chopped onions, relish, chili, and sauerkraut are popular. Sprinkle on as much as you like, or as much as will stay in the bun while you are biting the dog.
Condiments. Mustard is the standard condiment, although some people will put things like ketchup or mayonnaise on a hot dog with the mustard or by themselves. Place the dog on the bun and squeeze the mustard on the dog (not on the bun) so it forms a long serpentine or a zig-zag shape.
Chips and side dish: Add chips and a side dish.
 The way to eat this preparation is entirely casual. It is not uncommon to drip mustard on clothing and that is perfectly acceptable for this weekend afternoon family fun.

