 Sleep deprivation or a bad night's sleep can make us feel nauseated and bloated. This will starve off feelings of hunger until later in the morning when tiredness begins to be mistaken for hunger. You are more likely to eat candy bars and fatty baked goods later in the day to quell the queasy stomach if this is why you skipped breakfast.;
, Some of us dislike the same breakfast food on our plate every morning. If the thought of cornflakes, pop tarts or toast has you reaching for the car keys with an empty stomach, it's time to vary your choices. Check wikiHow on breakfast for lots of suggestions. Consider the following possibilities:


Fruits - sliced into your cereal, tropical platter, smoothies, etc
Cereals - oatmeal, homemade granola or berry granola

Breads - scones, crumpets, bagels, French toast waffles, homemade biscuits

Spreads - exotic jams and "spreads" such as marmite
Eggs - the manner of preparing them is endless; add sauces such as salsa, soy sauce, and Tabasco for variety
Beans - baked beans and sausage, beans and rice, refried beans in a breakfast burrito, etc.
Meats - bacon and eggs, ham and eggs, sausage, chorizo, smoked fish, etc.
Drinks - smoothies (fruit/milk/soy), freshly squeezed juice, blended drinks, vegetable juices
Ethnic specialities such as breakfast tacos or Arroz Con Leche, idli (steamed rice cake popular in southern India), dosa (a type of pancake made with rice and pulses), chapati (roasted Indian bread made from whole wheat flour) with vegetables, etc.
Frozen Foods - Although frozen foods do not tend to be as healthful as fresh foods, there are endless varieties of pastries, breakfast pizzas, and other things that you can prepare quickly and easily.
Leftovers or foods that are more typically thought of as dinner foods can be good options if you are not a fan of breakfast foods.
 There is a saying: "Eat like a king for breakfast, a queen for lunch and a pauper for dinner." This makes sense if you are hauling hay or tilling crops with a hoe all day. It makes less sense if you are stumbling off to a desk and making minimal moves in front of your computer. If you have a more sedentary job, you are more likely to benefit from "grazing" - eating smaller amounts more frequently during the day. This might just make breakfast a palatable option for you as you will only need to consider eating half an apple or a cupful of strawberries or one piece of toast etc. to start out your day. As the day progresses, nibble on healthy portions here and there and have your larger meal later in the day. Of course this is opinion. There is another school of thought which considers mental exercise particularly energy consuming and says that a large breakfast keeps you sharp.
 For many workers, dinner often ends up being the main meal. This could be having an impact on your breakfast desire. If this meal is very important in your household (e.g., it is the only time the family sits together) or you simply enjoy making this the largest meal, make sure that you finish it before 7 or 8 pm at the latest. That way the food will digest before you go to bed and your body can then begin to work its way towards morning hunger.
 If you are having both large lunches (especially in a business environment) and a large evening meal, you are probably removing your morning's hunger as the food is still being digested. Try eating a larger breakfast combined with making healthy choices both eating out and at home; while this will probably be hard at first, it might help to lessen the amounts you consume later in the day, thereby making it easier to eat more at breakfast. It will also make weight maintenance easier.
 This might help you to work up an appetite. At the very least, drink a smoothie or a multi-fruit juice to give your body some vitamins and a small amount of fiber.
 If you are feeling stressed or in a rush in the morning you may be less inclined to spend the time on a good breakfast. Try to prioritize sitting down for a relaxed meal (this can be true for all meals of the day.)

, If you really feel too nauseated or averse to chewing, down a glass of juice (such as orange juice) to give your body some energy. Try it before you take a shower, get dressed etc.; it may increase your desire for eating something afterwards by waking up your stomach after a long fast. Avoid drinks with fat in them (such as milk) which takes longer to digest, and may give you a feeling of fullness/satisfaction, leading to skipping breakfast altogether. If your stomach is sensitive to the acid in, say orange juice or apple juice, try grape juice.
 Some people, especially those who tend toward bedtime heartburn, stop eating a few hours before they retire. This makes them hungry enough to eat breakfast, and may also help them cut back on "empty" calories. If you absolutely need late night snacks, try small portions such as cheese cubes, apple slices, a banana or hot drinks.
 At least two to three cups. This helps keep your stomach acid diluted and will remove that queasiness that some people experience.

