 When you wake up from your deep slumber, your bed will probably look atrocious from all that turning and tossing. Pick up any items that fell on the floor such as your pillow, blanket, or stuffed animals and place them in the correct spot. Check for any stains or lingering odour from your pillow case, bed sheet, or blanket and toss them into the washing machine.;
, Whip up a bowl of porridge with plump, juicy berries, cinnamon,nuts, and whatever you like on top that will keep you full until lunch time. Don't be tempted to eat those sugary cereals! Not a big fan of porridge? No problem! There are plenty healthy breakfast options to choose from.
 Wash the bowl, spoon and cup or put it in the dishwasher. Leaving dirty dishes in the sink will only make your parents frustrated, you're old enough to clean after yourself!

, Head back upstairs, grab a toothbrush, squeeze out some toothpaste and brush away. Set a timer for 2 minutes and don't forget to use floss and mouthwash. Use a gentle face wash to clean your face, apply face cream even if you have oily skin to prevent dryness. Do something cute yet simple with your hair such as pigtails, messy bun, flat iron it, curl it, half up half doe etc. Pick out an outfit that is both appropriate for school and for the weather. Obviously you shouldn't wear clothing with inappropriate messages since you'll most likely get in big trouble.
 Get your bag ready and make sure your homework's finished. Finish your homework the night before, so it's easier in the morning. Do your homework on the bus or in the car if you get a ride to school.
 If you have a lunch you like but it's unhealthy make it healthier by adding less salt, oil, fat, and adding more veggies. Pack your lunch the evening before so you don't have to rush. Remember to take a reusable water bottle so you don't get thirsty.
 Raise your hand and don't fiddle with things in your desk. This shows that you're engaged in the lesson and can even improve your marks overall. Don't rush your work. Yes, it's nice if you finish quickly, but it's nicer if you finish last and get everything done the way it should be. If you don't understand a lesson during school, don't disrupt the lesson, wait patiently. Listen, and if you still don't understand, ask the teacher for support they'll be more than happy to help you.
 Put away things that will distract you from your homework. When you have finished, ask someone to check it over and correct any mistakes you have made. Tidy away your books and bags so you can continue with your day.
 Hang it up and place it nicely in your closet. Make sure your room is tidy. If it's not, tidy it the sooner the better!

, Your mother/father took time out of their day to cook for you, you might as well thank them by eating it. When it's time for dinner and maybe you have vegetables, eat them. It will help in school and keep you healthy. Wasting food is not acceptable, if you can't eat anymore give it to one of your siblings and take smaller portions next time.
 When its time for bed, brush your teeth to get rid of the day's food. Have a bath or shower to get nice and clean. If it's not possible at that time, have one earlier during the evening next time.
 Put on a pair of comfy pajamas and get into bed. Read a book for a while if you can't go to sleep. Set an alarm to go off an hour before school starts so you can get ready.

