


Never say anything more than you need to say. (Example: Correct "What are you doing after school?", "Nothing." Incorrect, "What are you doing after school?", "I'm gonna go home, sit down, read a book, eat supper and then maybe go shopping.") Keep the details to a minimum.
;
,, Being calm when someone makes you angry gives you the advantage, it also makes you seem more mysterious since you can keep your emotions in check.
 You can draw what you are feeling, write in your journal, read books, listen to music, or just watch your surroundings. Basically anything that would make people think that you are quiet and mysterious, like you are content with yourself and you do not need other people, and you can just keep on living.
, Being more serious about stuff is good.



If someone walks up to you and tries to start a conversation, be polite, smile, and answer questions (With minimum detail!) If they happen to ask any, don't give them answers if you feel uncomfortable with their question. Politely say you don't want to answer it.



Eyeliner, dark eyeshadow, maybe lip balm or a little gloss...not too much!!

,, If you think it seems rude you can say "hi" but just like in a loud whisper.
 The middle seat seems like you really want to sit with people and talk and answer.
 For example, you might let everyone know you don't like reading, but you might only let it slip out every now and then that you're deathly afraid of speaking in public.
 Don't stop talking altogether though.
 Don't skip rope or go play football or something like that. If you're going swimming or ice skating, simply go around just floating or looking about. Playing on rafts or using a bar to skate aren't very clever ways to make people think you're all that mysterious.
 You can when you're alone. Watching T.V may seem harmless enough, but if you get caught watching shows like Zoey 101 or Wizards of Waverly Place, people are going to think you're playing with them, which you are. But you don't want them to discover that!!

, Pair your outfit with feminine things like long vintage necklaces, beaded black and purple earrings. Wear shorter skirts with fishnet stockings and colored tights. This is a really cool look.
 Try not to let expression show on your face. If you aren't obvious about your emotions, you will seem even more mysterious.

