 You should identify why you are writing in the first paragraph of your letter. If you don’t do this right off, the recipient might be confused and set your letter aside. Remember to get right to the point.


For example, you can write, “I am writing to ask you to vote ‘No’ on the upcoming Senate bill authorizing drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. I believe drilling will cause serious harm to the environment.”;
, Generally, you will probably send a letter to an important person because you want to change their mind about something. Accordingly, you need to give them a reason to see the issue the way you see it. This might mean you need to do some research.


Refer to books or articles by name. Cite facts, statistics, or anecdotes to support your argument.If you are relying on personal observation, then include key details—who, what, where, when, etc.
If you have more than one reason for your position, then develop each in separate paragraphs. This type of organization makes it easier for the reader to follow along.
If you aren’t writing a letter to argue, then simply include the bulk of the information you want to convey in the body of the letter.
 Remember that you are writing a letter, not a master’s thesis. Accordingly, you might want to point the reader in the direction of where they can find more fully-developed arguments.


For example, you can include the address to a website where the recipient can find additional information.
You can also mention the names of books or articles on the subject.
 It is particularly effective to mention common counter-arguments and then rebut them. Only mention the strongest counter-arguments but provide a reason why the reader should not give these arguments too much weight.


For example, you can argue that a counter-argument is based on faulty data. You might write something like, “Supporters of Arctic drilling argue that abundant oil exists beneath the surface. However, newer data has cast doubt on those claims.”
Alternately, you could argue that the counter-argument is mistaken. For example, you could write, “Preserving the Arctic will not result in higher oil costs. In fact, newer wells in Texas and Oklahoma can make up the difference.”

, You convey important information through tone. Tone is hard to define, but you hear tone when people are speaking. Someone can say, “That’s crazy” in a humorous tone or in a fearful one. Tone also exists when we write. You want to maintain a professional tone when addressing someone important.


Avoid using contractions, which are too casual. Write “I am” instead of “I’m.”Don’t use slang or jargon. Write “I was disturbed” instead of “I was freaking out.”
Be polite and respectful. Don’t insult someone or call them names. This can be difficult, especially if you are writing a letter because you want to argue.
 Your sentences should be as forceful as possible. Accordingly, write in the active voice. Active sentences are clearer and usually simpler than passive voice sentences.Compare the following:


Passive voice: “This issue was already decided ten years ago.” In this sentence, someone decided the issue—but you don’t know who.
Active voice: “Congress decided this issue ten years ago.” With an active voice sentence, you know exactly who the subject is.

