 Most cases of mesothelioma have been linked to asbestos exposure. Asbestos is a naturally occurring fiber found in rocks, minerals, and soil.Because of its flame-retardant properties, it was used in a great deal of industrial manufacturing until 1971. Those who worked with asbestos were the most likely to be diagnosed with malignant mesothelioma. If breathed in or swallowed, asbestos fibers can lead to fatal tumors.


Asbestos is much less common now than it was in the early and mid-20th century because of the known mesothelioma risks; however, it can still be found in some products and older buildings might still have asbestos in the insulation.Mesothelioma can be caused by asbestos exposure that occurred 20 – 50 years previously. Even if you are no longer around asbestos, you might still be at risk for mesothelioma.;
, If you currently are, or ever have been, in a profession that might expose you to asbestos, your risk factors for mesothelioma are higher than the rest of the population.Professions that are most at risk for asbestos exposure include:Construction work
Demolition work
Plumbing
Industrial labor
Labor on a shipyard
Gas mask manufacturing
Firefighting
Mining
Manufacturing and installation of building insulation
Emergency workers in New York City on September 11, 2001

, Secondary exposure to asbestos can also cause mesothelioma. This was first discovered when the wives and children of men who worked in asbestos-contaminated environments were diagnosed with the disease.The asbestos fibers remain on your clothes or on your person and can be breathed in by those close to you, such as family members, roommates, or close friends., The average age of mesothelioma diagnosis is 69. This condition is very rare in those under the age of 45, but it still occurs.The reason why mesothelioma tends to affect older adults is twofold: 1) Mesothelioma can manifest decades after initial exposure. 2) Asbestos is not as common in industrial environments as it had been in the past. There are roughly 3,000 diagnosed cases of mesothelioma in the United States each year., Zeolites are minerals related to asbestos and are found naturally in rocks and soils. Zeolites work similarly to asbestos and cause similar symptoms and diseases. Zeolites are commonly found in parts of Turkey, where mesothelioma is more common than elsewhere., Chest radiation — including radiation used to eradicate other kinds of cancers — can heighten your risk of mesothelioma. While the chances of mesothelioma are very, very slight, those with higher doses of chest radiation are more likely to be diagnosed with mesothelioma than other populations., Most diagnoses of mesothelioma happen when a patient reports a symptom or a change in their body.Pay attention to your body and to your health so that you can report any significant changes to your doctor.


This is especially important if you might have been exposed to asbestos at any point in your life.
 Pleural mesothelioma affects the tissue surrounding the lungs. This is the most common form of mesothelioma, accounting for 75% of diagnoses.Asbestos fibers embed themselves in the tissues, leading the body to attack these tissues and develop serious tumors that can make it difficult to breathe normally. Symptoms of pleural mesothelioma include:Shortness of breath
Painful cough
Pain underneath the ribs
Weight loss
Fever
Fatigue and exhaustion
Finding lumps in and beneath your chest tissue

, While less common, peritoneal mesothelioma can also be caused by asbestos exposure and has noticeable symptoms. These include:Stomach pain
Stomach swelling
Finding lumps in your abdomen
Sudden weight loss
Constipation

, It is more difficult to determine whether a patient has pericardial mesothelioma or mesothelioma of the testicles based on their symptoms because these symptoms mimic other conditions. These kinds of mesothelioma are also particularly rare and unlikely; however, it is still important to know these symptoms, especially if you have experienced asbestos exposure. These symptoms include:Chest pain
Pain or difficulty breathing
Pain, swelling, or lumps in the testicles

, Many of the the symptoms of mesothelioma can be caused by less serious illnesses and conditions. It is important that you do not panic, even if you find that you are experiencing these symptoms.You will need to consult a physician, but you should not jump to any conclusions about whether or not you have mesothelioma. Only medical tests administered by a doctor can make an official diagnosis.
 If you begin to experience these symptoms, it is imperative that you get in touch with your doctor right away. Even though mesothelioma is very rare, it is a serious enough condition that you do not want any delays in your treatment.Moreover, these symptoms might be caused by other conditions or illnesses that require treatment, such as pneumonia, infection, or other kinds of cancer.
 If you have known asbestos exposure and/or you experience symptoms of mesothelioma, make an immediate appointment with your physician. Mesothelioma is not a curable disease, but treatments can extend life and reduce pain. Treatments are most effective when provided early in the course of the illness.Most likely your regular physician will see you for your initial appointment; however, it is possible that you will be sent to a lung specialist or stomach specialist immediately, depending on your symptoms., The first step in mesothelioma diagnosis is getting a full medical workup by a physician. If your doctor suspects mesothelioma, you will likely be asked about possible exposure to asbestos. Provide your doctor with information about your health history, work history, and the onset of symptoms.Be sure to tell your doctor about any medications that you are currently taking as well as any recent life changes you have experience, especially unexplained weight loss .Even if you are not sure whether you have been exposed to asbestos, tell your doctor if you work in one of the higher-risk professions for mesothelioma, such as construction, demolition, firefighting, industrial work, or in shipyards., Your doctor will likely wish to perform a physical examination by feeling for possible lumps, listening to your chest and heart, and examining any other unusual signs and symptoms.A physical exam will help your doctor begin to pinpoint the cause of your symptoms and determine your general state of health.
 After an initial physical exam, your doctor may order imaging scans of your chest and abdomen. An x-ray of your chest and a computerized tomography (or CT) scan of your stomach and chest will help your doctor determine whether there is anything abnormal in your chest organs, such as a thickening of your tissues or abnormal pockets of fluid.A chest x-ray or CT scan by itself cannot give a firm diagnosis of mesothelioma, but it can indicate to your doctor whether more tests are needed.Some doctors will take chest x-rays and CT scans of patients who have been exposed to asbestos but who have not yet experienced any symptoms; however, it is unclear whether such early scans are useful in early diagnosis.These scans are also useful in helping determine how far mesothelioma has spread and how advanced it is, if mesothelioma is in fact the diagnosis., PET scans help determine whether or not an abnormality is cancerous and how far a cancer might have spread. Your doctor will inject you with a mildly radioactive substance, often a kind of sugar. Cancerous cells will absorb this material more quickly than other cells. A camera will then take pictures of your body, with the more radioactive parts lit up. This will help your doctor understand whether or not you have cancerous cells and where these cells might be located in the body., Some doctors will want to test your blood to help in their diagnosis. These tests currently have limited utility, however, since other tests are more reliable. Mesothelioma patients tend to have higher levels of osteopontin (a protein often found in bones and teeth) and soluble mesothelin-related peptides in the blood. These substances can be detected in blood tests., If you have abnormalities in your imaging scans or blood tests, your doctor will likely want to test your tissue using a biopsy. In a biopsy, a number of cells are removed from your body (often using a needle) and are tested underneath a microscope.This will help determine whether or not cells are cancerous as well as what kind of cancer they might have. Note that a biopsy is currently the only surefire way to diagnosis mesothelioma.There are different biopsy methods depending on where in the body the abnormal cells are located. Most biopsy procedures are non-surgical and can be accomplished with a fine needle; however, some biopsy procedures require deeper surgical incisions in order to access the abnormal tissues.If your biopsy reveals mesothelioma, you might require new imaging scans to determine the scale, stage, and spread of the cancer.If your biopsy reveals mesothelioma in the lungs, you will likely have to take a Pulmonary Function Test, which will help your doctor see how well your lungs are functioning and how well you are breathing., If you have a positive diagnosis for mesothelioma, your doctor will likely begin treatment options immediately. These treatments are similar to treatments for other cancers and will likely be supplemented with treatments to minimize pain and other symptoms. Note that mesothelioma is not a curable disease, but treatments can lengthen and improve the quality of your life.These treatments include:


Chemotherapy. Chemotherapy drugs can help shrink tumors and reduce painful symptoms such as fluid build-up.Radiation. Radiation can help kill or shrink cancerous tumors.It can also keep the cancer from spreading.Surgery. Your doctors might suggest that cancerous tissue, portions of your lungs, or portions of your chest lining be removed.In more advanced cases, your doctors might perform surgery to remove fluid from the lungs and chest.