 You can prevent cat odors in your home by maintaining your cat’s litter box. Try to check on the litter box once to twice a day. Scoop and remove any feces in the litter box as soon as possible so the smell doesn’t linger. Doing this will encourage your cat to use the box in the future and prevent your cat from going to the bathroom in other areas of your home.Get into the habit of emptying the litter box first thing in the morning or at night before bed. This way, any feces in the litter box will not sit in the litter for a long period of time.
You should change the litter in the litter box once a month to keep it fresh. Do a full wash of the litter box once a year so it stays clean and odor-free.
 Scented litter will only mask the smell and make it hard for you to determine when the litter needs to be cleaned. Some cats can also be turned off by scented litter and decide not to use the litter box at all, leading to stinky spots in your house. Go for unscented litter that is light in color so you can see when there is feces in the box that needs to be removed.To minimize odor in the box, you can sprinkle baking soda at the bottom and then put the litter on top. This can help to keep the litter smelling fresh.
 Place the litter boxes in different areas of your home and clean each box regularly. Try to have at least one litter box per cat in your household so each cat has the space and privacy they need to go to the bathroom. Having multiple litter boxes will also ensure all the cats are not using one litter box. This can lead to a stinky litter box situation in your home.
 Use a vacuum made to clean pet hair and dander. Vacuum any areas where your cat plays or lounges, such as around cat trees or scratching posts. Make sure you also vacuum furniture where your cat likes to play, rest, or lounge. Try to vacuum these areas once a week so there is not a buildup of hair, dander, and cat odor.Invest in a vacuum cleaner that is made to clean up pet hair, as this will make vacuuming your cat’s play area easier and quicker.
 Another source of odor may be your cat’s sleep area. Wash your cat’s bed regularly so odors do not linger. Put its bed and any blankets or pillows it uses in the washer. Get in the habit of washing your cat’s bedding once a week so it stays clean and odor-free., To minimize odors in your home, maintain your cat’s eating bowl and drinking bowl. Clean its eating and drinking bowls once a day. Do not let wet food sit in its bowl overnight. Toss any dried food remaining in the bowl after a few days. This will keep your cat’s eating area clean, free of bacteria, and odor free.