 This is the simplest and easiest method to treat frizzy hair. The low pH level in carbonated water helps to reduce your frizz.Wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner. Then, give it a final rinse with several cups of carbonated water., The acidity in apple cider vinegar does wonders to tame frizzy hair, and gives your hair a healthy shine.


After shampooing your hair, and completely rinsing out any shampoo, pour apple cider vinegar diluted 4:1 with water into your hair, from root to tip.
Let it sit for about 30 seconds and then rinse it with cool water. Proceed to condition your hair as you normally would. Repeat this treatment once a week.For those with extremely frizzy hair, mix one cup of the apple cider vinegar with two cups water, then pour on hair and leave it in for 20 minutes. Rinse it off thoroughly with cold water, ensuring you get all the vinegar out to avoid making your hair smell of it.
 These ingredients will act as natural conditioners for your hair, as both avocado and olive oil have very good hydrating benefits. Avocado also has good fatty acids, as well as Vitamin E, to help tame frizziness.


Mash up an avocado in a bowl and then add a splash of olive oil to the bowl. Whip the two ingredients together.
After shampooing your hair and toweling it dry, apply the avocado mask, making sure to fully cover all of your hair. Let the mask sit for 30 minutes to an hour, and then rinse it out thoroughly.
Condition your hair to get rid of the avocado scent.You can also add mayonnaise to the avocado mixture as the fat content in the mayo will help to create a natural, moisturizing mask.Use this hair mask once or twice a week to prevent dryness and to condition your hair.
 Eggs contain natural amino acids that are highly beneficial for revitalizing your hair follicles and smoothing down frizzy hair. They also contain enzymes that kill bacteria and get rid of unwanted oil on your scalp.Mix one egg with a spoon full of olive oil. Leave the mask to sit for 30 minutes so the ingredients dissolve.
Apply it to your hair, being sure to cover all of your hair and keep it on for 20 minutes. Keeping it on for much longer could cause hair to become brittle.
Rinse it out and proceed with your regular shampoo process.
If you find raw eggs messy, you can also use egg oil.
 Coconut oil is very hydrating and as a bonus, it smells pretty good. Put some coconut oil on your fingers and run them through your hair when it is feeling really dry or frizzy.


Rub the oil on the ends of your hair as opposed to your roots, as you do not want your scalp to get too oily.
You can also apply olive oil the same way. Put a few drops in your hand and run it through the damp ends of your hair to lock in moisture., Always make sure the oil is at a comfortable temperature to apply it to your scalp. You can make a home hot oil treatment using extra virgin olive oil, coconut oil, Castor oil, almond oil, or rosemary oil.


Put a cup of your chosen oil in a pot and warm it on a stove top for 2-4 minutes.
Let it cool to room temperature or a temperature that will be tolerable, rather than painful, on your scalp. Feel free to add 2 tablespoons of honey to the oil, as the warm honey will help to smooth the fibers in your hair.
Apply the oil onto your scalp, gently massaging it from root to tip.
Take a plastic bag or hot towel and wrap your head, holding in the moisture from the hot oil treatment. Let it stay covered for 1 hour, and then shampoo and condition your hair, removing the oil.
 The natural enzymes in beer help to tame your frizz and gives you a shiny, healthy looking mane. Dark beers provide the most nutrients and moisture, so go for a dark amber ale or a stout to make your rinse.Coat your hair with beer and let it sit for several minutes.
Rinse your hair with cold water, as cold water will help to get rid of the beer smell.
You can also put beer in a spray bottle and spray it on your hair, then rinse after a few minutes.

