 Your veterinarian can give you flea control medications that are administered orally or by injection and are more likely to work than many over-the-counter brands. Some other treatments are topical solutions.


Try topical or spot-on medication. These medications absorb from the skin into the pet’s bloodstream. They are applied to a small area on the pet’s back directly on the skin. From there, they work to paralyze and kill fleas after they feed on the pet. Ingredients in these products vary and may include: fipronil, imidacloprid, metaflumizone, permethrin, pyriproxyfen, selamectin, and spinosad. NEVER use permethrins on cats.
Consider oral tablets. These are given once a month. Some of the tablets only stop the egg from developing into an adult, so another product will need to be used to kill adult fleas. There is also a quick-acting product will only kill fleas for 24 hours.
For cats, there is an injection available which will control fleas for up to 6 months. A veterinarian will need to give the injection. There is the potential for side effects. These include reactions to the injection at the site of injection, vomiting, and loss of appetite.
Treat all the pets in your house.
Be aware not all products sold to kill fleas are effective. You can purchase over-the-counter flea prevention drops or pills but these may not be effective in treating or preventing fleas. Take care to read the label instructions for proper dosage.;
, Fleas are usually at their worst from March to October, depending on where you live. They like warm, humid weather, preferring temperatures between 70 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit and 75% humidity., Some collars are highly effective, but others are not. Effective collars, such as Seresto brand collars, require a veterinary prescription. Be cautious about collars that do not need a script as they are less likely to be effective. Always follows the directions on the package. When used with flea and tick shampoos they can be a good option for flea control. DO NOT use dog flea collars on cats.
 Give your pet some added protection from biting fleas by making your own flea collar. Mix two to three drops of cedar or lavender essential oil with one to two tablespoons of water. Drip some of this mixture onto a bandanna. Rub the sides of the bandanna fabric together to rub in the scent. Then tie the bandanna around your pet’s neck. , Add one teaspoon of all-natural apple cider vinegar to one quart of drinking water for your dog. This will deter fleas as the vinegar works its way through the dog’s bloodstream and is emitted through his skin., Brewer’s yeast has been known to repel fleas, especially in hot muggy climates. For a cat or small dog, add half a teaspoon of brewer’s yeast to the pet’s meal by sprinkling it over the food. Use one teaspoon if your dog is over 30 pounds, and add a teaspoon for every 30 pounds beyond that.
 While this may seem excessive, it's actually a vital part of removing fleas from your home. Since fleas lay eggs that may hatch after you've treated your pet, you need to remove the eggs and larvae that fall to the floor or on furniture. Vacuum every day for a few weeks to ensure that a new cycle of fleas won't trouble you.


Remember to throw the vacuum bag away in an outdoor dumpster or empty the bagless vacuum canister into the outdoor dumpster. If you leave the dirt in the vacuum bag or canister, the fleas can easily work their way back into your home.Eggs and fleas can also get trapped in fabric on couches, pet bedding and other upholstered furniture. Vacuum upholstery every day for a few weeks.
 Diatomaceous earth (DE) is a natural and safe alternative for killing fleas in your house. DE is similar in consistency to talcum powder.It can be sprinkled on carpets, baseboards, and other places in your house. Let it sit for a few days and then vacuum it up.
 This type of insecticide will restrict the growth of fleas and eggs. Check that the product will kill fleas/eggs for up to 7 months.


Strictly follow the instructions. Make sure to remove all pets from the area when you are applying this insecticide. Don't forget birds and other pets in cages. Be sure to also cover aquariums when using these products.
 Strip as much of the fabric off your couches, chairs, and bed as you can. Then, wash it in the hottest water your fabric will allow. This should kill fleas and their eggs.Gather up any clothes that may be lying around, especially piles of laundry. Fleas will nest in fabrics. Washing and drying on the hottest setting possible will kill fleas and eggs.
 Fleas don’t like the scent of lemon and will avoid things with this smell. By applying a lemon spray around your house and on your pets, you can drive the fleas away, at least temporarily.


Make a lemon citrus spray by cutting 6 lemons in half and boiling them in water. Steep the lemons in the water overnight. Pour the lemon water into a clean spray bottle. Place in a spray bottle and apply to fabrics and furniture around your house. You can also spritz your animals with lemon spray.Test inconspicuous areas first to make sure it doesn’t bleach or damage the item being sprayed.
 Set up several diffusers throughout your house. Choose oils such as lavender, eucalyptus, cedar wood, lemon, or peppermint.You can also look for lotions that contain these essential oils. Apply the lotion to your skin, which will repel the fleas.
 Most general bug sprays prevent against fleas, so apply the spray if you notice fleas in your house. One with an insect growth inhibitor will be longer lasting killing any fleas which hatch for up to 7 months.Consider the health hazards of insecticides. Always read labels carefully to avoid accidental poisoning., If it's flea season, spraying insecticide in your yard will kill off fleas and eggs. Look for a product that's been approved by the EPA and is safe to use on your plants., Nematodes are small worms that feed on fleas. Ladybugs are also good additions to your yard, as they feed on fleas as well. Visit your local garden center to get some of these flea predators., A flea comb is a very fine-toothed comb easily found in pet supply stores, the pet aisle in discount stores, or at a veterinary office. Work the comb down to the pet’s skin and slowly comb through the fur. If there are fleas, you'll see small black flakes or even fleas as you pull the comb through the fur. , When you're at home, spend some time wearing white socks. This will make it easier to spot fleas. If you notice a bunch of tiny black spots on your socks, this may be a sign of a flea infestation. These might show up as actual fleas that may jump on your ankles and feet, or these specks may also be flea dirt., You may notice your pet scratching or furiously nibbling at itself if it's being bothered by fleas.
 If you have flea bites, you might have small pink and red bumps or spots which may be itchy.You might find flea bites at the fold of a joint, such as at your elbow, knee or ankle.
These bumps will turn white when you press on them.
 If you haven't already, talk to your vet about treatment options for your pet. These may include topical treatments, oral medication, or injections. These will kill the fleas on your pet and prevent reinfestation.


Again, keep in mind that not all of these treatments work. Talk to your vet about the best treatment for your pets.
 This can kill the fleas that are currently on your pet, though it will not prevent them or do anything if there are fleas in the environment that jump back on to your pet. Look for a pet shampoo or dip that will kill fleas, larvae, and eggs.


Take extra care to wash your pet’s head after you've washed his body. Fleas might try jumping onto the head to avoid being washed.
Be sure to follow the directions for use and frequency and completely rinse the product off of your pet.DO NOT use dog shampoo or dips on cats.
Keep in mind that these types of product will cleanse the pet, but they do not have persistent action to stop the pet from becoming reinfected. You must use another product (such as a spot-on treatment or collar) to prevent reinfestation.
 Flea sprays and powders, available at pet stores, are applied to the pet’s fur. They may need to be worked in to reach the skin to kill the adult fleas.


Follow the instructions on the package for proper use.
 Flea control products are specially formulated for use on a certain type of pet. They are not interchangeable. Do not use a dog-formulated product on your cat, and vice versa.

