 Make sure that your trailer is correctly fitted and secured to your towing vehicle is well suited to towing the weight. Run a total safety check, including brake lights, tire pressure and the amount of gas in your tank. Make sure that a cell phone, horse's legal and medical documents and a map or directions are in the towing vehicle. Always be prepared for problems that might occur.;
, Horses are fundamentally claustrophobic and will rarely, if ever, walk into a small dark space. If you have a loading ramp, lower it and sprinkle some bedding over it to make it seem more familiar to your horse. Open wide all other doors and windows to let in as much light as possible. If you can, try to put some hay in a place that is clearly visible to your horse from outside the trailer.
 Always use a breakaway-style halter with a protective head bumper, protect leg wraps with shipping boots. You can brush your horse but it is not necessary. If it is a hot day you may want to put fly spray on your horse so your horse doesn't stomp as much, minimizing the possibilities of injuries. Blanket him if appropriate, keeping in mind that it could be significantly warmer in your trailer than it is outside. If you have windows in your trailer open them, but leave the screen up so the horses heads are not out of the trailer. Be sure to stay calm throughout the process, as your horse will pick up on any stress.
 Lead him calmly up the ramp or up the step and into his individual chute. If he is nervous, have a calm horse go before him or even go in first yourself. The idea is to show him that the trailer is a safe, non-threatening environment. Always make sure the heavier horse or a horse traveling alone is on the drivers side of the trailer. The second or empty space should be on the passengers side. If you have any further issues, consult your trainer or an experienced horse person.
 Close all doors and latch or lock them. Double-check that there is no door or window that could swing our into a neighbouring lane. Never tie a horse while in a trailer, so if the trailer flips, the animal does not snap its neck. Horses should never be able to touch noses while unsupervised in a trailer, this could cause a fight, unless you are positive the horses get along.
 Remember to try to avoid highways and to always drive at or slightly below the speed limit. Keep in mind that any decision you make could put your horse's and your lives at risk. It may help to have another driven in another car behind the trailer so the driver with out the trailer can change lanes behind you leaving you plenty of space to move around.

