 If you need to replace a patch because you’ve been promoted you’ll have to first take a seem ripper and pluck out the thread. Then remove the patch.









Pop every stitch out around your patch.
Remove any loose thread with the tweezer end of your seam ripper.
Don’t use a razor as you may cut yourself or your garment.
 You’ll need to iron your sleeve or garment so that there are no wrinkles.









Ironing can also help to smooth out any leftover marks and punctures from a previous patch.
Ironing your garment before sewing will prevent you from sewing over any wrinkles and, therefore, leaving permanent wrinkles in your clothes.
 Make sure your patch is placed correctly before sewing or gluing the patch to the sleeve. If you are sewing a patch on a military uniform you will have instructions on the specific location of the patch.


For example, a Navy striped patch must end 2 inches (51 mm) above the cuff on the sleeve. Refer to any instructions you were given to correctly place patches.
You can either pin the patch on or use glue tape to iron your patch in place.
Ironing the patch on isn’t a permanent solution. It is only to hold the patch in place while you sew. The lack of pins will allow you to sew the patch on without running into any pins.
If you ironed the patch on, let it cool before sewing.
 You can do this either using a sewing machine or hand stitching. 








Use a thread that’s the appropriate color. Match the color of the patch's edges or use clear thread.
If using a machine, make sure you pull the part of the sleeve back that isn’t attached to your patch.
 Take your time so that you get it right and don’t have to start over.









Depending on where your patch is, sewing may be more difficult. If the patch is higher on the arm, you can use your neck opening to separate the layers of fabric. If it’s lower near the cuff, you will have to pay attention to make sure you aren’t sewing through both sides of the sleeves.
Set your machine on a slow setting. If you need to rotate your uniform and patch, raise the foot with the needle still in place. Rotate your garment, then lower the foot.
If hand sewing, take your time so that you can create even spaces between each pass and sew in a straight line. Use a straight stitch on patches.
 Once you’ve made it all the way around your patch, seal the stitch.









Take your scissors and cut away any loose threads. You should leave a little thread about 1/2” (1cm) long. Leaving just a bit ensures that you don’t accidentally cut the knots.

