 Businesses that specialize in transporting automobiles over long distances are sometimes called “auto movers.” Check your local listings to find one that operates in your area. By taking advantage of one of these services, you can make sure your car ends up getting where it needs to go without a lot of frustrating coordination or expense.Shipping is often the best option for people who are forced to move hundreds of miles overnight, or who would rather avoid an unnecessary road trip.
Before deciding to do business with a particular auto mover, do a little research to see what level of protection they can guarantee.;
, When you begin filling out the shipping forms, you’ll be asked to provide details like the make and model, year, mileage and running condition. Based on this information, the auto movers will be able to calculate expenses and recommend the best way for your car to be shipped.A compact 4-door sedan in good working order, for example, will be cheaper to transport than a broken down SUV that won’t start.
Make sure to record your vehicle’s info as accurately as possible to avoid any disputes or additional fees later on.
 In some cases, you’ll be given a choice of how you’d like your vehicle to be shipped. This may range from a single tow rig to a fully enclosed container. Think carefully about which option best suits your budget and needs before coming to a decision.If you’re moving a priceless collection of European sports cars, it will probably benefit you to shell out for a pricier yet more secure shipping option.
Settle on a shipping date that gives you the most leeway with your schedule.
 You’ll typically be asked to pay a certain amount up front, then hand over the rest upon delivery. In addition to the baseline expense of transporting an automobile in your make and model, the distance you’re traveling will be the primary factor in determining how much you owe. Other associated charges may apply, depending on the company you end up going with.Altogether, the cost of having your car shipped will likely be somewhere between $500-1,000.Inquire about financing options if you’re unable to afford the entire amount at once.
 A good insurance policy will safeguard your car from any damage incurred during shipping. Although it is extra, the cost of repairs will almost certainly be much higher should something happen to your vehicle. Insurance should therefore be considered a non-negotiable part of the total expense of transporting your vehicle.Look over your current auto insurance policy to see if it covers long-distance shipping.If you choose not to buy insurance, you’ll be completely responsible for damage and defects.
 Assuming you have the option, a fully enclosed transport is a smart way to go if you’re serious about protecting your vehicle. Cars that remain covered throughout the trip are less likely to receive dings and scratches. That means you won’t have to worry about your paint job being ruined between Point A and Point B.Be sure to specify your preferred shipping method when filling out your vehicle registration forms.On an open carrier, your car will be exposed to the elements, as well as other potential hazards like flying debris.
 Before you part ways with your car, go over it from front-to-back and top-to-bottom and make a note of its general appearance. Do the same as soon as you get it back. If it’s not returned to you in the same condition, the shipping company will be the ones stuck footing the repair bill.Don’t forget to list defects like dents, chips and scratches on the paperwork for your vehicle.
 Clear your car of any tools, equipment, clothing, trash and other items before dropping it off with the movers. Not only will this ensure that nothing gets stolen or misplaced, it may also help bring your transportation fees down a little. In fact, some auto movers make this step mandatory in order to reduce the risk of liability.The vehicle’s overall weight is a major factor in the cost of shipping, so the more you can clear out of it, the less you’ll have to pay.Think twice before loading your car full of boxes and other moving materials., Don’t move forward with a shipping contract until you’ve received an accurate estimate. A certain company may seem like a good choice at first, but you may ultimately discover that it’s out of your price range. Taking the time to a evaluate a quote (or a couple) can give you an idea of how much you can expect to pay on average.Request a quote on the moving company’s website, or see side-by-side results by comparison shopping on sites like uShip or Auto Transport Direct.It’s best to compare companies based on things like their range, insurance coverage and customer satisfaction rather than their rates alone. Remember, you’re paying for peace of mind, as well., Terminal-to-terminal shipping allows you to drop off and pick up your car at different designated sites for a reduced rate. This can be a good way to cut down on out-of-pocket costs if you’ve already been forced to fork over a lot of money on a big move.Terminal-to-terminal shipping will put your vehicle back into your hands sooner.
Make sure you have a way to get to the specified pickup site once you’ve arrived at your destination., As an alternative to shipping, you might also consider paying an independent driver to transport your vehicle personally. Since they’ll be driving your car themselves, you’ll eliminate the added expense of loading the vehicle onto a separate carrier. This is also a helpful option for people looking to transport pets or other valuables that would be difficult to bring on an airplane.Some auto mover services also have drivers available for rent.Hiring a driver might not always be a more economical solution—you might be expected to pay for things like food, lodging and fuel, as well as airfare to send them back once the job is complete., If possible, schedule your move for the beginning or end of the year. Auto movers frequently charge less to transport cars during the winter months, when business tends to drop off. When it comes to getting the best deal possible, every consideration helps.Summer is the busiest time of year for most auto transport services.

