 Your loved one may need to talk about his or her condition sometimes dominate because of the constant worries about his or her health. When you spend time with your loved one, be open to letting him or her tell you about the pain, anxiety, fears, and other feelings.


Make sure you let your loved one know you are listening by using active listening strategies. Make eye contact, nod your head, and use neutral statements such as "Yes" or "Uh huh" when your loved one is talking.
 Fears that minor symptoms may indicate a major problem are common among people who have pain disorder.For example, if your loved one has a headache, then he or she may believe that it is brain cancer. Try your best to reassure your loved one about these minor aches and pains.


Try saying something like, “I am sorry that you are in pain, but I am here for you. I will sit with you until the pain passes.”
You can also reassure your loved one by encouraging him or her to call for help. Try saying something like, “Please call me if you need anything or if you just want to talk to someone.”, People who have pain disorder may feel like they need to take time off of work, skip special events, or miss out on regular social activities so that their symptoms can improve.However, this is not the case. It is important to for your loved one to keep with his or her normal routine, so encourage your loved one to do so.


Try saying something like, “I read that if you have pain disorder it can help to stick with your normal routine, but I realize that might seem difficult to you. What can I do to help?”

, Sometimes it can be frustrating to spend time with someone who is always in pain, so you might find yourself wanting to lash out. However, it is important to be sensitive and remind yourself that your loved one is suffering from a psychological illness and the pain is real for your loved one. Do your best not to trivialize it or dismiss it. Some things you should avoid saying to your loved one include:“It’s all in your head.”
“Snap out of it!”
“Stop being so negative!”
“Do you even want to feel better?”

