 If you never talk about the anxious thoughts in your mind, you may feel isolated. This feeling can lead to more anxiety. Instead, talk about what is in your head. You can also talk about topics other than your worries to keep your mind off of them. Find someone in your daily life you can sit down and chat with on a regular basis.For example, you can ask your best friend if they will call you every Tuesday night at 7 and talk to you for 2 hours.
If none of your friends or family members wants to talk with you, consider seeing a psychologist.
For example, you may want to start getting cognitive-behavior therapy. This type of therapy teaches new ways of thinking to prevent obsessive worry., When you’re expressing your emotions, you’re not worrying. This is because when your brain is focused on worries, the amygdala is restrained. The amygdala is the part of the brain that controls emotions. When you cry or get angry, your worries are then suppressed. If you typically stifle your emotions, try accessing and expressing them to stop worrying so much.Listen to music or watch a movie to help stimulate an emotional response.
Try going to a boxing gym or taking a self-defense class to help you access suppressed anger.
 Develop a mental defense mechanism in your mind. When a worrying thought comes into your head, immediately repeat a positive phrase. Perhaps you choose a phrase that repeats the opposite of your worrying thought. For example, if your worry is “I will fail at work,” repeat the phrase, “I may fail, but it will be an opportunity to learn.”


You can also try asking questions when worries come to mind. Ask yourself, “What is the proof that this thought is true? Where is the proof that this thought it not true?”, Telling yourself not to think particular thoughts is useless because it usually makes you think about them even more. However, assigning a specific time of day to allow worries to run wild is different. Tell yourself that at 5 o’clock, you will allow worries to dominate your mind for one hour. When worries come to mind throughout the day, tell your mind that these thoughts will have to wait until 5 o’clock. After the worry hour is over, postpone any more anxious thoughts until the next day at 5 o’clock.Write down each anxious thought as it pops into your head. This way your mind won’t waste energy struggling to remember all the anxious thoughts throughout the day.
Make your worry time at the same hour every day. Try to make it at least a few hours before bed so that it doesn’t interfere with sleep.
It may take practice to delay worry like this.
 Another way to challenge worrying in your mind is to live with the fact that life is uncertain. Let go of being in control. Seek out the reason why you want to be so certain about the future. Find out why you want answers to every problem right away. The answer is likely that you like to be in control. Talking to a therapist about your need for control is a good place to start., If you are worried about your performance in something, such as a test, try writing about your worries in a journal just before you perform. Studies have shown that test takers improve their scores by journaling about their worries for ten minutes before taking the test.Write down everything you are nervous about, either in a list or paragraph format.


You could apply this principle to any performance task—a presentation, a sports game, acting, singing on stage, making a meal for others, and so on.
If you don’t have access to pen and paper, try telling someone what you’re worried about.
 Remind yourself that you are a capable person who has dealt with difficult situations in the past. By doing this, you may find it easier to face the problem that you are worrying about.


Try making a list of difficult situations that you have faced and what you did to overcome those situations. For example, maybe you had to deal with a life-threatening illness, failing a class in school, or a difficult break-up. Reflect on these situations and what you did to overcome them.
 Asking and answering “what if” questions may help you to examine your worry and feel less concerned about it.This may also help to make the worry seem less frightening.


For example, if you think to yourself, “What if I get into a car wreck?” You might answer the questions with “I might be injured, “I might have to go to the hospital or call 911,” or “I might have to get a new car.” These are things that might be difficult, but you are capable of doing them.
After reasoning through the worst case scenarios, try asking yourself a question that reflects the most likely scenario, such as, "What if I don't get into a car wreck?" Then, you might answer, “I will arrive safely at my destination,” “I will have to deal with some traffic,” and “I will feel more confident in my driving abilities.”

, Worrying and problem solving are not the same thing. Worrying does not lead to solutions, but problem solving does.By developing a methodical way to approach your problems, they may start to seem less daunting.


Start by writing down the problem. Be as specific as possible. For example, you might write, “I am worried because I cannot afford to pay rent on time this month.”
Then, make a list of all of the possible solutions to the problem. You might write, “Arrange to pay late by talking to the landlord,” “Borrow money from a friend to pay the rent on time,” and “Send the check late with an apology letter.”
Choose the best solution from the list and take action. For example, you might decide that the best option is to contact your landlord and ask to pay rent on the 15th instead of the 1st.
Reflect on the outcome. Did you get the result you wanted? If not, then what might you do differently next time?

