 Place the pig feet in a stockpot and cover them with water. Bring the water to a boil over medium-high heat, and cook the pig feet for about 3 minutes.


You should clean the pig feet and remove any hairs before completing this step.
Parboiling the pig feet can help remove some of the odd flavor, thereby preventing it from leeching into the braising liquid you'll use during the primary portion of the cooking process.
 After parboiling the pig feet, remove them from the water using a slotted spoon. Set them aside for now.


Discard the cooking water. You should not reuse this water in later steps calling for additional water.
 Pour the cooking oil into a large, deep wok. Warm it on the stove for about 1 minute over medium-high heat.


The oil should become glossier and thinner, making it easy to spread it over the bottom of the pan.
Note that you could use a Dutch oven or stockpot if you do not have a deep wok.
 Cook for 1 minute, stirring frequently, then add the chili peppers, star anise, and cloves. Stir-fry for an additional 2 minutes.


Stir frequently to prevent any of the ingredients from burning. You only need to cook them long enough to release the scent and flavor from each ingredient.
Note that the amount of chili peppers should vary depending on personal taste. Use 3 dried chili peppers if you prefer mild to moderate heat or 5 dried chili peppers if you enjoy strong heat.
 Add the drained pig feet, soy sauce, rice wine, sugar, and salt to the wok. Pour in enough water to just barely cover the pig feet.


Allow the braising broth to reach a rolling boil, stirring lightly as it heats up.
 Reduce the heat to low and cover the pan. Simmer the pig feet for about 2 hours, or until the meat is tender enough to nearly fall off the bone.Stir the contents of the pot every 10 to 15 to prevent the pig feet from burning and sticking to the bottom.
The sauce will eventually thicken. If this happens while the pig feet still seem tough, add more water 1 cup (250 ml) at a time and continue cooking.
If the sauce still seems thin once the pig feet are done, remove the lid and increase the heat to medium. Continue boiling until the sauce reduces and thickens.
 Transfer the finished pig feet and sauce to individual serving dishes and enjoy them while they're still hot.

