 The drop, cover, and hold on technique is the cousin of the famous "stop, drop and roll" for fires. While it's not the only method of protecting yourself indoors during an earthquake, it is the preferred method of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the American Red Cross.Big earthquakes occur without much, if any, warning, so it's recommended that you drop to the floor as soon as it hits. A small earthquake could turn into a big earthquake in a split-second; it's better to be safe than sorry.;
, Get under a sturdy table or other piece of furniture. If possible, stay away from glass, windows, outside doors and walls, and anything that could fall, such as lighting fixtures or furniture. If there isn’t a table or desk near you, cover your face and head with your arms and crouch in an inside corner of the building.



Do not:
Run outside. You're more likely to get injured trying to get out of the building than staying put.Head for a doorway. Hiding under a doorway is a myth.You're safer under a table than you are under a doorway, especially in modern houses.
Run to another room to get under a table or other piece of furniture.
 Researchers have shown that most injuries happen when people try to change the place of hiding or when the place is crowded and everyone has a goal to get outside safe., The ground may be shaking and debris could be falling. Hold on to whatever surface or platform you've gotten under and wait for the shaking to subside. If you were unable to find a surface to hide under, continue to keep your head shielded by your arms and tucked down low.
 Hold on and protect your head with a pillow, unless you are under a heavy light fixture that could fall. In that case, move to the nearest safe place.


Many injuries are caused when people leave their bed and walk across broken glass with their bare feet., Research suggests that many injuries occur when people inside buildings attempt to move to a different location inside the building or try to leave.


Be careful when you do go outside. Walk, do not run, in case of violent aftershocks. Collect yourself in an area without wires, buildings, or crevasses in the earth.
Do not use elevators for egress. The power can go out, causing you to be trapped. Your best bet is to use the stairwell if it's free.

