 Set aside 20-30 minutes every day for test-specific studying. This could be taking a practice test, working on your basic math skills, or playing a brain game. The goal is to be consistent over time. You want your mind to anticipate being challenged in unpredictable ways.By practicing every day you will keep your brain engaged and avoid ‘losing’ knowledge due to extended breaks. For example, students enrolled in summer learning programs generally maintain or increase their IQ levels. In contrast, students who do not study over the summer holiday often experience an IQ drop by the time that they return in the fall.
It is important to stop studying for the day when you begin to feel fatigued or mentally foggy. So, the time limit is a bit flexible (especially if you are taking an extended practice test), but 20-30 minutes of concentrated studying often yields the best results as it forces you to focus for a limited amount of time. It also helps you to resist the urge to ‘cram’ in the final days before your test.;
, It is best if you can use old versions or current practice tests of the exam that you would like to take. Find these by approaching the company that runs the exam or by searching the exam name online. You can also look for a generic free IQ test online.Some IQ test booklets also contain whole or partial exams. Go to your local bookstore and flip through a couple of books before making a purchase to ensure the content is worth the cost. If buying online, use the preview function to look inside the text.
Be aware that some groups, such as American Mensa, refuse to release their past tests, citing copyright restrictions. As a result, practice tests that fall into these categories may be more difficult to locate., Keep your mind flexible by engaging in a variety of mental games. Pick those games that challenge your memory and require speed, such as Dual-N-Back. This is a game that pushes a player to recall a geometric sequence. It is available online for free practice by searching “Dual-N-Back.”Playing these games can count as your mind practice. Just don’t overdo it by going beyond 20-30 minutes each day.Be wary when playing generic brain training games. If you play them frequently enough you will improve your gameplay but not your overall cognitive abilities. Your best bet is to move on once any game gets easy., Sitting down with a book as often as you can is a cheap, quick way to stimulate your brain. Recalling the sequence of events helps with memory retention. The act of reading itself is relaxing and can improve focus. For maximum benefit, jump between different genres and authors to keep your brain challenged.Most IQ tests are written and contain a significant verbal component so reading is a natural form of preparation. As you read make sure to look up any terms that are unfamiliar to you. Also, work on comprehension by re-reading any passage that is unclear to you.
 Actively seek out “novelty” or challenging mental tasks, such as mastering a new language. Performing these “new” tasks often prompts your body to increase dopamine levels which in turn leads to the production of new neurons, a necessary step in long-term learning and retention.Music lessons are one way to reap an IQ benefit over time. The mental challenges and novelty of even consistent lessons push the brain to adapt and result in climbing IQ numbers., On occasion, lock up your cell phones and other devices and go through the world relying on your wits and skills alone. This may mean writing out a math problem instead of looking up the answer. All of these added tasks stimulate your brain in a positive way.One example of this is trying to navigate your route to somewhere by using a paper map instead of a GPS. If you can do this without compromising your safety, try it.
 We’ve known for quite some time that watching television holds little to no cognitive benefits. So, it should come as no surprise to you that TV time does nothing for your IQ. Limit yourself to 30 minutes a day and use the remaining “TV time” to do something new, challenging, and active instead.When you do watch TV, try to steer yourself towards educational programming. It is not active learning, but it is still something.