 Wrinkles are caused, in part, by the friction of clothes pressing against each other, and tissue paper helps reduce this friction. For pants, insert pieces of tissue paper along both legs before folding or rolling. For shirts and suit jackets, insert pieces in both sleeves and throughout the torso.When you fold the clothes, there is still a chance of wrinkling. One trick that might help is to put a little extra tissue paper along the parts of the garment that are folded. Giving the folds extra padding can help keep from forming hard creases.
 Once you have the clothes properly padded, place each one in a plastic bag before packing into the suitcase. If you don’t have dry cleaning bags, zip-lock style bags are a great alternative. Putting clothes in plastic lets them slide around more, so it keeps the clothes from settling into a position and wrinkling., As you fill your suitcase or moving boxes, put clothes that are less likely to wrinkle on the bottom of the stack and put linen clothes near the top. This will reduce the amount of pressure on the linen and help avoid wrinkles. If you pack a bunch of linen clothes together, try to put larger pieces on bottom with smaller pieces on top.


If you are packing for flight, consider placing linen clothes in the middle, as baggage workers may not load and unload bags with the top up. Placing them in the middle ensures that if a bag is flipped upside down, all of the weight won’t end up on the linen.
 The trick of rolling up clothing to reduce wrinkles is debated, with people advocating for and against it. The idea is that by rolling, you avoid the hard creases that folding typically creates. The downside is that rolling can form smaller wrinkles if the clothes are not rolled tightly enough. Rolling may not work the best for shirts as they will most likely need to be folded in half, but it can be a good option for pants.Fold pants in half lengthwise preserving the crease in the front of the pants. Hold the pants at the hem and slowly roll all the way up to the waist. Gently smooth the pants along the way to reduce any extra creases forming.

