 It's important to know when your hair loss could be a symptom of a more serious medical complaint, in which case you should see a doctor as soon as possible. Contact a doctor if you are losing hair in an unusual pattern, or rapidly at an early age, such as in your teen or twenties.Other symptoms to look out for are:


Pain and itching with hair loss, or a red, scaly scalp.
You have bald spots on your beard or eyebrows.
If you are a woman and you are experiencing male pattern baldness, abnormal hair growth on your face and body, or an irregular menstrual cycle. There may be an underlying hormonal disorder responsible for your hair loss.
You have been gaining weight, suffering fatigue, muscle weakness, or intolerance to cold temperatures., Before you go to your appointment, it's a good idea to think about the symptoms you are experiencing so you can describe them clearly to the doctor. Consider when you first began experiencing hair loss, and whether has been occasional or continuous.Also ask yourself:


Have you noticed poor hair growth, breakage or shedding?
Has anyone in your immediate family experienced hair loss?
Are you taking any medications or supplements?, Hereditary-pattern baldness is the most common cause of hair loss. In men, it is most commonly characterised by a receding hairline that forms a rough "M" shape. Although it is not a disease and is based on your genes, there are treatments that your doctor can prescribe to you.The two medications most commonly used are:



Minoxidil (Rogaine) is a topical solution that is applied to the scalp to stimulate hair follicles. It comes in 2% and 5% solutions and is applied once daily.
Finasteride (Propecia, Proscar) is a pill that interferes with the production of a form of testosterone that is linked to baldness.Women of child-bearing age should not touch or handle crushed or broken tablets.
 About a third of women experience some hair loss. As many as two thirds of menopausal women experience hair thinning or bald patches. Women rarely suffer a receding hairline, but a thinning at the part line develops into increasing diffuse hair on the top of the head.Some of the most common medications for female pattern hair loss include:


Minoxidil (Rogaine) is applied topically and massaged into the scalp. Minoxidil is excreted in breast milk following oral administration, so it should not be used while breastfeeding.
Anti-androgens are receptor-blocking drugs which are only very rarely prescribed.
Iron supplements are prescribed for some women, especially vegetarians, those with a history of anemia, or those who have heavy menstrual bleeding.