 Remember that s/he may hear noises or voices in the background while you are talking, making it difficult to understand you. It is therefore essential that you talk clearly, calmly, and rather quietly, as his nerves may be frazzled from hearing voices.These voices may be criticizing him as you talk.
 Delusions occur in as many as four out of five people with schizophrenia, so be aware that the person may experience these while you are talking.These may be delusions that you or some outside entity such as the CIA or a neighbor is controlling his/her mind, or viewing you as an angel of the Lord, or anything else, really.


Get a sense of the specific delusions so you know what information to filter through in the conversation.
Keep possible grandiosity in mind. Remember that you are talking to someone who may think as if a famous person, authority or ascended beyond the realm of ordinary logic.
Try to be as agreeable as possible while talking, but not overly flowery, or flattering with many compliments.
 Don't exclude him/her, even if there is an ongoing delusion or hallucination. Typically there will still be a sense of what is going on, and of being hurt by your talking as though the person is not around.If you need to talk to someone else about him/her, say it in a way that one wouldn't mind hearing, or take a moment to speak in private.
 You may learn a lot about how best to talk to this particular person by asking the friends and family or (if applicable) care-taker. There are a number of questions you might want to ask these people, such as:


Is there a history of hostility?
Has there ever been an arrest?
Are there any delusions or hallucinations in particular that I should be aware of?
Are there any specific ways I should react to any situations you think I might find myself in with this person?

, Know how you will leave the room, if the conversation goes badly or if you feel that your safety is threatened.


Do your best to think ahead of time about how you'll calmly reassure and gently talk the person out of anger or paranoia. Maybe there is something you can do to make the person feel at ease. If, for instance, he/she feels the government is spying on him/her, offer to cover the windows with aluminum foil to be safe and protected from any scanning/spying devices.
 Keep an even keel and don't react. A person with schizophrenia will likely behave and speak differently than someone without the disorder. Don't laugh at, mock or make fun of any faulty reasoning or logic. If you feel reasonably threatened or in imminent harm, as if threats might be carried out, call the police, but stay there as interactions with the police have too frequently resulted in the death of the patient at the hands of the police.If you imagine what it must be like to live with such a problematic disorder, you will realize the gravity of the situation and that such problems are nothing to mock.
 It is common for individuals who suffer from schizophrenia to want to get off of medications. However, it is very important that medication use continue. If there are mentions of coming off his medication in conversation you can: Suggest to check in with the doctor first before making such a serious decision.
Remind that if one feels better now, it may be because of medication use, but that continuing to feel better may require continued use of those medications.
 If s/he becomes paranoid and mentions that you are plotting against him/her, avoid making too much bold eye contact, as this might increase the paranoia.If s/he thinks you are writing things about him/her, don't text anyone while being watched.
If s/he thinks you are stealing, avoid being by yourself in the room or house for long periods of time.

