 Before reaching out to pick up your baby, get close by and lean over him. You don’t want to have to reach out too far to pick up a baby. Bend your knees slightly as you bend over so that you are lifting properly.Make sure you remove any obstacles in the way. If the baby is in a crib, take down the side rather than lift over the top. This will prevent extra strain to your arms and back as you lift over or around something.;
, While this seems obvious, it is important to do it where your baby can see you. Babies as young as two months learn to recognize someone’s arms coming to pick them up, and can adjust their body to make them easier to pick up. This includes extending and stiffening their legs, and widening or raising their arms. It may take a little bit of conditioning, but this can be a good way to make the baby a little easier to get a hold of., You want to get your hands underneath the baby so you can lift him up. Place one hand under the baby’s head, and the other under his bottom. Make sure the fingers on your hand under the head are spread wide to support the neck. You want your hands here because that will give best support to your baby’s head, neck, and back.When you put your hands under the baby’s head, you’ll feel some softer spots. These spots, called fontanels, will feel soft and easy to break, but they are quite strong. Don’t worry about touching them.For the first few months of his life, the baby will need your hands to help support his head because his neck isn’t strong enough. After about six months, the baby should be able to hold his head steady without assistance, and even be able to flex it forward while sitting., Once your hands are in place, and you have a firm grip on the baby, pull him into your chest for the best support. While you can hold a baby out in front of you with your arms extended, it is best to carry him close to your chest for better support.This is as much for you as the baby. Babies can be heavy, especially as they get older, and holding the baby closer to your chest will give you better support. This avoids too much pressure on your arms or back.

