 If you are wearing nail polish, make sure you first remove it completely. Take a cotton ball or pad and apply a small amount of nail polish remover. Then rub the pad over your nails until all polish is completely gone. Make sure to clean under your nails, as well. Try using a nail file or manicure tip to remove excess dirt.Wash your hands thoroughly when you are done.;
, It's important to have all your nails relatively the same shape and size. You can have either square, oval, rounded, stiletto, almond, or even lipstick shaped nails. Try going off of your current nail shape or whatever works best for your everyday routine. For example, if you are constantly typing, you may want to avoid a long, stiletto nail as it can make using a keyboard difficult.

Once you cut the nail down with clippers or nail scissors, use a nail file to shape and smooth the edges.
Keep the length close to your regular length as well. Working with longer nails can be difficult to adjust to if you don't usually have them.
 To keep the color lasting longer, apply a base coat before you start painting your nails. This will help prevent chipping, splitting, and peeling in the future as it fortifies the nails. It will also help stop the nail polish from staining your nails and fingers.

Make sure to wait 3-4 minutes for the base coat to dry before you apply your color.
 After your base coat has dried, paint the entirety of your nails one color. Try a soft, opaque pink like Essie’s Fiji or a matte Silver. You can also go for a matte gold or peach nude. These colors work well in contrast to a metallic tip. Start in the middle of your nail and apply the polish in three even strokes. Don't worry if this isn't enough, you can paint over any uneven areas.Wait 5-10 minutes for your nails to dry completely.
 Do you want a thick stripe at the top or a thin one? There is no wrong choice for a French manicure. However, current fashion trends promote a thinner line for the tip. Use the length of your nails to decide. If you have short nails, then a thinner line is better. Longer nails can handle a thicker stripe., Once your nails have dried, take a thin strip of manicure tape or painter’s tape and place it where you want the base of your metallic tip to be. Try to get these lines as straight as possible. You also want to make sure that the space between the tip and the manicure or painter's tape is approximately the same for each nail., Apply your metallic nail polish to the tips of your nails. Try a shimmery, metallic gold or a cool, metallic silver. Don’t worry if there is a bit of overlap onto the tape, as you will be removing it later. However, be careful not to paint over it onto the other side of your nail as this can be difficult to fix.

If you don't want to wait for the tips of your nails to dry, you can also try using metallic foil to coat your tips. Simply apply foil glue to where you would normally paint the nail. Then press the metallic foil to that spot and hold for a few seconds before removing it. The color will stay on the nail.Wait 5-10 minutes for your nails to dry.
 Once you are satisfied with the color and look of your nails, use a top coat to finish them off. Similar to a base coat, a top coat helps set and protect the color. Not only will it add a little bit of durability to your nails, but it will help keep them looking beautiful longer., Just because it's a french manicure doesn't mean you need to be restricted to the one line at the top. Try doubling up! For example, put a gold metallic stripe across your tip and then a matte gold stripe directly beneath it. You can also divide the lines on your tips in half. Try painting one side a metallic silver and the other one bright white.

You can also work with geometric shapes. Directly under the stripe on your tip, paint a line of upside down triangles. You can do this with manicure tape just like you painted the original stripe for the french manicure. Just make sure everything is dry before you put the tape down.
 A small pack of nail beads, jewels, or sequins only cost around five to six dollars on Amazon and last a long time. Simply apply the jewels or sequins with tweezers and nail glue. You can also attempt to place them while the polish is still wet. Try putting a jewel in the center of your nail where the line for your base coat ends and the stripe across your tip begins. You can also add sequins to the base of your nail.

For example, gold and silver sequins or diamond jewels would be a great contrast to the metallic tips on your nails.
 If you aren't confident in your painting skills, try using nail stickers to add designs. These can be cut down to any size you need and only require you to peel and apply them. Try black and white polka dots or gold stripes. You can even use floral designs, leopard prints, camouflage, and plaids.

Be careful not to overdo it with nail stickers, though. You want the metallic tips to shine on their own, so try only applying stickers to one or two fingers on each hand.

