 Make sure you understand all the requirements for wiring a 220-volt outlet.;
, A label should give the amperage rating of the appliance, and this will determine the wire size. An example would be a 20 Amp air conditioner requiring a 12 gauge wire, typically a 3 wire plus ground Romex cable.


Consult the manufacturer's information to discover how much current the appliance will draw. Make sure the wire you use is rated for 20 percent more.
Use copper wire only. If you use aluminum wire, you will need to make sure all of the connections are suitable for aluminum.
 This will prevent a voltage drop that you would have to correct.
 If you are replacing an older appliance, you may have to convert your outlet from 3 to 4 conductors using a pigtail. It's not necessary to rewire the connection and install a new outlet, but you may choose to do so.
 In order to use a direct connection, the appliance must be within 50 feet (15.2 m) and within sight of the breaker box or you must install a disconnect. Since a plug and outlet are a disconnect, you may as well go ahead and install the outlet.
 This is dangerous work that must be done without disconnecting power. If you attempt to do this yourself and make a mistake, you could receive a fatal shock.


Appliances using 220 volts are connected to a double pole circuit breaker, which is two circuit breakers connected together. This allows the appliance to use both phases of the incoming electrical power, and to trip at the same time, removing power to the appliance. If you don't use a double pole breaker, then both breakers may not trip, and the malfunctioning appliance will still have power, which can be dangerous.
, You will have to cut holes in the drywall, chisel space for the wires in the wall studs and use a fish tape to pull the wire along.


You should have already measured and cut the hole in the drywall for the outlet.
 The wires for a 220-volt outlet are too stiff to allow you to simply stuff any extra into the wall.
 Use a utility knife. Be careful not to cut the inner insulation.
 Use wire strippers to do this.
 Study the outlet and connect the wires to the terminals either by pushing them into the terminals or bending them around a screw and tightening the screw.


Four-conductor outlets have 3 terminals corresponding to the vertical slots on the left, right and top-center, and a terminal corresponding to the rounded bottom slot.
The black wire is "hot" and connects to one of the terminals on the left or right. It makes no difference which side you connect the black wire to.
The red wire is also "hot" and connects to the other left or right terminal. In 3-conductor connections, there is no red wire.
The white wire is neutral and connects to the top terminal.
The bare wire is ground and connects to the terminal corresponding to the bottom, rounded slot.
 Turn on the breaker and use a voltmeter or multimeter.


The voltage between the left and right terminals should be 220.
The voltage between the left or right terminal and the neutral terminal should be 110.
The voltage between the neutral and ground terminal should be 0.
