 There are numerous websites and applications for individuals buying and selling cars privately.


Ebay has an entire section of their website devoted to buying and selling vehicles.Be sure to exercise caution when purchasing a vehicle from an unknown source online and make sure that you are okay with any faults the seller may not disclose during the sale. Ebay offers purchase protection only for transactions that are conducted on their site.Craigslist has a section for buying and selling cars. As with any online car shopping from private sellers, exercise caution when meeting with strangers and be sure to meet in a public place and bring a friend or family member.Craigslist will not offer the buyer any kind of protection so be wary of using this method and make sure that you are okay with potentially losing money.
Beepi is another website that lets users buy, sell, and lease cars completely online. Consider using a site like this for your new car purchase. Once you find a car that you want, you purchase the car. A Beepi representative will deliver the money to the seller and will then deliver the car to you. You can then test the car for ten days to decide if it is right for you. If you are not satisfied with the car within the ten-day period, you can return the vehicle., Once you have found a car that interests you, inquire about the condition and price of the car.


When corresponding with the seller, ask if they have records of maintenance and if there are any customizations or modifications the seller may have made to the car.
 If you do not have the funds to purchase the vehicle outright, you will need a car loan. Talk to your bank about a car loan or talk to online lenders about obtaining a car loan.
 If you are still interested in the vehicle being sold, arrange a time to meet with the seller in a public place to examine and test drive the vehicle. Be sure to bring a friend or family member as safety precaution.


Examine the interior closely and look for rips or stains in the upholstery.
Examine the exterior for dents or body damage.
Look under the hood of the car to see how the engine looks.
If possible, bring a car-savvy friend with you to assist you with this part. They may know what to look for.
 There are websites that you can use to check if the car has been in an accident or not. You will need the car’s VIN, which stands for Vehicle Identification Number, to look this up.


CARFAX is a popular website to look up vehicle history reports.This service is free if the vehicle is listed on their website. If it is not listed on CARFAX, you may have to pay a fee.
If a vehicle has been in an accident previously, it may not always show up on a vehicle history report. Be sure to thoroughly look the car over before buying.
 If you are satisfied with the car, have researched its history, and you know that you would like to buy it, complete the transaction with the seller. This may be done via check, cashier’s check, an online bank transfer, or cash. Do not send payment electronically if you have not seen the vehicle., You will need to transfer the vehicle’s title into your own name. This is generally done by visiting your state’s DMV or Secretary of State with the seller and working with a state employee to retitle the vehicle.


Obtain the signed title and application for a new title from the seller.
Obtain the release of lien paperwork from the seller.
Obtain your receipt or bill of sale for the vehicle.
Bring the paperwork to your local DMV or Secretary of State office to complete the paperwork and pay the fees and taxes.