 Water is essential to prevent constipation, which is a major cause of hemorrhoids. Make sure that you are drinking around eight 8-ounce (1.9L) glasses of water every day. If you are active or if you still feel thirsty, then drink some more.You can also drink other types of beverages to get more fluids, such as juice, herbal tea, and sparkling water. Just try to avoid caffeinated beverages and alcohol. Beverages that contain caffeine or alcohol may dehydrate you and cause constipation.;
, Getting enough fiber can help to make bowel movements easier and help to treat and prevent hemorrhoids. Aim for about 25 grams of fiber per day. Try to include more fruits, vegetables, and whole grains in your diet to increase your daily fiber intake.Try taking a fiber supplement if you fall short. If you do not meet your daily goal for fiber intake, then you may want to include a fiber supplement to help you reach your goal., Exercise can help to stimulate your digestive system, which can prevent constipation. Try taking a daily walk or riding your bike to get around town. Even little things such as parking further away from the entrance at the mall or taking the stairs instead of the elevator can help you to get more exercise throughout the day., One way to prevent hemorrhoids from becoming worse is to use the bathroom as soon as you have the urge to defecate. Holding onto waste can lead to constipation and constipation is a major cause of hemorrhoids. Pay attention to your body’s signals and go to the bathroom right away if you have the urge to make a bowel movement., Straining can also make hemorrhoids worse, so make sure that you do not try to force a bowel movement. If you cannot have a bowel movement and find that you are starting to strain, then get up from the toilet and try again later.


Do not stay on the toilet and keep trying to go. Long periods of sitting on the toilet can also make hemorrhoids worse.Instead of sitting, try squatting. This may make it easier to pass a bowel movement without straining.You can purchase a stool or other device that makes it possible to hold a squatting position over the toilet.

