 Skylights and solar tubes are installed in your ceiling and are designed to let in more light. This will reduce the electricity you need to light your house. Some types can even convert sunlight into electricity.
 Compact fluorescent or LED light bulbs do cost more, but they also last longer than conventional light bulbs. They also use only one-quarter of the energy.


Start with the lights you leave on the most.
 Locate places where air can seep into or out of your house. These might be around doors and windows, around flues and chimneys, around recessed lights, among other places. Use caulking for thin gaps, and insulation or polyurethane foam for larger gaps.Repair leaks in your basement by first removing the insulation and sealing leaks. Use caulk or sheetrock mud to do so. Take care when you replace the insulation to ensure that it is not compressed and fully covers the space between the joists. Sealing all points of air leakage will also cut down on the number of insects and rodents entering your house.
Seal around light switches and power outlets, especially on outer walls. Turn off the power at the breaker box and test to ensure that the circuit is not live, then remove the covers and spray a low expansion polyurethane foam into the spaces on the outside of the junction box.
Check exterior door and window gaskets to ensure that they are sealing properly. If you feel a draft on cold, windy days, they need to be adjusted or replaced.
A smoke pen or a stick of incense can show you where your home leaks.
 A good layer of insulation can be a relatively low-cost way to improve both the comfort and efficiency of your home.
 If your faucets drip, get them fixed, or, if you can't fix it right away, at least put a container under the dripping faucet and use the water elsewhere, such as in your garden to water plants.


To check your toilets, put a few drops of food coloring in the tank, not the bowl. Wait about ten minutes without flushing. If you see the dye in the toilet bowl, repair your toilet.
 Choose curtains or blinds that keep your house cool in summer and warm in winter. For example, heavy curtains in a colder climate will help keep warm air in at night.


If you are in a hot climate, such as the southwestern U.S., consider tinting your windows or installing a reflective coating. This will redirect heat away from your house. Talk with local contractors to find out what options make sense for your situation. Tinting the windows which receive direct sun will also protect your fabric colors from fading so quickly.
 Deciduous trees provide shade in the summer, yet allow warming rays to enter your house during the colder months. Evergreens provide a wind break from prevailing winds.


Be sure to consider the future growth of any plantings and plant far enough from your house that the root systems will not disrupt your foundation.




Clean the coils on your refrigerator about once a year.

Clean the vent on your clothes dryer about once a year. Clean the lint filter each time you use the dryer.
 A low-flow toilet can save many gallons of water per year, both preserving the environment and lowering your water bill.


You can also try putting a bottle of water in the tank of your current toilet. The space the bottle takes up will save that much water each flush, yet allow the toilet to keep functioning properly. (Don't use a brick for this purpose, because bricks can disintegrate.)
Try lowering the water level in your toilet tank. Many toilets have an adjustment to lower the float controlling the fill valve.
 Solar panels convert sunlight to electricity and are dropping in price (some estimates put solar panel installation at about $10,000). A home utility bill can drop by 20% with the use of converted solar energy.


Keep in mind that there is concern, however, about the negative environmental impact of the manufacturing of solar panels. Solar panel manufacturing can result in chemical toxicity and lack of recycling, among other issues., You'll save on the physical and financial resources needed to build and maintain the access area, and you'll cut down on heating and cooling costs.


If you do have a larger home than you need, consider housing additional people, whether family members or roomers.

