 If you see someone by themselves or off in the corner, introduce yourself. Make them feel at home, then ask them to join you for a drink, a dance, or a game. The more people you pull into the party, the more rocking it becomes. You, the party animal, should be pulling as many other animals into your pack as possible. More importantly, the party animal needs to know everyone at the party, because everyone needs to know them.Listen to people as they talk and ask questions to get them comfortable speaking.
Introduce people as you find common interests., Forcing someone to do 5 shots in an hour is dangerous and can lead to a sloppy, sickening feeling. Instead, start drinking slowly, letting people get to their own comfortable level of drunkenness. A good party is one where everyone feels comfortable enough to let their inhibitions fly and have fun, not one where half the group is in the bathroom the whole time., Find songs that everyone can enjoy but have a quick beat and a lot of energy. As the party gets going, slowly turn up the volume to get people moving. While people should still be able to have a conversation, you also want people to feel free to stop talking and start dancing. Each group has different musical tastes, but there are some go-to party genres that get most people moving:


Motown
House/Dance/Rave
Beatles-era rock.
90's Hip-Hop., Games are one of the most sure-fire ways to get the crowd together and start having fun. A little competition, some humor, and common thread of conversation will help the party bond and bring up the energy of the group naturally. Just make sure that lots of people can play, being as inclusive as possible. While there are hundreds of games to start with, from drinking games to big, humorous group board games like Cards Against Humanity, you can't go wrong with some of the classics:


Truth or Dare
Never Have I Ever
Kings
Who am I?

, Show up with people who are just as fun and willing to be a bit silly. Having a good group around you makes the infectious energy easier to spread. However, this doesn't mean your "wolfpack" comes in and ruins the party for everyone else. If they are annoying or sloppy, then you may also be considered annoying or sloppy as well.


Mingle with other people, not just those in your group.
Check with the host beforehand if it is okay to bring guests.
Bring a party gift, like some food or extra drinks, if you show up with multiple people.
 Think of the energy of a party as a volume dial -- you want to raise it slowly, but surely, so that you don't blast anyone's ears or shock people who are still having a quiet, relaxed time. Don't expect your presence to suddenly kick the party into overdrive. Instead, be a little stealthy, slowly turning up the volume (both literally and figuratively), until the party is really bumping. Be a strategic party animal, and suddenly you'll have the whole pack following you.