 The Pyro's airblast can extinguish any teammate that is on fire. Simply go close to your burning teammate and aim the airblast at them. If you see any teammate on fire, extinguish them, even if they have high health. You get points for extinguishing teammates, and you can save your teammates from dying.;
, If timed correctly, the Pyro's airblast can reflect many projectiles. Some examples of projectiles that the Pyro can reflect are rockets (including sentry gun rockets), grenades and arrows. A reflected projectile will deal mini-crit damage, unless the projectile was a critical projectile or the Pyro is under the effects of a crit-boost (such as the Kritzkrieg UberCharge), in which case the reflected projectile will also be a critical projectile. While reflecting projectiles with the airblast can be used effectively on the offense, it can also be used for defensive purposes, such as:


Defending a sentry gun from rockets
Protecting your team from rockets and grenades fired by robots in Mann vs. Machine

, A Medic using an UberCharge on himself and his patient can be a real threat to your team, but the Pyro can use his airblast to separate the Medic from his patient. Doing this will make it easy for your team to dispatch the Medic's patient, however if the patient of the Medic manages to see you while you are going to disrupt the UberCharge you could take lots of damage or get killed. Be aware that if a Medic has the Quick-Fix and UberCharges someone you won't be able to break it up, due to the Quick-Fix's UberCharge preventing knockback

, While the airblast itself does not do any damage, the Pyro can use the airblast to push enemies off of large drops to kill them from landing out of bounds or from fall damage. This can be a very useful strategy on maps such as Upward or Hightower, which have large out-of-bounds zones.
 Since the airblast can push enemies, it can be used to defend a capture point being captured by an enemy. This can be very useful if there are many enemies capturing the point, because it would be difficult to kill all the enemies by burning them. This strategy can also be very effective on capture points that are high up, such as the last point on Gravel Pit, as the enemies could potentially die from fall damage.
 Using the airblast's ability to push back enemies, you can trap enemies in corners or against a wall. This can allow you to follow up easily with a melee attack or a shot from your secondary. This strategy is very effective with the Reserve Shooter as it deals mini-crit damage to enemies in the air as well as decreasing the time it takes for weapon switches, meaning that you can burn the enemy with your flamethrower, airblast them against a wall, and then shoot them with the Reserve Shooter for lots of damage.

