 The more you know about what is going on in the world, the more you can contribute to conversations. Interesting people are the ones who can bring something new to a conversation and share fun facts rather than just sitting there nodding. The more you learn, the better conversationalist you will become.


Keep yourself educated by reading books and staying up-to-date with current events in the news and pop culture.
Watch documentaries, and attend lectures on various subjects.
Remember that not all knowledge has to be gained through a formal institution. Seek out new topics on your own.;
, Interesting people always seem to have a lot going on in their lives. The more you do, the more stories you will have to share with others. The best way to accumulate interesting stories is by travelling, constantly meeting new people, and putting yourself in new and interesting situations.

Get in the habit of saying "yes" to unfamiliar opportunities that arise. If somebody invites you out to a party where you don't know anyone, accept the invitation. You never know when a seemingly uneventful night can turn into a crazy story!
You don't have to travel to a different continent to get an interesting experience. Even taking a two hour road trip to visit a friend in a neighboring town can turn into an exciting adventure.
Document the trips you go on, the parties you attend, and the sites you see, so that you can share these pictures with others.
 Though it may not seem like it, being interesting is the same exact thing as being interested. If you constantly act bored or distracted, people will eventually become bored with you, and you will become bored with your life. Think of yourself as a sponge, and each and every day, absorb as much as you can of what is happening around you.


If you are having a conversation with somebody, give them your undivided attention. Make eye contact, and avoid texting or talking on the phone when you are with others.
Start to notice small details in your daily life that wouldn't normally pay attention to. Admire the architecture of the buildings when walking down the street, notice the way the wind rustles the leaves on a tree, and pay attention to the artwork in the cafe you are sitting in. Little things like these add up and make you feel more connected to the world around you.
Learn how to listen to other people when they talk. Sometimes, people who try to be interesting end up talking too much without giving others an opportunity to talk. Despite your best efforts, though, this comes across as being self-centered. Conversations should be balanced so that each person spends equal time talking and listening.
 Expand your social circle by striking up conversations with anyone and everyone. You never know when a stranger can turn into one of your new best friends! Give everybody you meet a chance to show you who they are, and welcome them into your life.


Talk to people at parties, bars, and clubs. If you see somebody interesting, then go over and talk to them. You have nothing to lose!
Strike up a conversation with the waitress in a restaurant, cashier at the convenient store, or driver on the bus.
Meet friends of friends. Mutual friends are a great way to meet new people. Consider organizing a party and inviting all of your friends, and tell your friends to bring a guest or two.
 Try not to be overly judgmental or sensitive, and people will be much more inclined to spend time with you and talk to you. Remember that everybody is entitled to his or her opinion. While there's nothing wrong with engaging in a friendly debate every now and then, you should try to be open-minded and accept others' opinions, even if they differ from your own

, Join a local sports team, pick up an instrument, or learn a new craft. Hobbies not only keep you busy and help you meet people, they also allow you to identify your skills and talents. Some of the most interesting people in the world are the ones who have a unique talent.


Examples of interesting hobbies include mountain climbing, photography, golfing, cooking, singing, ballroom dancing, horseback riding, volunteering, reading, crafting, and painting.
 Being interesting isn't just about what you're like on the inside; your physical appearance can dramatically change the way you are perceived by others. In fact, before people even meet you, they will already have made a judgement about how interesting of a person you are. If you tend to follow the standard fashion trends, then try to at least put a unique spin on these conventional styles.


Accessorize with hats, scarves, or intricate jewelry.
Shop at thrift stores. If you buy a garment secondhand from a thrift store, you will be guaranteed to be the only one wearing it.
 Remember that even though you may feel uninteresting, you are one-of-a-kind. Don't try to get attention by imitating others or pretending to be somebody you are not, because eventually the truth will come out and you will seem like a phony. Instead of hiding who you are, learn to highlight your positive attributes and downplay your negative ones.


Put a positive spin on things when sharing aspects of your life with others. Instead of complaining about how bad your week has been going, tell the person about all of the good things that have been happening to you lately, in both the short and long term.

