 Go to a doctor, use acne creams and never forget to wash your face!;
, Eats lots of healthy fruits and vegetables, because it would help you in a long run with your body fat or acne. Drink lots of water as well. People say to drink at least 8 glasses of water, but some people are starting to think it depends on the person's body. So start eating healthy, and drinking some water it would do you some good to help.
 So take them vitamins as well.
 It done some good for others and it would probably do well for you. If your acne is cause by stress then you need to go to a spa, and take a chill pill. Relax your worries away. Don't fret over it.
 Wash your face 1-2 times a day. The reason I said 1 as well because some people's faces doesn't need to be washed that much. Use a cleanser that is good for your skin, and doesn't irritate it as much. I am not going to lie every cleanser is going to dry your face out without you having a moisturizer without oil in it. I would know because I tried basically every acne product for my face, and they didn't work. The only one that worked was Neutrogena the one product I am trying now. I recommend Neutrogena oil-free acne face wash, and I use a moisturizer named Aveeno that is an oatmeal moisturizer. It done wonders for me, and now my acne is almost gone. To open your pores use a hot washcloth put it on your face till it cools off.
 The dermatologist is your best bet if you have terrible acne, but don't go to a dermatologist if you have little acne cause that's plain stupid. Unless your acne is bad or stubborn then I would recommend the dermatologist or doctor, but you can go to the dermatologist because they know more about the skin.
, Nothing wrong with that. However getting your hair to grow is just as easy getting rid of acne.
 It get rid of the split ends that won't let your hair grow out. Wash your hair and massage the scalp with some conditioner and shampoo. Use a shampoo and conditioner that is healthy and can make your hair grow good and strong.
 If not, too bad because eating lots of fish can make your hair grow faster. If you still going like " Oh gosh no I am not eating fish " Then eat some veggies and fruits then. Also take biotin, because I heard it's good for making your hair grow faster. Make sure to get some vitamins with Zinc and Vitamin E in it. It will help you.
, Goggle in the morning and night as well. Use a toothpaste that whitenings teeth. I have yellow teeth as well, because of my cavities(don't worry I am going to the dentist in 3 days) It's not good having yellow teeth, it makes yourself look unhealthy. I am trying this toothpaste called 3D crest whitening and it's awesome. My teeth is getting whiter than I am having now. Which I awesome and I love it <3

, Stay strong. You can cut back on sweets. Having candy 1 time every week or two. Your choice.
, Nothing with getting enough sleep wouldn't hurt. Having a cucumber mask or avocado mask gets rid of dark circles. Putting cucumbers on your eyes would help as well which is awesome. Or freezing a spoon in the freezer and putting it to your dark circles 1-2 minutes I heard. So get enough sleep girls.
, Reason you have to wash your vagina is because that some girls have skirts and they open there legs, and lets say it smells fishy and dirty.
, If you are going to use soap use dove, because your vagina is gentle and your friend. Or use a vagina wash, but I wouldn't use a vagina wash anyway. DO NOT DOUCHE YOUR VAGINA IT'S BAD FOR IT!

,, I personally would trim your pubic hair ladies, because hair is there for a reason to protect you from the bacteria. No guy likes a hairy girl don't have legs on them hair like you are some ape shave it or get it wax. As for armpits I would just shave it. Some girls have problem with upper lips hair, but most girls I see doesn't have the problem and doesn't seem noticeable but if you see it then it's best to wax it.
, anyway I would get them arch somewhere near your spa or hair salon if they do it.
, Plus you get made fun of. Don't know why you get made fun of just happens. Use some chapstick for a while and some moisture for your lips or something. Vasaline helps as well.
, Lose a couple of pounds or trying to get a figure. Then you know well what you have to do. RUN! Everyday. You can walk, run, or jog. I don't care as long you are exercising. Go to a gym every day a week. Don't strain yourself though. Eat healthy and drink water. Go get some of those special K cereal that helps you lose weight. Basically exercise, eat healthy, and stay active.
 Then get over it.
, Neither would I as well. If you have a rude personality then you need to fix it quick, because if you don't then you would end up all alone with no friends in high school. To all you rude people get over yourself and stop it. Cause boys and teachers or anyone don't want to tolerate you.
, We don't know what to say. I would suggest going to the mall or park meet someone. Or go to a summer camp you would make new friends there :)

, Some of them would still go for you who knows. Depends on the boy.
 FOR CLOTHES,HANDBAGS,etc.!On a budget?

, I personally love shopping a lot, and if I had a lot of money no doubt I would spend it on myself and new clothes. Though what happens when you are going shopping on a budget because of your parents? Well tough luck getting them to buy you a lot because it's not going to be easy. The best thing to do is get a summer job or win some lottery somehow to buy your own clothes. So make sure you go to them sales and get the cheapest stuff you can find that still looks fashionable.
, Buy some makeup, and make sure you buy the ones that won't clog your pores. I recommend Neutrogena cosmetics even though they are expensive still worth it, because your pores won't be clog. They even have makeup that clears your skin!

,, Plus, school is for learning after all not a fashion or popularity contest. Just be yourself and you'll be fine. :)

