 If you suffer from negative self esteem, this can cause a you to react negatively to what might simply be a minor incident.

Exploding in anger in a situation is not going to solve anything. In fact, it will likely make things worse. If you constantly exhibit anger and rage, it is going to affect friendships, dealings with your teachers, supervisors and coworkers, and the relationship with your family.
Keeping anger or sadness, or other negative emotions bottled up is not the solution either. Suppressing your emotions, or stuffing as therapists call it, can lead to mental health problems, as well as physical symptoms that can truly harm your health., You need to do some deep personal exploration, getting to understand your feelings and why you respond the way you do.Ask yourself some questions:

Who is causing you feelings of insecurity? Is it a family member, kids at school, or coworkers?
What event(s) in your life do you feel has had a negative influence on your life? Is it a health problem? Do you have self esteem issues?
Are you filled with dread at the thought of going to school? Are you stressed out when you head home at the end of the day?
When do you feel the most anxious? Is there a time of day, perhaps the morning, or afternoon when you start to feel depressed? What is going on at that time?
Why do you feel this way? Why is probably one question you ask yourself alot:

Why do my classmates hate me?
Why can't I be skinny?
Why does my sister pick on me around her friends?
Why can't I catch onto things as quickly as my coworkers?



, You cannot keep exploding into angry fits at people, or bottling things up inside you. It is not healthy. If you have been having these feelings for a long time, you need to talk to someone!

Do you have an aunt or teacher that you are very close to? You can talk to a friend that you trust, but talking to someone older than you can give you a different perspective. They have more life experience, and chances are that if they have not been in your spot, they know someone who had similar feelings.
If you have been dealing with this for a long time, and you are depressed, or have feelings of self loathing, or worse, thinking of harming yourself, you need to talk to a professional.There is no stigma in asking for help. If someone picks on you for talking to a counselor or psychiatrist, they are the ones that have the problem, or need to grow up. Life is so much better when you have a positive outlook. Life is about new experiences, and looking forward to the future. Dealing with your emotions is the step you need to take to secure that happiness. Take the time now, because your positive journey to the future awaits.

