 Before you think about how to trade well you'll need to have someone to trade with. Try going into the 'Servers' menu and typing 'Trad' or 'trad' in the search box. This will bring up a list of all the Servers registered as 'Trade Servers', which are places, usually combat arenas of some sort, that allow Traders to meet up and make deals easily.;
, This is a site where you can advertise items that are in your backpack and show what you want in return. It's very useful to use Trade Servers and Outpost, as combining the two will give you an alliance of people begging to trade with you. Remember, though, that you should take down any listings from Outpost if you complete the trade, as your would - be customers might get confused or leave bad feedback, saying that you are 'lazy' or 'aren't dedicated'. However, simply apologizing to the person and explaining what happened is usually enough to prevent them from being negative about your services.
 Once there, try to find the right people. If you go on to a Server full of Unusual - Wearing Pay To Players, the chances are you won't sell a Flare Gun. However, if you go on to a server full of Gibusvisioners, the chances are higher. This does not count as Sharking.
 Otherwise, there's not really any point, is there? Use the site 'Backpack.tf' to check the values of items, and also check the item prices on the Mann Co. Store (though they may be quite overpriced), as you may make a surprisingly good deal with this info.


If someone says 'Umm', 'Err' or 'Let me check something', the chances are they're on Backpack.tf and are price-checking, but there's no harm in that, so don't act too rash.
 Normally, this is only a few scrap/rec, but it's good to have spare metal lying around if your trading partner just can't pay exactly. Don't get frustrated with people who ask for change; they're just like you, after all. Also, if they don't ask for change, but you think it's needed, not giving it to them is completely fine... You lying scumbag!

, Chances are, they are exactly that. The person is probably trying to fool you into giving them good items for poor items, but, if you know the person well, they may just be being nice!

, Scrap-banking is where you ask for one scrap for one weapon, then ask for two weapons from that one scrap. You then sell each of those weapons for a scrap each, and sell those scraps for two weapons each. You then sell each of the four weapons for a scrap each, giving you four scrap. This scrap is then used to buy eight new weapons. Then, these weapons are sold for a scrap each, giving you eight scrap. Eight scrap is then sold for sixteen weapons, and the sixteen weapons are sold for sixteen scrap. Keep going on like this, and you'll have a hefty sum of scrap!

, As time has progressed, many have become aware of Scrap-banking, and that, if they trade one scrap for one weapon, the chances are they aren't getting a good deal. Eventually, you'll get going and, once you have that four scrap, you really begin making a profit. Just think, one more step each time and you get double the amount!

, Others will Scrap bank, too! Maybe sell that eight scrap for 15 weapons instead of 16; just don't expect to have a deal every single time.

