 Many traditional universities now offer professional courses online. These have a better reputation than most exclusively online colleges and are generally cheaper with better financial aid options than “for-profit” universities. Because they are online you can attend most of them from a distance, but some also allow you access to on campus resources.


Examples of well-reputed online programs include those at the University of Illinois at Springfield, Fayetteville State University, Liberty University, Marylhurst University, Washington University in St. Louis, Hodges University, Missouri Valley College, Northeastern University, Belhaven University, and the University of Louisville., There are now a variety of search engines designed to match potential students to an online college. Be careful though; not all of the colleges on these lists will be reputable. Some online colleges are scams with exorbitant fees and little academic credibility.


Databases that help you find online programs appropriate for your interests include www.elearners.com, online www.onlinedegree.com, and www.yourdegree.com.
Alternatively, Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) are generally free and are often offered by extremely reputable institutions. Most, however, offer individual classes, not degrees. They can be useful though if a couple of specializes classes would improve your professional position., This tool has important statistics that can help you determine if a college is credible. These include whether or not a college is accredited, if students receive financial aid, and how frequently students default on their loans.


Do not take a college at its word when it claims to be accredited. Many colleges are “accredited” by fake organizations. Use the College Navigator to verify the claim that the college is accredited.
Also be mindful of what type of accreditation the college has. "Regional" accrediting organizations are considered more reputable than "national" accrediting organizations.Visit the Council for Higher Education Accreditation to determine if your school's accrediting organization is on the list of regional organizations.
Compare how frequently students from the college you are interested in default on student loans as compared to other institutions. If students default frequently, this means that they either need to take out too much debt to get their degree, do not get jobs after graduating, or experience some combination of these two problems.
Similarly, check to see how frequently students graduate. Low graduation rate suggest that the college does not support its students., Be suspicious of any college that is labeled “for-profit.”Be especially suspicious of a college that pressures you to take out substantial loans from private lenders, rather than federal student loans. Ask to speak to counselors before applying. If you are not allowed to, it is probable that they will not adequately support you after you begin your program., Once you’ve found some reputable colleges, figure out which ones would be best for you. Use the College Navigator to determine which colleges will be the most affordable for you. Research whether the college specializes in what you want to study and if that program is strong.


Don’t base your decisions entirely off tuition, because some colleges are able to provide more financial aid than others. The College Navigator allows you to ascertain the average net cost of tuition at universities by factoring in financial aid. Also, call the financial aid department to discuss the subject directly with them.
Think about the resources available at each school. Is the school nearby, so that you can visit the campus if you need assistance with anything? Does the school offer job placement services upon graduation?
Typically associate's degrees give students a hands on experience with their occupation, which can be hard to do online. Ask what resources the program has and whether it provides internship opportunities.See what current and former students say. You can find reviews written by students who have experience with the colleges you are considering at websites such as Student Review and College Prowler.
Review the website for the department you are applying to join and see who teaches there. Have the professors published academic works? Do they have impressive professional experience? Compare the faculty at the respective universities you are interested in to get a sense for how good their programs are.

