 This should be your first step after your cancer diagnosis. To begin, locate a cancer center or oncologist. Ask your primary care doctor for referrals or recommendations for an oncologist that specializes in your type of cancer.If you live in the United States then you can call the American College of Surgeon’s Commission on Cancer at 312-202-5085 or visit their website to find an accredited cancer treatment center.Look into your local cancer treatment centers as well.
If you do not live in the United States, then you can visit the International Cancer Information Service Group website for a complete list of cancer treatment centers and phone numbers in your country.Try to find the cancer treatment center that is closest to you.
Meet with your new cancer specialist or oncologist. It’s important to meet face-to-face as soon as possible; cancer can be an aggressive disease, and you’ll want to begin treatment as soon as possible. Any preparation you do before treatment will help ease your feelings of anxiety.
Bring up any questions related to treatment. These can include questions about the length of ongoing treatment, success rates and risks and side-effects you may experience from the treatment.
Ask the oncologist about alternative treatments or remedies they may have for your cancer.
 Chemotherapy and radiation treatment can take months, and may require dramatic lifestyle adjustments. You may need to take time off from work if the treatment will temporarily incapacitate you or require you to relax.


To make the most of your time at home, rearrange your living space so everything is situated for comfort and convenience.Find a set of bedside drawers to keep your medications in, and make sure you have easy access to water from your bed or couch.
 You’ll only need to do this if you’re undergoing radiation therapy. A radiation simulation is done so your oncologists can find the best position to target the tumor and kill the cancer cells during your upcoming treatments. The simulation also gives the doctors an opportunity to determine what dose of radiation you’ll receive.You will not receive actual radiation during the simulation.
 This will strengthen your body and increase your energy before treatment. Throughout your treatment process, your tastes may change and you may also experience nausea. To ensure that you get the nutrition you need, try to eat more foods that are high in protein and calories.


Buy food that doesn’t require lots of preparation or cook meals in advance and freeze them before your treatment. This will help make the healing process easier and more relaxing.
It’s also important to keep hydrated during your treatment. Water is best, but drinking soda or even broth is better than nothing. Keep fluids around you in every room of your house.Speak to your oncologist or cancer specialist before you implement a diet change, especially if you have experienced weight loss.
 It’s crucial that you have a support network during this time. You’ll feel mentally and physically exhausted, and will need the emotional (and sometimes physical) support of people close to you.


Don’t be afraid to ask for help. Contact friends and family or hire a housekeeper to assist you with chores such as cleaning, cooking, laundry, and more.
Depending on the severity of your cancer treatment, you may need to hire a caregiver to administer medication on a regular basis or to help you with activities such as eating or bathing., It’s important that you can share the experiences you’re going through with other individuals who are also going to cancer treatment. You can comfort and reassure one another, and share treatment tips and experiences to help you cope with your treatment.


Speak to your cancer specialist or oncologist about support groups for people with your specific cancer type, such as breast cancer or lung cancer.
You could also join an online support group. Although these will not provide face-to-face connection, they’ll still allow you to connect with people and receive support.

