 A cellar is probably the best option as it is below ground and is likely largely made out of concrete, so it has a certain amount of protection against soil poisoning and gasses.;
, This will provide you with more working space and give you a better idea of what you are working with.
 Or even just having the walls and floor covered in a fresh layer of concrete or boarding put on. This will provide a thicker layer of protection against gasses and poisoned dirt, as well as making it warmer in the cellar in case of a freeze.
 Put in enough for every member of your household plus an additional 3 for anyone who happens to be visiting when the nuclear attack warning is issued or anyone who is immediately nearby when the warning is issued.


Make up the beds with sheets and duvets rather than blankets - blankets are more likely to be eaten by moths and other such creatures.






Put a space blanket (foil blanket that folds up compactly) on each bed - that way if any sheets or blankets to get eaten or rot, or if there is an extreme in temperatures that means that a few sheets and a duvet would not be enough to keep each person warm.
 Large bottles of water that are advised for camping and blow up squares filled with water are good because they can be used for other things once they are empty - as temporary toilets, to store future found liquids etc. Some good foods to keep are:


Dried fruit






Cans of vegetables, fruit and meat






Preserves such as jam, chutney and marmalade






Bags of flour, sugar, salt, baking powder etc






Bottles of oil






Powdered milk






Bags of pasta, rice, couscous and spelt, or other foods that can be stores for extended periods of time






Boiled sweets and chocolate - these are high sugar and can give energy when other food supplies run low






Dried chick peas, lentils and other supplies that simply have to be boiled in water to provide a good nutritional content






Herbs and spices to add flavour to plain meals







, You can use this if ever necessary to defend yourself against people trying to steal supplies.
 It should contain AT LEAST:


Two packets of strong paracetamol or other strong pain killers






Two packets of ibuprofen or other strong anti-inflammatory drug






Plasters






Bandages






Anti-septic cream






A sterilised needle and clean, strong thread






A sling or a triangular bandage to make one






Cough medicine






Cough/throat sweets






Cotton wool






Micropore tape






A bottle of water






A roll of string (you could use this to tie around an arm and numb it if you had to amputate it/inject something into it/put clean dressings on it without causing too much pain)






Iodine







, Keep them in a specific place, so that all people in the cellar are aware of where they are. They just might save your life.
 Putting an old armchair that's been a family favourite for a while can provide comfort and a sense of familiarity should the bunker ever be used. Good things to keep down there in an airtight, waterproof box are:


Family photo albums






Birth certificates






Your children's school certificates or awards






Old books







