 This will help you plan to detox your body in a way that is best for you, as well as mentally prepare you for what to expect. Take the following things into consideration:


Side effects. As your body releases toxic stores from its tissues, those toxins are released into the bloodstream and may cause any combination of a number of side effects such as rashes, head and body aches, foul breath, body odor, insomnia, mood swings, diarrhea, constipation and flu-like symptoms. Be prepared for these symptoms and commit to persevering through the discomfort.
Types of detox. There is no 1 right way for how to detox, but all detox plans center on a change of eating habits. You may opt for a fasting detox, any of a number of special detox diets or a combination of both. Prepare to detox with a plan you think you can stick to.
Length of detox. A detox may last for as long as you choose, depending on the type of detox you opt for, but you should be able to notice changes in the way you feel as early on as 2 to 3 days.;
, Record these notes in a detox journal. Be sure to include both mental and physical perceptions, as you will want to use them to assess the progress of your detox.
 Additionally, throw out or hide foods that are not included in your detox diet. If your detox plan includes supplements, make sure you have the supplements you will need on hand.
 Scale down the amount of processed and fatty foods that you eat in favor of fresh fruits and vegetables, get into the habit of drinking a glass of water every 2 to 3 hours and cut back on caffeine, refined sugar and alcohol. The sooner you begin to acclimate your body to the changes in diet required by a detox, the more comfortable you will be as you detox your body.
 Smoking introduces a number of harmful toxins into your system, and is detrimental to any detox plan.
 You will undergo physical, emotional, and mental changes as you detox your body, and these changes may cause sleep disturbances. Make sure you are well rested before you begin your detox.

