 Telemarketing companies have to get your number from somewhere to call you, so the first step towards lessening the likelihood of getting these calls is to avoid giving out your number. If you are listed in the phone book, telemarketers will find your number there. You can request that your landline is not listed in the phone book. You can take further step to limit your exposure, such as:


Trying not to enter your phone number when you are completing any online forms, as much as possible.
Make sure you don’t have your phone number printed on your bank cheques.
Be wary of free contests or sweepstakes that require you to supply your phone number.Always try to call local numbers rather than toll-free or 900 numbers.
 If you live in the US, consider signing up for the National Do Not Call Registry. This is a free service that can help you to reduce the unwanted sales calls on both your cell and your landline. You can sign up easily online by visiting https://www.donotcall.gov/register/reg.aspx. Alternatively, you can call the Federal Trade Commission and sign up over the phone.


After you have registered, be sure to verify your registration on the website here: https://www.donotcall.gov/confirm/Conf.aspx.
Telemarketers should stop calling within 31 days of you registering.
This won’t stop all unwanted calls, and is not applicable to charities, surveys and polling companies, and companies you have done business with in the past.
If you live in the UK, find out about the 'Telephone Preference Service' or 'TPS' for short, by visiting the website: http://www.tpsonline.org.uk/.
This is a national database of numbers that have opted not to get marketing or sales calls from companies.
 In addition to the national registry and the internal lists of companies, some states have further laws to help prevent you receiving unsolicited telemarketing calls. If your state has rules than are more restrictive than the federal rules, the more restrictive ones will override the less restrictive ones. The federal laws represent the minimum, and your state may go further.


Since the introduction of the national registry, some states have merged their rules with the national ones, but others remain different.
To find out what the rules are in your state, visit the website of the Direct Marketing Association.
 If you keep getting calls from the same numbers, you should contact your phone company to ask them about blocking these numbers. There may be a fee for doing this, and its effectiveness is limited by practices that deceive the caller ID on a phone. You may be able to block calls from “private” or withheld numbers.You can buy electronic devices to attach to your landline to help prevent robocalls.
You can also now download apps onto your smart phone that work to reduce the number of automated telemarketing calls you get.Some of these are free, but be sure to read the reviews first.

