 There are all sorts of indoor cycling classes. There are a few factors to look for, and the rest is up to you. Contact local gyms, as well as cycling studios and ask about classes that are better geared for beginners. Make sure the facility will help you adjust your bike and go over safety information on your first visit.Arrive early so that someone can help you get your bike set up.


Many group classes will have themes regarding type of workout, or even type of music. For instance, you can sign up for a beginner-specific class, a strength workout, or a class featuring non-stop hip-hop. The important thing is choosing a class that appeals to you.
Make sure to identify yourself as a new class member when you go for the first time. This will help to ensure that you get the help you need to set up your bike and enjoy the class.;
, If you’re planning on a scheduled indoor cycling class, you may be able to reserve the specific bike you’d like to ride. If this option is not available, try to arrive early enough to be able to choose the bike you want to ride. Choose whatever location that will best enable you to focus on the class.If you think you’ll be more comfortable sitting near the back, do so.
Consider sitting in the front row if you’re new. This will offer a better view of the instructor. Additionally, you may be motivated to work harder if you’ve got other people sitting behind you!

, Moisture-wicking fabric is best for your top. Tights or bike shorts are ideal options to wear on bottom. Avoid anything too baggy or that hinders your range of motion.Bike shorts are worth trying out. They range in cost from about $20 to $100. Don’t worry about brand; choose a pair based on comfort., Most cycling classes will feature bikes with pedals that are designed to work with a clip-in bike shoe. Alternatively, you can often strap in a regular athletic shoe. Check beforehand to ensure you don’t need a certain type of shoe, and ask whether you can borrow or rent bike shoes if you don’t have any.Hold off on buying bike shoes until you’ve been to a few classes and want to make the investment. In the meantime, wear stiff-soled athletic shoes.If you’re ready to buy a shoe, choose a pair that has a solid, non-flex bottom, and fits well. Pricey cycling shoes are not necessary if you intend to use them mostly indoors.
 Avoid eating a full meal within a few hours of your class. However, you should eat a small, healthy snack an hour and a half or so before you begin cycling. This time frame allows you to digest the food and have energy stored for your workout., It’s always important to show up on time for group fitness events. You may not be allowed to join if you arrive late. Arrive especially early for your first few classes to ask any questions you may have and meet others in your classes.