 The NASA Pathways Intern Employment Program is for current college students or for people who have been accepted into a qualifying educational program.


If you are accepted into the program, you'll be able to perform paid work, learn the necessary skills, and gain the relevant experience and connections to hopefully be able to transition into a career with NASA.
 You can either go to NASA's website or to USAJOBS to review all current Pathways opportunities, including the IEP positions. You can also sign up to receive notifications for Pathways opportunities through USAJOBS., In order to be eligible for an internship with NASA, you must be a US citizen, be at least 16 by the time you would begin the internship, be actively pursuing a degree and be enrolled or accepted into an accredited educational institution.


You also need to have and keep a GPA of at least 2.9 on a 4.0 scale, For some positions, you may need to meet NASA's Aeronautics, Scientific, and Technical (AST) qualification standards. These will be outlined in the specific internship posting.
 To apply, you will be directed to the USAJOBS online application system. We'll provide you with more information on how to handle your application in the following method.
 If you recently graduated, or will be graduating this year, you may be eligible for the RGP.


If your application is accepted, you'll be placed into a 1-year career development program (which in some cases may be extended for an extra year), and which upon completion of the program, may turn into a more permanent job with NASA.
 To be eligible, you must have graduated from a qualifying educational institution within the last two years, unless you are a qualifying Veteran.


If your ability to apply was delayed due to your military obligations, you may apply within 6 years of graduating or after having received a qualifying educational certificate.
 You can go either to NASA website or straight to USAJOBS to search for current open RGP positions and to apply., Individuals who are accepted are immersed in an intensive leadership development program which can place them on the fast-track to important government positions and careers.
 If you've received your qualifying advanced degree within the last two years (or if you are on course to finish this year), you may be eligible to apply to be a fellow.
 There are many government organizations which participate in this prestigious and competitive program (over 100), and NASA is one of them.


You'll need to visit the PMF website (www.pmf.gov) to learn about the requirements and the application procedure.
 If you're interested in becoming an astronaut and working at the International Space Program, you'll want to apply to become an Astronaut Candidate.


If accepted, you'll be assigned to the Astronaut Office at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, where you'll spend approximately two years training intensively and being evaluated for your suitability as an astronaut., For application to even be considered, you must have the appropriate degree:


You must have a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution in one or more of the following: mathematics, engineering, biological science or physical science.Notice that some degrees which may make you eligible for other work with NASA will not qualify you to become an Astronaut Candidate. For example, degrees in Nursing,Technology, and/or Aviation are not considered qualifying., You must have at least three years of additional, relevant, professional experience beyond your undergraduate education before you may apply to this program.If you have completed graduate study, it will be allowed to count for some or all of the required professional experience. You can learn more by studying the application guidelines on USAJOBS.
 You will need to be able to pass the NASA long-duration flight physical. Among the requirements:Your vision must be correctable to 20/20, and if you've had your vision surgically corrected, a minimum of one year must have passed during which time you showed no complications.
Your blood pressure while sitting down may not be higher than 140/90.
You may not be shorter than 62 inches tall nor taller than 75 inches.
 If you are a civilian, you will apply to become an Astronaut Candidate by going to USAJOBS.


You will also apply through USAJOBS if you are on active duty in the military, but you may need to go through an additional application procedure through your respective military service (for example, if you are in the army, then contact your local army personnel management for more information).