 To make about 4 dozen white chocolate Oreo truffles, you'll need 36 Oreo cookies, 8 ounces (225 g) of cream cheese, and 1 pound (450 g) of white chocolate. Blitz the Oreo cookies in a food processor until they're finely crushed and set them aside. Coarsely chop the white chocolate so it's in chunks.It will be easier to roll the truffles if you let the cream cheese set out until it's softened.
For a variation, try using baked sugar cookies instead of Oreo cookies.;
, Place the finely crushed cookies and the softened cream cheese into a medium sized mixing bowl. Beat the ingredients with a stand or hand mixer on low speed. Keep beating the mixture until it combines and becomes thick.

You shouldn't see streaks of cream cheese in the mixed truffle filling. If you do, continue to beat the mixture until it's a uniform dark color.
 Lay a sheet of parchment paper, foil, or wax paper on a rimmed baking sheet and set it aside while you shape the truffles. Use a small cookie scoop or two spoons to scoop out a few tablespoons of the truffle mixture. Roll the truffle between your palms to make a ball that's about 1 inch in size. Set it on the baking sheet and continue shaping truffles until you have about 48.

If you don't have a rimmed baking sheet, you can use a standard baking sheet without the edges. Just ensure that the truffles don't roll off the sheet as you transfer them to and from the refrigerator.
 Place the baking sheet of Oreo truffles in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes or until they're firm. You could also freeze the truffles for about 10 minutes to harden them. Ensure that you have space in your fridge or freezer before you're ready to chill them.Chilling the truffles will help the white chocolate covering set up faster.
 Place a few inches of water in a large saucepan and heat it until the water starts to simmer (bubble gently). Set a medium-sized mixing bowl on the saucepan and put the chunked white chocolate in the bowl. Stir it as the water simmers and melts the chocolate in the mixing bowl. Let the chocolate cool slightly before you dip the truffles.You could also microwave the white chocolate in a microwave-safe bowl. Use the lowest setting and stir the chocolate every 30 seconds.
 Remove the sheet of chilled Oreo truffles from the refrigerator or freezer. Set a truffle on the tines of a fork and lower the entire truffle into the chocolate. Lift the truffle out of the chocolate and let the excess chocolate drip through the fork and into the mixing bowl. Place the truffle back on the baking sheet and continue dipping the rest of the truffles.If you place the dipped truffle back on the sheet without letting the excess chocolate drip off, the chocolate will puddle at the base of the truffle.
 Once you've dipped all of the Oreo truffles in the white chocolate, put the baking sheet with them in the refrigerator. Chill the dipped truffles for one hour or until the white chocolate has hardened.You can refrigerate the truffles for up to one week in a covered container or you can freeze them for up to one month.

