 Do you live with other people, and do they want a dog? Do you own a home, rent an apartment or home, or live in someone else's rented or owned home? Unless you own your own house and live alone, you're going to have to ask other people if it's okay for you to have a dog. This is very important.;
, Any vet will tell you that a dog should have two walks a day, at the very least one. You may love dogs, but it is cruel to them being away all the time and having them cooped up in your backyard (however large it may be) all day.
 Dogs come in all different sizes, ages, and personalities. Considerations:


Big or small? Remember that your dog will need to have access to the outdoors to go for walks and to go to the bathroom. If you live in an apartment, that means the dog will need you to take him/her outside and will spend the rest of the time in the apartment with you...taking up space. Something that many people consider is that big dogs have shorter lives than smaller dogs.
Breed. Dog breeds are as varied in personality as they are looks. While there are no hard and fast rules to a dog's breed determining its personality, it's a good idea to read up on the traits of different breeds. It's important to note that you're unlikely to find a purebred dog at the local rescue shelter. It's equally important to note that buying a purebred dog will cost you anywhere from several hundred dollars to several thousand, whereas rescue and shelter dogs cost only the adoption fee, usually under 50 dollars, and come with medical check-ups.
Some breeds are banned from apartment complexes and other living situations or public spaces.
Good with kids? Good with small kids?
How active is the dog? Some dogs require a lot more energy and running around than others.
 Now that you've decided to get a dog, the fun of picking one out begins. Don't take the first one you see -- spend time with many dogs, check out their personalities, and wait until one picks you.
 If your dog is a puppy or an older animal with poor social and obedience skills, you'll need to take him/her to doggy training. Your local animal shelter will be able to make some good recommendations for training schools. Remember, you must attend training school with your dog -- you have to learn the proper commands and how to handle your dog for the training to be effective. Expect this to be a significant time and energy investment.
 Dogs, like kids, need to be stimulated! They'll look to you for their nourishment and entertainment. Make sure you give them food and fresh water, give them plenty of active play and walk time, and that they have toys of their very own. Their food should be tailored to age and any special needs they might have.
 Dogs are active and social pack animals, and they like to interact with humans. Expect your dog to do things that crack you up and leave you steaming mad. Remember that dogs can get sick, and it's useful to always have on hand the number of an emergency or 24-hour vet or hospital.
 Dogs should be on leashes when in public, except in designated areas like a pet store or dog park. Many people have had bad experiences with dogs, and are wary or afraid of them. Don't let your dog jump on people, or run freely to strangers.

