 MS can put a strain on your relationship. It can lead to changes and a disruption of routines. Though you may not know how to talk about it at first, you should work towards sharing your feelings with each other to avoid miscommunication or repressed negative feelings.Sit down when you are not going to be interrupted. Agree to respect and listen to each other’s feelings and concerns about the MS. This helps you maintain intimacy and strengthens your relationship.
Start by saying, "I love and care about you. I want you to be honest with me about how you feel, and I will be honest with you. Let's listen to each other and try to find a resolution for these issues."
You may want to check out the National MS Society’s webpage for information and resources on how to share openly with your partner., Many people with MS face sexual problems at some time after their diagnosis. If you experience this, you should be open and talk to your partner. The sexual problems may be due to an MS-related medical reason, or it might be a psychological problem.Most sexual dysfunction problems related to MS can be reversed with proper treatment. If you are experiencing a psychological problem, like loss of libido, discussing the problem with your partner and working on physical intimacy may help. If it doesn’t, you can see a therapist who may be able to help.
Tell your partner, "Unfortunately, I am experiencing sexual difficulty due to my MS. I will speak to my doctor about it. Until then, I need you to be understanding of my situation. I want to try alternative ways to find sexual pleasure or physical intimacy during this time."

, Your partner may not experience the physical symptoms of your MS, but they are still affected by it. Make sure not to make your whole conversation about MS. Talk about what is going on in their life as well. Ask them how they are doing, how work is going, and how they are feeling. Be there to listen when they need it, and be understanding when they get overwhelmed.This helps your partner feel not so alone. Discussing your frustrations, fear, and emotional stresses, even those outside of MS, can help you feel closer to one another.
Make sure to talk about things other than MS. Talk about their hopes and dreams, their successes, and their goals. Don’t just talk about the MS or frustrations.
Ask your partner things like, "How was your day at work?" or "Have you worked on any new paintings lately?" Say to your partner, "Tell me about your latest project" or "What are you working on now?"
You may also say, "I know my MS takes a lot of our energy. However, I am here for you. You can tell me how you feel or if something is wrong. I'm here to listen to you."

, You may think your partner knows or doesn’t need to be told, but you should tell them that you are grateful for their help. This doesn’t mean you have to tell them every time they do something or overdo it, but you should periodically remind your partner that you are thankful for them, your relationship, and everything they do.For example, you may want to tell them thank you because they took over activities you used to do, took you to the doctor, or communicated to you honestly. Tell them, "Thank you for everything you do for me. I appreciate it and couldn't do it without you."

