 Symptoms such as fatigue, low energy, difficulty with erections, poor libido and decreased muscle strength can be caused by low testosterone; however, there are other disorders that can cause each of these problems. Your doctor can help you figure out what’s going on, and what testing might be helpful., Before you choose to take testosterone therapy, you should get your levels tested at least twice. Doctors generally will not rely on a single test result to decide that a male patient needs testosterone therapy. Testosterone levels vary considerably during the day, and from day to day.Get tested in the morning. The best time to have blood drawn to test for testosterone may be the morning, especially in younger men.Make an appointment with your doctor to test your levels. If your levels are close to normal each time they are tested, you probably do not need testosterone treatment.
 If your levels are close to normal each time they are tested, you probably do not need testosterone treatment. If your levels are low, but you have no symptoms, your doctor probably will not recommend treatment. Most doctors will only treat those who have low testosterone levels and significant symptoms that are likely due to low testosterone., Certain medical conditions can be the cause of low testosterone or present similar symptoms. Thyroid problems and sleep apnea can contribute to low testosterone levels. Depression or excessive alcohol consumption can also lower levels.Generally, treating the underlying condition leads to improved testosterone levels.
 Some medications can lead to low levels of testosterone. If you take medications and have low levels, talk to your doctor. Discuss whether your medication may be the cause and if there is something you can do to help.Opioid drugs, glucocorticoid, and anabolic steroids can lead to low testosterone levels., Testosterone treatment may increase the risk of certain conditions. You should always talk to your doctor before starting treatment and discuss possible risk factors. Your medical history may put you at a greater risk for certain conditions than others. When taking testosterone therapy, you are at risk for developing:Acne
Retained fluid or swollen ankles
Sore or enlarged breast tissue
Worsening of sleep apnea
Clotting in deep veins
Shrinking of the testicles
Decreased sperm production

, There is mixed evidence about whether testosterone replacement therapy can lead to heart attack or stroke, or prostate cancer.Some researchers have stated that TRT has no benefits at all.