 If you put in the time and effort of finding an internship, everything will pay off. Finding an internship isn’t the easiest thing, but if you plan ahead (several months in advance) and talk to your professors, your chances of a smooth internship search won’t be so bad.
 What exactly is it that you want to do? Be an event planner? A writer? A little bit of everything? Take some time, or a lot of time, to really sit down and consider your interests and what you’re passionate about. So many people apply for any internship that they can possibly find, which isn’t necessarily a bad idea, but the point of an internship is to gain experience in your major. Settling for an internship that’s not at all related to your major most likely won’t bring you the experience that you’re looking for. Remember: your internship is the first step to starting your future in the real world.
 There are so many corporations, non-profits, smaller businesses, and a never ending list of companies out there that you don’t even realize it. All of these categories differ greatly in what type of work the company generates along with what their primary goal is. Make sure you know what you’re getting yourself into. OR, aim for experience in each field. You never know what you’re going to have an interest for until you try something first hand.
 What does this mean? It means to talk in a professional manor when you contact that President of that big company, or that director of that marketing department you would like to get into. Most people just assume that it’s OK to send an e-mail saying something along the lines of “I was wondering if you have any opportunities for a summer internship” or, “I was wondering if you’re looking for a spring intern.” Word to the wise: don’t say that. Try something like this: “I’m a junior public relations major at - - - and am looking to further my knowledge in the field. I’m highly interested in your company and was curious to know if you have any opportunities in which I could increase experience in public relations.” See the difference in those statements? Good.

