 If you're not living in a tropical area and plan on surfing year round, you're going to need a wetsuit to help you stay warm in colder autumn, winter and spring conditions.


In warm areas like southern California, you can pretty much get by with two different types of wetsuits, a "spring" suit, which is also used in autumn and perhaps the summer depending on your tolerance levels. A full suit is recommended for the winter months. The full suit covers the entire body, from the neck to the feet and to the wrists.;
, Wetsuits have various thicknesses that are measured in millimeters. For example, a 3/2 will have a 3 mil thickness on the chest and back, a 2 mil thickness on the arms and legs. Most wetsuit companies offer 3 or 4 models with various features. Often the spring suit is the same as the full suit, minus the legs of course, for a particular model.
 The least expensive models will offer fewer features. The way the seams are sewn, for example, will vary on the inexpensive wetsuits and the more expensive models.


Less expensive models won't have taped seams either. Taped seams help keep the water out of the wetsuit by providing a barrier over the seams. The tape is applied so it makes a nice strong adhesion to the wetsuit material itself. It also helps the seams stay together longer.The type of neck enclosure also has a bearing on the cost of the wetsuit. Many wetsuits used to be made with a pull over type of enclosure. Most surfers found them awkward and uncomfortable, and they have now fallen out of favor. The more traditional velcro closure for the neck is now more common.
 Here's a quick guide to appropriate wetsuits temperatures:


55 - 65 degree water temperature - For real comfort, a 4/3 with taped seams, if you handle cold reasonably well, a 3/2 will suffice. The warmer you stay, the longer you can be in the water.
66 - 70 degree water temperature - A Spring suit of 2/1 or 3/2 should be ample for a two hour session.
70+ degrees; Most people trunk it at these temps or wear a rash guard or 1 mil jacket. The rash guard protects from abrasion caused by the wax on the deck of the board. It also provides some UV protection. A jacket will help you stay warmer as it keeps the wind off fairly well.
 There are some high end models that offer wool lining. These can be very warm and very expensive. Proper care of a wool lined wetsuit is paramount in order to maintain it's quality and usefulness for an extended period.
 Some of the high end wetsuits are made of materials that are evolutionary. The environmental concerns of the use of neoprene, etc. have forced the industry to look at other resources to be used to make suits, and they have been successful. There is lots of information available about the high end environmentally conscious suits, so suffice it to say that if you are in a financial position to be able to afford one, and are concerned with the environment, by all means.
 When you're out shopping for a wetsuit, although they are awkward to try on, do so! Consult the dealer for an appropriate size and squeeze your way in. Don't be surprised if you work up a sweat, a dry wetsuit in a surf store dressing room is a hot place to be!

, Not constricting, but snug. The neoprene will stretch ever so slightly with use, so getting it snug now will mean that it will fit properly longer. If you're a person with long legs, make certain that a full suit reaches to the bottom of your ankles, almost to the top of your foot. If you have a long torso, make certain there are no binds constricting your arms and in the crotch area.
 There should not be loose threads hanging about, and the zipper should be sewn straight up the back. Most wetsuit companies have stringent quality controls that avoid shipping sub standard suits out, but it happens, so best to check it before you buy it.
 Do they appear to be well crafted or of shoddy workmanship? If the suit is taped, are the ends of the tape properly adhered to the suit, or are they beginning to peel off? Does the zipper transit smoothly while you are trying on the suit? Both up and down?

, A wetsuit works by trapping a thin layer of water between your skin and the suit itself. Your body temperature warms the water and helps you stay warm. It is unavoidable however that you will get a cold stream of water down your neck, down your arm or up your leg at some time. This is completely normal and to be expected. The water will warm soon after entering, and you will be able to maintain a comfortable body temperature and complete your session.
 Regardless of how much you spend or how well you take care of your wetsuit, you can only expect to get 5 years good use of it. They wear out. The neoprene will crack and split, you'll get tears, abrasions that work their way through the material. It's great to have a newer wetsuit, but if you take care of the one you have, it should serve you well for many years.

