 Picks items that your staff is likely to enjoy, and then make sure the items are made well.Cheaply made coffee mugs won’t impress, but putting on a 100% cotton shirt with a customized design on it may turn some heads. You can also give high quality metal travel mugs instead of the flimsy plastic ones. Make sure you shop around for quality swag as some websites, like Uncommon Goods or Personal Creations, allow you to custom order by gender and occasion.
You can also order items from sites that specialize in making printed goods, like photo mugs and t-shirts from Shutterfly or larger retailers like Walmart.com, both of which have options available in a number of price ranges. What’s more, these sites are easy to use, and after a few clicks, your personalized gift is on the way.
 Many employees enjoy getting out on the course. You can set a great example by buying a round of golf for two at a local club. It’s a good idea to get a round of golf for two people, and to include the golf cart. If that proves too detailed, it may be simpler to pick an amount that fits your budget and buy a certificate, allowing your employee to decide how to spend the money.


If you’re looking for something for top employees, consider giving a decent set of golf clubs. You can get a decent set of clubs for about $199 to $299, plus customization, and each time your staff member uses the clubs, they will be reminded of their hard work and your recognition of that.
You might also consider expanding this gift to include the entire sales team, or to sponsor an event, like a shotgun scramble.Alleviate the cost by rewarding an elite number of employees with tickets to the event, and sell tickets to the rest of the staff in order to cover the greens fees, food and beverages.
 You can put a company logo on almost any gift, so why not have a few options available for the employee to choose? Some people prefer hiking to golf, so you may think to include a quality daypack for the office weekend warrior.