 You can throw out evidence of a character trait if it is offered to prove that you acted in accordance with the trait on a particular occasion.Courts see this evidence as inherently prejudicial and irrelevant.


The purpose behind this rule is to focus the jury’s attention on the main issue—what happened on this particular occasion—and to prevent the jury from rewarding good people and punishing bad people based on their character.There are exceptions. For example, if in a criminal trial a defendant offers evidence that he is generally peaceful, then the government could offer evidence to rebut it.
A defendant in a criminal trial may also offer evidence of a victim’s character trait (such as a violent character), which the government may also rebut., Evidence that you committed a crime on a prior occasion cannot be used as evidence that you committed the crime the government has charged you with on this occasion.Propensity evidence may, however, be used to prove motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake, or lack of accident. A classic example is to prove “modus operandi”; that is, a criminal’s unique way of committing a crime. If a defendant always spray-painted a house after burglarizing it, then this evidence could be introduced to prove that the defendant committed the most recent burglary where the house was also spray-painted. This evidence is admitted to show identity, not a propensity to commit burglary.
 Courts will exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect.For example, you can exclude “guilt by association” evidence as unfairly prejudicial. If the government tries to introduce evidence that you hang out with drug dealers to prove that you, too, are a drug dealer, then you should move to have this evidence excluded as prejudicial.
 Courts have acknowledged that evidence of your wealth, including any insurance policy, will likely induce juries to decide a case on improper grounds, namely your ability to pay the plaintiff.Because you should be held liable only for what you did, and not because of your wealth, you should move to exclude this evidence.

