 Care is given to prevent further damage and relieve pain, but not a lot can be done to speed up the healing process.
 The use of cold water or cold compress can reduce the inflammation by constricting the blood vessels and reducing the blood flow in the affected area.The cool temperature helps to numb nerve endings, providing you with instant, localized pain relief from the burning sensation of the blistered sunburn.
You can also use soaks and compresses with Burrow’s solution (a solution of aluminum acetate in water). Burrow’s solution can usually be found in drugstores.
 When taking a bath, use cool water and relax for 10 to 20 minutes; this can help relieve the pain of a sunburn. Repeat as often as you like for several days.


If you use a face towel, soak it to the cold water and apply it to the affected skin.
Warm baths and the utilization of soaps or bath oils is not advisable, because these can irritate the skin and increase discomfort.
 Make sure the temperature of the water when you shower is just below lukewarm. Pay attention to the flow of the water, making sure it is very gentle so it does not aggravate your pain.In general, if you can avoid showering, do so. The pressure of the shower could prematurely pop your sunburn blisters, leading to pain, infection, and scarring.
After showering, pat dry your skin using gentle movements. Don’t rub or wipe the skin with a towel as this can cause irritation.
 If the pain of the sunburn is bothering you, you can take anti-inflammatory analgesic oral medication such as ibuprofen, naproxen, or aspirin.Ibuprofen (Advil) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). It works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. It also reduces hormones that trigger fever.
Aspirin (Acetylsalicylic Acid)is a drug that works as an analgesic, relieving pain by inhibiting pain signals in the brain. It is also an antipyretic, a drug that reduces fever.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is safer than aspirin for children who may have a sunburn. Acetaminophen has many of the same effects.
Discuss these options with your doctor if you have any doubt about their usage and whether the medications are right for you.
 Cortisone cream contains a minimal amount of steroids that help reduce the inflammation of the sunburn by suppressing the activity of the immune system.It is not advisable to use cortisone cream on children, so consult your physician for an alternative.

