 While you want to rest up the day and night before you start your new job, make fruitful use of the remainder of any lag time you have before starting.Contact HR and complete ahead of time some of the mountain of forms that will surely be waiting for you. This will enable you to focus your first day more on getting to know your workplace and co-workers, and to jump right in to work.
Keep up-to-date on the company by following its website, social media presence, and media mentions. Be ready for any changes (good or bad) that may happen between your hiring and first day.
Ask your supervisor if there is any research, organization, or other preparatory work you can begin before your first day. This will help you get a “leg up” on your initial tasks and shows initiative.
 The first impression you make on your co-workers will be difficult to change, so provide them an image of a friendly, engaging, helpful, and dedicated compatriot.Do a little homework on the web to familiarize yourself with your co-workers ahead of time (basic info, not life histories — you want to be seen as a friend, not a stalker).Then, on your first day, introduce yourself to everyone you can, but in an organic, sensible manner. That is, don’t walk right past people without shaking hands and giving your name, but also don’t glad-hand around the room like you’re running for President while people are busy working.Accept invitations to lunch, drinks after work, or other such get-togethers if at all possible. This is part of why you want to pack a first-day lunch that you don’t have to feel bad about leaving in your desk (or worry about the smell if you do).Volunteer to help with tasks, or even take one on yourself. Earn a reputation right from the start as a helpful, eager “team player.” Don’t let it backfire by taking on tasks for which you are not yet prepared to do well, however.
 As indicated in this section, you don’t want to be a wallflower on your first day. At the same time, however, don’t spend so much time trying to force a good first impression that you miss opportunities to gather key intelligence about your new workplace and co-workers.

Watch how decision are made, and get a feeling for where the centers of power reside and how the office politics play out. Much of this may not occur in the same manner as described in your orientation packet. Get an idea about who you need to befriend and who you should be wary of if you want to succeed.
Pay attention to the office rules — phone and social media usage, breaks, dress code, etc. — presented during your orientation, but also observe the “rules.” That is, see how things are actually done on the ground. It’s best to err on the side of the official policies, especially early on, but you also want to know how things operate among your co-workers.
On a side note regarding your phone: silence it the first day, if possible. Present an image of focus and dedication., Your co-workers and supervisors probably expect some mistakes and failures as you adjust, but that doesn’t mean they want to hear you explain them away by saying “I’m new here” or “It’s my first day.” No one likes excuses, even when they are somewhat understandable, so making a “no excuses” first impression will pay dividends for you.Through preparation and focused effort, do all you can to make your initial tasks be successful tasks. The quality of your initial work can help you earn a reputation as a “go to” person who can be trusted to do exceptional work.
Do the job to the best of your abilities, and if you need guidance or help, ask for it. People expect the new guy / gal to need some assistance. It’s better to meet a new co-worker by asking “Can you give me a hand formatting this? I want to make sure I do it right.” than it is to say “Sorry I messed up that formatting. I’m new here, after all.”

