 New measures are put forward and laws made because people let their representatives know what issues matter to them. Call or write offices for local representatives, such as senators and congresspersons in the US, to let them know you want to see stricter regulations regarding animal abuse.You can find a number of petitions as well as sample letters and phone scripts online to help you organize your thoughts and make a powerful statement.
 Set up a meeting for just you or you and one or two other concerned citizens to talk with a local legislator. Call their office and let them know, “I would like to set up an appointment to talk about an issue I believe is important to our community.”


Keep the group you bring small. This keeps meetings more directed and on-track. Appoint a single person to act as spokesperson for the group.Prepare talking points in advance. Have any facts or statistics you would like to quote written down and make sure you have a central message such as, “There is not proper legislation in this community to protect animals.” Remember, you will only have about 15 minutes to talk.
If you are meeting about a specific measure, have your statement about why you support or oppose it ready, citing text from the measure itself to help prove your points.
Dress professionally and be punctual.
 Many humane organizations, as well as national groups like the ASPCA, have advocacy groups or organizations that work to promote animal rights and welfare within local communities. Search online or call your local humane society to find about about advocacy opportunities.Join local groups to get information that is tailored to your state or local area.
Keep your contact information up to date so that the organization is able to easily get in touch with you.
 When animal rights or animal cruelty measures come up during local and state elections, it is imperative that you go vote in support of animal rights and rehabilitation. Check with your state or county offices to see if you are registered to vote, and if not register immediately.Remember, you do not have to vote for every issue on a ballot. If an election involves an animal welfare measure as well as other measures you don’t want to vote on, don’t skip voting, Instead, go and vote specifically for the measure that do concern you.
Check every election cycle to make sure your voter registration is up to date.

