 The Javanese is a medium sized cat with a long body. Male cats tend to weigh about 8-12 pounds (approximately 3.5 kg to 5.5 kg) while female cats are smaller in size, weighing under 8 pounds. Both male and female cats are very slender and deceptively muscular., Look for soft, medium-length hair when trying to identify a Javanese cat. Cats of this breed have longer hair than their Siamese relatives. This hair is silky and does not have any undercoat, which makes grooming fairly simple. , Javanese cats typically share coloring with their Balinese relatives. Look for shades of red, cream, lilac, chocolate, or seal brown. The Javanese may also have Tabby or Shaded patterns in their coat., Look for medium-sized, almond-shaped eyes. Javanese cats typically have bright, blue eyes, but they can sometimes appear green. Crossed eyes are a health problem with the breed., Look for the Javanese’s distinctive head shape. The breed is known for its triangle-like head shape, formed by large ears, a wedge-like skull, and a face that tapers to the narrow tip of the nose. The angular shape is especially pronounced given the slenderness of the body., Javanese cats have especially large ears, particularly in proportion to their slender frame. Look for triangle-shaped ears that are wide at the base and pointed at the top. In addition, the coloring of the ears is often darker than the rest of the Javanese cat’s body., Javanese cats have very distinctive tails. Look for a long and thin tail that tapers towards the tip. The cat’s hair is longest on the tail, which makes for an especially striking physical feature., When identifying a Javanese cat, look for similarities to Siamese, Colorpoint, and Balinese cats. The Javanese was developed from a foundation of these breeds and shares physical and behavioural similarities. For instance:The Javanese has an almost identical build to the Siamese.
The Javanese shares the Colorpoint’s coloring.
The Javanese is alright being alone during the day but seeks companionship at night, like the Balinese.