 Although some people mistake Aria's bed for a daybed, it isn't, it's simply a bed against a wall with lots of cushions. Aria's bed is the main feature of her room. Aria's bed is covered in cushions. Each has a different pattern or picture. One has an image of the Statue of Liberty on it. Aria's bed is pushed against her wall which give it a sofa kind of look, which is more laid-back.;
, Aria has a lot of art work covering her walls. She has a notice board that has a vintage looking frame around it. She also has butterflies stuck to the walls. These can be found in general craft stores, or if you want to make them to suit your own tastes, why not get some material and glue and have a go at making some of your own. It doesn't matter whether you put up your own artwork or bought artwork. As long as you like it. You could even print off pictures of things you like from the internet and stick them on your notice board. Aria also has pictures of her friends stuck onto her notice board, so dig out some pictures of you and your friends and hang them up.
 Aria's bedroom consists of a lot of dark colors. Browns, deep plums and reds. There is also a lot of different textures in the room; from leather chairs, textured metallic wallpaper to different fabric pillows. Mix and match things you like, don't worry if you don't think that they will 'go' together, just be bold.
 Aria reads a lot. She has piles and piles of books near her window and a bookshelf over her bed. Display the books you like, don't put them in boxes or under your bed, put up shelves to store your favorite books.
 Aria's room is mainly lit by small lamps. She has one on her desk, on her set of drawers, and on the shelf above her bed. The lamp light creates a romantic and cosy effect. Try to find small lamps to fit into your bedroom, they are usually quite cheap and can sometimes be found in second-hand stores.
 Aria has lots of candles and ornaments displayed in her room. Most have these have been bought while she was traveling with her family. Display any little items you may have that remind you of good things and bring happy memories. You can buy different colored candles with different scents to give your bedroom a bohemian feel, like Aria's.
 Aria's curtains are thin and ruffled which let a lot of natural light into her room. They also add to the 'romantic' feeling of Aria's room. This type of curtain can be found in most regular curtain shops. If you can't find a design you like you can buy fabric you like and make your own curtains. Doing this would make your room look more one-of-a-kind, just like Aria's. Aria's furniture is mostly dark and wooden. If you have light-wood furniture you can buy paint or wood varnish to make the wood darker. This is a lot cheaper than going out and buying all new furniture.
 Aria has a set of tall drawers for clothing storage. She has a mirror on the top of these drawers where she is seen in episodes doing her make-up before going out.

