 Everything seems to revolve around our childhood. The problem is that as we age we tend to forget that which shaped and molded us into who we are today. Today society is way too high paced and we just don't seem to have time to reflect on times past. The truth is, we have the time, we fail to grab the moment.


There's nothing wrong with taking a moment for ourselves. In fact, we need to open that can of worms from time to time. Here's how to really hone your memory through the beauty of art. In this article, I'm going to stick to the arts of literature and filmography.;
, I'm talking about sitting down and enjoying a good book or movie. Today the standard isn't the same as it was. Movies aren't nearly as satisfying as they were in the past and most books don't have the same charismatic appeal as they did when we were young.
 Look at your children, then remember your childhood, then try to visualize your parents childhoods. For example, I remember one story my grandma read to me. Before she read the story, she started by telling me, "this is a story I read to your father, when he was your age."

, That's the type of moment we need in our lives. It's not only about the love of a story; it's about sharing moments with our lineage. Those moments included the Three Musketeers, Romeo and Juliet, the adventures of Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn, Moby Dick, and many more. I got to experience stories that gripped my grandparents as children. I got to see a glimpse of their childhood. For that reason alone, literature will always carry over to our future generations.
 The same holds true with movies. Classics like The Wizard of Oz, The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, Darby O'Gill and the Little People, The Sound of Music, and many more hold our imaginations. They inspire and connect us with times long past. They live on because they touched us in such a way that they can never fade away.


A classic novel or movie is very similar to a baby's blanket. You can wrap yourself up in them. They fill you with love, wonder, and comfort. A simple knowledge and wisdom shared among past and future generations.
 The most fruitful treasure you can ever pass on.

