 This can be an easy way to hide relatively small scars, and as an added bonus, wearing lots of bracelets is a big fashion trend right now.


Look for cuff style bracelets for the most coverage. There are lots of styles available, from men's leather cuff bracelets to women's engraved silver or gold cuffs. Some stylish brands include Rustic Cuff and Fossil, but you can get original, gorgeous cuffs handmade from the craft website Etsy or even learn to make your own.
 This can hide the scars on your upper arms, and depending on the length of the sleeves can even hide scars on your wrist.Try shirts with thumb hole cuffs. This is a trendy look that helps by keeping your sleeve pulled down, so that your wrists are not inadvertently exposed. You can make your own by cutting a hole in the sleeves that are too long for you, or you can purchase them online. Just search "shirt thumb hole" on a retailer website like Amazon.
In summertime, look for light, gauzy material like silk or thin cotton. These are breathable to keep you cool. Be aware that if you wear long-sleeved shirts on hot summer days, you might get questions from people who are curious about why. This can also be a red flag to concerned parents., If you're a girl with scars on your thighs, a traditional swimsuit will expose them, but you can wear swimming shorts to cover them.


If the scars are at the top of your thighs, most board shorts will hide them, and since they are actually made for swimming, you're not likely to get a lot of questions from your friends.
Board shorts come in all lengths, so if your scars are lower on your thighs, try longer board shorts or even men's swimming trunks.
 If board shorts are not enough to cover your scars while swimming, there are other options for you.


You can also wear a rash-guard style swim top to cover scars on your arms while swimming. These come in short- and long-sleeved styles and are available for men and women; long-sleeved rash guard tops can cover scars even on your wrists. If anyone asks, you can say you are just being extra cautious about sun protection.
Try doing an internet search for "modest swimsuit" for women's options that cover a lot of skin. Since these are generally sold for religious people (such as Muslim, Mormon, or Orthodox Jewish women), they tend to cover more skin than mainstream swimwear.
 If you have scars on your lower legs and need to hide them, any of these options will work. Using these, you won't need to wear pants every day of the year.


There are lots of cute, stylish options for high socks or tights available at big box stores, malls, and online. You can incorporate them into your personal style by choosing fun prints or colors.
You can try using waterproof makeup to cover other visible scars while swimming, or use a bandage if all else fails.
 Some self harm scars might be across the top of your chest. There are several clothing options to hide them, but be aware that choosing most of these during warmer months might make people suspicious.


Try a stylish scarf. There are lots of options for scarves, ranging from gauzy cotton scarves in the warmer months to thick knit scarves in the colder months. You can also try an "infinity scarf" which is a scarf knit in a loop that goes on over your head.
Try buttoning your shirt all the way up. This can be stylish and fun, especially if you choose a cool printed oxford-type shirt (think Harry Styles).
Try a turtleneck or mock neck shirt. In the winter months, these are great options that will keep you warm and cover your scars.
Wear a statement necklace. Girls especially can benefit from the current trend to wear big, clunky necklaces called "statement necklaces." They come in all different colors and styles and are available online, in big box stores, or at department stores. If you're doing an online search, try using the search terms "statement necklace" along with the terms "bib," "fringe," or "chunky."

