 These are much more breathable than synthetic (manmade) fibers, which means air can move through them more easily. When it’s hot, you want as much air to move through your clothes as possible. Linen is another natural fiber like cotton.Polyester is a fabric that you definitely want to avoid during the summer. Rayon is another one that will heat you up.
Natural fibers tend to be a little tougher too, which is great for the wear and tear of camp. Cotton tends to wash easier than other fibers as well.
If you need to wear dress clothes for a dance or special event, it’s a good time to choose cotton dresses, skirts, and button up shirts over other fabrics.
Cotton isn’t just for your shirts, as many shorts, capris, and pants are also made of cotton.;
, You’ve always heard that black clothing absorbs more sunlight, so it will cause you to get hotter. Summer camp tends to include a lot of time out in the sun, and wearing lots of dark colors will mean being even hotter. White and gray are usually good options.If you tend to wear t-shirts with large graphics, the thickness of some graphics will also make you hot faster. Stick to shirts with less printing on them.
Since white does show dirt more easily, maybe light shades of other colors like blue, yellow and red will be better if there’s a chance you’ll get dirty.
 Tight clothes tend to cling to your skin as you get sweaty, which keeps air from flowing between your skin and clothes. Wearing clothes that fit loosely will let them move around more and let air flow through, keeping you cooler.You don’t want to wear clothes that are too big, so find the balance there. You could wear one size bigger than usual, as long as it doesn’t seem like it’s falling off of you.
It’s also good to wear clothing made of thinner material that won’t feel heavy on you.
 If you usually wear bras that feature padding and underwire, it might be a good idea to swap out for something cooler at camp. Boxers can cause chaffing on hot days where you sweat and walk a lot, so consider a switch to briefs or boxer briefs.


Sports bras or unlined bralettes are a good option as they have less material but still offer the proper support.
You should also wear socks to keep your feet cool. Take plenty of extras, as you’ll most likely need more than you think.
 You probably have limited clothing at camp, and you may not want to dirty everything on the first day, but as you wear clothes they trap dirt and sweat. Wearing dirty clothes can actually make you hotter because of all the dirt.On a related note, it’s good to make sure you shower consistently while at camp. As you get sweaty and shed skin cells, it’s good to wash all that off and keep clean.

