 Do you want to work faster? Do you want to spend less time looking for documents or files? Organizational skills can enhance many aspects of your workflow. To help you stay focused on the best steps to remedy your disorganized work habits, think about what the end result of a more organized office or workspace might look like.
 Break it into smaller, more manageable chunks to ease the burden. Try to integrate at least one new organizational technique into your workflow each day.


For instance, you might start by organizing your desk drawer. The next day, maybe you’ll start by organizing your storage folders and files. The third day, you could try re-ordering your project queue so the work projects due soonest are on top.
Think about your work space and find small ways to become more organized each day.
 After finishing a project, empty the folder and bin documents that you won’t need again.


If you are unsure which assignments are most pressing, or need more time to work on something, ask your boss which tasks are absolutely crucial and which can be deferred., Recycle it, throw it away, or take it home. For instance, your takeout menu from the local Chinese joint should be recycled. Even some work-related documents or items should be removed. You don’t need two pairs of scissors or two staplers, for example. Find an appropriate place for the extra stuff in your workspace.
 By dealing with incoming documents immediately, you avoid a build-up of unread documents.
 For instance, you might label one folder “Budget - 2012” and place everything related to the 2012 budget in that folder.


Do not keep or store documents you won’t need again.
 You could store them in small plastic boxes, or in vertical filing cabinets. Whatever method you choose, ensure they are ordered in a way that makes sense to you.


Your company or employer may have a protocol for storing necessary documents. Ask if you are unsure.
 Rank the items from most to least important. The most important things are those which you need to do, or things that have a deadline or time limit. The least important things are those that can wait until another day if necessary.


For instance, if you have to pick up the dog from the vet, buy groceries, and read a book, then decide which is the most important (picking up the dog) and then decide which of the remaining two chores you’d rather do.
Planners are good tools for managing your time. A good planner will have both a calendar and a daily view, allowing you to add more detail for things you need to do.

