 PETA, or the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, has always advocated for companies and consumers going cruelty-free. To help their supporters find cruelty-free products and companies, they have created an online search engine on their website that helps users find these products and companies based on various search criteria. You can search for companies in your area, or focus on a specific type of product you’re looking for. You can also use the search engine to narrow the results down to only products that are available in your country.There are other organizations that have similar search engines. For example, the Cruelty Free International website offers a search engine for products that sport the Leaping Bunny logo, which denotes the product is cruelty-free.;
, The Leaping Bunny organization supports companies that do not test on animals. To find these products on any given shopping trip, check the product label for the Leaping Bunny logo—a simple black outline of a leaping bunny. You will most likely find this logo on the information label, somewhere near the barcode, if the product has one.The Humane Society of the United States offers a free downloadable infographic that will help you understand product labeling, and help you find cruelty-free products., The Leaping Bunny is the only logo that signifies that no ingredients of a certain product, nor the finished product, have been tested on animals. While some products may say “cruelty-free” or “not tested on animals,” it’s still possible that certain ingredients in the product may have been tested on animals, even if the finished product was not. If the product doesn’t have the Leaping Bunny logo on it, do a search through their database to look the product up specifically., If you don’t see a Leaping Bunny logo but can’t identify whether or not the product has been tested on animals, you can simply contact the company and ask. Most companies will have readily available contact information either on the product label itself or on their website. Try the number on the packaging or look the company up online for how to contact them., China requires that all imported makeup and beauty products that will be sold in the country be tested on animals. In 2016, the Chinese government also began planning for more products to be added to this regulation, including things like toothpaste and even soap. Do a quick internet search or contact the company to find out if their products are tested on animals before or after being exported to China.Products made in China but not sold there are not required to be tested on animals. China requires animal testing only on products that will be sold in China. Check the product’s label to see if it was made in China. If it was made in China, look on their website or do an internet search to find out if that product is available in China. If the product is only made there, but not sold there, the product is not required to be tested on animals., The Leaping Bunny has its own app that you can download to locate and learn more about cruelty-free products. PETA also compiled a list of vegan-friendly apps that can help you find vegan and cruelty-free products around you. This is a convenient way to find cruelty-free products nearby the next time you go shopping.For example, the app Bunny Free allows you to quickly look up a company name and find out whether or not they test on animals. This could be very helpful if you are shopping and need to get some information on the go.

