 Many schools permit and even subsidize free activities for students and staff. These activities get people excited for upcoming events, encourage students to get involved in campus groups, and help students from different backgrounds and ages interact. If you’re interested in revving up school spirit in this way, start out by brainstorming different activities which could get people involved and excited.


For example, you could organize a face painting booth, have a costume or pumpkin decorating contest, or arrange a series of fun competitions such as three-legged races, hoop-shooting, and juggling.If your school doesn’t accept new ideas or activities, consider volunteering for a pre-existing event like the school dance or homecoming parade. You could help distribute flyers, work on creating a float, or help set up equipment.
 You might already have a close-knit band of friends dedicated to helping you pitch and run your activity, or you might need to recruit extra supporters and helpers. Whatever the case, make sure you get interested volunteers to commit to a particular responsibility and a specific number of hours. Draw up a sign-up sheet that lists different roles required for the activity as well as job descriptions for each role, then ask volunteers to sign up under whatever role they’d like to play.For example, list two or three slots under ‘Poster Making’ in order to signal that you need two people to take this role, two slots under ‘Supply Gathering,’ and six under ‘Event Volunteers/Facilitators.’ Also denote the amount of time each role requires so that everyone knows what to expect.
 Once you have enough volunteers to help organize and facilitate your activity, ask a school official for approval. You’ll need this so that you don’t get in trouble for running an un-sponsored event, and also to figure out where and when you can carry out the activity. You can also find out whether or not the school can help you with supplies and other arrangements.


You’re more likely to convince school officials of the validity of your idea if you can show you’ve already done some research and planning. Provide justification for your activity by explaining how your activity in particular would build school spirit, as well as why it’s a manageable task that won’t require too many resources or complex logistics.
 If you’re organizing a contest of some kind, you can drum up enthusiasm by awarding school-themed prizes to its winners.Request donations from your parents, local businesses, or the school principal in order to purchase some official school merchandise.


For example, the first prize for the costume contest can be a hoodie with your school’s insignia on it, second prize can be a school scarf, and third could be a keychain or pendant.
 Since you’ll be bringing diverse people from the school together and wrangling them into concerted activities, you should recruit at least one or two experienced adults to help out. They can judge your contest, shepherd students into the event or into different groups, or just provide an authoritative eye to keep students in line.

