 Watch video or have a coach demonstrate spiking a volleyball using topspin. The more you see a spiker create topspin, the more you'll understand what it means exactly to spike with topspin.;
, We want to learn to spike with topspin a quickly as possible. The quickest and most efficient method to learning how to create topspin is by first practicing the spike in slow motion. The key to creating topspin is contacting the ball in a claw-like hand position. This hand position is also called the cobra. Practice the volleyball spike arm swing in slow motion while keeping the hand in a claw-like position during the entire movement. This trains the spiker to be in the claw-like position at pre-contact. Do this in slow motion for 5 to 10 minutes. For faster results, use a camcorder to record the spiker and immediately watch the video. Training in slow motion isn't easy, but is the fastest way to learn the technique for creating topspin.
 Don't make the mistake of trying to do the full volleyball approach and create topspin. The best way to learn topspin is to chunk down the volleyball approach. Therefore, the next step is to just focus on contacting the ball. Get a partner and practice the arm swing spiking motion, spiking the ball to one another. Focus just as before on keeping the hand in a claw-like position during the entire movement. Watch the the rotation of the ball as it travels in the air. If the ball isn't spinning, then the contact was poor. Typically, the better the contact, the more the ball will stick to the hand. The entire hand should be contacting the ball, not just the palm. The entire hand should be wrapped around the ball.
 The easiest way to serve topspin is by contacting the ball more back behind your head. The idea is to reach back further than you normally would while keeping the hand in the cobra position as you swing through the ball. The big difference between serving floaters and serving topspin is how energy is sent through the ball. With float serves, energy is sent through the center of the ball resulting in less spin. With topspin serves, energy is sent more through a spot above of the center of the ball resulting in more spin. Since energy is sent through the center of the ball, float serves will require less power than topspin serves. However, topspin serves are usually very effective. When served with topspin, the ball travels faster and the server is usually more accurate.  

, To get a real grasp of how to create topspin, practice serving short by looping the ball high so it drops short over the net. The key here is to contact the ball back behind your head while keeping the hand in the cobra position.
 Stand at the net on a platform or box and practice the volleyball arm swing. Self toss the ball and just focus on creating topspin. The goal is to get a feeling of how to create topspin and spike the ball down into the court. Progress to adding targets on the court.
 The next step is to practice spiking from far off the net. Practice spiking from off the net because it's easier to contact the ball back behind your head when the set is off the net. Focus on getting comfortable getting your hand in the cobra position and creating topspin on your spikes. Progress to adding targets.
 Remember, the tighter the ball is to the net, the more tempting it is to spike the ball flat without topspin. Always focus on creating topspin every time you spike.

