 Many get to 40 and realize they never got a stamp in their passport. Whether it be to Rome or London, Tokyo or Buenos Aires, now is the time to go! You may already have a place in mind but if not, do some research. Peruse traveling blogs and ask lots of friends and co-workers for suggestions.


Figure out if there will be any special festivals or holidays happening around birthday time at the desired destination. When you arrive, it will feel like the whole country is celebrating with you.
If you’re nervous about venturing into the unknown, take a couple of friends with you. Who would turn down a vacation to an exotic spot?

, Cruises are one of the easiest ways to travel and are a ton of fun. Find the company that offers the accommodations you’re looking for. Consider adult-only or child-friendly ships, for example, depending on preference. Cruises are great as they can be short 3-day excursions or a couple of weeks long. Plus, they’re like a city on water complete with casinos, shopping, clubs and multiple dining options.


With this choice, you can visit more than one city and get more bang for your buck.
Not sure what to take on board? Ask lots of questions before booking a ticket.
 Research where your favorite band will be playing and meet them on the road. You could even follow them for a few days and relive your groupie days.


Dig out the old t-shirt you've kept in the garage for just this occasion.
 What a relaxing way to spend your birthday. Imagine hanging out on a gorgeous boat in the middle of the ocean all day with those you care about most and reeling in dinner.


After fishing, camp under the stars and cook the day's catch on the grill.
 You only turn 40 once so go all out if that’s your personality. Find something that will get your blood pumping and really make you feel alive. Head to the jungles or Africa for a safari and get up close and personal with an elephant. Feel the need for speed? Head up to the top of the stratosphere in Vegas and bungee jump! The pictures will be hilarious and the experience unforgettable.

