 Search online, in a phone book, or in another local directory for piercing places that are certified and licensed by the state.Call or visit the location to verify the cleanliness and safety of the building, equipment, and staff.


You can have your parents accompany you or talk to the staff of a piercing place themselves if they want to.
Make sure to check Google, Yelp, or other sites with ratings and reviews from real people to see what they have to say about their experience at the piercing place.
 Show your parents that you will put in the work to properly care for and heal your ear after piercing. Share all cleaning and care information with your parents so they can keep you accountable for following through with it.Buy saline solution or whatever other supplies you need for after-care ahead of time, check if the piercer provides or sells these things, or make sure you know exactly where and what to buy afterwards.
Let your parents know that you’ll wear the jewelry you get pierced with for however long the piercer recommends before changing it. Also make sure you know the best and healthiest types of metal for ear jewelry and where to buy it, especially if you have an allergy to certain metals like nickel., Research the health concerns of ear piercings to show to your parents if they are concerned about this. Be honest about the possible complications, but also be prepared with research on how to prevent problems.You can also do research into the possible benefits of piercings, too. Ear piercings have positive spiritual or religious significance in some cultures,and may even have medical benefits for many people., Find pictures online of the type of piercing you want to get to show them different options for how it could look on you.


Look for high-quality images and examples with classy, simple jewelry to help show that the piercing can have a dignified and mature look that you won’t grow out of.
 Ask friends who have the piercing to show it to your parents, explain why they got it and why they like it, and what the process was like. If your friend and their parents are willing, they can discuss with your parents why to let you get the piercing.


Make sure your friend and their parents are willing and give you permission before you tell your parents that they can talk to them.

