 This will involve those creating the hunt (teacher, parent, guardian, club leader etc.) knowing what sort of trees are in the community and perhaps even going for a walk or cycle around the area to find good specimens for the Great Tree Hunt. All of the trees must be in walking or cycling distance from your "headquarters" and perhaps even closer if you need to keep a close eye on those participating. Alternatively, an adult can accompany each group, team or individual undertaking the Great Tree Hunt.;
, If it is a class, then groups are probably viable. If it is a club, perhaps pairs and if it is a home exercise, it might be best done as a family exercise. It could also be done as an individual challenge. The method of dividing up the Great Tree Hunt is really up to your requirements and resources.
 This will also determine the length and complexity of the challenge. If you are holding a club-meet, you might want to finish the challenge in a few hours or a day. If it is a class exercise, you might ask teams to complete it over a week or so. At home, you might spend an afternoon one weekend, or perhaps several weekends in a row. Again, it all depends on your availability and resources, along with the ease of reaching the trees in your community.
 Prepare a list of questions that will have to be answered by the participants. Questions could be along the lines of:


What is the oldest tree in your community?
What is the tallest tree in your community?
Is there a tree of historical significance? What is this significance?
What is the widest tree?
What is the biggest tree? (Note that this should be a combination of tall and big, separate from the tallest/widest categories)
What is the sweetest scented tree?
Which dead tree is the home to many animals?
Which live tree is the home to many animals?
Where is the largest stand of trees in your community?

, You might even consider setting up a wiki program private to your participants so that they can share their findings and ideas. Encourage all of the participants to explain their findings, not just provide one line answers. For example, when they find a dead tree filled with life, ask them to elaborate on why dead trees are important to the continued preservation of other lives in the ecosystem.
 The way in which you do this will again depend on the motivations for undertaking the Great Tree Hunt. If it is a class project, the students might get marks as a team; marks for findings, marks for writing up the project, marks for team work etc. If it is at home, you might provide gold stars and perhaps present the children with a tree of their own to plant in the backyard. For a club, consider having a speech from each team at the end to summarise the findings and award prizes based on the most illustrative and interesting findings.
 It can be a really good idea to share your findings with the wider community after the project is completed. It is likely that there will be numerous community members interested in the findings. The participants might consider holding an open information night for the community, or producing a recycled pamphlet summarizing the findings and distributing it in local libraries, councils, schools etc. And if your teams created a wiki, open it up to the public to add their information as well!

