 Because they lack empathy, psychopaths may respond to hearing of emotionally troubling events in a bland or robotic way, or in a way that seems forced and artificial.For example, a psychopath may repeatedly express their disappointment with words only, but in a way that lacks emotion. Psychopaths, upon hearing troubling news, may make no real effort to resolve the issue, no matter how much they talk about it.
However, they may also have a very strong reaction when you least expect it. This could be due to fear of being caught, taking offense to something minor due to their poor self-esteem, or misreading a situation and thinking they should "fake" a response.
 A psychopath may attempt to toy with your emotions by making you feel sorry for them. Watch for signs such as tones of voice and deflecting of blame to gain your sympathy. This is another way for them to deny responsibility of their own actions.Watch for this manipulative behavior especially when the person needs an excuse as to why they made a faux pas or blunder (e.g., "forgot" your birthday).
Another red flag is if they make everything about them and how hard they have it, without ever apologizing or taking responsibility.
 If you want to spot a prosocial psychopath, keep track of each time they bug you with questions about how you would act in certain emotion-inducing situations. This may indicate that, because they lack empathy and a conscience, they don't naturally feel what is normal or appropriate in some situations and have to get the data elsewhere.


For example, they may ask: "What would you do if you came out of your apartment and saw me hiding in the bushes?" This is something a normal person would not need to ask.
 If you are thinking of getting into a relationship with someone but you are worried they might be a psychopath, try to get a sense of how fast they want to move. There are several signs that might indicate psychopathy:


Do they, after no time at all, call you endearing terms?
Do they insist that you should freely bring them into your circle of trust?
Do they want you to share living quarters or share a business venture very soon after meeting?

, A psychopath may set up a dynamic in which they lavish you with attention, then inexplicably give you the cold shoulder. When you return to their good graces, you experience maximum elation and feel high from the boost of dopamine (the "love" chemical) and endorphins.They manipulate you into pretty much being addicted to them, so you repeatedly forgive whatever transgressions they perpetrated against you.

