 The doctor may suggest manually breaking your water as a way of inducing labor. This is called an amniotomy. This will likely only be done if your cervix is dilating and the baby is in your pelvis in the birthing position. The doctor will put a probe inside you that has a hook on the end, sort of like a crochet needle. The hook will be used to puncture the amniotic sac. You will likely feel the water flow out when it breaks.This procedure may be uncomfortable but it will not harm you or the baby. The hospital may monitor the baby’s heart rate throughout the procedure.;
, Women’s experiences when their water breaks are highly variable. Some women experience an obvious flood of fluid while other women have difficulty identifying it. If you are unsure, call your doctor or midwife. When your water breaks you may feel:Wetness in your vagina and underwear that is different from your normal pregnancy discharge.
A small amount of fluid that starts and stops. It may be difficult to distinguish this from a trickle of urine.
A continuous, but small flow.
A sudden and unmistakable amount of water.
 Scientific studies suggest that commonly suggested methods of trying to start labor are generally ineffective. These include:Acupuncture
Homeopathy
Caster oil
Enemas
Hot baths with ginger oil. This has not been shown to shorten labor. Do not take ginger orally because it may increase your risk of bleeding.
Sex. Having sex won’t cause any problems for you or the baby if you have it before your water breaks. Afterwards you should not have sex because it may increase the risk of infection.
 Generally you will only be induced if there is a reason why it is likely to be better for you and the baby. Reasons for induction include:You are in your 42nd week of gestation and labor isn’t starting.
You have an infection in your uterus.
The baby isn’t developing sufficiently.
There isn’t enough amniotic fluid in the sac.
The placenta is separating from the wall of the uterus and / or starting to break down.
You have diabetes or high blood pressure.
 Some women want to schedule the birth ahead of time and then be induced. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) is not against elective induction but they do try to discourage across the board induction of everyone. Patients must be at least 39 weeks before induction will be considered. Risks include:If your cervix is not dilated enough, you will need a C-section.
Manually rupturing the amniotic sac increases your infection risk.
Inducing labor makes it more probable that the umbilical cord will slip into the vagina before the baby. If this happens as the baby passes through the baby will press on the umbilical cord and cut off its oxygen supply during the birth. This is very dangerous for the baby.
 There are situations when a C-section, instead of a natural birth is necessary. Under these circumstances, induction is unsafe for you and the baby:The position of the placenta or baby makes a natural birth dangerous. This includes if the placenta is blocking your cervix or if the baby is not in the correct position. For example, if the baby is crosswise in the transverse fetal position you cannot be induced.
There are concerns about whether you can physically give birth. This includes if your birth canal may be too small for the baby to fit through or if your uterus has been weakened by a prior surgery or C-section that makes it likely to rupture.
Active infections, such as herpes or HIV, may also make a C-section safer.

