 Sit down and do some serious thinking about what you like about horses. Do you enjoy a particular sport? Or, do you find the most happiness out of training horses? Perhaps you really like treating horses for illness? Not all equestrians are the same and you don’t have to compete to be an equestrian. Equestrians love horses and live a horse-centered lifestyle.


If you are considering a competition sport, you will want to think about whether or not you should stay amateur long-term or transition to a professional at some point. Seek the advice of other trusted equestrians as you make this decision.
 Horses require a great deal of care. They will interrupt your daily schedule and will demand attention even on holidays. Look over your daily calendar and consider realistically how much time you have to devote to an equestrian lifestyle.This is an especially important to consider if you are thinking about becoming a horse owner. Horses are social creatures and don’t do well cooped up in a stall without visits for long periods of time. This can seriously damage your relationship with your horse and may even put you in danger while riding.
 Evaluate what monies you have available to devote to your equestrian pursuits. Being an equestrian can be quite expensive, depending on your specific interests, so you want to be realistic early on. For example, certain sports such as dressage require advanced training that can be rather costly.


If you are on a limited budget, all is not lost. Look for an riding center that provides long-term or group discounts. You can also offer to work part-time at a facility in order to get additional horse contact hours.
 If you decide to become a professional equestrian, whether you take a competition track or decide to be a trainer, you will most likely need to pursue a degree in equestrian studies. Many schools over both associates and bachelor degrees in equestrian fields. You can gain even more experience by participating in a school’s riding club., Every time that you are around a horse do a quick internal reminder that you are here because it makes you happy. You may face difficult moments, but stay grounded in your love for horses and horse culture. This will help you to continue to make the best decisions for you and the horses that you work with.

