 (see Act Like a Tomboy and Be a Tough Girl);
, Kaoru often goes for the boyish look and feel of guys clothes, so try venturing into the guys section once in a while.
 She's also seen wearing yellow and orange, most of your clothes should be guys clothes in these colors. Track suits are always a good choice. Look at Kaoru's two everyday outfits to get some ideas.
 Don't gush or talk in a really high pitched voice. Find the right volume and pitch, and don't mumble. Make sure you sound confident. Swearing doesn't mean you're a tomboy, either, so don't overdo it. It can sound cheap and fake if overused. You don't have to use "dude" or "man" or "awesome", however, feel free to use slang, skater lingo, and Ebonics as much a possible.
 Kaoru's favorite store is the sports supply store. She's always buying new sports equipment. You should probably make this your favorite store too. While your at it choose your sports. Soccer is a must, after that feel free to do anything. At school you should be known as the "jock" (see Be a Girl Jock for more on this)

, Board sports are good (skateboarding, snowboarding, surfing, body boarding), but if the guys you hang out with aren't into that, don't be afraid to try out paintball or football. And make sure you get good at it - but don't brag. It means you'll have a chance to hang out with them at the skate park/on the slopes/at the beach and join in with them rather than watching from the sidelines. Furthermore, you'll be able to discuss the sport with them, and last of all...guys like girls who aren't afraid to get a little scuffed around the edges and don't cry over a broken nail.
 Learn to play a verity of games, like shooters (Metroid Prime 1, 2 and 3), fighting(SSB, Melee and Brawl, Street Fighter saga), Adventure, Action, MMOs, and MMORPGs.
 After school you and your friends can go to the skate park and have skating contests. Kaoru's prized position is her skateboard, but if it's just not you that's cool.
 It keeps you feeling cool in hot weathers and when you play some sports, especially running games.
 You can bet they are gonna crack on you, so don't be afraid to rag on guys. This is an easy lead in to flirting though so be careful.
 It's optional, but you could try it. Many guys are into Call of Duty, so consider yourself one of the guys if they invite you to play. Practice at home and/or look up tips so you can keep up and whop their butts.
 Most guys don't even notice that new shirt unless it's so low cut they can't help it.
 Make sure you actually understand the premise and various metaphors, as chances are one of these films will crop up in conversation and if you have an intelligent opinion you will be respected by the others.
 If you know something about cars they don't, you can still talk about it. They will actually think it's kind of cool that you know cars.
 But don't just get new friends just because they fit their profile.

