 You should have pure and good intentions. Oftentimes, many Muslims decide to tell the world about Islam but do it in a way that causes more damage than good, putting themselves in unfortunate situations.


Don't give Dawah if your intention is to show off that you are a very knowledgeable person; make sure your intention is to please Allah.
Giving Dawah is essentially a special mission to invite people to worship Allah according to the way that He wants to be worshiped. You are delivering a message of truth and showing others how to follow it.
The purpose of Dawah is not only to spread the knowledge of Islam but to grow closer to Allah yourself. Take the act of inviting others to Islam as a way to bring yourself closer to Islam as well.;
, You can often find organizations or community groups that come together to teach about Dawah. Most of these courses are free.


Some organizations, like Mission Dawah, offer online training or training apps. You can find courses that come in audio, video, or written format for your convenience.
Conferences dedicated to teaching how to give Dawah are often held, so be on a lookout in your local area for those. There, you can meet others wishing to give Dawah and learn from educated and experienced teachers and preachers.
 If a Dawah course is not doable for you, there are many materials and resources that talk about common questions people may ask about Islam and how to answer them. Search local Islamic centres for books or the internet to learn what others are asking about Islam. Some questions you might be asked are:


What is the difference between the words Islam and Muslim?Who is Allah?Who is the Prophet Muhammad? And why do Muslims believe he is the last prophet?What do Muslims believe about Jesus?
What does Islam say about homosexuality, abortion, and marriage?, This means you live and breathe Islam both mentally and physically. You should continue to present yourself as a Muslim as well as bring Islam material into your daily interactions and environments.


Maintain the physical appearance of a believer by growing and maintaining a beard and wearing your hijab.
Bring Islamic materials to your workplace or where ever you go. This makes giving Dawah easier, as it may spark conversations or questions from others.
Bring halal meat to your workplace and share them to others to generate conversations.
Pray at your workplace or wherever you are. Let people know prayer is very important to you. You may need to arrange a place or room with your employer and employees in order to pray.
 For God to answer your prayers, you must live a righteous life and repent any unlawful things you may have done.


Truthfulness is one of the most important qualities to have when calling people to Islam. Having this mindset will lead you closer to Allah and also prepare you better for Dawah.

