 There are several essential oils that are safe for kids over the age of 2 to use. Always choose a 100% pure essential oil. Many of the following essential oils can relieve coughing, treat minor skin wounds, improve mood, relieve headaches, or have antibacterial, anti-fungal, and antiviral properties:Blue Tansy
Cedarwood
Copaiba
Cypress
German Chamomile
Geranium
Helichrysum
Lavender
Mandarin
Neroli
Sandalwood
Tea Tree;
, Always check with an aromatherapist, herbalist, or naturopath if you're unsure whether or not an essential oil is safe for use in children. Some essential oils (like bergamot, lime, bitter orange, lemon, and grapefruit) should be avoided if your children will be in the bright sun. Or, you should avoid specific oils if a child is under a certain age:In children under the age of 2 years avoid: cassia, clove, basil, lemongrass, verbena, ylang-Ylang.
In children under the age of 6 years avoid: anise (or aniseed), fennel, niaouli, peppermint, rosemary.
In children under the age of 10 years avoid: eucalyptus and wintergreen.
 Since kids are sensitive to essential oils, test a small area of your child's skin to see if there's an allergic reaction. Take a 0.25% solution of the essential oil and place a drop on a cotton ball. Dab the inside of the wrist or inside of the elbow with the cotton ball and wait at least 24 hours. If you don't see a reaction, you can use the diluted solution. But, avoid using the oil if you notice one of these signs of reaction:Rash
Itching
Reddened skin
Nausea or vomiting
Changed behavior

, In addition to doing a skin test, you should do a test run of letting your child breathe in essential oils. Have your child briefly inhale a diluted solution (0.5% to 1%) and then wait 1 to 2 hours. Continue using the essential oils if your child doesn't react. But, if you notice your child's breathing change or slow, take your child to the emergency room immediately.


Anyone can develop an allergic reaction to an essential oil, even after years of safely using them. This is why it's important to test before each use.
 Follow the manufacturer's instructions that came with your diffuser or inhaler. Most diffusers or stand-alone inhalers should be placed about 2 feet away from kids under 2 years old. If your children are older, you can place them closer. Adjusting the distance can strengthen or lessen the dose of essential oils your children breathe in.


Breathing in essential oils is considered to be the safest way to use essential oils with children.
 Load the aromatherapy inhaler with 8 to 10 drops of essential oil. The machine will then diffuse the oils or create a mist that your children can breathe in. If you're using a nasal inhaler, follow the package instructions and use fewer drops of essential oil since the child will just breathe in the oils directly.If you're using the oils with a child who's over 6 years old, you can also put 1 drop of the essential oil directly onto a cotton ball or tissue. Gently wave the cotton ball or tissue under the child's nose and direct the child to breathe deeply.
 Carrier oils dilute the essential oils to a safe level and help to create a substance that can be absorbed by the skin. Choose a natural carrier oil and avoid any that are processed (like corn or canola oil). Good carrier oil options include:Jojoba oil
Almond oil
Avocado oil
Baobab oil
Coconut oil
Tamanu oil

, Children under 6 years old have are more sensitive to essential oils, so inhalation or aromatherapy are the safest ways to use essential oils. But, if you do want you apply the oils to the skin and your child is younger than 6, make a 0.25% solution. To do this, combine 1 drop of essential oil to 4 teaspoons of a carrier oil.Do not use essential oils on the skin if your child is under 2 years old. Very young children have thinner, more delicate skin that can be even more sensitive to the oils.
 If you'd like to apply essential oils to children over 6 years old, make a 0.5% to 1% solution. To make a 0.5% solution, mix 2 drops of essential oil with 4 teaspoons of carrier oil. To make a 1% solution, mix 4 drops of essential oil with 4 teaspoons of carrier oil.Remember to test a small area of the skin for any sensitivity before continuing.
 Always use the diluted solution you made when you apply essential oils topically. You can either dab the solution onto the skin using your fingertips or you can dip a cotton ball in the solution and dab it on the skin. Consider applying essential oils topically to relieve:Bug and spider bites
Small rashes that cover only a few inches of skin (If it's a large rash, take your child to the pediatrician).
Minor bumps, scrapes and bruises

