, This works because some people can't react fast enough to counter this. It's easier to counter this if you know the person is diving frequently. To counter: from close range: jump over/on them and shoot their back. From a longer range: Grenades work or shoot back, then retreat, you can then take them out later.
 This works because they're strafing and they're jumping, making you shoot mostly at their legs. To counter: close range, bunny hop in the same fashion as they are doing, keeping your aiming crosshairs as locked on as possible. If they are hopping towards you, throw a grenade near the ground and retreat, if timed right, and they don't see the grenade, they'll go down

,, Stay in one area, take a few shots and move on to the next spot.
Stay hidden, standing up while sniping will not only give you away. It will also destroy your accuracy.
One shot one kill, try if you can, but if part of the enemies body sticks out, shoot it. It may scare him running away to a medic, or aggravate him and make him try to find you, either way he might have to come out of that hiding spot he's in.
For moving targets, lead your shot, putting your aiming crosshairs ahead of him. How far ahead depends of your weapon and how far he is and how fast he's moving. If you take a shot and it misses behind his head, put your crosshairs a little more ahead.
Have a good secondary weapon, this will save your life in fire fights. Better yet, have another sniper friend close by looking over another area, to help recon and take a few guys that you missed.
Actually recon, your buddies would be better prepared with mines and rocket launchers if you warned them of approaching vehicles.
A good sniper position is somewhere less obvious for longer durations of time, but in most of these positions, you have a terrible view. In obvious places. you have a good view but may not last long since everybody knows that spot, so it's better to have a spot close to an obvious place, where you have a good view, and good cover. Everyone snipes at the roof? How about that little window on the 3rd floor? Then you're looking over the same area without looking too obvious. However, if you can't find an excellent sniping spot, then choose one suited to your skills. If you can get several headshots in rapid succession while covering a large view, then the obvious one might be right for you. However, if you are only able to handle some area without being endangered, you may decide to take a spot with good cover and a less-than-ideal view.
Take your time if he doesn't see you. but be accurate as possible. Snipers taking moving targets is rare, so it makes you look good.

