 Even though this measurement is taken across the front of your body, making it easier for you to handle the tape measure yourself, your shoulders and arms should still hang as naturally as possible during this process. As a result, asking someone else to take the measurement for you is advised.


Note that if you are only asked for "shoulder width" and not specifically for "front shoulder width," you should use your measurement for "back shoulder width." Back shoulder width is the standard measurement, while front shoulder width is much less common.
Your front shoulder width will usually be close to or the same as your back shoulder width, but there can be slight differences based on age and weight. Certain conditions, like scoliosis and osteoporosis, can yield more dramatic differences.
 For a front shoulder width measurement, look for a tailored shirt that has a wide neckline or consider wearing a shirt with straps.


This measurement deals with the supporting points of your shoulders rather than their truth width. As such, a shirt that illustrates how far these supporting points are is better than a snug shirt with a standard or high neckline.
 Your back should be straight and your chest should be out. Keep your shoulders loose and relaxed, with your arms hanging comfortably at your sides.
 Use your fingers to gently press into the flesh along the top of your shoulder and look for the mass where your shoulder bones come together. This is your front shoulder point. Repeat the same process on your other shoulder.Ideally, each shoulder point should land in roughly the same area as a back shoulder point, just to the inside of where your arm starts dropping off. Your weight and age can alter this position, though, so these points do not always match up.
Your front shoulder point will actually end up being at the outermost solid portion of your shoulder where your shoulder is capable of supporting a neckline or strap.
You might be able to use your shirt as a guide. If the straps or neckline of your shirt are about as wide as they can be without slipping off your shoulders, they are approximately aligned to your front shoulder width. The inner point of each strap or each side of the neckline will match up with your front shoulder points.
 Ask your helper to lay the end of a tape measure flat against one shoulder point. Your helper should then extend the tape measure across the front of your body, following the natural curve of your shoulders, until it reaches the opposite shoulder point.


The tape measure will not be horizontal or parallel to the floor. Instead, it must bend subtly along with the natural bend of your shoulders.
 This is your front shoulder width measurement. Write it down and save it for future reference.


Front shoulder width can technically be used for both men's and women's attire, but it is most commonly used when designing or tailoring women's attire.
This measurement is typically used when designing or tailoring necklines. Your front shoulder width is the maximum width a neckline can be without falling off your shoulder. This measurement also makes it easier to space straps on bodices in a way that will prevent them from slipping off your shoulders.

