 Green is a popular color for mermaid tails, but you can make yours any color you want. The fabric needs to be long enough to cover your legs from waist to toes, plus extra.;
, Have your feet stretched out in front of you, about shoulder width apart. The top edge of the fabric should be level with your wait, or however high you want the blanket to go.
 When you reach your toes, make the tail come down to a point. Leave about 3 to 5 inches (7.62 to 12.7 centimeters) to either side of your legs and feet for wiggle room and seam allowances.The more space you leave around your legs, the roomier your blanket will be.


It would be easier to have someone help you do this. If you are by yourself, sit up and trace around your feet, legs, and hips, then lay down and trace up to your waist.If you are making this for someone else and they aren't available, use a pair of pants that fit them instead., Start cutting down the left side of your tail, from the top of your waist down to the toe point. Do not cut around the other side of the tail just yet.Pin the fabric to keep it in place as you cut.
 The side that you already cut may not match up with the lines that you drew on the right. This is fine. Ignore the lines that you drew, and use the left side as a guide for cutting the right. This ensures that your tail is symmetrical., The fabric can be any color you want. It can be the same color as your tail, or a different one.
 The bottom, pointed end of the tail should overlap the top edge of the fin fabric by about 9 inches (22.86centimeters).If this is for a child, the overlap could be smaller--about 6 inches (15.24 centimeters).
 Start drawing the fins at the top edge of the fin fabric. Extend the pins past the 9-inch (22.86-centimeter) overlap. They can be any shape or size you want. Most mermaid fins are shaped like two leaves joined at the tip.You will be cutting your fins the same way you drew your tail, so you can draw half a fin if you'd prefer.
Draw the fins a little bigger than you want them to be. You will need 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) for the seam allowance.
 Next, use the lapping point from your tail to cut a V shape into your fins. When you are done, you should have a set of fins with a V shape cut into the top edge that is the same shape as size as the bottom 9 inches (cc centimeters) of your tail., This is not absolutely necessary, but it could give your tail a nice touch. Simply use a straight stitch on your sewing machine to sew a series of vertical lines going from the top of your fin piece to the bottom. Do this for the fin pieces separately. Do not topstitch them together.You can use a matching thread color or a contrasting one.
For a more realistic touch, angle the lines slightly so that they are closer together at the top and wider at the bottom.
Make the lines about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) apart.
 Pin the front fin piece to the front tail piece. Start pinning up one side of the point/notch, then down the other. Repeat this step for the back pieces.


Make sure that you are pinning the fabric with the right sides together.
It may help to cut a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) slit into the bottom of the V on the fin.
 For now, sew just the front fin piece to the front tail piece, and the back fin piece to the back tail piece. Use a 1 inch (2.54 centimeter) seam allowance and a stretchy stitch, such as a zigzag.Be sure to remove the pins as you sew.
 Once you have sewn the fins to the tails, it's now time to pin everything together. Sew your first tail down, right side up. Place your second tail down on top, right side down. Pin around the edges.
 Use a 1-inch seam (2.54 centimeters) allowance and a stretchy stitch. Leave the top edge open and remember to backstitch at the stat and end of your sewing.


Fleece does not fray, so you do not need to serge or finish the inside seams.
Consider clipping the corners on the fin. This will help reduce bulk when you turn it inside out.
 Fold the top edge inward by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). Topstitch it down as close to the inside edge as you can using a stretch or zigzag stitch.


If you have any of your fin fabric left over, you can cut a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) wide bad out of it, and use it to make a band instead., Your blanket is now ready to use!

