 For the most part, greeting card companies stockpile their verses and messages through a steady influx of submissions from freelance writers. Do a little investigating to find out which companies accept freelance contributions and send in a few of your most polished samples. If they like what they see, they’ll agree to print it and you’ll receive compensation. Card publishers tend to be particular about the way they want things done, so be sure to look up the editorial and submission guidelines for the company you’re submitting your work to.The pay rate of freelance submissions will vary from $10 a message with small publishers to as much as a couple hundred dollars per card with more prestigious companies.If you’re trying to make a living as a greeting card writer, it will pay to know what kind of compensation you can expect before you send in your work.;
, Though it’s become increasingly rare for greeting card companies to keep dedicated staffs of writers, these openings are still out there. If you think your writing is fresh, innovative and memorable enough, submit your resume and portfolio to the hiring department of one of the big names like Hallmark. If hired, you can look forward to a fast-paced and challenging career of drafting messages for a multitude of occasions, along with some sizable paychecks.Be ready for rejection. Big companies receive thousands of submissions every year, and yours may not always be just what they’re looking for at the moment.Salaries for professional greeting card writers average somewhere between $50,000—$70,000 a year., Of course, there’s no rule that says you have to rely on the auspices of big commercial greeting card companies at all. Writers with a penchant for crafting have the option of composing and handmaking their own greeting cards and selling them through online stores like Etsy, ArtFire or Big Cartel. As an independent producer, you’ll only get paid if you make sales, but you’ll enjoy the freedom of carrying out every step of the process your own way and creating the kinds of cards you’ve always dreamed of seeing on shelves.More work will go into making greeting cards independently, as you’ll have to compose, design, fabricate and sell everything on your own. The upside of this is that all of the profit will go directly to you.
Pay particular attention to visual elements. This is a chance for you to incorporate your own unique touches into your homemade cards. If you want to focus on the writing aspect, consider partnering with a graphic designer or illustrator to handle the images needed to complete your cards., If you want to make it as a greeting card writer, you’ll first need to get used to the unique format of the medium. Most of the time, greeting cards contain short, punchy messages that are designed to absorb the reader’s attention and deliver a touching or humorous message. Practice writing 4-8 line messages, focusing on expressing yourself clearly and conveying a definite message.Read as many different cards as you can get your hands on to get a sense of how style, language and presentation vary between them.
Get in the habit of writing in a specific “voice.” This voice will closely mirror the feelings of the person who is sending the card.Keep in mind how your writing might be paired with images and design elements on the finished card. A birthday card for small children, for instance, will likely contain colorful, cartoonish drawings or silly visual gags. A 25th anniversary card, by contrast, might feature a silver color theme and subtle, classy design cues, such as champagne flutes, wedding rings, velvet, etc.
 Not all greeting cards are made equal. Some are long, sentimental odes full of flowery prose, while others are colorful are jokes that only take a couple sentences to tell. Expand your writing repertoire to include humorous punchline gags, rhyming verses and heartfelt wishes. The more styles you’re able to write, the better chance you have of seeing your work published.Literary techniques like rhyme scheme, meter and basic structure and organization are highly valued in greeting card writers., In addition to mastering a variety of styles, you should also be prepared to tailor your message for specific dates and events. There are cards for birthdays, graduations, breakups, Bar Mitzvahs, Mother and Father’s Day and countless other situations. Try to capture the spirit of these occasions in your writing samples.Not only will different cards feature different themes, they will also each be written from a unique perspective, with the implied sender being “grandmother,” “mentor,” “friend” etc.
As you might imagine, greeting card companies do their best business around the holiday season, with Halloween, Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year all falling together., Above all, greeting card messages should be short and to the point. You only have a limited amount of space to work with, so there’s no room for unnecessary words and phrases or overly long gag setups. Cut to the chase and tell the recipient what you want them to hear with calculated brevity and panache.It’s often harder to write a good short message than it is a long one. Practice condensing your writing to make it more effective.The best greeting cards are the ones that deliver terse, easily digested sentiments that can be read over and over again.
 Start compiling your best work in a folder or online file that you can share with potential employers. Your portfolio doesn’t have to just contain themed greetings—it could also include selections of short prose or poetry that showcase your handle of clear, concise writing. As you gain experience, you portfolio will grow, and so will your range of works and opportunities to make a successful submission.Having all your strongest submissions in one place will allow the people in charge of hiring new writers to see what you can do without forcing them to wait for multiple submissions over time.
Make sure your writing samples follow the specific formatting guidelines outlined by the company you’re submitting to., Greeting card businesses value practical ability over theoretical knowledge, so having a degree in writing or advertising isn’t a must. It may not hurt, though, especially if you think you might begin your career in some other area of the business, like sales or promotion. If you’re serious about breaking into the field, choose a concentration like creative or technical writing or marketing that will directly translate to the type of tasks you’ll be faced with on the job.Creative writing classes will allow you to become more proficient writing in different styles.
Technical writing prioritizes clear, effective speech and brevity, making it a perfect form of training for composing greeting card messages.
 If your goal is to work for a greeting card giant like Hallmark or American Greetings, you may be well served to start off as an intern. In this role, you’ll be afforded a chance to learn the ins and outs of the business, and, more importantly, the particulars of the company you’re likely to eventually work for. Interns make attractive contributors because they already have an extensive base of experience.Scan the “careers” page of a company’s website or contact a representative directly to find out more about internship opportunities.
A lot of professional greeting card writers got their start as interns with their companies.
 Greeting cards aren’t the same as they were a few decades ago. Writers will need to keep a finger on the pulse of culture and societal norms as they evolve. For instance, being more attuned to modern parenting practices or the peculiar ways best friends communicate will give you a leg up over competing writers who are using flatter, more generic forms of expression. It may also help to able to incorporate well known pop cultural references, or rework viral internet memes into gags or visuals that are instantly recognizable. Pay attention to the language that surrounds you, and learn to change with the times.Analyze the types of relationships you see on a day to day basis and draw upon these insights when coming up with ideas for greetings.
As a purveyor of modern culture, you'll be responsible for filling cards with prominent themes, tropes and symbols from people's everyday lives.

