 The best thing is to plan the menu ahead of time but if you wake up on Mother's Day and decide it's important to make breakfast at the last minute, you still have time.


Purchase fresh ingredients either early in the morning if local bakers, stores, markets, etc., are open. If not, purchase these the day before.
Make baked goods fresh on the day. Get up earlier than you normally would.;
, Unless you're a chef or a very patient cook, it's best to avoid concocting an elaborate breakfast, as that might take a long time to prepare and then cook, and then clean up afterwards. Choose something you know you can cook and that won't leave a big mess after for you to clean up, as that'll simply take you away from spending time with her.
 Prepare something that she might even have eaten for lunch many times. Do not make something new because she might not like it, and it would spoil your surprise and her enjoyment. Prepare Bagels & Lox, with some herring on the side, as this is usually served for a Sunday breakfast, or brunch. Add a glass of Orange Juice and a cup of coffee for an easy to make and clean up and delicious breakfast.
 Top them with strawberries, place them nicely on the plate. Mother will love your strawberry pancakes, and might even give you a bite to taste. Serve it with a half of grapefruit, and a cup of coffee and she will certainly appreciate it.
 If she gets up before you do, your plan is going down the drain. Also make sure you get up early enough so that you can make the meal without having to worry about the time.
 Make a list of all the ingredients you need, and make sure you can grab them easily, without having to search for them. Set the table nicely, and make sure you have the silverware needed, and the condiments for the meal. Bacon, scrambled eggs sounds like a great breakfast, served with buttered toast, juice and coffee.
 If you are not used to cooking often, cook just one or two items instead of an entire menu.
 If your mom takes milk with her coffee, you might like to have a special flavored creamer on hand.
, Scrub the pots and pans that you used, put the silverware and plates in the dishwasher, and clean her coffee pot.

