 Don’t feel bad if you sound terrible at first. Learning to yodel well takes time. If you’re self-conscious about yodeling in front of others, yodel when you’re alone at home or in nature. If the acoustics in your bathroom are good, yodel in the shower.


You may need to put in many hours of practice before you sound like an authentic Swiss milkmaid (or milklad) instead of a strangled cat. Persevere! When you master this, it’ll sound awesome.
 One of the best ways to improve your yodeling technique by imitating top-notch yodelers.There are loads of great yodeling videos and tutorials you can watch online.


If your heart yearns for alpine yodeling, check out the videos of Franzl Lang.
For cowboy yodeling, try Wylie Gustafson or America's Got Talent runner-up, Taylor Ware.For a classic example of yodeling in pop-culture, listen to the song “The Lion Sleeps Tonight” by the Tokens., You might be able to get your hands on some yodeling CD's for relatively cheap, but you could also order yodeling albums through online sellers. Listen to the yodeling experts on these albums and sing along to improve., This way you can involve your friends in fun and still get some practice. Teach your friends the basics of yodeling and encourage them to try. It’s as simple as that! Getting the hang of yodeling can be comical; enjoy the laughs that follow., You may have friends willing to yodel along, or to at least bear with you as you yodel. Search for other local yodelers on Facebook, Meetup.com, MEETin.org, or through a general online keyword search for “yodeling groups near me.”You might find fellow yodelers at a central European cultural center. Yodeling is still a popular traditional activity in countries like Germany, Austria, and Switzerland., If you can play an instrument, such as the guitar or piano, you could play along as you yodel. All the better! Singing along with an instrument will help you stay in tune and make your whole performance more impressive.


Even a simple instrument, like a harmonica, can interject variety in your yodeling and help you stay in tune.