 Schools are looking for very specific things when they read your personal statement. Make sure your submission succeeds in illustrating the qualities the advisory committee is looking for.Proven achievements
Critical and analytical thinking skills
Language and writing skills appropriate to this level of education
Evidence that you'll be a successful medical student
Evidence that you'll be a good doctor

, Each school has its own requirements for writing your personal statement. Find out what they are, and follow them to the letter. Ignoring even a small detail will make you appear careless and unprofessional, and therefore a poor candidate for medical school.Be sure your essay is the appropriate length by using the “Word Count” function in your word processing program.
If you are applying through the American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS), there is a 5,300 character maximum limit. This is about one and a half pages, single spaced., If the school lists specific formatting guidelines, use those. Otherwise, you can use standard formatting to create an essay that is easy to read on the page.Type your statement single-spaced. Double space between paragraphs.
Leave at least 1” margins on both sides, top, and bottom.
Use a 12 pt. standard font such as Helvetica or Times New Roman.
At the top of the page, center the title of your essay if you have one, or simply type “Personal Statement.” You can also include your name, if you wish.
 If your essay impresses the board, the next step will most likely be a personal interview. Since you will probably be asked to discuss your essay, be sure you've written about things you will want to talk about during the interview., Go through your essay, and be certain you can defend every point. Try not to exaggerate your accomplishments, and don't pad your statement with fictional details. The school may verify the information you provide, especially if your essay seems too good to be true. If you're caught in a lie, you will definitely not be admitted., When you finish your final draft, ask a few people to read your essay and give you their honest assessment. Ask a favorite professor, a current medical student, or your doctor.Don't ask too many people to read it, or you may end up with too many conflicting opinions.

