 If you are concerned about your hair loss, visit your doctor to discuss treatment options. There are a variety of alternatives, including medication, laser treatment, and surgery. Which option you pursue will depend on your budget, severity of hair loss, and available time.


In some cases, hair loss is due to estrogen deficiency or thyroid issues. Identifying and treating these underlying issues may correct the problem, reducing or ending your hair loss.
 The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have approved two drugs to combat hair loss. The first, Minoxidil (Rogaine), is a non-prescription liquid or foam available at drug stores. Both men and women can benefit from this drug. For women, this is the only approved hair loss medication. Twice a day, you rub the product into your scalp. The product works to grow new hair and/or to prevent additional hair loss. Finasteride (Propecia) is a prescription drug available only to men. One takes a daily pill. Many finasteride users experience slowed hair loss and some may have new hair growth. With both drugs, you must continue use for the effects to last.Possible side effects of Minoxidil include scalp irritation, undesired hair growth on your face and hands, and a rapid heart rate.Some uncommon side effects of finasteride include reduced libido, decreased sexual function, and a higher risk of prostate cancer. Women who are potentially pregnant should not touch broken tablets., For long-term hair loss, hair transplant or hair restoration surgery are options. If you pursue this treatment, your surgeon would remove small skin plugs, which each contain a couple hairs, from your scalp. She would then put the plugs into your bald spots.


Your doctor might ask you to take hair loss medication prior to and following your surgery to improve your results.
Surgery for baldness is costly and can cause significant pain. You could end up with infections or scarring., Both women and men can treat pattern baldness with low-level laser combs like HairMax Laser comb. The procedure is FDA-approved.To treat your hair at home, you move the laser comb slowly from the front of your scalp to the back and then from the sides to the center. A beep sounds every four seconds to let you know when to move. A recent scientific study proved that laser combs (applied three times per week) do improve hair growth.Each treatment takes ten to fifteen minutes. You should treat your hair three times a week.

