 Take the dried mushrooms out of their container and place them in a bowl of lukewarm water, wine, broth or oil. The mushrooms will float, so make sure to submerge them initially to ensure that the entire mushroom gets wet. Soaking will work for any small to medium-sized mushrooms, but rougher types may need to also be wiped or scrubbed before soaking, as their porous surfaces tend to hold more sediment.Dried varieties of mushrooms such as shiitake, porcini and morel will need to be soaked before being incorporated into dishes.These mushrooms typically boast bold, savory flavors and are wonderful for adding earthy tones to food.
 Leave the mushrooms to soak in the liquid for around 20-30 minutes. As they rehydrate, they will become soft and plump. Keep a close watch on the mushrooms as they soak—don’t allow them to remain in the liquid for too long.








Mushrooms that soak for too long can absorb more water than is desirable, rendering them soggy and deadening their flavor.
 Scoop the rehydrated mushrooms out of the liquid and lay them between layers of paper towels to dry. Do not try to press excess water out of the soaked mushrooms, as they will still be gradually absorbing moisture. Cut off any part of the mushroom that is still dirty or molded.









Mushrooms should be rehydrated immediately before cooking with them. You should never soak dried mushrooms only to store them for future use.
 The liquid that you soaked the mushrooms in will be infused with flavor. If you desire, you can save this liquid and use it to season or prepare other components of the dish. To do this, you must first strain out any sediment that has washed off of the mushrooms. Place a paper towel, coffee filter or cheesecloth over the opening of a container and pour the liquid from the soaking bowl into the new container. The dirt will be trapped by the filter and can then be disposed of.








Repurposing the soaking liquid will work best if you’ve used wine, oil or broth.
Mushroom liquid can be frozen and stored to be used later in other dishes.

