 You don't wanna run into someone at the store when looking a mess. Don't focus too much on your appearance.
 Visit the makeup counter, Test out products at Ultra, and watch YouTube tutorials and how to's. You'd be amazed at how many tips you learn. But work on perfecting your application technique until you are happy with it. If you don't know, ask a sister, an honest bff or someone who will tell you the truth. Avoid lipstick unless you are a senior. The reason is, people won't take you serious if you are a freshman wearing bright red lipstick. Seniors can get away with it because they are practically college students. Otherwise, stick to colored lip gloss or colored lip balm.
 Shower at least once a day but I would really recommend taking one at night and one in the morning so you'll be fresh for bed and fresh for school. Use deodorant and if you are a heavy sweater, use antiperspirant to stop sweating or reduce it.
 Shave or wax when needed and you should go have your eyebrows done on a regular basis. You can have them waxed, threaded, shaved, or plucked professionally. Just be sure to tell them how you want it. Go thicker instead of thinner because thinner makes you look older. If you are a freshman and you look younger than your age, you should probably go thinner if you want to look older. OR you can just let them do your brows according to your face shape. Keep your nails clean and cut. Keep them painted for that extra flare but if they are painted, make sure they look nice. Nice solid colors are practical. If you have extra fuzz on your upper lip, don't shave it! it just makes your face irritable and the hair grows back thicker and rough. Instead get it waxed. When you let a professional do it, from personal experience, it hurts much less. But if you can't get out to a salon or spa then go to your local drugstore and buy a waxing kit for your FACE. A kit for your legs or bikini area will irritate your face by making red splotches pop up and that is NOT pretty.
 Its the best beauty aspect you can have. If your teeth aren't exactly straight, you can make up for that if you keep them white and healthy. If you are uncomfortable with your teeth just smile without your teeth. I have a gorgeous bff who has spaced out teeth so she smiles with her mouth closed and she doesn't look any less stunning doing so! Another option is braces. If your parents willing to put up the extra cash then you should get them.
 Be nice to people because beauty is not pretty on a mean person. Boost people up instead of putting them down and don't talk about people behind their back because word tends to get around fast in a high school.

