 Take a piece of paper and fold it in half lengthwise. It can be of any size and weight. A piece of regular printer paper will do just fine, but so will cardstock or scrapbook paper.The lighter the weight of the paper, the more likely the lantern will be to collapse under its own weight.









You can use a solid color piece of paper or a piece of decorative scrapbook paper to make the lantern more festive.;
, Cut along the folded edge, but not all the way to the end. It's up to you how long you want the slits to be. The longer the slits, the more light will shine through and the more flexible/floppy your lantern will be.









You can also decide how large you want your strips to be. The number of strips will completely change the look of your lantern. An inch or so (2.5 cm) apart is fairly standard.
 Take the two ends of the paper and wrap them around to make a round tube shape. Use a piece of tape or glue to stick it together. Make sure to secure the entire length of the lantern! Tape everything from the inside so it's not visible.









You can also use a stapler to connect the two end pieces of the lantern.
 Cut off another piece of paper to make a handle. If you used a piece of printer paper, your handle should be about 6" (15 cm) long and 1" (2.5 cm) wide. If you're hanging it, however, you don't necessarily need a handle -- it can be hung through the base on ribbon or string.









If you're hanging the lantern, however, you don't necessarily need a handle -- it can be hung through the base on ribbon or string.
 Using glue or tape, secure the handle to the inside of the top of your lantern.









If your lantern is too straight-edged, bend it a bit. It will slowly give to the form you're putting it in. The heavier the paper, the more you'll need to force it into shape.
 You can put a candle inside, hang it from the ceiling, or use it as a centerpiece.









Since the lantern is made of paper, only put a tea candle or votive in the center if you have a glass to put it in. Place the candle in the glass and put the lantern around the glass to light it up. It's best if the glass is deep so the flame doesn't sear the edge of the lantern and start a fire.

Only use a candle inside if you are sitting the lantern on a flat surface, not if you are hanging it or using the handle.



