 Do you want to play for fun, for a class, or as a whimsical addition to your band? This will help determine the quality of kazoo that you need.


For the most part, the kazoo is a very inexpensive instrument. You can find plastic kazoos at dollar stores, department stores, and toy stores.
If you’re looking for something of a slightly higher quality or different aesthetic, consider a wooden kazoo.You also might consider a metal kazoo.If you do choose metal, watch for rust, and dry it off each time you play.
If you’re going to be playing a lot, consider getting a few kazoos, since they are often only a couple of dollars each. This will ensure you have a back up in case one breaks.
An electric kazoo is another alternative for musicians and those interested in recording with the kazoo.;
, The kazoo is a whimsical instrument that comes in a rainbow array of colors to match.


Pick a fun color that makes you excited to pick up your kazoo and play.Add personalization. Consider putting a small sticker on your kazoo. This is especially great for identification if you’ll be using it in a classroom setting, where a lot of people with have their kazoos with them.
 Even though the kazoo is a relatively inexpensive instrument, you still want to take care of it.


If the kazoo doesn’t come with a case, use an old, hard shell eyeglass case. You can find these at thrift stores, if you don’t have one already.
Write your name on your case in permanent marker.
 Unlike a larger instrument such as a clarinet, you can use one hand to hold your kazoo.


The mouthpiece of the kazoo is the wider, flattened end.
 To make sounds with your kazoo, you’ll need to hum, rather than blowbecause humming create vibration.You should place your mouth on the kazoo as though it were a whistle.
To make slightly different types of sounds, try humming different syllables like “do,” “who,” “brr,” or “rrr.”

, The kazoo has no frills so you create all of the pitches in a song with your mouth.


Practice humming songs you like without the kazoo, first.
Then, try humming them with your kazoo’s mouthpiece against your mouth.
 Because all the pitch in your kazoo playing comes from your mouth alone, you’ll want to practice hearing and recreating notes.Listen to songs you like, and sing along out loud. Pay attention to trying to match the pitch correctly.
Record yourself humming a song on a recorder device or your phone. Then, play the song and your recording at the same time. See how well you matched pitch.
Try playing your kazoo along to recorded songs.
 Even though the kazoo is a simple instrument, you won’t improve unless you practice.


Pick a specific time of day and length of time you want to practice.
Set some goals for each practice session.Write them down in a notebook. Your goals could be experimenting with humming techniques or practicing specific songs.
 Above all, the kazoo is a fun instrument, and you should enjoy playing it.


Play your favorite songs for your friends.
If you’re in a class, practice with other people from your class.
If some of your friends play different instruments, consider starting a band for fun.

