 Despite having a short hair coat, Beagles tend to shed a lot. Brushing your Beagle a few times a week will help reduce the shedding.Regular brushing will also spread healthy oils through your Beagle’s fur, making it look shiny.Beagles shed heavily for a few weeks in the spring and fall. During these times of year, you may need to brush your Beagle every day to control the shedding.Each brushing session should last about 5 to 10 minutes.A rubber brush will help remove dirt from the coat and distribute the healthy oils through the coat.A hard-bristle brush is also a good choice.Brushing will be most effective if you move the brush in the same direction of your Beagle’s hair growth.Do not use the brush on your Beagle’s face.
 A dry nose is a common problem in Beagles. It can be caused by sun exposure, dry air, and dehydration. If your Beagle has a dry nose, you may notice the nose’s skin cracking or peeling. To keep your Beagle’s nose moist:Use humidifiers to add moisture to your home during the winter. Humidifiers are available at pharmacies and home improvement stores.
Give your Beagle constant access to fresh, clean water.
Apply a dog-specific nose balm to your Beagle’s nose, especially when it’s really hot or cold outside. You can find the balm at your local pet store.
 Keeping your Beagle’s nails trimmed is another important part of the grooming process. You will know it’s time for a trimming when the nails make a clicking sound as your Beagle walks on hard surfaces.Below are some tips for trimming your Beagle's nails:Use dog-specific guillotine nail trimmers, which are easier to use than scissor trimmers.
Position the trimmers just above the nail's quick (thin pink vein running though the nail) with the cutting blade facing you. If you can't see the quick because your Beagle's nails are dark, trim just a little off the nail until you see the quick.
Do not trim the quick. Trimming the quick is painful and can cause bleeding.
If the nail bleeds, place some styptic powder (available at your local pet store) on the nail until it stops bleeding.
 Just like you, your Beagle’s teeth need to be cleaned regularly. Try to brush your Beagle’s teeth about three times a week. Use a dog-safe toothpaste and toothbrush, which you can purchase at a pet store or through your vet.Here are some teeth brushing tips:Choose a quiet time and location to brush the teeth.
Get your Beagle used to the process by first touching its teeth with your fingers, then placing a toothbrush (without toothpaste) on its teeth. Next, let your Beagle lick the toothpaste off your finger so it knows what it tastes like.
On the top and bottom, brush the front teeth first, then work your way to the back teeth.
Give your Beagle lots of verbal praise as you brush its teeth.

