 Stress on joints is a contributing factor to the development of arthritis in dogs. Your dog's home environment may be tough on its joints, increasing the risk of arthritis. Make sure you are helping your dog to care for its joints in your home and daily life.Bare floors can be slippery for your dog to walk on and can cause joint stress. Make sure you provide some carpeting for them to walk on.
Jumping in and out of cars, beds or other areas around the house can hurt joints. Try providing a small ramp for your dog to use instead.
Raised food and water bowls can make it easier for your dog to eat and drink.
 Giving your dog regular exercise can help prevent arthritis from developing later in its life. Exercise can help keep your dog strong and avoid injuries that could turn into a case of arthritis. Regular activity can also help cut down on your dog's body weight, reducing stress on its joints. Always make sure you're going for plenty of walks and getting in some good play time to help keep arthritis at bay.Taking your dog for a swim can be a great low-impact form of exercise.
Try going for regular walks with your dog.
Playing fetch is a classic way for your dog to get in some good running.
Always stop exercise if your dog looks tired, starts dragging or shows signs of discomfort or pain.
 Although regular exercise will improve the health of your dog, it can have too much of a good thing. Exercising too much or too intensely will be stressful on your dog's joints and may even cause injuries. Stress and injuries will make it more likely that your dog will develop arthritis later on in its life. Always monitor your dogs activity levels and make sure they are getting in a safe amount of exercise.


Injuries and overexertion will increase the chances of arthritis occurring in your dog.
A dog that sits around all week and plays hard only on the weekend is at risk for exercise related injury.
Exercise should stop if your dog looks tired, sore or in pain.
Overdoing exercise on a daily basis will also increase the chances of an injury occurring.
 A simple way that you can help keep your dog arthritis free is to trim its nails regularly. Nails that are too long may cause your dog to walk differently than it normally would, subtly adding more stress to their joints. This stress can result in an increased risk of arthritis. Regularly trim your dog's nails to help keep its gait natural and prevent arthritis.You can trim your dog's nails at home with a pair of specially designed dog nail clippers.
Your vet will help you trim your dog's nails if you are unsure of how to do so.
Many professional pet grooming services will trim your dog's nails for you.

