 Kourtney is known for being really open-minded, confident and brave. She's not afraid to say what she thinks, but she's always being polite to others, people like her workers and assistants. She sometimes might not be so polite to Scott, or the rest of her family members, but only when she's in a fight with them. Kourtney is also great at expressing her feelings - she can perfectly describe what she feels about this or that, she's never afraid to say what's bothering her, but she never goes over the top. And THAT'S pretty amazing.;
, You would never see Kourt yelling at others. She's more of a person who would sit down and talk about things and problems very calmly and diplomatically. She also isn't very emotional - or at least she doesn't show it. You would never see her crying in front of others, she's really calm about things and she isn't the one who would suddenly become moody or depressed. She sometimes gets a bit dramatic - but she NEVER screams her head off or starts bawling and sobbing.
 Kourtney doesn't let everyone tell her off or make her do things she doesn't think that are right. She knows what she wants and she doesn't really care about what others think of it. She would never let anyone push her around. Though she still isn't always right and she knows it, so if she makes a mistake - she apologizes and admits that she was wrong. That's another great feature - being able to admit that you were wrong. But never let anyone tell you that you can't do it and put you down. Stick up for yourself and for the people you love - never let your loved ones be hurt.
 Kourtney is known to be really funny sometimes. Like, for example, when they were all in Bora Bora, and everyone came except from Khloe, and Kris started talking about her, Kourt was like: "What? We have another sister?! How could you keep this from us, mom?!", laughing. She tends to be pretty serious, but she knows how to do a great prank or laugh!

, Kourtney is hilarious sometimes, but she never goes over the top and she's never the one who gets into a scandal. She's not the major party animal, she doesn't get drunk, you won't see her being irresponsible or careless - she's really well organized and she knows her priorities.
 Kourtney is well-educated and smart. She's very polite, she has great manners.
 When she's pissed off, she usually says: "Whatever", "You're so annoying", "I'm done with this conversation", "That's really not funny", "You've stepped over the top this time" and "I'm not sure whether I wanna be with you in this place right now". Though she never yells, she just rather says it in an annoyed tone.
 Kourtney is VERY fashionable and stylish. Her outfits are very chic, she's always looking absolutely flipping gorgeous. Look over some stuff online and see her outfits - then try to copy some of them, adding a touch of your own style. For makeup - just don't go over the top. Kourtney is very classy/edgy. It depends, of course - she's sometimes wearing bold red lipstick, and sometimes she's just putting on some lip balm. But never go for the EMO or the goth looks, cause they're SO NOT Kourt.
 Just take care of yourself! Use products that are best for you, shower daily, do your manicure and pedicure, protect and style your hair, use deodorant, and drink MANY water!

, Don't starve yourself to lose weight and be skinny like Kourtney. That's not something she would do. Rather than that - eat healthier and exercise! Kourtney exercises, and she's not the one who'd eat hamburgers every day.

