 There is an ongoing debate among parents and experts on whether it is acceptable and safe to medicate your child (most especially babies and toddlers) to make them fall asleep when traveling by plane. Some experts quietly advise age appropriate doses of antihistamines (anti allergy) and cough medication to children.


However, the American Academy of Pediatrics’ (AAP) policy remains that oral cough and anti allergy medications should never be used for their side effects in children younger than 6 months because of adverse unwanted side effects such as confusion, difficulty urinating, dry mouth, excessive sweating, paradoxical hyperactivity, head pain, loss of appetite, nervousness, ringing in the ears (tinnitus) and stomach cramps (tummy aches)., Benadryl is made up of Diphenhydramine hydrochloride which is an antihistamine used to relieve symptoms of allergies such as rash, itching, watery eyes, itchy or runny nose, itchy throat/nose and eyes and sneezing.Benadryl has also been used to alleviate nausea and dizziness caused by motion sickness). It also helps people relax and become drowsy.
 However cough and cold medications have been shown by numerous studies to be unsafe and ineffective to children younger than 6 years old and the AAP stands by the premise that experts and parents should never give Diphenhydramine hydrochloride and drugs of the similar nature to children younger than 6 – even if it is to treat actual cough and colds and allergies, much less to use it for its drowsing side effects.


In fact, studies have also shown and experts have agreed that using Benadryl or Diphenhydramine hydrochloride, has a “paradoxical” effect on toddlers and children 6 and below. Instead of making them drowsy and sleepy, the drug acts as a “super charged energy booster” and makes children hyperactive and alert.
 If you are seriously thinking of administering Benadryl to your child (aged 6 and below), you must first consult with your pediatrician about the safety of giving your child this drug. Always follow the recommended dosage, and only use it as a last resort.


For children 2 years to 6 years old, the dosage is 6.25 mg orally every 4-6 hours, never exceeding 37.5 mg in 24 hours.For children 6 years to 12 years, the dosage is 12.5 mg to 25 mg by mouth every 4-6 hours, never exceeding 150 mg in 24 hours.For children older than 12 years, the dosage is 25-50 mg orally every 4-6 hours never exceeding 300 mg in 24 hours. The computed dosage is based on 1.25 mg of Benadryl to every kilo of your child’s weight.Make sure to consult with your pediatrician if you can administer the drug to your child because again, Diphenhydramine hydrochloride, like any other drug, has side effects and may have an adverse interaction with other drugs if your child is taking other medications already.
 If you do decide to use Benadryl, try giving your child the recommended dose one afternoon one week prior to the scheduled trip so you know exactly how it will play out. Make sure that there are no other drugs interacting with Benadryl or the cough medication during the “trial period” and during the actual flight, so you know exactly what effect Benadryl has on your child.


Make sure to document your “findings” because really, 3,000 feet (914.4 m) up in the air is not the safest and most ideal place to have an emergency or be experimenting with medicines on your kid.

