 This is usually 1 of the first steps in setting up a Kindle, because you will likely choose to buy books and games as well as newspapers and magazines to use on your Kindle. Your Amazon account will need to be set up with a debit card, credit card, PayPal account or bank account, in order to buy magazines using your Kindle.
,, Press the middle "Enter" button to select that option.

If your Kindle has a WiFi option that is currently off, it will ask you to turn on networking.
 It should be the third option under the word "Browse," under "Books" and "Newspapers."

If you want to search for the magazine, go to the bottom search box and type in the title of the magazine. Click "Enter" to search.
, Make sure it is highlighted in dark gray before you press "Enter.", It will give details about the magazine, info on how often it comes out and perhaps an image showing the newest cover issue. You can choose between buying the current issue and subscribing to the magazine. Select the "Subscribe" or "Buy" buttons and press "Enter."

Unlike books, many magazines on the Kindle come with a 14-day trial period, so that you can decide if you like the magazine within the 14 days. You must first subscribe and you can return to the magazine page and cancel the subscription within the 14 days and you won't be charged any money. If you do not opt out of the subscription, it will continue at the monthly fee outlined on the magazine's information page.
,, Click on the "Magazines" tab and browse through the selection. Select the magazine of your choice. You will have the choice to subscribe with a 14-day trial period or buy the current issue. Choose whichever you prefer., The magazine's newest issue will be delivered to your Kindle via the Whispernet Wireless system.

If you chose to subscribe to the magazine, the new issue will automatically appear on the home screen of your Kindle when the new issue comes out.
You can access all your Kindle magazine subscriptions via your "Kindle Subscriptions" page on the computer or Kindle. Click "Manage Kindle Subscriptions" to change aspects of your subscriptions.

