 Finches like to nest, but they are generally territorial and will fight and a same-sex pair or multiple pairs of finches will often fight over who controls the nest. Unless you are housing a mixed-sex pair of finches that you want to breed, it is best to remove all nests from your finches’ home., Finches are territorial, and too few perches or perches that are too close together could cause fighting. Install perches throughout the cage on different walls and at different heights. Ideally, you want at least one more perch than you have finches., If you plan on keeping multiple finches in the same cage or aviary, try to bring them all into the habitat at the same time. Introducing finches into an already-established social group could cause your current finches to pick on the new ones.If you are getting your finches from different breeders or over a period of time, keep them in separate cages until you have all of the finches you plan on keeping together.
 Make sure that you have a food dish or bird feeder that can accommodate more than one bird. This may mean buying multiple dishes, or getting a feeder built for multiple birds.

If you are keeping a larger aviary, you may be able to place hanging feeders and waterers in the habitat without causing too much obstruction.
 Finches are smart and active birds, and toys are an important part of keeping them both physically and mentally healthy. Make sure you have at least as many toys as you do finches in your cage.Even with ample toys, you should monitor your finches closely for fighting, as they may become possessive of their favorites.
 Finches love natural light, but they also need shade to keep them from getting overheated. Make sure you provide your finches with enough sunlight so that they don’t have to compete, and enough shaded area so that they can all escape the heat when necessary., While your finches may live in pairs or in a colony, they will still need individual care. If your finches are in a cage, they will each need time out to fly and stretch their wings every day. They will also need individual baths every few days.