;
, A lot of free forum services have their own help forum where you can ask questions regarding your forum. And get help if you have a problem with your forum. And it is there you can get an idea if the free forum service has deleted or suspended a lot of forums,for no real reason.
 Many free forums services do not allow this. Not even if they are your own files that you own. So if they say it is against their terms of service then you CANNOT DO IT. And you will also have to tell your members not to post links to their files on Mediafire.
 That is no forums that contain nudity or porn or other hate content. And do not post links on your forum to offensive content. And do not let your members do it either. Or they will delete your forum.
 That way you have covered yourself and can avoid breaking their terms of service. And avoid getting your forum suspended or deleted.
 For example if you want to create a political forum about support for a political group they do not approve of. Or if you want to create a forum about gaming, be careful. Because a lot of free forum hosting services do not allow this. And they will delete your forum. So if you want to write about these topics,a free blog on a service like WordPress might be better. As the free blogging services are not so strict as the free forum hosting services. And most free blogging services will never delete or suspend your blog,unless in unless you do something very bad.
 Hosting your forum on your own custom URL for example "myforum.com" just means that you have bought your domain name from the free forum hosting site. But they are still hosting your forum for you,the same as they are when you are hosting your forum on their domain name. So all you have paid for is your own website name and a few perks like disable adverts,nothing else. But you are still subject to all of their terms of service. And they will suspend or delete your forum if you violate their terms of service.
 That you do not have full control over your forum. This is because you are still hosting your forum through them and using their servers,custom URL or not. And they can still suspend and delete your forum any time if they want to.

