 If your employer adopts a dress code policy, they should distribute it to you. Look in your employee manual or handbook, where it should be published.Don’t accept a verbal dress code. Instead, ask for something in writing.


Dress code policies cannot single you out. They must apply to all employees.If your boss doesn’t have the policy in writing, they may be making something up.;
, You can generally interpret business casual to mean the following:Men can wear dress pants or khakis paired with a sweater, button-up dress shirt, or shirt with a collar (such as a polo). Men can also wear a sport coat and casual dress shoes.
Women have more options—and more ways they can appear too casual. Generally, women should wear dress pants or a skirt coupled with a sweater, blouse, or blazer. Women should wear pumps, flats, or open-toed shoes.
Remember that business casual clothing must always be clean and pressed. Don’t show up in a wrinkled pair of khakis and a polo shirt with a mustard stain on the front.
 Some workplaces give employees a casual day (usually Friday) once a week or once a month. It’s entirely possible to be too casual, however, even on casual Friday. Instead, aim for a presentable appearance.


For example, don’t wear pajama bottoms or yoga pants to work. Instead, choose jeans as a casual option.
Also avoid anything with writing or obscene images on it. For example, if you choose a T-shirt, choose one that has no printing on it.Your messages or imagery could offend other employees and contribute to a hostile work environment.
Make sure clothing is clean and mended, without rips or tears.
If you’re a new employee, err on the side of being too dressy on a casual Friday.
 A poorly drafted dress code will contain a lot of mushy words which you might not understand. For example, ask a supervisor to define the following:“appropriate”
“proper”
“reserved”

, You can pick up important clues about whether you are under- or over-dressing by listening to your boss and coworkers.For example, if your boss asks why you are so dressed up, you might consider losing the tie or sports coat.


By contrast, if someone remarks on how casual or “sporty” you look, then take that as a sign you are under-dressed.
 If you don’t understand what is expected of you, ask your boss to look at some sample outfits. You can show them pictures of clothes online and ask, “Is that appropriate?”


Ask a colleague if you are too embarrassed to ask your boss. Choose someone who always appears well-dressed. They can help you understand a vague dress code.
 A dress code typically involves more than limitations on what you can wear for clothes. It also may set different grooming standards related to the following:hair length
hair style
facial hair
makeup
tattoos
piercings

, Some employers give employees uniforms as a way to standardize your appearance to the public. If you’re given a uniform, wear it. Don’t “forget” to wear the uniform and show up to work in other clothes.


Look at it this way: wearing a uniform greatly simplifies getting dressed in the morning. You don’t have to worry about what to wear.
Remember to keep uniforms neat and tidy. You may need to launder it more than once a week. If the uniform becomes frayed, ask your employer for a replacement.
Be aware that your employer can deduct the cost of the uniform from your wages, so long as it doesn’t cause you to fall below the minimum wage., You might arrive at work only to be told you have violated the dress code. Ask your employer if you can go home and change into something more appropriate. This is a good option if you can get home and back to work in a short period of time.


Your employer can legally send you home without pay for violating the dress code. For that reason, it’s a good idea to take the dress code seriously.
 Almost no employer outright discriminates against employees based on gender, race, religion, etc. However, businesses sometimes adopt “neutral” policies that impact certain groups more harshly than other groups. Sometimes, these policies can constitute discrimination.


A dress code is an example of a neutral policy that might affect groups differently. For example, a requirement that you wear a hat when working might discriminate against people whose religion prohibits head coverings.
A court will look at whether the policy has a legitimate business purpose and is necessary for the job. For example, a policy requiring head coverings for food workers is both legitimate and necessary.
However, an employer also must try to accommodate any objection to the dress code based on religion or disability, so long as the accommodation doesn’t create an undue hardship for the business., Both federal and state laws make it illegal for an employer to discriminate on the basis of religion.Pay attention to whether the policy possibly discriminates against you for religious reasons.


For example, employers generally need to accommodate yarmulkes, hijabs, and turbans.Anti-discrimination laws apply whether you are a member of a recognized organized religion (such as Buddhism, Islam, Christianity, etc.) or a small, unorganized sect., A dress code cannot discriminate or create a disparate impact on different racial groups. If you think the dress code does, then you may want to challenge it.


For example, several African American men have challenged grooming requirements that they be clean shaven. Because some African Americans have a specific skin condition that makes shaving painful, their challenges have been successful., Employers can require different uniforms and grooming standards for men and women.For example, a dress code could prohibit men from wearing makeup but allow women to wear makeup. However, employers cannot place a heavier burden on one gender than on the other.Employers also must enforce a dress code uniformly. For example, a dress code might insist that employees wear pants in the summer. If your boss allows women to wear skirts, then they are not enforcing the dress code uniformly without regard to gender. In this example, male employees could argue that enforcement of the dress code is discriminatory.
 Some jobs sell sex. For example, if you work at a casino or nightclub, management might require that female employee dress in a provocative manner. In some situations, an employer can require you to dress this way.In particular, employers can require you to dress provocatively if that is their image.
However, the provocative dress can’t encourage customers or others to sexually harass you with gropes, cat calls, or other harassing behavior.
 Some dress codes might impact people with disabilities. If so, you can request that your boss make an exception to the dress code. Consider the following examples:Your boss requires certain footwear, but you must wear specific shoes because of your diabetes. Your boss can let you wear more comfortable shoes.
You develop lesions because of medical treatment, which makes your uniform uncomfortable. Your boss can help you pick out alternate work clothes to wear that still are appropriate for the workplace.
Your broken leg is in a cast, and you can’t wear pants, which are required by your boss. Your employer might let you wear shorts to work until the cast is removed.
 If the dress code discriminates against you on the basis of religion or disability, you can request an accommodation. Put it in writing and mention exactly why you need the accommodation.Don’t assume your employer knows anything about your disability or religion. They may ask for documentation, such as medical records or a letter from a faith leader.
Your employer should be willing to work with you to come up with a reasonable solution.
 The law on dress codes is constantly changing as society changes. For example, gender non-conforming employees complicate the idea that employers can require different standards for men and women. If you think your employer’s dress code is discriminatory, you should seek out an employment lawyer.


Obtain a referral from your local or state bar association. Call and schedule a consultation. Ask the attorney if you need to bring anything with you to the consultation. Also check how much the consultation will cost.
Alternately, you can find low-cost legal aid. Visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website at https://www.lsc.gov. Click on “Find legal aid” and enter your address. Some legal aid organization help workers with employment issues.

