 Since most people blush because they feel embarrassed, calling attention to the blush can help you turn off the extra flow of blood to your face. Once you point it out, you will discover how others see it, which is indifference in many cases. When you see that others don’t mind your blush, your sense of embarrassment will decrease, helping the blush to go away more quickly.


If you tend to blush easily and want to minimize comments about this, you might say something the next time you blush, like, “Yes, my skin is turning red. It just does this when I get embarrassed or feel stressed.”;
, If you feel your neck and cheeks getting that tell-tale blushing sensation, instead of getting embarrassed and running away, make a joke about it or chuckle about your change in skin tone. Coming up with a one-line explanation of your idiosyncrasy and sharing it before others have the chance to say anything about it can also minimize your embarrassment.Make a joke out of your red skin color, like, “Man, I just turned as red as the ketchup bottle!”
Laugh at the situation, saying something like, “Just thinking about that makes me turn red!”

, Blushing can be embarrassing in its own right, and it can make you want to run away. In some cases, you can actually do this. If you are in a situation where you are not required to be present, grab a moment when no one is looking at you and duck out of the room or area. Once you are away from people, you can take a moment to calm yourself down and wait until the blush dies away before returning.


Visualize yourself without the blush to help turn your blushing reflex off.
 Although you can cope with a blushing situation by drawing attention to the blush so that people stop being curious or making fun of you, you can also choose to avoid drawing attention to your red face by distracting people to focus their attention somewhere else. You can do this by pointing to an interesting sight, or recruiting a companion to help you out in embarrassing situations.


You can set up a system with a companion where you signal them and they come up with a distraction that will last until your blush fades.
This signal to your friend can be opening your eyes wide, nodding your head, or even a phrase you both recognize, like “it’s hot today.”

, Studies show that your mood and emotions can be dictated by your facial expression, even if you feel a different way than what your face says. For example, if you make a concentrated effort to smile more, you are more likely to feel happier more often.If you are tempted to blush with embarrassed, put on a facial expression that is the opposite, such as a confident smile instead of a frown or furrowed brow.

