 Exercise benefits both your physical and mental health. It will strengthen your body, control your weight, increase your metabolism, and improve your digestion. Aerobic exercise gets your heart rate up and helps to move things along in your digestive tract. Excellent, enjoyable activities include jogging, fast walking, swimming, and many sports.
For best results, try to do at least 75 minutes each week, spread out over several days.
 These drinks release carbon dioxide and may lead to a buildup of gas in your digestive tract.How much it too much will be different for each individual, but avoid binge drinking.
Excessive drinking can make you more likely to get cancers of the digestive tract, pancreatitis, liver disease, and other digestive health related problems., Smoking can cause people to swallow air and it will increase your likelihood of other health problems. Even if you’ve smoked for many years, quitting will still improve your health, making you more comfortable. Smoking puts you at risk of several digestion related cancers in the: Esophagus
Mouth
Bladder
Pancreas
Kidney
Liver
Stomach
Intestines

, There are many times when people may do it without even realizing. Common ones include:Eating too fast. The best way to prevent this is to slow down when eating and thoroughly chew your food. It will also make meals more enjoyable.
Chewing gum. When you chew gum, you stimulate your body to produce saliva, making you swallow more frequently. Some air naturally goes with it.
Sucking on hard candies. This also stimulates saliva production and makes you swallow more frequently.
Drinking through a straw. When you suck the drink up through the straw, it increases the likelihood that you will swallow a lot of air with it.
 Constipation can block the passage of gas through your system leading to bloating.The longer the feces remain in your system, the longer they will ferment there, producing more gas.
Small meals prevent your system from being overwhelmed and keep things moving through at a steady rate.

