 Attach the yarn to the size F crochet hook using a standard slip knot, then work a foundation of chain stitches large enough to fit over the widest part of your hand.

Since this will be a bangle-style bracelet, the foundation chain must be large enough to fit over your hand. As such, you must measure it around the knuckles or base of the thumb instead of measuring the chain around your wrist.
For this pattern to work up properly, you'll need to create a foundation chain in multiples of two (30, 32, 34, 36, etc.). Keep the stitches somewhat loose, as well.
 Once you reach the end of the foundation, slip stitch the last chain to the first.

Straighten out the chain before attaching the two ends. If the chain is twisted, you won't be able to complete the pattern correctly.
 Chain one, then work one single crochet in each chain stitch across the foundation round.

Once you reach the end of this new round, slip stitch the last and first single crochet together.
 Repeat the first round pattern for rows two through five.

Chain one, then single crochet in each stitch across the round. Slip stitch the ends together.
You should have a total of five single crochet rounds by the end of this step.
 Switch to the size G crochet hook. Chain two, then work one double crochet into the back loop of each stitch across the round.

Work carefully when switching hooks so that you do not lose the hook loop and unravel your previous stitches.
Once you reach the end of the round, slip stitch the last double crochet to the top of the chain-two.
 Chain two. Work one double crochet into the front post of the next stitch, then one double crochet into the back post of the stitch after that.

Work one double crochet into the front post of the following stitch and one double crochet into the back post of the stitch after that; repeat across the remainder of the round. You should end with a front-post double crochet.
At the end of the round, slip stitch the last double crochet to the top of the chain-two.
 Chain two. Double crochet once into the front post of the first stitch, then double crochet once into the back post of the next stitch.

Front post double crochet once into each front-post stitch of the previous round and back post double crochet into each back-post stitch of the previous round. Continue across the entire round in this manner.
Slip stitch the last double crochet to the top of the chain-two.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail measuring 14 inches (35.5 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off., Fold the tube in half so that the single crochet rounds are on the inside and the ribbed rounds remain on the outside.

Thread the long tail through the eye of a yarn needle and whip stitch the folded edges together. Stitch through the back loops of the ribbed edge and the foundation chain loops on the single crochet side.
Knot the yarn after you finish sewing the edges together, then weave in all ends along the underside of the stitches.
 The bracelet should be finished and ready to wear. Simply slip it over your hand and onto your wrist.