 Coalitions are groups of individuals brought together because of a common interest. Search online for coalitions on human trafficking in your area. If one exists, contact them and ask them how you can get involved.If one does not exist, consider starting one. When you start a coalition, contact influential people in your community that deal with human trafficking. Ask them to be involved and help you. Set up meetings and email lists so people can be made aware of what you are doing., If an organization exists in your community to help fight human trafficking, contact them and ask if you can get involved. If you have some professional skill, let them know that you are willing to volunteer your services. For example, if you are an attorney, let them know you can offer legal services for free. If you are a doctor, let them know you can provide free healthcare services to victims in need. If you are a grant writer, let them know you would be willing to write a grant application for them every so often. If you simply have extra time on your hands, let the organization know that you would be willing to pass out fliers or other resources to the community.


Nonprofit organizations rely on their volunteers to survive. You will always be able to offer something of value so do not hesitate to contact a local anti-trafficking organization. They will most likely be willing and able to put you to work immediately., If you cannot donate your time and expertise to a nonprofit organization, consider donating your money and goods.All nonprofits rely on cash donations to keep their doors open. If you have some extra money to use, give it to a worthy organization. Most organizations will take online donations, which will make it extremely easy for you to make one.


In addition to donating money, consider donating goods. For example, if a nonprofit organization takes in trafficking victims, consider donating personal hygiene products, coats, sleeping bags, and other materials that can help victims get back on their feet.
 If you are a part of the law enforcement community, ask to join or start a human trafficking task force.These task forces help to identify and rescue human trafficking victims through proactive investigations. They can also help bring together multiple agencies so efforts can be coordinated. In some circumstances, you might even be able to get funding from state and federal governments.