 A card thrown accurately moves on the motion of its spin. Cards don't fly through the air stock straight like when Gambit throws them in an X-Men comic. To get the most sticking power and accuracy out of your throws, spin the card as much as possible.


Practice extending your wrist and your fingers in one fluid motion, as quickly as possible. At the apex of your toss, speed up your motion just slightly, really putting some flick into your wrist. This'll be the difference between a lame duck and a cutting card.
 Popular targets for card-throwing involve a lot of Styrofoam and fruit. Experienced card throwers can stick a playing card into a potato from several paces away, and melons, apples, Styrofoam backing, cardboard, and other surfaces. Practice tossing until you can get the corner to stick in firmly.


Don't throw cards at anyone's face or body. Even if you're not throwing with much power yet, a card in the eye can be extremely dangerous. Be very careful and only practice by throwing cards at appropriate targets.
 There's no one correct way of throwing cards, so practicing will be a matter of experimenting with different grips and techniques and seeing what works right for you. Try picking your favorite parts of each technique and welding them together into your own hybrid style of throwing. Make it work for you.


Watch Ricky Jay throw cards on YouTube to watch closely the kind of motion he uses and the snap he gets into his cards. Go see a magician or card expert in action to learn more and pick up all the tricks of the trade you can.
 To get better at any sleight-of-hand tricks, especially card throwing, it's a good idea to spend some time building dexterity and strength in your wrists and forearms. The strong your wrists and hands, the better and more accurately you'll be able to throw cards.


It's a good idea to stretch out your wrists after you throw cards, and to loosen them up before. To do this, get down on your knees and put your palms flat on the ground, curling your wrists around so your fingers are pointing back at yourself. Stretch out your wrists by bringing your butt toward the ground and keeping your palms flat.
 It's much easier to throw new, stiff, crisp cards, than old ones that you've been playing rummy with for years. If you want to make it easy on yourself, get some new good-quality cards that'll stand up to throwing, and replace them regularly to get the most accuracy and power out of your throws.

