 Every movie starts out with the script! If you have a computer, go to Microsoft Office Word and get to writing! Make sure your story is legit, and isn't a duplicate of someone else's movie. You can get in trouble!

Get the opinions of your cast, crew, and friends. They'll help you work out any problems, and can offer good suggestions.



 

;
, The story needs some characters to fill out the depth, and personality of the movie. The characters need to be fresh, and different from one another. Make one character the main protagonist, and make the other an antagonist. The other characters will be minor roles.
 Is the protagonist a guy, or a girl? How evil is the antagonist? So many questions, but you can figure them all out! Take some time, and you should have your hero and villain all played out in your mind, and in your script!

Make your characters are three-dimensional and realistic as you can. Any antagonist or protagonist worth their salt would not do anything without a reason.
 You need a cast to play as the characters, right? You also need a crew to help you out. Get your friends together, and give them roles in either the movie, or the production.
 You don't want to have a man playing as the female character, do you? No, you shouldn't. Which is why you must audition your actors/actresses to confirm that he or she is good for the role.
 He did a good job! He deserves a major role. Eh, he didn't do as good, but he'll work fine as a minor role. This exercise is handy in trying to cast actors and actresses. remember, nobody loses, and everybody gets fair treatment.
 Your action scenes need some space for running! Find a great place for filming an action movie, such as a park, or a field.
 You have plenty of time to work on your project!

, Now that you're done shooting your flick, it's time to head to the editing software to edit your film, and spice it up with some special effects, music and cool sound!

, Now that you've finished you're movie, you can present your action movie to school talent shows, or your friends and family!

