 If you choose the latter, you have to make clear what the advantages and disadvantages is. The advantage is that the creative side is all up to you! The disadvantages is that it will require a lot of skill from your side to handle the instruments and vocal all by yourself. But it can be done, take for example Burzum, Nortt or Xasthur.;
, There are really no limits of how few or many you can be. A good amount will be 3-4, with a drummer, at least one guitarist, a bassist and a vocalist. The vocalist can of course play guitar or bass too. Sometimes even the drummer can be the vocalist.
 The vocals in black metal are mostly mid- to high pitched. Depends on what you want to sound like.
 Heavy distortion is a must; get a distortion pedal or an amp with the ability to turn up the gain. They should know how to play in 16th notes (also called tremolo notes).
 He should also have a double pedal or two singles with 2 base-drums. China cymbals give you a good sound as well as bells. Blastbeats are essential in black metal, because they create the "wall of sound" effect. Remember not to blast all the time, unless you want to sound like Marduk. If you haven't got a drummer, get a drum-program and at least some basic knowledge about rhythm.
 The bass and drums are the foundation of your music. In heavy metal music, it is more common for bass parts to be more rhythmical. It would be good to have a bassist who can play a variety of different styles. Don't underestimate the importance of the bassist. One final note, your bassist should have a good "music ear". It is more difficult to hear the pitch of lower notes.
 Some use them only to create atmosphere, other almost rely on keyboards (ie. Dimmu Borgir).
 Black metal lyrics usually concentrate on topics like life, death, hate, nature and religion. Satanic lyrics are not essential, but you can write whatever you want. Just remember that black metal lyrics are very serious, and are some of the deepest and most contemplative lyrics found in music.
 Make something up, and use it. Avoid using names like "Satanik Pervertor", those are stupid. Also, if you choose a name in another language (e.g. Latin or Norwegian), be sure you know the meaning of it. Cities or districts with significance can be used (Whitechapel, for example, where the Jack The Ripper murders took place). You can also invent a new word to use as a name. If you think this is difficult, you can try to use a random word generator, such as NameDice.com, to get some ideas. In this case you should also find out if you invented a word that already exists in another language, or if it is a company or brand name and should not be used for that reason. It could be a good idea to Google for the name you choose before you start using it.
 You can do it yourself, or you can get somebody else to do it. Again, the options are endless. There are some articles here on wiki-how you can use, just get inspired and be creative.
 A lot of black metal bands dress up in corpsepaint, leather, Boots, Jackets, spikes etc, but this is not necessary. Do what you want.
 There's really no advice here. Make up some good riffs and lyrics, and record it.
 This is the result of musicians not having enough money to record it properly, or someone who just wants to stay "true". Try to get a decent quality, but avoid the polished sound of fx Dimmu Borgir. You can record in your room, in a basement, in a forest, whatever, it doesn't matter.
,,