 No coercion is in play (even in the stock market, which some call "casino capitalism", but that is another topic). In a free market, if someone wants something from you, someone has to do something for you (freely), for example:When I mow your lawn, you pay me twenty dollars as agreed. What does that twenty dollars in essence mean and do? Let's go to the grocer, and I say, "I would like to have four pounds of meat". He, in effect, could say to me, "You want a lot of people to serve you -- ranchers, truckers, meat-packers, marketers, butchers, and grocers. All these people have to be paid. So, what proof do you have of serving your fellow man?"
"Well," I say, "I mowed my fellow man's lawn." Imagine that grocer says, "Prove it." Then I give him the twenty dollars.;
, It's the proof that you or someone served your fellow man (for satisfaction of someone).
 But, is the free market a zero-sum game (winner-take-all)? Or, is it a positive sum game -- each contributors should receive consideration (something of value), depending on the situation in which you are involved.

"You do something good for me, such as give me that meat, and I'll do something good for you. I'll give you twenty dollars that I earned by serving my fellow man." Then, I'm better off because I valued the food more than I valued the $20, and the grocer is better off because he valued the $20 more than he valued the food in the store. We both win. That's not winner take all like a game of poker., If someone uses the government without serving others, not working or earning, to get housing, food stamps, a farm subsidy or a business bail out, that entity or person gets benefit -- but that is at the expense of your fellow citizens who get nothing tangible in return. Isn't it more moral to allow people to serve their fellow man (if possible) in order to have a claim on what others produce -- rather than to have a claim to services, goods and dollars of others while not serving others in turn.Is that fair or moral?

, Don't they have too much power over our lives?" No, not in a free market (freely, not as in crony-capitalism, graft and corruption as politicians may spawn). Because in a free market "We, the People" decide the profitability of the grocer, housing or other products of industries, any companies who want our business. Each transaction or exchange of work or goods is for services to others.Vote with your dollars. Free market customers will punish a corporation that does not satisfy them or who fails to use resources efficiently. Businesses, big and small, that wish to prosper are held accountable by the purchasers.
But, again, it's the government that can disrupt and undo this positive sum game, or can protect and support its free market.
 Car-makers were struggling to survive in 2009. Why? Because they were producing cars that had not pleased a large enough number of their fellow men with desirable, valuable services and products. So, in a free market, they would freely have had to sell out in bankruptcy and go out of business.The market would have said, "Look, you're done. Sell your stock, plant and equipment to somebody who can do a better job." But when Chrysler and General Motors failed, they went to Washington D.C. and big government interfered with the positive flow of the market and bailed them out in a government created zero-sum game like poker (winner take all). The taxpayers (unavoidably) have their funds taken by force to pay for the bail out as ordered by a bankruptcy judge.
 So, no matter how inferior/undesirable your product is, and no matter how inefficient your systems are, we'll artificially (through coercion by government) keep you in business by taking your fellow man's money and giving it away."Realize that government was taking the power of the people found in the free market away from the people and rewarding companies that didn't compete successfully in the free marketplace. That may work out well for government due to interference by politicians, big unions and corporate officers, but it seldom does good for the taxpayer. Free markets can work where there is limited government. Limited government allows you and I, the market, to decide which businesses survive.
 People can work for the America that our Founding Fathers envisioned for limited government that has only a few specifically mentioned/enumerated powers that are listed in Article I, Section 8 of the United States Constitution. It's obvious that limited-government pattern produced the wealthiest nation in history. It is not perfect, but it may become more responsive by each one understanding and working on the potentials in one's own situations/goals.



Your ambition, work, and the voluntary effort as a citizen, not the government, would drive the economy in a free market. That is:Each person, to the best of ones ability, would shape his/her own destiny. Does that sound moral to you?


