 You'll find a letter that Luke wrote, supposedly ten years in the future. The letter asks you to go to the clock shop. Professor Layton and Luke are now questioning each other of how the letter was written. Layton believes that the letter is connected to an event that happened recently.
 Barton and Chelmey will have a discussion about the feast and invitations. Tap on either one of them while they're sitting down. Tap on either Caroline or Bill Hawks (the people on the right)., He'll tell you that there's been a report of suspicious behavior. Puzzle 001 will come up., He presents the time machine's creator, Stangun . Bill Hawks, whom is the Prime Minister, doubts the operation of the time machine and Stahngun offers him a try in it. Watch the animated scene of Hawks getting into the machine. As the machine starts, it suddenly blows up., You'll find out that another set of mysteries have been happening around London. They both agree to go to the Clock Shop., Professor Layton gives Luke a puzzle, Puzzle 002, to see if he can locate the shop., She'll tell you to tap on the car, which will pop out a hint coin. Tap on the highest window of the left hand side building, the skinny bus schedule on the right (next to the shoe), and carefully examine the tree. When you need to carefully examine something, it means tap on it more than once. Head North., Tap on the circle sign, the first window of the right hand side building, and the blue door in the far back middle., If you solve it, he'll help you on where to find the clock shop., They can be found in the top window, the circle window of the door, and the box in the corner of the street intersection. Tap on Stachenscarfen to talk to him. He was going to tell you about hint coins, but because someone else has offered the advice, he quickly goes away.,, They can be found on the second to the bottom stair, the sign below the clock, and along the right hand side of the arc.,, Spring will automatically talk to you. She's heard all about Professor Layton, but wants to see proof that it is the real him. Solve Puzzle 006 for her.,, They can be found in the bottom right hand side of the cabinet next to Spring, the "12" Roman numeral on the clock-face, and the orange button on the machine., They are hidden on the first poster up against the counter, the small clock in the back, and the bottom corner of the clock on the ground., Springs husband, Cog, comes back. He wants Professor Layton to fix his clock, which will give you Puzzle 009., Professor Layton and Luke exit the clock shop, but realize that they are locked out. They also find out that the scenery and activity outside has changed. Chapter 1 starts.