 A telltale sign of food addiction is an inability to control the types or proportions of food you eat. These cravings can lead you to eat well beyond satiating your hunger and become detrimental to your health. Binge eating. This is a common form of food addiction and involves eating large amounts of foods high in sugar, salt or fat. You may be unable to say no to certain food and eat until you are sick. If you find yourself eating well past you're no longer hungry, you may be engaging in harmful binge eating. ;
, Although unhealthy food habits are often a physical action, its roots can be mental. If you find yourself obsessing about food — its availability, making sure you have enough— you may have an unhealthy addiction.


Many times people with food addictions become obsessed with food availability at all social gatherings. If you go to a party thinking more about making sure you have enough to eat and fixating on the availability of certain foods than the company around you, you may have a food addiction.
 If you find yourself constantly trying new diet regiments and unable to stick to one, this may be a sign that food consumption has a greater control over your life than you’d like. Next time you think about trying a new diet to help curb your eating, take note of what gives you the most difficulty. Many times it's a feeling that you can't give up certain foods, and this can an indication of an addiction. , Food addiction can have adverse effects on your emotions and lead to mood swings, anxiety, or even depression that derives from an inability to control food. Whether you get upset that you eat too much or use food as a way to regulate your emotions, these can all be signs of food addiction. Feeling ashamed about your weight and self-image.
Eating when you feel depressed or as a reward during a celebration.
Becoming anxious or irritable when there might not be a certain type or enough food available.
 An addiction to food can cause a lot of health problems and only exasperate food cravings. If you see yourself suffering from symptoms related to a food addiction, you might want to evaluate how your eating habits are encouraging unhealthy habits.


Obesity. If you are extremely overweight you likely ingest more food than your body can handle, causing it to store excess fat. Obesity caused by a food addiction can cause a variety of health problems including heart disease and diabetes. Also, once your body become accustomed to the trigger foods, such as those high in sugar, you are more apt to subconsciously crave and need them.
High cholesterol and blood pressure. Sometimes these problems can be genetic, but poor eating habits, especially over indulging in fatty foods can cause your cholesterol and blood pressure to soar to unhealthy levels.

