 Art is created with an almost limitless variety of mediums, from oil paints to clay, from stone to electricity. Here are a few popular media used by artists.


Pencils and paper. Drawing is a fundamental art form, probably first practiced with a piece of charcoal or some colored clay on a cave wall. It is now a refined technique using a variety of paper and pencils.
Pen and Ink. Pen and ink is another form of drawing, using heavy rag paper or scratch board, and usually a nib pen and ink. It can be used to create dramatic contrasts, and exquisite detail.
Pastels. Pastel sticks are pigment mixed with very little binder and rolled to form sticks that resemble colored chalks. Only the cheapest student grade ones are dyed chalk. They can be used for drawing or painting on pastel paper, heavy sketch paper, watercolor paper or sanded pastel papers.
Oil Pastels. These sticks resemble crayons and range from very inexpensive children's oil pastels to artist grade oil pastels made with expensive pigments. Much more opaque than crayons, they work on paper, boards, wood, canvas, metal or almost any surface.
Watercolors, oils, and acrylic paints. These are vastly different media, grouped together only because they are familiar to most people, and are all used in what we know as "painting".
Ceramics. This media is clay, which can be hand shaped, formed in a mold, thrown on a potter's wheel, or sculpted by other means.
Sculpting with stone. This is a challenging and physically demanding technique. Modern technology has created tools for removing stone to form a shape, but traditionally it is done with a hammer and chisels.
Photography. A technique which is constantly in a state of change, with new technologies emerging continuously, from digital cameras and editing, to special effects filters and lighting.
Carving. Usually done with chisels and knives, this is a traditional art form that has also benefited from technology, with the emergence of die grinding tools for shaping, saws and shapers to duplicate images and remove large amounts of wood quickly, and glues and resins for refitting or laminating the work piece as it is worked.

There are many other media and simply too many techniques to cover them all in one article.

;
,, Many school districts offer art classes for students from elementary school through high school. Often these are elective courses beyond elementary school level, and if you are interested in art, try to work your school schedule to take all the art classes possible. Community Colleges and Universities sometime offer adult education classes in many art techniques.
 In former times, almost all artists began as apprentices to "Masters", those who had completed their own apprenticeships and were tradesmen in their craft. Now, some artists will offer apprenticeships to talented individuals who learn from their teacher as they do other studio work as payment.
 Keep a record or a portfolio of your work, whether it is in a sketchbook, an album, or with photographs of sculptures or carvings. This will enable you to see improvements, and establish a personal technique.
 If you have talent and develop skill as a painter or in drawing, you may get a chance to do some commission work making posters or signs for neighborhood businesses or events.
 Shopping malls, community organizations, and other groups often sponsor "juried" showings of work, and invite members of the community to display, and sometimes sell, their work. This will be an opportunity to share ideas with other artists, and to see public reaction to your own work.
 This is especially true of sculpture or ceramic projects, which may literally fall apart in during the creative process.
 Be very observing and pay attention to the whole world around you! From the trees in your local park, to how their golden leaves glow in the natural light, the world is full of shapes, textures, images, colors, and forms, and many of what are regarded as masterpieces were created using a simple, not beautiful subject, and the talent of a dedicated artist.

