 Place all of the dry ingredients into a large mixing bowl. Whisk them together for about 30 seconds. You'll need:2 cups (150 g) unbleached flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
2 tablespoons sugar

, Use your fingers to rub in 1/2 tablespoon of cold butter until the mixture looks like breadcrumbs. Pour in 1/2 cup (120 ml) of whole milk and 1/4 cup (60 ml) of water. Use your hands to stir the mixture into a shaggy dough., Sprinkle a little flour on a work surface and dump the dough onto it. Use your hands to knead the dough for about five minutes. The dough will be really sticky when you start, but it should become soft and elastic once you've finished kneading.Avoid adding too much flour or the johnnycake will become tough.
 Put the dough into a bowl and cover the bowl with plastic wrap. This will keep a tough skin from forming on the dough. Let the dough rest in the bowl for one hour., Get a sheet pan out and dust it with flour. Remove the plastic wrap from the bowl of dough and scoop out enough dough to make a ball. The ball should be 2 to 3-inches (5 to 7.5-cm) in size. Roll it between the palms of your hand to round out the shape and set it on your prepared baking pan. Continue to portion out the rest of the dough into balls.You won't be baking the johnnycake on the sheet. The floured sheet is just where you'll keep the balls of dough until you're ready to shape and fry them.
 Get a deep frying pan or skillet out and place it on your stove. Pour canola or vegetable oil into the pan, so the oil comes about 1 to 2-inches (2.5 to 5-cm) up the side of the pan. Turn the heat up to medium.You'll know the oil is hot enough to fry the johnnycakes by carefully dripping a drop of water into it. When the oil is hot, the water will pop as it hits it.
 Take a ball of johnnycake dough and gently stretch it into a circle. It should be about 1/4 to 1/2-inch (6 to 12 mm) thick. You should use your hands to stretch the dough, but avoid simply pressing down to flatten the dough. Stretch the remaining balls of dough.Stretching the dough will develop the gluten in the johnnycake which will make it light and puffy.
 Place two or three of the johnnycakes into the hot oil and fry them until they're golden on the bottom. Check them after a minute and then flip them over, so they become golden brown on the other side. Use a slotted spoon to scoop out the fried johnny cakes and set them on a paper towel.You'll need to fry the rest of the johnnycakes in batches, but remember to let the oil heat back up in between batches.

