 If your mother taught you manners, now is the time to break them out. (If not, that's why you're here!) Being polite and kind to everyone you interact with communicates that you're a quality person, online and off, who's worthy of respect and attention. Pay particular attention to these points:


Use correct grammar and spelling. Capitalize proper nouns and the beginning of sentences, and run your message through spell check first if you're unsure. (Most word processors or email clients now have spell check if your browser does not.)
Make a polite introduction. If someone messages you, note that you were delighted to receive their message and give out a little more information about yourself. If you message someone, tell her more about yourself and express that you'd love to get to know her.
Keep it elegant. Remember, if she wanted to meet a slouchy, rude, abrupt barfly, she would have gone to the bar. Instead, she came to the Internet to meet guys like you, so try to step it up a bit. Don't ask what she's wearing or what her figure is like, don't push for pictures right away, and don't ask for highly personal specifics at first (such as where she works or her full name). Instead, focus on her personal interests, her goals, and anything you share in common.
 Most women who use online dating sites get a lot of messages. If you decide to send a lady something, try to make it compelling and different from the rest of what she sees. Ask her a question about her profile, make a tasteful joke, or just be bold and say something like "You're gorgeous, and you seem fascinating. I'd love nothing more than getting to know you."

, So you've gotten a nice girl to notice you — now what? How you manage the conversation will determine where the connection goes, but it's easier than you might think. Here's how to continue interacting with her:


Let her talk about herself. Keep in mind that most people are comfortable talking about themselves, because it's a topic they know well. Nervousness might tempt you to keep the conversation focused on yourself, but resist. A big part of being a good conversationalist is being a good listener.
Ask her questions that are thought-provoking, but not too personal. Asking your potential ladylove what she does for fun on the weekends is perfectly fine; asking her if she's divorced or had a hysterectomy is not. Though you might learn this information later, now is not the time. Keep your questions focused on things like what she does to relax, where she's from, where she went to school, what kind of entertainment (books, music, movies, television) she likes, whether she's an animal-lover, etc.
Follow that old adage and steer clear of sex, politics, money and religion. (The obvious exception to this is discussing religion if you're using a religious dating site.) There's a reason why these are forbidden topics when you're first getting to know someone.
 Bow out of the chat session before it gets too stale, or don't be too quick to return her emails. Lowering supply increases demand, and she'll be more interested if you don't immediately give everything away. Be interested, but restrained. (That is, don't send her multiple emails per day at first, or constantly ping her on chat.) Let her come to you a little bit.
 Every so often, let the women you're talking to know how much you appreciate their attention. It doesn't have to be cheesy — something as simple as "I've really enjoyed getting to know you so far" or "Thanks for responding to my message" will suffice.


If you go on a date with someone you met online, take this a step further. Send her a tasteful, simple bouquet (that is, not two-dozen blood-red roses) the next day with a small note saying that you enjoyed her company. It'll get more mileage than you might think.
 If it doesn't work out, don't get bitter. Instead, say farewell like a gentleman and wish her all the best. Your polite send-off might cause her to circle back later, at which point you can evaluate if you're still interested.


For example, you could say "I'm sorry we didn't connect, but I wish you all the best" or "Good luck finding who you're looking for, and let me know if you ever change your mind."

, A woman will automatically read you as creepy and only after her body if you start angling for a date too early. Instead, try to be patient and enjoy this period of getting to know her spirit and mind. If things work out, you'll have plenty of time later to bask in her physical presence.


Allow her to let you know when she's ready to meet. You can throw out a no-pressure signal like, "Just so you know, I'd be thrilled to take you on a date whenever you're ready, but I'm willing to wait. When the time is right for you, let me know."

, You might encounter a lot of rejection online, as everyone does in the real world. Don't let it get you down, though. The right girl for you is out there somewhere, and maybe you're meant to appreciate her more after getting turned down by the wrong girl(s). Stay positive!

