 Part of the rock persona is advertising your love for rock bands. T-shirts ranging from vintage hair bands to favorite contemporary rock groups will work.


Original band t-shirts purchased from the merch table at a concert or a band's website are the best way to go.
Vintage t-shirts from classic bands help make your look authentic. To find these vintage shirts, search local thrift and second-hand clothing stores, online sites, or garage sales.
Many retailers sell vintage-inspired shirts featuring acts such as The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, and Johnny Cash.
If you want to vary your look from strictly band t-shirts, try a shirt that reflects the sometimes rebellious nature of the rocker lifestyle. Guitars, drums, and alcohol are staples for rock enthusiasts, so try a shirt advertising Fender guitars or your favorite booze.;
, Plaid is a versatile pattern that can go with many different styles. Tie a flannel shirt around your waist when wearing jeans and a band t-shirt, or even a dress. Wear the flannel shirt buttoned up with a leather jacket and a scarf.When choosing a plaid shirt for rocker style, think about the colors. Reds and blacks are more rocker chic than white or orange. But with the right attitude and accessories, any plaid shirt can be incorporated into your wardrobe.
Many major retailers sell flannel shirts of all fits and sizes. You can find standard, straight fitting shirts, or tailored, "girly" fit shirts that taper around the waist and bust. Also consider checking the local thrift stores, especially if you are in search of the perfect worn in flannel.
 To pull off the rock chic aesthetic, your shirts need to be slouchy and oversized. Buy your clothes a size or two larger than normal; you may even want to opt for male fitted shirts instead of girly fit since girly fit tees are designed to be more form fitting. You want to appear sloppy and unkempt, while still being fashionable.


Consider buying shirts and tank tops with uneven hems. Many shirts are designed with asymmetrical hems that provide an acute angle along your body. This can give your outfit an edgier look.
Pull the oversized shirt off one shoulder for an edgy look. Consider cutting the necklines from the t-shirt to make the hole even wider so it will hang from your shoulder better. Cut off the sleeves of t-shirts to make a wicked tank top with unkempt edges.
 The rocker look centers around dark colors - black and grey. Bright pops of color, like red or pinks, are also important in a rock chick wardrobe. If you want to go a bit glam-rock, try bright golds and silvers, glitter and sequins like designer Tom Ford incorporated into a recent rock inspired fashion collection.Blocks of color usually are utilized through shirts, scarves, shoes, or accessories. Usually, the pants are black.
 Rocker chick style isn't all concert tees and leather. Buy a dress in plaid or a vintage floral pattern; if you're feeling a bit more adventurous, try dresses in leather, velvet, or lace. Instead of a dress, try a flowing plaid or floral skirt and pair it with your concert tee and flannel shirt or denim jacket for a softer rock look.
 A perfect rock chick look can hardly be complete without a leather jacket. Cropped, fitted jackets over slouchy band t-shirts is a perfect combination. Try looking for vintage leather jackets at thrift stores.


The jacket doesn't have to be real leather. Faux leather jackets are cheaper and sold at most major retailers. Some jackets have studs, lace, or other embellishments that could complete your look.
 Give some versatility to your wardrobe by adding a denim jacket to the mix alongside your motorcycle jacket. A denim jacket can give your outfit a softer, more casual look.


Denim jackets are perfect for adding embellishments. Pin buttons from your favorite bands, sew patches onto the front or back, and personalize your denim for a rocking piece.Jean vests are also a way to vary your look. Cropped vests work best, but any jean vest paired with concert tees or a floral dress can be incorporated into your style.
 This is a must for the rocker chick look. Rips and holes, studs, lace, distressing - it all works. The important thing to remember is the jeans should be black or grey.


Leggings also work. Pair an oversized t-shirt with black leggings for a simple outfit.
Cuff the jeans at the bottom to show off your shoes.
 Just like the leather jacket is a staple, so are leather pants. Leather is expensive, so you can buy faux leather pants or leggings. The leather aesthetic helps sell any rocker persona., Leather pants might not be the most practical during the summer. To keep the rocker chick look despite the heat, wear cutoffs. Many major retailers sell jean shorts with fringed edges, but to give your outfit an edgier, more individualized look, make your own. Purchase jeans from a thrift store and cut the legs to the length desired. You can fray the edges as much as you want for a shredded look.Denim shorts also look great over black leggings or lacy tights, paired with combat boots or motorcycle boots.
 Maybe more important than a leather jacket or leather pants are black leather boots. If you want to go sexy, try leather boots that come up to or over the knee, paired with a dress. Traditional short motorcycle boots are a tougher piece you can pair with anything in your wardrobe.
 Yes, motorcycle boots are a must, but where's the fun in wearing the same shoes with every outfit? Add other pieces to your wardrobe, like combat boots, studded boots and heels, and canvas shoes.


Try unlacing your combat boots for an edgier look.
 Studs are an essential part of the rocker chick persona. Studs can go on anything - boots, vests, jeans, jewelry, bags. The more studs, the better.


You can easily add studs to any pieces you own. Buy studs at the craft store and apply them to your jeans, vest, or anything else.
 Studs, spikes, skulls, birds, hearts, stars, wings - whatever you want on your jewelry, go for it. Black, silver, gold, pink, or mixed colors work when you're combining your pieces into the perfect rocker outfit. Drape a statement necklace around your neck and put on zipper earrings. Wear a bottle cap necklace and stack bracelets on your wrist.Have fun as you match the pieces to your specific outfit.
 The final pieces of your ensemble are a hat and cool sunglasses. Think about what kind of hat or sunglasses matches your outfit to get the right combination.


Try floppy, panama hats, bowler hats, and beanies.
For sunglasses, go for Raybans, aviators, cat-eyes, or round. Basic black might be your best bet, but many of these sunglasses styles come in black and white or black and pink designs that can accent your rocker look.
Try headbands. Instead of a hat, finish your look with a studded or lace headband.
 Studded clutches and fringe bags help complete the rocker chick look.Also think about personalizing your own bag. Add badges, buttons, and studs to have a one of a kind piece.
 Messy hair is part of the rocker chick look, regardless of whether you have long or short hair. Messy curls and waves is a definite rocker chick look, but layers and bangs can give you an edgy look regardless of your hair's texture.


The slouchy, oversized clothing compliments this messy, unkempt look. The hair just perfects the image.
 Brightly colored or two-toned hair screams rock and roll. Go for platinum blonde highlights, or streaks of jet black. Dye a strip in the front blue, purple, or pink for a bit of an edge. If you want to go all out, dye all of your hair a crazy color, like bubblegum pink.
 Rocker chick makeup is a mix of dramatic eyes and neutrals. Feline eyes, smoky shades, and lots of mascara with nude lips are characteristic of the rocker look.


Apply black eyeliner to both the waterline and upper lash line, and smudge it slightly for a messy look. Top that off with eyeshadow in black and greys, and finish with black mascara. Green and blue eyeshadows can work, too.
Paint your nails a dark color to compliment the rest of your look.
 Rockers have always used tattoos as a form of self-expression. Others use piercings to adorn their bodies. Nose rings and tattoos in strategic places can compliment your look.


Tattoos are permanent. Getting them removed is painful and expensive. Only get a tattoo if you truly desire one. Never get a tattoo because you are chasing a trend or trying to impress someone.
Although piercings are less permanent, only get a piercing if you truly want it.
 Rock chicks are very confident. Carry yourself and your look with confidence. A rock girl is a thrill seeker that loves to have fun, but who is also relaxed.


Listen to rock music that you love and get to know a lot about the bands. Go to shows, buy CDs and vinyl, enjoy the music - that's the basis of your persona, after all.
Being rebellious and getting in trouble is stereotypical of a rocker lifestyle. Don't take it too far. You can be an authentic rock chick, enjoy the music and lifestyle, and even have a small rebellious streak without getting into trouble and alienating friends and family.
 The clothes, the make up, the attitude are all just pieces. Part of the persona of a rock chick is not trying too hard. When choosing your outfits, don't overdo it. Don't add everything into one outfit - spread the leather, studs, and layers of jewelry among multiple outfits.


Be true to yourself and your likes and dislikes. This is only a guide; add your own personality and individuality into the way your incorporate the rocker chick persona.
Don't wear or do things that make you uncomfortable. Be yourself; don't be a poser.
Don't brag about yourself or your persona. Just live it.

