 The simplest form of exercise for both you and your dog is to take a walk. Your senior dog may not be able to walk as far as it used to, but it should still be able to exercise in this fashion. Plus, it gets you walking, too., A young dog may be able to go 30 to 40 minutes all at once. However, your older dog may have more trouble exercising that long. Consider breaking up your dog's exercise into smaller chunks, such as two 15- to 20-minute periods of exercise., As your dog gets older, it may have issues such as arthritis or other types of leg or joint pain. Your dog still needs to exercise, but choosing a low-impact exercise will make your dog more comfortable.For instance, swimming is a great low-impact exercise for your dog.
 Don't be a "weekend warrior" when it comes to your dog's exercise. If the dog only walks around the block during the week, it won't have the conditioning to handle a hike on Saturday. Try to keep walks and play sessions about the same length each day. This helps the dog build and maintain muscle, without straining the joints too much., Food puzzle toys are made to hide your dog's food. Your dog has to work to get the food out, which motivates it to work at the problem. Food toys can help keep your dog moving around, plus they keep its brain engaged, as well., Just like you should talk to your doctor before starting an exercise program, it's important to talk to your dog's vet before you start it on a new exercise routine. Your vet knows your dog's health, and they can tell you if a new exercise program will be good for your dog or not.Ask your vet if your dog is still up for 30 minutes a day of exercise, the general rule of thumb for exercising most adult dogs., If you're not starting a new exercise program but continuing an old routine, it's important to watch for changes in your dog as it ages. For instance, if you notice your dog getting tired more readily all of a sudden, that could be a sign of an illness rather than just aging. Coughing or trouble breathing could also be a problem., Your dog still wants to play with you, but it will be slower in its movements as it gets older. Make changes for your dog so that your dog still has fun but is not taken beyond its limits. For instance, if you play tug-of-war with your older dog, you may not want to tug and yank as aggressively as you did when your dog was younger. Similarly, when you throw a ball for fetching, you may have to spend a moment longer getting your dog's attention and throwing the ball., If you're walking at full speed, you may notice your dog lagging behind a bit. Your dog wants to keep up with you, but as it gets older, it may have a harder time. In fact, your dog may wear itself out trying to keep up. Pay attention if your dog seems tired. Take a break if you think your dog is getting too tired., Older dogs may have trouble jumping up on things like couches and cars, and they may also have trouble with stairs. However, instead of just accepting that as reality, try adding ramps in those areas. Your dog will still be motivated to move around, but it won't hurt as much., If your dog has severe arthritis or another condition that makes walking painful, ask your vet about hydrotherapy. With its weight supported by a bath of warm water, your dog can get a pain-free workout., Older dogs may have a harder time staying warm than younger dogs. Their coats aren't as thick, meaning they're more susceptible to cold. If you notice your dog shivering outside, you might consider purchasing a sweater or jacket for it., Your dog is also more susceptible to heat as it ages. If you're getting overheated, it's likely your dog is, too. You may notice more panting or your dog being extra tired. Try not to exercise your dog during the hottest part of the day, and if you do go out with your senior dog when it's hot, keep it short., If your dog has been out in the rain, make sure to dry it off thoroughly when it comes inside. As noted, older dogs have a harder time staying warm, and if you leave your dog wet, your dog may find it difficult to warm up, even inside., Another option is to simply have your dog exercise more inside when the weather is bad. You can play a small game of fetch, for instance, or enjoy a game of tug-of-war. You can also just walk around the house, asking your dog to follow you. If your dog can still manage them, stairs are great exercise.