 Feet are susceptible to a lot of damage throughout the day. If you want to maintain nice feet, you should do foot soaks a few times a week.


There's no precise formula for a foot soak. You have to focus on what feels nice to you and your feet. Many people find mixing warm water with epsom salt, sea salt, essential oils like chamomile, or ground oatmeal helps their feet feel soft and clean.Aim to soak your feet around 10 to 20 minutes. Any longer could dry them out.How often you engage in foot soaks depends on your lifestyle. If you're very active throughout the day, a nightly foot soak might be a good idea. However, if your mostly sedentary you may be able to get by with a foot soak a few times a week., Exfoliation is a process where dead skin is removed. It's important to exfoliate your feet on at least a weekly basis as feet are particularly likely to harbor dry, dead skin cells.


You can exfoliate your feet buying special products or gels from beauty stores and drug stores. You can also use homemade scrubs using sea salt or other household products. Ideally, what substance you use to exfoliate should be somewhat grainy as this helps to remove dead skin.To exfoliate, rub a gel or homemade scrub into rough patches on your feet. Focus on heels, between the toes, and the edges of your feet. Scrub hard until you can see some dead skin flakes peeling off. Rinse your feet in warm water afterwards., A good moisturizer is important to adequate foot care. Feet dry out easily. If you want your feet to look their best, moisturize on a daily basis.


You can foot moisturizers in most beauty stores. You can also use regular lotions or moisturizers that you use for other parts of your body. However, moisturizers made specifically for feet may be more effective as they are more powerful. The skin on feet tends to dry out easier than on other parts of the body.Moisturizer after soaking or exfoliating your feet. You should also moisturize after a shower or any activity where you feet got wet., You should always wear shoes that fit you comfortably. Shoes that pinch or are too small can irritate your feet and cause damage. Make sure you always get shoes in your size that are comfortable to walk around in.

