 Look for stiff legs, hair standing up or the baring of teeth. These are signs of aggression, so you should pull the dogs apart and get them doing something else for a minute. You can try introducing them again later.Use their leashes to pull them apart.
Make sure you have two people on hand for the introductions. You will need one person to handle each dog on a leash.
Use an appropriate collar on your senior dog and new dog. Depending on the type of dogs you own, you will need a different collar. Good collars include standard flat collars, back-clip harnesses, front-clip harnesses, and head halters. An appropriate collar will allow you to control and train your dog, including during difficult introductions.Try taking them for separate walks around the block. At the end of their solo walks, try introducing them again. If that doesn’t work, you can try again in a week.
 If your older dog is looking really tired all the time, consider giving them more time away from the new dog or the puppy. You can schedule more alone time for both your senior and your new dog, which will hopefully make their interactions more pleasant and enjoyable.


If your senior dog refuses to get up, they may be experiencing pain. They may also be exhausted from the interactions with the new dog. Give them more time away from the new dog and talk to your veterinarian about any concerning symptoms.
Give your senior dog some alone time with you on the couch. This will be comforting for them and help them adjust to a new dog in the house.
 If your puppy starts yelping or squealing, it means they want the interaction to stop. If this happens and your senior dog does not stop being aggressive, you should separate them. If you do not separate them, it is possible that your older dog will hurt the puppy., Puppies take a while to learn the nuances of dog communication. As such, they will often miss the subtle signals and body language that your senior dog uses to communicate. If this happens, your senior dog may have to resort to a growl to get their message across to your puppy. If this happens, take note of it but do not intervene. In time, your puppy will start picking up more dog language and be better able to listen to your senior dog.

