 Make a pattern for a long tube skirt on a piece of cardboard of heavy cardstock. This skirt can be more form-fitting or it can be a looser tube. It just depends on your needs and how much measuring you want to do. The bottom should be just above the ankles and the waist can go wherever you want it to.


Measure the circumference of your hips. Leave the waist the same size as the hips. An elastic waistband will serve to create the appropriately sized waist. If you want the skirt to be more form-fitting, you can measure at more points as well. Your thigh, knees, upper and lower calves are also good places to measure. Remember that the closer together your legs are when you take the measurements, the more close-fitting and difficult to walk in the skirt will be. Certain cuts may only be possible if using very stretchy fabric. Also measure the distance between the different sections (waist to hips, hips to thigh, thigh to knee, etc.)
Draw a center line on your pattern, the same length as the distance between your waist and your ankles. Using the measurements you took earlier between the sections, mark these distances along the center line. Then, take the circumference measurements and halve them. Mark the halved measurements at each section line. Now draw the pattern for the skirt.
 Cut the fabric using the pattern you have created. Use a similar method and tools to the those described above for the swim tail. You will want to leave extra fabric at the top near the waist in order to make the waistband and, as above, you will want to leave extra room when cutting the fabric for a seam allowance.
 Using the pattern, sew the skirt in a way similar to the method described for the swimming tail above. Leave the bottom and waist similarly open, but also the last few inches of the sides as well as the top inch. At the bottom, cut from the center of the panels up to the point on the side where the seam stops. This cut should be at an angle in such a way as to create an upside-down triangle shape at the bottom of the skirt.
 This flared section of the skirt should be made out of a different and contrasting fabric to the one used to make the rest of the skirt. This will give it the appearance of fins. The same fabric will be used to create the waistband. Using a lighter colored fabric is recommended but use whatever color combination you like best.

Take a long rectangular piece of fabric, the length of which should be roughly 1.5 to 2 times the distance from the point at the front of the skirt to the point at the back of the skirt, though it can be longer. The longer it is, the fuller the bottom of the skirt will be. This fabric will form one fin. A similarly cut piece will be necessary to form the other side, meaning you will need two pieces total.






Sew these pieces front-to-front with the rest of the skirt, doing one side and then the other, in such a way that it creates a ruffled or pleated effect. This will make the fins appear full and hide imperfections.






Cut the corners of the fin fabric so that they are rounded where they meet in the middle. Depending on the fabric you use, you can give the fins very different looks. If using organza, you can cut a wavy edge onto the fabric and finish it with fray-stopping solution. If using a more solid material, you may wish to hem the edges.
 As stated above, elastic will be used to create a fitted waist. Get a length of elastic and cut it to the size of your waist at the point where the band will be. Then, cut this in half. You may wish to leave a very small amount of slack but it is not absolutely necessary. The elastic should not be stretched when it is measured and cut.


With the skirt inside-out, flip the top of the fabric down about an inch or two to form the waist band. How far down will depend on how much fabric you left when you cut it and what your personal preferences are for the appearance. The open inch at the side seam should allow you to form two tubes. Pin the fabric and sew it so that the tubes are formed.






Now, thread the elastics through the tubes, pinning them at each end. Close the tubes by sewing them together. You should now have a closed, stretchy, complete waistband.






Use the remaining contrast fabric to sew a long, wide tube. It should be equal in circumference to the ungathered waistband. Close the tube and then attach it to the waistband. Pinch and gather the fabric and attach it by sewing a few stitches and a decorative item such as a pearl or shell button at the center and again at the back of the skirt. The fabric can then be gathered and tucked into the waistband or left in a draped appearance. Now the skirt is done!







