 There is no early diagnostic for feline pregnancies like there is for humans, so the earliest a pregnancy can be verified is at day 15 via an ultrasound. The following methods, when used by someone who is familiar with them, can be used to diagnose pregnancy in cats:


Abdominal palpitations from day 20 - these should only be undertaken by someone with a lot of experience because you can easily cause a miscarriage if you are too forceful, and there are other parts of her abdomen that may feel lumpy. At this stage, the kittens feel like evenly spaced swellings about the size of un-shelled peanuts. Between day 35 and 49, it's not possible to feel the fetuses due to the sacs of fluid they are contained in.
Ultra-sound - though the presence of kittens can be seen after 15 days, heartbeats appear at day 20.
A test for the hormone relaxin can detect pregnancy in cats after about 25-30 days.Morning sickness during the 3rd or 4th week of pregnancy - this doesn't occur for all cats, and includes apathy, vomiting and bring less interested in food, but only lasts for a day or two, and can easily be missed.
X-ray - past day 43 an x-ray will show the bone-structure of the kittens, and is better than ultrasound at counting the number of kittens.
External signs - by day 35 the nipples will begin to be pink and obvious, and the cat will noticeably increase in size. In the last two weeks, a pear-shaped abdomen will be noticeable. Shortly before giving birth, the cat will develop more noticeable breasts, and a milky fluid may be excreted from the nipples., The normal gestation period for cats is 63-69 days,so if you bred your cat intentionally, it should be easy to calculate her due-date to within a few days. If not, here are some other options for guessing when she will give birth.


A check-up with your veterinarian can provide a very accurate due-date. Your vet will probably use one of the diagnostic methods in determining whether a cat is pregnant to guess how far into her pregnancy she is.
Signs that queening is imminent include vomiting, crying, seeking out a place to have her kittens, and grooming.Remember when you last heard her giving the mating call discussed above (this sound is generally a short-ish, plaintive, hollow sounding yowl that sounds almost like “aah-roo-ugh?”) - this was a sign of the last time she was fertile, and the pregnancy probably began during that week.
Watch the tomcats in the neighborhood - the week they stopped being regularly found around your house is probably when she became pregnant

, You should make an appointment with your vet 2-3 weeks after mating, or as soon as you suspect she is pregnant if it may be more than a month into her pregnancy. At this point, you should get some recommendations for keeping your cat healthy during her pregnancy.


If the pregnancy appears to be normal, then one more visit about a week before the kittens are expected is all that's necessary. The vet will check to make sure that the kittens are healthy, and go over what you should do when they are born. , Cats generally prefer to be left mostly alone when giving birth, but your pet will probably be reassured to know that you are in the vicinity. Some things she will be looking for in a nesting spot are:


Easy access to food, water, and a litter box (but don't put the litter box too close as you don't want to invite an infection!)
It should be in a quiet, dark corner of the house with little traffic.
A box lined with cozy blankets is generally a good idea.
It should be somewhere that the kittens won't accidentally stumble out of - newborn kittens are blind and deaf, and the mother will want to keep them enclosed in a small space until they are old enough to jump out of it.
Remember, if she chooses a spot other than the one you have prepared for her, accept it - moving her will stress her out and may cause her to delay the birth.
 If any of the following occur, take your cat to the veterinarian immediately.


Any yellow-green or bright green discharge
Any bloody discharge
Each kitten born should be followed by a placenta, if the placenta does not emerge, take the cat to a vet to have it removed - do NOT attempt this yourself, it can kill the cat if done incorrectly. If you come upon your cat after she has already had one or two kittens, don't be alarmed if a placenta or two is missing, mother cats eat the placenta to regain the nutrients they contain.
No kittens have been produced 3-4 hours into labor
The queen is distressed, crying, or licking her vulva without producing any kittens., As each kitten is born, the mother should lick it to remove the embryonic sac. This will stimulate the kitten to breathe and move. If the mother doesn't do this, you will need to use sterile hands and a clean towel to remove the embryonic sac and wipe the kittens face clean. If the mother continues to show no interest in the kitten and it begins to shiver, dry it with a clean towel vigorously enough to make it meow (this is still very gently!), this should get the mothers attention.
 Newborn kittens need to eat every few hours. If the litter is especially large, often the smaller, weaker kittens (runts) will be excluded from nursing. Sometimes, there can be a problem with the milk supply as well. Notice if the kittens don't seem to be getting any milk. Consult a vet if the mother doesn't appear to be lactating, they can sometimes stimulate the milk supply, but make sure the kittens get milk as often as they need it. There are two options for replacing a mothers milk supply:


Acquire a surrogate mother - this means a cat who has kittens of the same age but has a very small litter. Cats are generally happy to accept surrogate kittens, provided they have a small enough litter of their own, and the surrogates are of a similar age to their own litter.
Hand feed the runts. To do this you will need milk formula specifically for kittens and a bottle with a teat designed for kittens. If you're having difficulty finding these, contact your vet for assistance. Make sure to follow the instructions on the milk substitute to make it the correct temperature and consistency. Do NOT feed kittens cow milk, this will upset their stomach., The kittens should stay with their mother until they are weaned, but this doesn't mean you can't play with them! Your pet should trust you enough to let you near her kittens, but make sure not to do anything that distresses the mother. Be careful not to let them crawl off furniture like beds or desks as young kittens have no depth perception.

