 Find out where you want to run your fashion show, whether it's in the mall, your schools hallways, the cafeteria, or even your own backyard. Wherever it is secure that location. Always book ahead and ask permission to use a facility,as this will steer you clear of potential problems.


Even if it's your own backyard, make sure your family has no plans to use it that day. The last thing you want is for your parents to be holding a barbecue with their friends while you have a fashion show going on.;
, Are you boho, preppy, gothic, grungy, girly or a mixture? Whatever your fashion style, find the clothes you want to show off. If you are a fashion designer yourself...congrats you can create trendy pieces by yourself and if not, thrift stores might have the key pieces you want to show off, maybe it's a floor-length ball gown..that you want to turn into a short dress with a halter neckline, whatever your purpose a thrift store might have it and if not..the mall is a great place(though sometimes expensive).
 If you have model-worthy friends, or even just pretty friends, this is a great chance to put your friends to great use, whether it's a Becca or an Avery make sure the clothes you want to show off fit the model, or the other way around.


Before the actual show, this is the time every girls been waiting for..the chance to show off overly bright, ridiculous, makeup you see on the runways in Milan, and Paris. Also fabulous hairstyles can turn around even the worst outfit, now's the time to tease, straighten, curl, crimp, and do whatever you want to your friends hair.
If you are really serious about your fashion show you can call in reinforcements such as a hairdresser, and possibly an aunt who can get everyone dressed and runway ready.
 If you plan on a BIG fashion show with guests and everything, mail out invites to your guest list.

Make a date, time, and even seating arrangements beforehand, you don't want your guests showing up and having to wait an hour before everything and everyone is ready. Appetizers and drinks can make your fashion show a party. Pick up appetizers such as fruit trays, fresh cut veggies and cheese and crackers.
If you are underage when it comes to drinks,fruit punch in fancy wine glasses can take your fashion show to a whole new level, juices like lemonade are also great on a sunny, summer afternoon.
 Select a few honest friends, or family members to be a judge panel. Give them the 1-10 cards so they can hold up the number they think the outfit you created was like. 1 being the lowest, 10 the highest.



Wake up early.
Make sure everyone you had seating plans for has RSVP'd.
Make sure all the chairs and food and drinks are set up before everyone gets there. If you are going to be too busy taking care of your friends, you can always hire a caterer or even just ask good ol' grandma to set everything up.
Make sure to take lots of pictures, and have fun. It's your big day. Do NOT let stress ruin this fashion show you worked so hard. If something's not done right, like you forgot to set napkin rings out..carry on.
Don't dwell on the things that haven't turned out perfect. Think of all the things that are going smoothly all thanks to you. And remember to be a gracious hostess. Never take your anger out on your guest.
