 Some of the more unpleasant physical symptoms of fear include an accelerated heartbeat, perspiration, and a knotted or upset stomach. You can ease these symptoms by breathing deeply and slowly. As you focus on a physical process you can control, you distract yourself from the spiraling mental and emotional processes in your head.You can sit upright or lie flat on your back while practicing deep breathing. Inhale slowly through your nose so that you feel your lungs and abdomen expand, then exhale slowly through your mouth., Your imagination can be a powerful tool against fear. By picturing yourself in a place you associate with happiness and personal security, you distance yourself from current anxiety and replace negative feelings with positive ones.For example, picture a sunset-shouldered beach, your cozy bed at home, a favorite retreat from childhood, or a secluded cabin in the middle of the forest.
 It will take some practice, but meditation is one of the best ways to distract yourself from and eventually overcome fear. It helps you empty your mind of negative or worrying thoughts, focus on present physical sensations, and attain a sense of balance and self-control.


If you’re new to meditation, start by practicing in three to five minute sessions and focus on your breathing and minute-by-minute physical sensations., One of the best ways to get rid of negative thoughts and feelings of dread is to reorient the tone of these thoughts. Instead of worrying about bad things that could happen, focus on the positive aspects of life and yourself that you already have. Not only can this method be effective for surviving and overcoming temporary bouts of fear, but it can have long-term impacts on social confidence and self-control.For example, think about something good you did for someone the previous day or week, appreciate your family members or friends to whom you’re grateful, review an inventory of things you like about yourself, or recall a fun memory.
 While peaceful music might not be sufficiently distracting in high-stress situations or panic attacks, it can be a useful distraction during moments of mild, customary discomfort. For example, switch on some slow-tempo tunes when you’re waiting to board a flight and have a case of pre-flight nerves or you’re on the way to a job interview.Classical, jazz, trance, and blues can all be particularly calming genres of music.
 There’s nothing wrong with sipping a glass of wine when you want to unwind, but you shouldn’t rely on this substance to get you through bouts of fear and anxiety. Not only are drugs and alcohol only temporarily distracting, but they can actually make fears worse and anxiety pattern cyclical.