 You can set it up as a domain controller and configure Active Directory Server to manage users and on the network. This gives you a management tool for managing user passwords, login scripts and group membership. Groups and organizational units are configured in Active Directory to have access and privileges on network resources. The server can also run as a DNS server to make it easier for computers on the network to find network resources.;
, Follow the installation wizard to create a new domain and forest. Once the installation is complete, restart the Windows server.
 Click on "Administrative Tools" and "Active Directory Users and Computers." Expand the domain. Right-click "Users" and select "New" and "User." Make the user a member of the Domain administrators group.
 They can be assigned different rights, settings and group membership.
 An internal DNS server resolves names within your network so that computers can communicate with each other. To install, go to the Control Panel. Click "Add or Remove Programs" and select "Add/Remove Windows Components." Highlight "Networking Services" and select "Details." Check off "Domain Name System (DNS)" and click OK. Proceed through the installation process, including naming the DNS server, until DNS is installed.
 Access DNS Manager from "Administrative Tools" and the "DNS" program. Right click the DNS server name. Create a lookup zone by following the steps in the wizard. For small networks with an external DNS server, use the option to create a forward lookup zone.
 For the zone name, use your organization's internal domain name. Create a zone file, or use an existing zone file copied from another DNS server. For first time installations, use the option to create a new zone file. Specify "do not allow dynamic updates."

, A Forwarder is your external DNS server that is provided by your Internet Service Provider. Queries to outside websites are forwarded from your internal DNS server to the external one. Enter the IP address of your external DNS server.
 A host is any server or computer in the network that other computers access, such as web servers and email servers. Enter the name of the host, the domain name and the IP address. Add all hosts, and exit the program.
 Right click "My Network Places" on the PC and select "Properties." Right click "Local Area Connection" and "Properties." Select the "Use the following DNS server addresses" and enter the IP address of your DNS server. If you are using a DHCP server, set up the DNS server there to be automatically distributed to the computers on your network. You will also need to configure each computer to be part of the domain.

