 What are the things that you are trying to do right, and why are you doing these things? You might be referring to a specific task or set of tasks – or you might just want to do things "right," in general, over the scope of your life.


If you want to do a specific thing right—say, court a girl the right way, or complete a sensitive task at work—then you need to know what it means to do that thing right. If it's a task at work, then your supervisor or employer has probably given you some guidelines to define what you're supposed to be doing. If you are trying to treat a girl right, you'll need to answer the question: "right" in whose eyes?
If you want to learn to do more things "right," then it might help to examine what you mean. Do you want to be more precise, more structured, and more mindful? Do you want to bring your deeds in line with a certain moral code or value system? Do you want to impress or appease someone?;
, Check in with yourself: are you doing these things to satisfy your own sense of purpose, or only to please someone else? If you're acting to please someone else, think about why you want to please this person. Ensure that they aren't taking advantage of you and your time. Trust yourself, and remember that you always have a say in the matter., Correctness can be deeply subjective, depending on the goals, people, and tasks in question. Thus, in order to do things right, you'll need to answer the question: right in whose eyes? Decide whether you are going by your own concept of "right," or trying to do something right for someone else, or sticking to a broader value system that determines right and wrong.


If you are trying to do something right according to your own standards, then ask yourself what is important to you. Is it more "right" to be precise, or to be thoughtful, or to be truthful?
If you are trying to do something for someone else, then you'll need to ask them to be clear about what they want. You're going by their concept of correctness, so it is their responsibility to clearly communicate their vision.
If you are trying to stick to a standard or a value system, try to learn the system as well as you can. Immerse yourself in this set of rules or way of thinking. Try to internalize it – but not without a grain of salt!