 A simple procedure as a warm bath for your hips and buttocks can be very effective against the discomfort associated with the illness. The simple remedy eases symptoms like irritation, itching, and sphincter muscle spasms.


Fill your bathtub with 12–13 inches (30.5–33.0 cm) of warm water and simply sit there for about 20 minutes. Follow the procedure after each bowel movement, and 2 or 3 times in addition to that. After the bath is over, simply pad the anal area dry with a soft towel.;
, Ice packs placed on the anal area for a couple of minutes will help soothe the pain and irritation, by reducing the blood flow. Apply ice packs to your anus 3-4 times a day. Application of cold will constrict the blood vessels and reduce the swelling. The dilated veins will also shrink facilitating return into the anus.


Do not rub the ice packs against your anus. Instead, hold it steady for about 5 minutes. Rubbing may cause injury and ulceration.
 Witch hazel is an astringent, meaning it will reduce inflammation and itching. Soak some baby wipes in witch hazel and wipe the affected area. Use the same motion as when using toilet paper. The remedy should be used after every bowel movement, until the symptoms disappear.You may also leave the pad on the area for 10 minutes or so and allow it to soak in. Then be sure to discard of the wipe.
 If the hemorrhoidal mass does not return into the anus spontaneously you can gently push it back with fingers. Apply some lubricant such as lignocaine jelly on your index finger and gently push the mass from its side., He or she will provide you with one of two options:



Hydrocortisone suppositories. Hydrocortisone is a steroid hormone, which helps you get rid of the anus or rectum swelling and itching associated with Piles. Use the medication following the doctor’s directions. Usually, hydrocortisone suppositories are administered 2 or 3 times per day, for 7 to 10 days.

Local anesthetics. Drugs like Pramoxine will relieve pain and itching. Apply the medication directly on the area after each bowel movement up to 4 times per day. The medication should not be used inside the rectum. Use the treatment for about 7 days.
 Continuous stress on the damaged area will only make the symptoms worse. Sit on a rubber cushion or a pillow, for more comfort. This will prevent the formation of new hemorrhoids and help reduce the size of the existing ones.


Avoid standing or sitting for prolonged periods. Prolonged standing or sitting will pull down the blood to lower parts of the body and increase venous pressure. Change your position regularly to avoid this.
 When talking about exercise helping you with your hemorrhoid problems, don’t think big. A simple 20-30 minute jog will stimulate a bowel movement, thus reducing additional pressure on the affected area.


However, avoid weightlifting or other strenuous exercises because they can aggravate the problem by increasing abdominal pressure.
 When you feel the need to defecate, do not wait, just go to the bathroom as soon as possible. Postponing a bowel movement can cause he fecal matter to back up inside the rectum, creating even more pressure to the affected area, increasing discomfort and inflammation.Avoid constipation. Each time you strain, the anal veins dilate a bit. If you can avoid constipation the veins will get adequate time to shrink and go back to a normal state. Drink plenty of water (2-3 liters daily). It will keep you hydrated and prevent constipation.
 A diet rich in fiber will soften your stool, making it easy to pass, thus reducing inflammation and preventing constipation. Fiber will also reduce bleeding and the size of the hemorrhoids. You need to introduce fiber in your diet at a slow rate, starting gradually, and increasing the amount up to 25-30 grams per day.Fiber is found in vegetables like beans, broccoli, oat bran and wheat, as well as fresh fruit.
You can also introduce food supplements to your diet, such as Citrucel or Metamucil. Use these supplements by mixing one or two tablespoons in a glass of water and drink it up to three times per day.
 The main vein (inferior vena cava) draining blood from lower parts of the body lies on the right side of the abdomen. Your uterus will compress it if you lie on your right side. Veins will be congested with blood aggravating the situation.
 It is important to prevent any kind of infection. An infected hemorrhoid easily gets thrombosed and leads to bleeding and unbearable pain. It is best to use pre-moistened wipes to clean the anal area after using the toilet.


Dry toilet papers are rough and rubbing with them may cause ulceration or bleeding.Do not use colored or perfumed wipes. Chemicals used in them are frequently irritant substances that may lead to itching and discomfort.

