 A successful recycling program depends on the support of students, teachers, staff, administrators and custodians. Form a committee that's made up of individuals from each of these populations to develop a program that takes into account everyone's needs and addresses everyone's concerns.


Designate one person as the representative for each group so that they can explain the need for recycling to their peers and ask for their support. They can also help communicate program developments and changes and be the "point person" for questions that arise.
 In some cities, paper recycling is the law and collected paper will be picked up on scheduled trash days. In other locations, you'll need to find a drop-off point or pick-up service to take your paper. The website Earth911 has a search feature that allows you find recycling services in your area. You can also search online to find a local materials recovery center or recycling drop-off center and see if they'll accept your paper.


If you can't find a drop-off center for your paper, you may have to explore paying for a pick-up service to haul it away. Research costs associated with this to be sure if will ultimately benefit your school.
 Depending on how and where you'll dispose of your recycled paper, you may have to limit or separate what you collect. Some collection locations will accept "single stream," meaning a variety of paper grades mixed in one collection box, or they'll want "sorted stream" drop-offs, meaning you'll need to separate papers by grades (there are five basic paper grade types.) Certain types may not be accepted at all. Find out what and how your collection agency takes and structure your program accordingly.



Old corrugated containers. Also known as “corrugated cardboard,” this kind of paper is typically found in boxes and product packaging.

Mixed paper. This broad category includes things like mail, catalogs, phone books and magazines.

Old newspapers. The name of this category says it all.

High grade de-inked paper. Your school will undoubtedly have the most of this kind of paper, which includes things such as envelopes, copy paper and letterhead.

Pulp substitutes. This paper is usually discarded scraps from mills, so it's unlikely you'll have to worry about it, although there's always a chance that it could be a part of paper products your school buys.
 See if your local recycling center can provide you with collection boxes; otherwise, purchase some plastic tubs to serve the purpose. Keep them all the same color and/or clearly mark them as paper collection boxes so that no one accidentally puts garbage in them.


If you must sort your paper, use labels or images of the kinds of paper that should be deposited into each different box.
 Not only do you need everyone on board for your program to be a success, but everyone should be well informed and clear as to how the program works. Consider asking environmental science or social studies instructors to devote a class period to discussing the guidelines of the recycling program. Or plan to have educational assemblies for explaining the program, including information about what kind(s) of paper is being accepted and the location of the collection bins.


Create a reference card with information about the program to distribute to everyone in the school. Or, to save paper, create a web site or page on your school's site where everyone can reference program guidelines.
 You'll need a place where you can store the collected paper between recycling drop offs or pick ups. The copy machine room may be a good choice or perhaps a section of a large storage closet.


Put safety first and do not allow large piles of paper to block exits or be stored near flammable chemicals. Check with your local code enforcement office to make certain you're in compliance with all applicable building and fire codes.
 Once your recycling program is off the ground, keep people excited about it by reporting on it's progress and recycling and savings goals you meet.


Make weekly or monthly announcements over the PA system or via your school's closed circuit television of the amount of paper that's been recycled to date. Remind everyone of the importance of maintaining the program and use the opportunity to clarify any confusion and address any questions or concerns that have been raised.
Plan field trips to your local recycling center or invite guest speakers to come to your school to discuss the value of a recycling program and its positive financial and environmental impact.
 If your school is reluctant to establish a recycling program, ask if you can conduct a simple paper waste audit to find out what is being thrown out and from where. Once you can show your school the amount of waste paper being generated and thrown out, those in charge may be more motivated to adopt recycling.

