 Only certain, serious reasons are valid for terminating someone's parental rights without permission. In general, you must be able to show that the child is harmed by contact with the parent. The exact requirements vary depending on location, so check the following:


If you are in the United States, search this list at childwelfare.gov to find the exact requirements for your state. The advice below focuses on the US process.
If you are in the European Union, search for your country's legislation at justice.europa.eu.
Search online if you live in another country. In most regions, physical or sexual abuse, neglect, mental illness, or drug abuse are grounds for termination.;
, Hiring a lawyer is never required, but it may increase your odds of success and speed up the process. If you cannot afford to hire one, ask the courthouse about free or reduced-price law services. This is recommended whenever possible, but especially for the following cases:


The termination is involuntary (the parent does not agree).
Anyone involved in the case is mentally ill.
Anyone involved in the case is an American Indian. Federal law may apply.
 Search for a local courthouse online or ask at your local center of government. In the USA, use the uscourts.gov website and look for a nearby District Court in your state. Once you've found a court, phone and ask the following questions:


Ask whether this is the correct courthouse to petition for parental rights termination. If not, ask for the phone number of the correct court.
Ask for the specific document your local court uses. Not all courts will have a document available.
Ask how many copies of the document you'll need to bring. (Keep one for yourself as well.)

, Fill out the documents the court supplied and bring them to the courthouse. If the court did not have documents, you will need to create your own. The court will only accept these if you follow strict guidelines while writing them. Try to get advice from a lawyer, courthouse employee, or law librarian. In the US, you'll typically need two documents:


You'll need a petition explaining the situation and citing the law that allows you to request termination. Use the code number for your state statute here. Some courthouses may use two forms: a Statement of Legal Grounds and the petition itself.
You'll also need a Summons, which is given to the defendant to start the process.
Besides the content of the documents, your court probably also has requirements for how they look. Ask the courthouse for a guide on handwriting, typeface, and page layout.
 After filing papers at the court, the court employee should give you one copy to keep and one copy to give to the person whose rights you want to terminate. In most cases, you cannot serve these papers yourself. Have them delivered by hand, through a US citizen over the age of 18 who is not involved in the case.That person may need to fill out a proof of service form and file it with the court immediately.


Some states have special requirements. To be safe, look them up online or ask at the courthouse before you attempt to serve the papers.
Deliver these papers promptly. If you don't give them enough advance warning before the hearing, the judge may cancel the hearing.
 You will need to have evidence or documentation of incidents or issues relating to your attempt to terminate a parent's rights in order to prove your case. Organize your evidence and make sure any documentation meets all the legal requirements to be entered in the case. The court may appoint an investigator who can give you more specific advice.


If you plan on calling witnesses, you'll need to fill out more paperwork in advance. Ask the courthouse for the forms used in your area.
 A court hearing or series of hearings will be scheduled after your petition for termination of parental rights has been filed and reviewed. Attend all the scheduled hearings. Bring all the documentation you prepared.


It's up to the judge whether the child is required to attend the hearings., When asking the courts to terminate another parent's rights, it's important that you conduct yourself as a respectable, responsible adult. This will be an emotional issue, but it's important that the judge views you as level-headed and mature. Dress professionally, arrive on time and be calm and respectful in the courtroom.


Refer to the judge as "your honor." Never interrupt the judge.
 Once the courts have granted your request to terminate parental rights, paperwork will be issued removing their rights to the child. Obtain this documentation for your own records to ensure that the child's rights are protected and that the court's decision is upheld in any future disputes.


In some states, you may need to fill out a form yourself or write your own document for the judge to sign.

