 Flame retardants are one of the biggest concerns people have when it comes to organic mattresses. The main concern is the retardant-polyurethane foam, which can releases chemicals into the air known as polybrominated-biphenyl-ethers (PBDEs). These chemicals can stay in the system for a long time, and you will breathe them in when you sleep on a mattress that contains polyurethane foam.Look for a mattress that does not use polyurethane foam as a flame retardant. Check the ingredients label and, if necessary, ask a worker at the store about any flame retardants the mattress includes.
While polyurethane foam is the main concern, other flame retardants can also be dangerous. Chlorinated tris is a chemical frequently used as a flame retardant that may be carcinogenic. Firemaster 550 is a cocktail that contains a variety of potentially harmful chemicals.;
, Synthetic latex may not be as dangerous as other non-organic materials. The way latex is produced often includes the use of potentially carcinogenic materials in order to get latex soft enough for comfort. While more research is needed, synthetic latex may not be the best material for an organic mattress.Remember, even natural latex is processed in a manner that uses potentially harmful chemicals. No latex is 100% organic, so you should consider other materials besides latex when settling on an organic mattress.
 Boric acid is used as a pesticide in many mattresses. It is frequently used in the lining of mattresses to ward off pests like roaches and bed bugs. When you sleep on a mattress that contains boric acid, you're being exposed to small levels of the chemical over time. This can cause health problems, such as blistering of the skin. Babies exposed to boric acid may experience convulsions.Boric acid can be particularly dangerous for infants and young children. If you're buying a mattress for a baby or child, you should be particularly vigilant about avoiding mattresses that use boric acid.
 Formaldehyde is a chemical often used in mattresses and other household products. When inhaled over a long period of time, this can cause health issues like burning in the eyes and nose, coughing, and skin irritation. When selecting a mattress, make sure the product does not contain any formaldehyde., Mattress stores are not required to tell you about the materials used in their products. Ingredients can only tell you so much. Even if a chemical is not listed on a mattress's ingredients, the mattress may still have been exposed to that chemical at some point. Always research a mattress on your own end before making a purchase.An internet search can tell you a lot about the mattress. You can google the brand or company for a more extensive list of chemicals used in a given mattress.
 As labels like organic and natural can be misleading, where you shop makes a big impact on the quality of your product. Look for a store in your area that matches your values. A store dedicated to selling organic bedding specifically is likely to provide greater variety of legitimately organic materials. Workers in stores that sell organic bedding will also be better equipped to answer your questions.If you can't find an organic mattress store in your area, look for a place online.
 You want to make sure you're getting your mattress from the right place. At a store truly committed to supplying organic materials, workers will not hesitate to answer any questions you have.You should ask for how much of a mattress's materials are organic. Some mattresses may be labeled organic, but only use around 10% organic material.
Ask about how a mattress was made. Even mattresses made with organic material may have been exposed to harmful chemicals in a factory.
At a legitimate business, workers should be able to tell you everything you need to know about where a mattress comes from and how it was made. You should also do some research on your end, however, just to confirm the claims.
 Organic wool is not produced with any harmful toxins or chemicals. It's generally the best material to go for when selecting an organic mattress. Wool is able to regulate body temperature well, reduces back pain, and absorbs sweat. A wool mattress will keep you comfortable at night without exposing you to anything harmful.Make sure the wool in your mattress is certified organic. This means the exposure to pesticides and other chemicals is greatly limited.
Wool also has natural fire retardant properties, allowing you purchase a fire safe mattress not treated with harmful chemicals., Organic mattresses can be very expensive. If a 100% organic mattress is not in your price range, go for an organic cover. A 100% organic wool cover can provide some protection from chemicals used in an non-organic mattress without costing a lot of money.You can also simply place a cotton sheets over your mattress. These tend to be largely organic and can provide some protection between your body and a mattress.
As with purchasing an organic mattress, make sure to do your own research on any cover you purchase. You want to make sure a mattress cover is genuinely organic.
 If you find the right organic mattress, you do not want to undo your efforts by using sheets made with harmful chemicals. In addition to purchasing an organic mattress, make sure to buy sheets made from organic materials.Wool is usually the highest quality, most organic material you can buy in terms of sheets. Go for 100% organic wool, if possible, when selecting sheets.
Organic cotton can be frustrating, as it wrinkles easier. However, materials used in wrinkle-resistant cotton can be toxic. You may also find organic cotton is slightly rougher, but it will soften over time.
If you go for bamboo bedding, make sure it's chemical free.
 Not all organic labels are equally trustworthy. Many labels come from third party certifiers, which may have lax standards. When it comes to organic labels, there are two labels you should look for to assure your product is truly organic: the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) and the Global Organic Latex Standard (GOLS).The GOTS assures that 95% of the materials used are certified organic. It also bans the use of certain chemicals, including polyurethane, even used in amounts as low as 5%.
The GOLS is what you should look for if you're going for a latex mattress. This assures organic latex is used in the mattress. A truly organic latex mattress will have both the GOLS label and the GOTS label.
 Some labels do not assure that a mattress is completely organic, and can be very misleading. If you see such labels, it does not necessarily mean the mattress is not organic. However, you should look for GOTS and GOLS labels in addition to these labels, as well as do some research on your end.The Organic Content Standard 100 does assure consumers that organic materials are used to make the mattress. However, it does not mean the mattress does not contain certain flame retardants or chemical-laden dyes.
The CertiPUR-US only assures the foam used in a mattress is organic. Other components of the mattress may contain harmful chemicals.
 While this label may seem legitimate, USDA requirements for certifying something organic are somewhat lax. A USDA label only assures a small portion of a mattress's components are certified organic. The mattress may very well contain a variety of harmful materials., Even the best labels do not provide 100% assurance that a mattress is organic. Even mattresses made from over 90% organic materials may be exposed to chemicals at a factory. Before using a mattress, air it out for 48 hours. This will help get rid of any chemicals the mattress was exposed to in a factory or mattress store.