 For books without covers or to protect your textbooks, make a paper cover for your book. You can cover your books with foreign or old newspapers, old or new maps, sheet music, old wall paper, a brown paper bag, etc.. Unless you are covering a smaller book, you will need a large piece of paper to make your cover. It will need to be at least double the length of your book and three inches taller than the height of your book. , To find the width of the book, lay the book open and measure the width with a measuring tape or ruler. Then add 6 inches, 3 inches to cover both sides of the book. Next measure the height of the book and add 3 inches, 1 ½ inches to cover the top and bottom of the book.


Using a ruler, mark a faint line with a pencil on your paper the dimensions of your cover, and then with a sharp pair of scissors, cut your paper to size.
Avoid laying the book out so that a previous crease that was in a bag or on your paper aligns with a cover edge. If your paper is already worn, it will tear more easily when it is on an edge of the book., Close your book and center it on the paper. Faintly mark the edges of the top and bottom of the book then add an extra ¼ inch so that the book will fit inside of the cover. Take the book off the paper, and fold the paper up to the spot marked and make your fold into a crease. Repeat the process with the top of the book; fold the paper down and create your crease about a 1/4 inch above the top of the book.


Go back over the creases you have made in the paper with a pen or bone folder. You want your creases to be crisp and clean, especially if you are using heavy paper. , Use double-sided tape to tape down the folds you have just made so that they do not flap. The double sided tape will help the cover stays snug on the book once it is covered. Place the tape toward the center of your cover, leaving about three inches at both sides for your book to fit in the cover.
 Lay your book open flat on the paper and center the book so that both sides have the same amount of paper for the flaps. Press your book down so it does not move, and fold the paper over the right side of the book and create a crease. Go back over the crease, more lightly than before, with the side of your pen or your bone folder. To accommodate for the thickness of the cover, do not make the creases too heavy.


With the flap in the right side of the book, close the book and wrap the paper around the book and mark where you want to fold the paper to make the last flap. Take the book of the paper, and crease the flap for the left side of the book. Go over the crease with your bone folder or pen again, but remember to keep the crease lighter.
 Gently place the back of the book into the fold on the back of your paper cover. Then wrap the paper cover around the book and tuck the top cover of the book carefully into the front of the paper cover. 