 Some schools offer different options for shirts, skirts, and pants. Visit your school's uniform shop and see what options there are.You may find various styles of shirts, pants, and skirts to choose from.;
, If your school offers shirts, pants, and skirts in different colors, try to mix and match. You want to pair light colors with dark colors. Don't wear a dark-colored bottom with a dark-colored top, or a light-colored bottom with a light-colored top. Too much of one color will look bland and boring.


If your school offers pants, skirts, and shirts in both khaki and navy, pair the khaki pants/skirt with the navy shirt, or the navy pants/skirt with the khaki shirt

, Just because your school requires black pants and white shirts doesn't mean that you have to look like everyone else. If your school doesn't have any requirements other than color, try a pant style that suits your figure—but that is also accepted by the dress code. For example:Get a pair of boot-cut pants. They are classic and tend to look great on just about everyone. (They bring out the hips and long legs too!)
If skinny pants are against the dress code, try a pair of straight-leg pants that have thinner legs. You will get something that is still slender and flattering without going against the dress code.
If you have shorter legs and want to make them appear longer, try a pair of straight-leg or high-waist pants. They will help your legs appear longer.
 If your school doesn't have any specifications on what shirt you wear other than it has to be a certain color and cannot be a T-shirt, don't despair; there are many styles to choose from. There are polo shirts, short-sleeved button-up shirts, long-sleeved button-up shirts, and blouses.


If your dress code allows it, get a solid colored shirt with some trim on it. For example, you can choose a white, long-sleeved button-up shirt with a black color, cuffs, and buttons.If you choose to wear a blouse, pair it with a cute belt around your waist. It'll make the blouse appear less baggy and bring out your figure.
 If you don't like wearing skirts, consider a skort instead. They are shorts with a flap of fabric across the front, making them appear like a skirt.


If you do like wearing skirts but don't like how careful you have to be in them, wear a pair of form-fitting shorts underneath, such as bike shorts or gym shorts. Choose a color that is close to your skirt color, and make sure that the shorts are shorter than your skirt so that the cuffs don't peek through.
 Some schools will have some restrictions on schools, including style on color, but others will not. Try pairing your uniform with sandals, boots, colored flats, or shoes with an interesting pattern.If your school has strict rules on shoes, try something with a slightly taller heel. Not only will it look stylish, but it will also make your legs appear longer.
If you have to wear a specific style and/or color, see if you can change the shoelaces. A different set of shoelaces can add that much-needed spark of color or personality to your uniform.
 If the dress code permits, pair your skirt with some knee-high socks or colorful tights. They can be solid colored or patterned. Not only will this allow your individuality to shine through, but it will also keep you warm on cold days.


If you have to wear a plaid skirt, put on a pair of solid colored tights or knee-high socks. Try wearing black, grey, or white.
If you have to wear a solid-colored skirt, put on a pair of patterned tights or knee-high socks. Argyle is a classic pattern that is also flattering on most.
If you don't like wearing tights or knee-high socks, try crew socks in another color or with some trim. For example, you could wear a pair of red crew socks or white crew socks with a delicate lace trim.
 Some dress codes might not allow non-uniform jackets or sweaters, but this doesn't mean that you have to freeze during the winter. Visit your school's uniform shop and see if you can get a sweatshirt or jacket with your name on the back and your school name on the front. Not only will you keep yourself warm during those chilly winter months, but you will be showing off your school spirit.


If the dress code is lenient and doesn't have any restrictions on outerwear, opt for something simple and solid-colored. For example, if you have to wear a dark green plaid skirt and a khaki shirt, try a dark green cardigan or a black blazer.
 Hats can lend your uniform a chic, stylish look with minimal effort. They can be worn during any season, although the they might have to come off once you are indoors. Try a neutral-colored newsboy hat or a beret the same color as your uniform. Stay away from casual hats, such as baseball caps and visors. For example:


If your uniform has a red plaid skirt and a white blouse, wear a red felt beret for a chic, polished look.
If your uniform has khaki pants and a navy polo shirt, try a plaid newsboy hat in brown or plaid for a quick stylish look.
 By styling your hair, you can show off your creativity and individuality.Some places have guidelines on how you can style your hair, so altering your hairstyle daily may not be possible, but many don't have such restrictions. Choose a hairstyle that works with your hair length and compliments your face shape.


If you have short hair, you can spike it up with some gel or mousse, or you can brush it off to the side.
If you have longer hair, you can wear it pulled back into a ponytail, piled up into a bun, braided, or French braided. You can also simply create a side part and brush it off to one side.
Try varying the hairstyle from day to day. For example, you can go with an up-do (such as a bun) one day, and a low style (such as a flipped ponytail) the next.
 Buy a headband, clip, or ribbon that matches your uniform's color, and add it to your hairstyle. Similarly, you can wear hair accessories that fit the season or holiday, such as pumpkins and neutral colors during Autumn, and flowers and pastels during Spring.


If you cannot find a hair accessory that matches your uniform, you can make your own by purchasing a blank metal barrette and hot gluing fabric or ribbon to it.
 A little bit of makeup can not only help your natural beauty shine, but it can also help boost your confidence and highlight your best features. Choose neutral colors if you can, or one focal point on your face. Don't overdo your makeup. This is school, after all, and not a night out. For example:


If you want to wear bright red lipstick, pair it with a neutral eyeshadow.
If you want to wear a bold eyeshadow and lots of mascara, don't pair it with bright lipstick. Put on a light coat of lip gloss instead.
 Scarves don't have to be made from scratchy wool; they can be made from silk and worn around your neck. Try wrapping a solid-colored silk scarf around your neck and knotting it off to the side for a chic, stylish look. If you want something that looks more cute, try tying it like a bow tie instead, and center it in front of your neck. Use colors that match your uniform. If you want to be bold, try a bright color. For example:


If you have to wear a tan skirt and a white blouse, add some color to your uniform by wrapping a red silk scarf around your neck and tying it in a cute bow.
For a chic, polished look, pair a solid-colored silk scarf knotted around your neck with a solid-colored beret.
 Jewelry can add some extra sparkle and shine to your uniform, and set you apart from everyone else. If your dress code permits, pair your uniform with some jewelry. It can be simple and subdued or expressive and extravagant. Choose something that looks good on you, but that doesn't violate the dress code.


Simple jewelry includes: stud or post earrings, pins, a delicate chain necklace with a small pendant, or a thin wire bracelet.
Statement jewelry includes: hoop or dangling earrings, necklaces made from large beads or containing large pendants, and thick and colorful bracelets or bangles.
 Uniform cardigans, jackets, and sweaters don't have to look simple and dull; you can make yours more unique by adding a patch or small pin. For example:


You can wear a small pin with your initial and birthstone on the collar or lapel of your jacket.
You can apply a patch to the front of your jacket, or sweater. For example, you can iron or stitch an embroidered patch with your school emblem to the left shoulder of your jacket, right over the heart.
 You can make your uniform pants more colorful and unique by adding a belt. Try pairing khaki uniform pants with a brown belt, and navy or black uniform pants with a black belt. If you want to be bold, you can wear a belt in a bright color, such as red or rainbow. You can also wear a leather belt with tooled or embossed designs on it.
 Just because you have to wear a plain uniform that looks like everyone else's doesn't mean that your bag or backpack should. Buy a bag or backpack with bright or interesting patterns. You can also go with a leather bag or a simple, solid-colored tote.


Consider having two bags or backpacks that you alternate throughout the year. Not only will you have another bag to use in case one breaks partway through the year, but it will add some variety to your outfits.
You can add more style and personality to your bag with some keychains, patches, and pins. Choose ones that reflect your interests. For example, if you like to read comic books, add a few keychains depicting your favorite comic book heroes.
 When buying your uniform, get a size that fits you properly. You might have to get a size that is larger or smaller than the one you usually wear.


Shirts: The shoulder seam of your shirt should rest on the edge of your shoulder without drooping down your arm. The cuffs of a long-sleeved shirt should come down to just past your wrists.Pants: You want the pants to rest comfortably around your waist or hips without sagging down. Sagging uniform pants will not have the same effect as sagging jeans. The cuffs should reach your ankles.
Skirts: The skirt should rest comfortably around your waist without sagging down. The length of the skirt will vary, depending on the dress code. Some places will require the skirt to end right at the knee, while others will accept skirts that are no shorter than 3-5 inches above the knee.
 If the waistband of your pants or skirt fits comfortably, but the rest of the garment is too long, you can hem the bottom. Simply fold the pant cuffs (or the bottom of the skirt) until you reach the desired length, and stitch it down. Be sure to use a thread color that matches the garment.


You can hem your pants or skirt using a sewing machine, but if you are renting the uniform, then hand-stitch the hem instead. This will make it easier to remove the stitching when you have to return the uniform.
 Uniforms are not meant to be worn like casual outfits, so tuck your shirt into the waistband of your pants or skirt, even if you don't usually tuck your shirt in. This lends a clean, crisp, and professional appearance, which in turn will improve the uniform's overall appearance on you.
 Sagging jeans may look cool, but sagging uniform pants will look sloppy. They will also most likely will violate the dress code.


If your pants are too loose, you may have to purchase ones with a smaller waistband, or secure them with a belt.
 A clean uniform will not automatically make a you look clean; you have to take care of yourself as well. This includes bathing every day, cleaning under your nails, brushing your teeth and combing your hair, and washing your face.
 When your uniform gets dirty, turn it inside-out, and wash it using cold water, then remove it right after the cycle ends. Turning your uniform inside-out before washing helps prevent fibers from piling,and a cold wash cycle will help preserve colors. A dirty, wrinkled uniform will look unkempt and messy, which will take away from its appearance.


Be sure to read the tag so you will know what materials your uniform is made from. Some fabrics might require warm water, while others cannot be washed at all. Cold water, however, is generally the safest and gentlest on fabric.
Try to air dry your uniform, as the drying cycle may damage the fibers. When air drying your uniform, keep it out of the sun to prevent fading.
Don't dry clean your uniform unless the tag's instructions say so. Some uniforms may be damaged by dry cleaning.
 When you are not wearing your uniform, either hang it up in your closet, or fold it up and store it in your dresser. This will prevent wrinkles from forming, and keep your uniform clean longer.
 Wrinkles will detract from your uniform's appearance, so you will need to iron them out if they form. Read the tag on your uniform to find out what material your uniform is made out of, as this will help you determine what setting to use on your iron. Cotton fabrics generally require a higher setting than synthetic fabrics, such as polyester. Don't iron your uniform if it is dirty, as you risk sealing the dirt in.


If tag says not to iron, then don't iron your uniform. Instead, hang your uniform in the bathroom while you are taking a shower. The hot steam will remove the wrinkles.
 When you leave school, put your uniform away. This will help prolong the longevity of your uniform, and keep it clean longer., Sometimes, fibers may attach themselves to your uniform, which will detract from its appearance, but a lint roller will remove them quickly and easily. You can purchase lint rollers in pet stores, super markets (usually in the laundry detergent section or the pet supply section), or in a fabric or arts and crafts store.


If you don't have a lint roller and you find that fibers have attached themselves to your uniform, you can remove them with a piece of tape. Simply tear off a bit of tape, press it over the effected area, and then remove it.
 When your uniform develops a small tear or rip, or a button comes off, mend it by hand-sewing the damage. Be sure to use a thread color that matches the fabric or button, and that you are using the smallest stitches you can.


If your uniform pants or jacket develop a hole in the knee or elbow area, get rid of it—or donate it. Ripped jeans may look cool, but ripped uniform pants will only look old and messy.

