 Most of the time, the most important criteria of your question is how likely it is to solicit a response with substance. Specificity is your ally in this regard; choose questions that are extremely answerable by explicitly addressing specifics. For example, great questions include requests for clarification regarding details of how, when, or where something occurred, or why someone is behaving in a certain manner.Don’t ask a question you know the speaker will be unwilling or unable to answer. While this is a stunt often featured in video entertainment and perpetuated by activists, it’s a sure way to stop being allowed into press conferences.
 If you purpose to make a political statement, understand that this is an entirely different goal than asking a question. Your job is not to convince the speaker of anything, it’s to get information from them that you can report in your coverage. Any commentary, accordingly, belongs in your coverage, not during the question and answer session of a news conference. Comments risk understandably bothering the speaker as well as your fellow journalists, and, at best, will simply bore most of the others in the room., If crickets greet the speaker when they’re finished speaking, and it seems no one intends to ask a question, you may want to lead with a softball pitch before asking the question you really want answered. Starting the session with something the speaker can easily and safely answer will ingratiate them with you, and increase the likelihood they give a more serious question more attention.For instance, ask for a quick clarification of a statement that was less clear when the speaker initially made it, allowing them to revisit something they prepared to speak on while reframing it in a way that may lead to additional information.
Similarily, open-ended questions will allow the speaker to expand on something they may have forgoten to mention. Consider by starting with something like. “How do you feel about _____.” Open-ended questions will essentially allow a speaker to say whatever they want, which they will appreciate - as long as you don’t ask them too often.
 Questions at news conferences should be framed and informed by their relevance to the topic of the conference. If you have questions for the person unrelated to the topic of the news conference, it will likely be most effective to wait until the end of all the questions and ask it once the topic of the conference has been covered.A good benchmark for deciding whether a question is appropriate to ask during a news conference is whether it will be of interest to a good amount of people in the room.
In situations where you’re intentionally putting the speaker on the spot, understand that your question may not be answered, and you may simply be reducing the chances they or other speakers will call on you again in the future.
 You want everyone in the room to understand your question, not just the speaker. Don’t try to demonstrate your knowledge of the topic - let the speaker do the talking. Similarily, avoid lingo and buzzwords too; this will allow the speaker to simply repeat any trending terminology back at you without actually saying anything.When considering a potential question, make sure your phrasing either conveys a desire for a statement to be clarified, or for new information. This will ensure clarity and straightforwardness while diminishing unnecessary clauses or commentary.

