 If your teen’s behavior or mood changes for the worse, pay attention. A few potential signs of mental illness in teens include acting sad or hopeless, avoiding friends and family, being overly suspicious, extreme mood changes, frequent aggression, expressing anxiety frequently, problems with attention or memory, and behaving in a disruptive way.It’s normal for teenagers to experience mood swings and go through rough patches with their friends. If your teen’s behavior seems “off,” don’t assume something is wrong right away. Wait a week or two and see if the behavior continues.
If your teen hurts themselves or talks about suicide, call a professional or take them to the hospital immediately, regardless of how long the behavior has been going on.;
, Tell your teen why you’re worried about them, but try not to make them feel like you’re putting them on the spot. Mention the symptoms you’ve noticed, and ask them if they want to talk about anything.You could say something like, “It seems to me like you’ve been spending a lot more time alone lately. How have you been feeling?”
It’s also a good idea to identify other adults they can talk to if they're not comfortable talking to you, such as a guidance counselor, spiritual advisor, teacher, family friend, etc.
 If your teen opens up to you, don’t interrupt or lecture them. Just let them talk, and do your best to understand them. Show respect for their opinions about what they're experiencing and why. Rephrase what they say to make sure you’re on the same page, and ask good questions to help them express what’s going on.For instance, if your teen says they’re angry that their friend doesn’t talk to them anymore, you could say, “It sounds like you’re really feeling hurt that Nathan hasn’t been spending time with you. Do you think that could have anything to do with why you’ve been so hard on yourself lately?”
You can also say, "you make a good point," or "I can tell you've given this a lot of thought."
Don’t get upset if your teen doesn’t want to talk to you right away. Talking about mental health problems isn’t easy, and some people need time to figure out what to say. Try again in a day or two.
 Tell your teen that mental illness is very common. Don’t use words like “crazy,” and don’t make your teen feel guilty for their illness.If you’ve had mental health problems before, share your experience with your teen to help them feel less alone.
 Teenagers may not know where to turn for mental health support, so help them come up with ideas. Suggest talking to a school counselor or a member of clergy.

If your teen needs to see a doctor or psychiatrist, help them make and get to their appointments.