 For both you as carer and for the child as asthma sufferer, knowing the symptoms is a vital part of good management of asthma attacks. Typical symptoms of an asthma attack include:


Difficulty breathing, shortness of breath, or very rapid breathing
Severe wheezing when breathing both in and out
Coughing that won't stop
Chest pain or pressure
Tightened neck and chest muscles, called retractions
Difficulty talking and performing normal daily activities
Feelings of anxiety or panic
Pale, sweaty face
Blue lips or fingernails
Worsening symptoms despite use of medications;
, Use the steps above to reach the child to recognize the symptoms so they know when they're having an attack.
 You can develop this with your doctor based on the severity of your child's attacks.


If you are with a child who has an 'asthma action plan,' be sure you know the steps to follow to control/manage the attack.
If you are with a child who does not have an asthma action plan, call the emergency services immediately.
 You should always plan to remain calm in order to help the child remain calm. The plan should be simple and focused only on coping with the asthma attacks.


Be sure to limit the number of steps in the asthma coping plan to no more than 10 actions, and be sure to know all steps in advance.
Here is a personalized asthma attack action plan (suitable for a child between the ages 6-12) that you might like to adapt to your own child:

Remain calm.
Alert a medical professional.
Tell Barker 'everything will be okay' and help him remain calm.
Enforce the "no crying" rule with the "no tears" chant ("Tears, tears... go away, come again another day, little Barker wants to play, tears, tears go away").
Help him relax by playing soothing music or his favorite calming song.
Smile and help Barker smile (no laughing, as laughing can make the attack worsen).
Tell Barker one of his favorite stories to keep him calm and remove his focus from the attack.
Allow Barker to read one of his favorite books.
If he's calm, and coping well, play a game with Barker that does not require many words or too much physical movement, where he can relax more, like a video game or board game.
Hug Barker and give him massages on the arms, back, and face.
 This includes family members, school officials, babysitters, coaches, clergy/church members, instructors, tutors etc. The more people who know of the plan, the better the chances are of the child creating healthier coping habits.

