 In order to lose weight gardening, you must burn more calories than you consume. The following list is what an average male weighing 180 pounds (81.6 kg) will burn in 30 minutes of constant gardening activity.


Water the lawn or garden with a hose to burn 61 calories.
Rake leaves to burn 162 calories.
Bag leaves to burn 162 calories.
Plant seeds or seedlings to burn 162 calories.
Weed a garden to burn 182 calories.
Plant trees to burn 182 calories.
Clear land to burn 202 calories.
Dig, till or spade a garden to burn 202 calories.
Lay sod to burn 202 calories.
Chop wood to burn 243 calories.
Mow the lawn with a push mower to burn 243 calories.
Shovel snow to burn 243 to 364 calories, depending on how heavy the snow is.
 Most gardening tasks provide resistance training, which is comparable to weightlifting at a gym. Consider the following muscle-building activities.


Mulch gardening beds. Lifting bags of mulch, shoveling mulch and pushing a wheelbarrow are strenuous gardening activities that build muscles in your arms, legs, back and shoulders.
Turn a compost pile. Using a pitchfork or hoe to turn a compost pile builds your shoulders, chest, back, upper arms, thighs and legs.
Transport garden supplies. Moving heavy supplies, such as bags of soil or fertilizer and garden pots, can build muscles in your arms, legs, shoulders and back. Moving garden supplies from the garden center to your car, into your yard and around your garden also provides a cardiovascular workout that increases your heart rate, which is an effective way to lose weight.
 Pay attention to proper posture and body positioning in order to build muscle tone safely.


Avoid jerking motions. Keep all body motions steady and smooth.
Keep abdominals firm. This will help you maintain proper back alignment, and will also build strong abdominal muscles.
Use your legs, not your back, when lifting heavy objects. Bend your knees and put weight on your legs, rather than your back.
Utilize proper form when diggings. Do not twist your back when digging with a shovel. Rather, point your front foot in the direction you are digging and turn your body toward the foot. Bend your knees while shoveling. Alternate the leading foot while digging for extended periods of time. Avoid holding your breath. Exhale as you lift a heavy load with the shovel and inhale as you lower it. By concentrating on your breathing, you will maximize your efficiency.
Use a cushion when weeding on your knees. This will protect your knees. Keep your back straight and avoid sitting on your heels while kneeling. Stand up and stretch your arms, legs and back every 10 minutes.
 Gardening is a good workout, but to maximize results, exaggerate movements. Exaggerated movements increase the body's range of motion. For example, rather than simply raking, bend your knees to increase muscle use in your legs. As you continue raking, challenge yourself by bending your legs lower and lower until your muscles begin to tire.
 Gardening requires a lot of stretching, such as bending to plant flowers, extending a rake to gather leaves or reaching to trim tall branches. When stretching, focus on increased flexibility. If you can't bend from the waist and touch the ground when you begin gardening, keep working at it. Over time, you will increase your range of motion.
 Gardening activities like planting, digging and weeding incorporate movements that benefit your muscle strength, flexibility and cardiovascular system. Not only do you burn calories while accomplishing garden tasks, but you also build muscle. The muscle development helps increase your metabolic rate, even when your body is at rest.

