 View the plumbing license applications at njconsumeraffairs.gov/plumber/plum_applications.htm.;
,


If you have not yet completed a state certified apprenticeship or received a degree in plumbing, mechanical or sanitary engineering, then it is likely you should apply for your apprenticeship.
If you have completed your apprenticeship in New Jersey or another state, but have not yet completed a year of board approved work experience, then you should apply to be a journeyman. Fewer restrictions apply to journeymen than to master plumbers, since most journeymen are gaining the experience to become a master plumber.
If you have completed both an apprenticeship and work as a journeyman, usually totaling 5 years or more, then you should apply to become a master plumber. The master plumber application is also an application to take the 3 plumbing exams.
 Make sure that you are eligible according to the following rules:


You are 21 years or older.
You are able to provide a $3,000 state surety bond.
You are able to provide a certificate of completion of your apprenticeship program, or you can provide a proof of a bachelor's degree in mechanical, sanitary or plumbing engineering.
You can provide work experience certificates filled out by a licensed master plumber for the past 5 years of apprenticeship, education or experience. You must also be able to furnish W-2 or 1099 forms that prove you were employed by a licensed master plumber for 5 years or the 1 year after completing a college degree.
You are able to submit to a criminal background check.
 It must be neatly type-written or printed. Enclose your personal and business details as requested.
 Ask former employers or teachers to act as references by filling out the references section.
 You may need to pay the notary for these services.
 Send your application with a $100 fee to "State Board of Examiners of Master Plumbers124 Halsey Street, 6th Floor, P.O. Box 45008 Newark, New Jersey 07101."

, The board may request further information before you can schedule to take the exam.
 The business and law exam has 50 questions and must be taken in 1.5 hours. The trade exam has 100 questions and must be taken in 3 hours and the practical exam takes 2 hours.


You must pay to take each exam. The business and law exam is $50. The trade exam is $90 and the practical exam is $110.
 It will be either $80 or $160, depending upon the 2-year period that licenses are given.

