 You don't want to throw a party and lose track of the time. Its also best to do this on a weekend day when no one is working.;
, I can not stress how IMPORTANT it is to keep your house clean. If it is dirty, or there are books, magazines, newspapers, or anything else in the way, he DOES notice. Make sure of this when you get the "headmaster will arrive in one hour" message. You should have both Sims or however many you have EACH do something unless they are away. For example, have a child or children pick up books and store them, and the mother do the dishes (it helps if you have a dishwasher because it is faster) a father scrub the counters, and etc.
 It doesn't really help if you're inviting the headmaster over, and your children are sneezing every six seconds, or the mom is so tired she falls asleep standing up, does it? Well ALL of your Sims stats apply in this part. Make sure your Sims are clean by giving them a shower or a bath, and make sure to dress them in there best clothing. Your Sims should take care of bladder needs a little while before the headmaster arrives, because you WILL be dining with him, and it could take awhile. Make sure your Sims have good energy levels also, we don't want them stopping themselves from going to sleep from lack of it, so have your Sims get a good night sleep the previous day. Your Sims should be happy and ready to attend to the headmaster.
 This will probably take a week but it will help. Let the mom build up her cooking skills. Also make sure she's practiced the meal she's going to make before so she won't burn it. Build up the dad's charisma. The more charismatic he is the better the conversation he can have. The more educational and expensive objects you have in each room of your house the better! Don't show the headmaster pointless rooms such as the bathroom.
 You DON'T want to rush this. If you do, he could leave early. And just try to turn free will on the "off" mode while he is there, because if it is on, you could have a great many many problems. It will help your Sim stick to the task, and not stop in the middle of it and wander off to go do something else like watch TV while the precious dinner is burning on the stove.
 and if you have no money to buy this then press control shift C and then type in motherlode until you have enough money.
 While you're in the neighborhood bring up the cheat bar and type in boolprop testingcheatsenabled true then enter the family you want. When the headmaster comes over hit shift and click on him. Choose make selectable then go to his friends and pull up your relationship with him. Then make him unselectable. Go to your friends and pull up the relationship. Then have them do something and they become best pals.

