 Make work a positive experience by taking a job that you actually want. Increase your motivation to excel by accepting a role whose challenges mirror your own personal ambitions. Whether you are seeking employment at a new organization, looking to transfer from within, or reconsidering your current position, ask yourself the following to determine whether the job at hand is right for you:Do I enjoy the tasks demanded by this position?
Do these tasks play to my strengths?
Would I contribute my best to the company in this position or elsewhere?;
, Resist the temptation to tackle everything with maximum efficiency all at once. Improve your performance bit by bit instead. Sketch a timeline of your workday, listing your duties hour by hour. Select the first one or two and then outline the specific tasks that each one involves. Think of ways that you can improve your performance with each individual task in order to streamline the whole process.As you implement these changes, move on to the next hour. Continue to do so until you have streamlined your whole workday.
If your workdays vary in nature from one day to the next, perform this same practice for each distinctive day.
Once you have streamlined each workday, think bigger. Consider weekly, monthly, or even yearly goals. Work backwards from the end date to see how tweaking this or that daily micro-task might be increase your chances of meeting those goals even further.
 Make the most of your time on the clock.Reduce the risk of burnout and/or mistakes that comes from cramming too much work into too little time in order to compensate for lost opportunities. Prioritize working for sustained periods at a reasonable pace over sneaking in as many breaks as possible and making up for it later. Maintain your output and sanity at the same time.


Arrive early enough so that you can take care of all the little things (settling in, making coffee, using the bathroom) before starting time.
Abstain from distractions like computer games, social media, and personal messaging through phone, text, and/or email.
Use downtime to catch up on backlogs, prep for future tasks, or give yourself a headstart by diving right into them.
 Give yourself a refresher by stepping away from work once every hour. Research has shown that productivity among workers actually increases when they take a 17-minute break for every 52 minutes of work. However, keep in mind that this exact formula may not apply to every single person. Also bear in mind that your employer may enforce a strict policy of how much break-time employees are entitled to.'Recognize the warning signs. If you find it harder and harder to concentrate on the task at hand without woolgathering, take that as a sign to step away.
Use the bathroom or a coffee refill as an excuse to walk away if you aren’t permitted to take breaks at your own discretion.
 Wake your mind and body up with physical activity if you sit or stand in place for the majority of your work-time. Or, if your job is physically demanding, take a catnap on your designated break. Also, socialize with other workers as a way to engage your brain with something other than work.Take a walk around the block or parking lot as a way to move. Climb stairs if you are granted access to the building’s stairwells. Or do some push-ups, jumping jacks, or other light exercise where you can.
Be careful not to interrupt other coworkers from their own tasks by starting a conversation. Coordinate breaks with your colleagues if possible, or use this time to return personal calls.
 Keep a daily log of your goals for a given day and what you actually achieved. Include any new methods or ideas that helped accomplish these goals or even exceed them. Also include any factors that prevented you from meeting your aims. Add weekly and monthly summaries to track your progress with meeting long-term goals. Use these records to:Mark positive changes to your performance so you can implement them further.
Identify areas that need more focus and improvement.
Anticipate setbacks beyond your control in order to preempt or plan around them if they repeat themselves in the future.
 Whether you are striving for a promotion, raise, or bonus, or if you just happen to be one of many who feel no particular passion for their current job, use your personal goals and responsibilities as motivators. Mark your calendar with outside achievements you hope to meet by this or that date. Adorn your workspace with imagery or symbols that will constantly remind you of what you are working for. Hold yourself accountable to what you do love in life in order to excel.


Mark your calendar with rewards that you aspire to, such as earning a promotion or buying a new car or house.
Also note down due dates for your bills and debts, the amounts you hope to pay each cycle, and your projected date for final payment as motivators.
Hang pictures of your family or even that new car you hope to buy in your workspace.
If that’s not possible, use another object that visually reminds you of your motivation, like a coffee mug that was a gift from your daughter, or a keychain from that coveted car company.

