 Women’s razors come with a rounded head and a curved handle that’re made to help you access those trickier spots behind your knees and around your ankles., Razor systems are razors that have a permanent handle and a disposable razor head. You can buy razor cartridges to replace worn out razor heads.

While these razors can be more expensive, they often have built in moisturizers or lubricants, such as vitamin E, that’re great if you have sensitive skin., Disposable razors are a great idea if your skin isn’t sensitive or if want to just pitch the entire razor when it’s worn out.Disposable razors also tend to be a cheaper option.
 It’s important to choose a razor with more than one blade, since single blade razors are more likely to drag against the skin. Three blades is typical for a razor.Razors come with as many as six blades! You should experiment and see what number of blades feel best on your skin.
 You need a lathering agent to help the razor glide easily over your skin. Using a shaving cream or gel will help prevent razor burn, or red bumps that are caused by shaving. Shaving cream also reduces the number of nicks you give yourself shaving.


Don’t want to purchase shaving cream? Hair conditioner is a great alternative that’s also much cheaper.If you have sensitive skin, avoid shaving creams that contain alcohol. The alcohol will dry out your skin., The warm water of your shower softens your leg hair and opens your follicles, which makes shaving easier. Shave after your legs have been exposed to the water of your shower for about 10-15 minutes., Wash off your legs before you begin shaving with soap and warm water to prevent any infections., Liberally apply shaving cream with your hands, making sure it’s fully covering the area of your leg that you want to shave.


If you’re looking to really get a close shave, apply shaving cream with a shaving brush, which will help raise the hair up, so it’s better exposed during shaving., You’ll want to hold your razor at an angle that feels good to you, which is probably around 30 degrees. Make sure you’re holding the razor with the handle pointed down towards your toes., Shaving with the grain, or down the leg, is best for your first shave. Because your leg hair will be longer, going with the grain of your hair will reduce the possibility of irritation.

Shaving against the grain, or shaving up the leg, is okay once your leg hair is shorter.
If you have sensitive skin, always shave with the grain, or down the leg., Shaving around the knee and ankle are the trickiest parts of shaving your legs for the first time. Go slowly and apply less pressure as you shave over these areas, so you don’t cut yourself., Be sure to rinse your razor every 2 to 3 strokes. If you continue shaving with shaving cream or hair that’s clogging the blades, you’ll be more likely to cut yourself., After you’ve finished shaving, rinse your legs off with cool water, which will close up your pores., After shaving you should always apply a moisturizing lotion or after-shave oil that will help keep your legs smooth. It also softens the hair, leaving you less exposed to infections that are caused by hair getting trapped below the skin., If you did happen to nick yourself shaving, it’s easily fixed. Razor cuts are difficult to stop bleeding, but if you dry the area and dab on some Vaseline, the bleeding will stop., If you’ve wound up with the tell-tale red bumps of razor burn, take care to treat it, so the bumps don’t turn into scars. Put a warm compress on the area, which will relax the hair that’s trapped below the skin of the bump., You should replace your razor at the first sign of dullness, which usually occurs between 5 to 10 shaves. Shaving with a dull razor will lead to razor burn.

Old blades are also more likely to trap bacteria and cause infections.