 It doesn't matter whether you use normal sand or red sand. Both turn into ordinary glass.;
, Craft a furnace out of eight cobblestone if you don't have one already. Place it on the ground, then right click to open the smelting window. Move the sand into the top square.
 Put coal, wood, or any other fuel into the bottom square of the furnace. As long as there's fuel in the furnace, it will turn each block of sand into a block of glass. Each block takes a few seconds to make, so be patient.
 The glass will appear in the results square in the smelting window. In the default Minecraft skin, glass looks like a light blue, mostly transparent cube.
 Glass is a full-sized block that is completely transparent to light. You cannot recover the glass block by breaking it, so don't put it down until you're sure you want it there.


A tool with the Silk Touch enchantment can recover the glass block intact.
 You can turn six glass blocks into 16 glass panes. These are thin, vertical blocks you can use as windows. In the PC edition, make a rectangle in the crafting area three squares wide and two squares high.Glass panes can look strange or even invisible when they aren't connected to anything on the sides. When you place other blocks next to them, the panes will automatically change shape to connect to them.
You cannot make glass panes horizontal (flat). If you want to make a glass floor, use glass blocks instead.
 To make stained glass, place eight glass blocks in a ring around the crafting area. Put a dye of any color in the center to get eight stained glass blocks.


Stained glass is not available in Pocket Edition as of Update 0.16.2. It will be released in a future update.You can make many dyes by placing a single flower in the crafting area. Ink sacs, bone meal, lapis lazuli, and cocoa beans are also dyes., Interested in brewing potions? First you'll need to make glass bottles. Make a "V" shape in the crafting area using three glass blocks. This creates three glass bottles.


To fill a bottle with water, hold it in your quick slot bar and use it on any body of water.

