 This is something that car insurance companies, as well as prime auto businesses like Edmund's and Consumer Reports, all suggest for new car owners. Get all the items and equipment you would need to deal with a roadside emergency and make such situations less dangerous and inconvenient.


Get maintenance-related emergency kit items like jumper cables and extra oil and coolant.
Purchase other types of emergency kit items to help you with specific roadside incidents. Many of the pros recommend a set of flares for visibility on the road, as well as a flashlight to be able to inspect vehicles and other items in the dark, and a blanket to help you stay warm if your auto's heating system fails in an extremely cold environment.;
, Many experts recommend purchasing a comprehensive set of tools for dealing with car-related situations.


Find the right wrench set. Each specific vehicle has its own sizes of bolts and other hardware. You'll need to figure out what sizes you would use for items like battery posts and terminals, and get the right wrenches to match. You'll also want to make sure that there is a proper wrench for lug nuts, for changing or rotating tires.
In addition to the tire wrench or iron, make sure you have an appropriate jack for raising the vehicle for routine maintenance or other incidents.
 One popular tool is a windshield scraper for maintaining visibility when ice accumulates on the windshield or windows of the vehicle.
 Besides the tools and equipment mentioned above, there are a few different types of simple screens and visors that some car owners like to purchase, including back window screens, extra fold downs on mirrors or other sunshade equipment.
 Some basic accessories can also help with vehicle maintenance or convenience for drivers and passengers.


Look at storage capacity for your vehicle. From CD books for vehicles with a disc player, to extra cup holders or bungee cords for holding large items safely, you may want to invest in storage-related accessories for your vehicle. Such items can help protect and maintain the interior of your car.
Consider buying a car cover. If you don't have a garage and want to protect the paint job on your vehicle, a car cover can do the trick. Buy one of these heavy-duty covers and install it on your vehicle when you're not using it to prolong the life of your investment.

