 There are several varieties, but the seeds of Moringa oleifera and Moringa stenopetala are the easiest to obtain. In the photo, the Moringa oleifera seeds are the brown, winged seeds in the photo; on the left hand side. The Moringa stenopetala seeds are the tan ones in the photo; on the right hand side. It is readily apparent that they do not resemble each other, but both are Moringa seeds.


 








For a fast-growing tree that will bear leaves, blossoms and seed pods - called drumsticks - the first year, choose Moringa Oleifera. Here is a good illustration, of why it is best to keep your Moringa trees at a manageable height; it makes harvesting the leaves and pods much easier to do. The drumsticks shown, hanging from the Moringa tree, contain the Moringa tree's seeds. They can be planted as soon as the pod is dry, or stored for planting later.
If you want a fast-growing tree with much larger leaves, making the task of gathering them for a meal easier, opt for Moringa Stenopetala.
The flowers and seed pods take longer to develop on the African variety of Moringa - Moringa Stenopetala.
The seeds are very different, but they both grow Moringa trees. In actuality, the seeds are basically the same size; but, you can see they are not alike in appearance. Moringa Oleifera seeds are round, brown, and winged. Moringa Stenopetala seeds, out of their husk, are almond-shaped and light tan.;
, Keep in mind that Moringa trees can grow over 20 feet (6.1 m) tall, their first year. The average growth is about 15 feet (4.6 m), however, in optimum conditions, they can grow much taller. Because the branches will grow, on the average, to about three to four feet wide the first year, you will need to consider whether you want to plant your Moringa tree close to any existing structures. Moringas need much sunlight, warmth, and water, to thrive - so think about where your tree will obtain the best exposure to the sun., Moringas do not like heavy, clay-like soil or vermiculite. They will grow in poor soil, sandy soil, and depleted soil, but they do not like their roots getting wet. Bear this in mind, and if necessary, purchase sand to add to the potting soil mixture, or use whatever soil is available in your area, and add coconut coir, peat moss, perlite, or sand to loosen it. This gives the roots of the Moringa tree room to go deep, and drain well. Moringa has a taproot, which means a single root that goes straight down like a carrot. It has small feeder roots but does not have branching roots. Plant where the taproot has lots of room to go down. If planting in a container, find the deepest one you can. Moringa can be grow as a solitary tree, in rows, or as a hedge.

If you would like to grow it as a hedge, plant the seeds into the ground, about 1 foot (0.3 m) apart. Pinch back every other new leaf growth, to force the tree to grow like a bush, and once they are about 2 feet (0.6 m) tall, cut the branches in half lengthwise, and pinch back the new leaf growth that will sprout out at the top of the Moringa tree.




 Moringa seedlings in rows

If you are going to grow your Moringas in rows, then plant the seeds about 3 feet (0.9 m) apart, in rows that are at least 6 feet (1.8 m) apart, for easy weed removal and walking through the rows.
If you are going to grow your Moringa as a solitary tree, just remember to give it plenty of room, so its branches can spread out. Periodically, cut back the top of the tree, to encourage new growth, and cut the branches' length back, by half. This will insure that your Moringas thrive, and give you lots of beautiful flowers, edible leaves, and drumsticks - for years to come.
 Make a note of when you planted the seed or seeds, so you can monitor their growth. Once you have covered the seeds, thoroughly water the soil. Whether you plant the seeds in pots, or right into the ground, they will need a thorough soaking every day, until you see the seedlings emerge from the soil. Once they have sprouted, they can be watered once every other day, until they are about 18 inches (45.7 cm) tall. Then, once a week will be sufficient.

Some people soak the seeds in water until they sprout, and then plant them. This method also works, but Moringa seeds are very hardy, and do not need this additional step.







