 Read, walk in the neighborhood, visit with your neighbors, ride your bike to the local park and learn to have fun without toys.;
, Pitch a tent, have a picnic or sleep under the stars.
 Recipes are freely available online, from friends and neighbors.
 Dine out only on a special occasion, such as a birthday or anniversary. Look for restaurants where kids can eat for less.
 Decide what you actually need, what you can live without and stick to it!

,


Put money aside for the essentials first, such as food, clothing and shelter.
Have a small emergency fund.
Invest in the future for a new vehicle, education and retirement.
Invest in car, home, health and life insurance as it saves money in the long run.
 Don't let unexpected purchases put you behind in paying your bills. Be strict and disciplined in preventing additional expenditures. Having good credit is an important economic strategy.
 Add benefit to your expenditures with a bonus.
 Do you need a phone at all, except for emergencies? Online email provides a sufficient avenue to friends, media, shopping and paying bills.
 Dishwashers generally save time, money and water.
 If something is not in use, unplug it! You'll be surprised at the difference in your electric bill.
 Ride a bike, walk or jog before considering the carpool, subway, bus or train. Use your car when other choices are unavailable. Using a car involves the price of gas, repair, inspection, registration, insurance and saving towards a new car.
 Do-It-Yourself tutorials are freely available online or at the library.
 Trade and bargain with friends, neighbors and relatives for clothes, electronics and other household items.
 Search for free online coupons or pick up a Sunday newspaper.
 Sooner or later, everything is on sale. Keep a list of what you need and be patient until it's on sale. Inquire as to when sales may occur.
 Make a list of what you think you need. Don't buy anything until you've saved for it. As time goes by, you'll realize you may not need it. You'll be more creative and savvy in what you do purchase.
 Ask three times, "Do I need this to live?"

, For example, if you buy proper jaffa cakes, buy a small pack of them, a packet of a supermarket luxury brand and a supermarket cheap brand. Get a friend to put them on three separate plates and get you to eat one of each. You will be surprised!

