 Often times, our anxiety is caused by a mix of rational and irrational fears that compound upon each other and drive us toward having a panic attack. This, understandably, can undermine our ability to get some sleep. In order to counter this problem, simply tell yourself that everything is going to be alright.Reassure yourself that your anxiety is momentary and will soon pass.
Tell yourself that while your fears are rational, you might be overreacting at the moment.
Repeat “I am okay, I’ll be alright” or something similar to yourself over and over again.
Try saying something like "I tried to do my very best today. I'm worried, but it's not doing me any good right now to worry. I'll solve more problems tomorrow.";
, Sometimes we’re able to find some games or other intellectual tools that will help put us at ease and forget about our anxieties. These games or other tools are intended to distract you from your problem and to put your mind at ease. Some things you can try include:Repeating a mantra to yourself. This could be anything, from a funny poem or a nonsensical statement to a spiritual or religious statement.
Solving an abstract problem that bothers you on a purely intellectual level. Such a problem could be from the existence of god to whether black holes actually exist. Such problems are trivial to the extent that they won’t impact our daily lives (and panic us more) but are very important on an existential level.
Counting sheep, stars, or dimples in your popcorn ceiling. Such activities will help distract you from the larger problems bothering you and may help put you to sleep.
 Many times when we’re anxious, we’re also breathing rapidly and not taking real deep and consistent breaths. In order to overcome your anxiety, try to breathe deeply and consistently.Take a deep breath.
Count to five and then exhale.
Repeat this exercise. Change your count if it is helpful.
 If you’re anxious about money, obligations, or job related issues, try to make a list about these things. Sometimes, making a mental or written list of your problems will provide a sense of control or order where there was none before.Grab a pen or pencil and jot down what is bothering you.
Make a quick plan about how you are going to resolve your issues.
Tell yourself that you’ve tackled your problems and have created order in your life. Things will be better soon.
 One thing you definitely need to do is avoid any stimulant that might give you excess energy or keep you awake. In fact, stimulants might make your situation worse by deepening your anxiety. Avoid:Caffeine. This includes 5-hour energy, carbonated drinks, chocolate, coffee, and tea.
Cigarettes
Sugary drinks.
Controlled substances such as methamphetamine.
 One way to relax yourself is to try meditation, yoga, or light exercise. These activities can help calm you by putting your mind at ease. In addition, they may help you dispel excess energy.


Meditate. Sit in a quiet environment, breathe deeply, and close your eyes. Focus on your breathing and your still and quiet state. Keep other thoughts out of your mind. Repeat this for as long as you need.
Practice yoga. Yoga, and the stretching exercises associated with it, may help relax your mind and body and help you get to sleep. If you are not familiar with yoga, search for a yoga for beginners website on the internet and try some of the most basic yoga sets.
Do some light exercise. Light exercise, such as pushups, running in place, or jumping jacks, might help you release excess energy and put you in a focused and even relaxed mindset. Don't overdo it though. Just do a little exercise until you feel more relaxed.
 Perhaps identifying the source of your anxiety will help you relax. Spend a little time thinking about why you are so anxious. There is a good chance that your anxiety is caused by something you can't quite identify and is lurking in the back of your mind.Think about things that might be bothering you.
Make a list of things that are stressing you out.
If you can identify the source and importance of anxiety, this may put you at ease and allow you to sleep.
 Following the same routine every night before bed can be a comforting way to soothe yourself at night.Try developing a routine that you can follow every night to help yourself relax and prepare for sleep.


For example, you might start by taking a bubble bath or shower, then brush your teeth and put on pajamas. Next, you might sip a cup of warm herbal tea while listening to some soothing music.

