 At some point in your teenage years, you may encounter a situation in which you're offered drugs or alcohol. There are many reasons why teens may experiment with substances, whether peer pressure/wanting to fit in, attempting to escape your problems, or pure and simple curiosity. It's important to remember, though, that doing drugs and drinking can have many serious implications in your life, both short-term and long-term.


Doing drugs at any age or drinking while you're underage can land you in serious legal trouble.Drinking/doing drugs can cause you to lose your driver's license, get you grounded, or land you in community service. You may even get arrested. All of these consequences diminish the level of freedom you'll have.
Drinking or doing drugs can cause you to say and do things you wouldn't normally say/do, which can lead to hurt feelings and damaged relationships.
Drugs and alcohol can cause permanent health problems, especially in a young, developing mind and body. You can also develop a dependence or addiction on drugs/alcohol.Try to avoid spending time with people who drink or do drugs, and avoid parties where you know drugs or alcohol will be present.;
, If you date someone, you will most likely develop strong feelings of attraction towards your partner. However, it's important to recognize the risks of teen sexuality, and make informed decisions to keep you and your partner safe.


Let your partner know if you are not ready to have sex, and make sure your partner respects your wishes.It's best to delay sexual activity until you are both emotionally and physically prepared to have sex.Make sure your partner consents to having sex. Never try to pressure someone into having sex, and don't let anyone else try to pressure you.
If you do decide to have sex, make sure you use protection. Wear a condom from start to finish during vaginal, anal, and oral sex to reduce the chances of pregnancy or sexually transmitted infections.Be aware of STDs/STIs. On average, four out of every ten sexually-active teen girls (approximately 40%) have or have had a dangerous sexually transmitted disease/infection that can cause infertility or even death.The average rate of prevalence for all STDs/STIs among teens is one in four. That means, on average, one out of every four sexual partners you have will carry an STD.Pregnancy is another risk associated with sexual activity. In 2014 alone, 249,078 babies were born to teen girls between the ages of 15 and 19.Remember that abstinence is the only way to completely avoid the risks of STDs and pregnancy. If you're not ready for the emotional and physical repercussions of being sexually active, it's best to wait.
 Gangs are groups of individuals who join together under the guise of protection. Gangs are almost invariably involved in acts of violence, drug sale/use, gun violations, and even homicide.Some teens join gangs because of peer pressure, while others glamorize the lifestyle. Still others see gangs as a way to feel "stronger" or more "connected."
Being in a gang will not keep you safe. If anything, gang activities will expose you to more illegal acts and violence.
Joining a gang can lead to legal problems, serious injury, or even death. Gangs are routinely assaulted and murdered by other rival gangs, and many gang members are arrested for a number of criminal violations.
It's best to avoid gangs altogether. Stay away from known gang territories and be aware of the clothing, colors, and symbols used by gangs so you are not mistaken for a gang member., Driving can give you a great deal of freedom, but with that freedom comes great responsibility. Driving a vehicle unsafely puts you and your passengers, as well as every other person on the road, in a great deal of danger. Reckless driving can cause accidents that lead to property damage, injury, lifelong disability, and even death. If you feel like you or someone you're with cannot drive safely for any reason, it's best to get out of the car and call a parent, trustworthy friend/relative, or a taxi for a safe ride home.


Distracted driving occurs when you perform any distracting activities while driving. This includes texting, using a cellphone, grooming yourself, adjusting the radio/CD player/MP3 player, or even talking to other passengers.
In 2013, distracted driving caused 3,154 deaths and 424,000 injuries in the United States alone.Having friends in the car can lead to distracted or reckless driving. The risk of a 16- or 17-year-old driver being involved in a fatal car crash doubles when carrying two adolescent passengers and quadruples when carrying three or more adolescent passengers.Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs caused over 10,000 deaths in the United States in 2012, which averages out to one death every 51 minutes.Drug/alcohol use for teens is always bad, but when paired with driving it is a deadly combination.
Drowsy driving (driving while you're excessively sleepy) is almost as dangerous as driving under the influence. If you feel tired, it's best to avoid driving altogether.

