 The best lights for this project are the miniature LED string lights with a small battery pack. They are often used to decorate miniature villages and houses. You can also use ordinary-sized LED string lights, but make sure that they are battery operated and that the wire is not too long. Look for something with a silver or white-colored cable. You are using LED lights because they do not produce as much heat as regular lights.


If you are planning on filling your jar with moss, then consider getting some lights with a green cable instead.
 You can use any sort of jar you want, but make sure that the battery pack to your lights can fit inside the mouth of the jar.


Consider using a tinted jar. You can also make your own tinted jar by mixing a few drops of food coloring with a glossy decoupage glue and painting the jar with it.
For a softer effect, paint the jar with a matte decoupage glue. This will soften the glow of the jar, so that you will see the lights, but not the wire.
 Tape your battery pack to the bottom of the jar lid. The battery pack will go inside the jar, and won't be visible once you finish decorating it. Make sure that you can still reach the switch. You could try taping the battery pack, so it will be easier to take the pack out and change/charge the batteries.


If the battery pack does not fit inside the jar or the lid, purchase a canning mason jar with a two-part lid. Get rid of the flat disk portion of the lid and keep the ring. Tape the battery pack to the top of the lid, and cover it with a piece of fabric. You will wrap a piece of ribbon or twine around the fabric after you put the lid on the jar to secure the fabric. The string of lights will go through the hole in the lid and into the jar., Spread them out so that they fill the entire jar.
 By adding some filler, such as white tulle, organza, or clear, iridescent cellophane, you can diffuse the light and make it appear softer. The filler will also help conceal the wires. Simply cut a piece of filler that is slightly larger than your jar and tuck it inside. You want the filler to be large enough so that it can be scrunched up loosely in the jar, but not so large that you have to stuff it in tightly.


You can also use some moss instead of tulle, organza, or cellophane. This will create a more forest-y effect.
 Flick the switch on the battery pack into the "on" position and place the lid on top of the jar. Screw the lid on tightly.
 You may still see a bit of the battery pack. You can conceal it by wrapping a ribbon around the neck of the jar and tying it in a bow. For more decorating ideas, refer to the section in this article on decorating your fairy jar.
 The lights will still be visible during daylight, but they will be even brighter and more effective in a completely dark room (especially if you made the jar look frosted).

