 There are any number of possible home made stain removers, but one particularly effective and simple one requires just hydrogen peroxide and dishwashing liquid.The recipe is easy, just pour two parts low-strength (3/4%) hydrogen peroxide and one part dishwashing liquid into a bucket.These parts will be quite small, but will depend on how much of the cleaner you want to make.









You can try this for oily and greasy stains, as well as normal dirt and food stains.
This home made cleaner can work on cotton, canvas and other clothing fabrics.
It is not recommended to use it on silk or wool.
 Once you have mixed hydrogen peroxide and dishwashing liquid together in the bucket, grab an empty spray bottle that you have cleaned out. Carefully pour the liquid into the bottle. You might want to use a funnel for this, especially if you are pouring it out of a large bucket.
 With all stain removers, but especially home made ones using chemicals, it is recommended that you do a spot test before applying a lot of the stain remover to your fabric. A spot test just means testing out a very small amount of your mixture on a discreet part of the fabric.









You are checking to be sure that the stain remover does not discolour or damage the material.
This mixture should be safe for all colours, but do a spot test to check before proceeding., Fasten the lid of the spray bottle securely, and test it once by spraying it into the sink. Once you are happy with it, spray the solution directly onto the offending stain or stains. Apply it liberally to the stain and leave to it soak for a few minutes or longer, depending on how patient you are.









Rinse it off with cold water.
If necessary, repeat this for harder stains.
 If you have larger stains that wouldn’t be tackled best with a spray bottle, you can modify this method to suit your needs. A diluted version of this cleaner is great for soaking a larger garment in. Simply add the same ratio of hydrogen peroxide and dishwashing liquid to a bucket of hot water.Place your clothes in the liquid and leave it to soak.
Rinse it off, and repeat if necessary.
You may find gently rubbing the affected area while it is submerged will help loosen the stain.

