 Every state has its own set of laws and regulations governing the process of absentee voting. In many states, voters can vote by absentee ballot without excuse. In others, voters must provide a valid reason why they cannot vote on election day.]

As of 2012, 27 states and Washington, D.C. offer "no-excuse absentee voting." Voters in these states can request an absentee ballot without stating a reason why they wish to vote using that method.
No-excuse absentee voting states include Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Utah, Vermont, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.
Two states conduct all elections by mail. These states are Oregon and Washington.
Twenty-one states allow absentee voting only with a valid excuse. Valid excuses usually include military service, being out of the country on election day, or being out of the state on election day.
States that only offer absentee voting with a valid excuse include Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia.
Some states also offer permanent absentee voting. Once a voter joins a permanent absentee voting list, he or she receives an absentee ballot during each election. Arizona, California, Colorado, District of Columbia, Hawaii, Montana, New Jersey, and Utah offer this. Alaska, Delaware, Kansas, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, and West Virginia also offer this as long as certain criteria are met.;
, Most counties have election boards or departments, and this is usually the easiest and most sensible place to request a ballot from since local election issues may also be included on the ballot.


You can usually request an absentee ballot from a local election department in person, by mail, or by phone. In stricter counties and municipalities, you may need to make the request in person or fill out the absentee ballot at the election board's office.
Look up the contact information for your local election department by searching for the local department's websiteor by accessing your state government's website and looking for a link to your local government's website. You should also be able to locate the information by looking in a phone book.
 If you cannot contact a local elections department, contact your state's Secretary of State or Director of Elections.


This contact information can be found online.You may also be able to look it up in a phone book or other directory.
 As long as you are a US citizen and a registered voter, you should be able to request an absentee ballot if you will be residing outside of the country during the time of the election. Rather than going to your local elections department, however, you should contact your state election department or FVAP.


Get in touch with your state election department in the same manner you would use if requesting a ballot within the US. Look up the department's contact information online or via a government directory.
The Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP) is accessible to US citizens regardless of present location. Go to the FVAP websiteor call the FVAP international hotlineto begin your Federal Postcard Application. Follow the instructions provided to request the ballot and submit it. It is recommended that overseas US citizens complete FPCAs every January.

