 Keep your plans secret from your spouse. Hide or lock up anything that might let them know you want to get away. If your spouse goes through your things, store your personal items at a friend or family member’s house.Your spouse may sabotage your plans or become more dangerous if they know you are about to leave.
 Confide in a family member, neighbor, or friend about your spouse’s abuse and your plans to leave. Tell them when you are planning to escape and where you will go. Ask them to check in on you afterwards to ensure you got out safely.If your neighbors are trustworthy, you can also ask them to call the police if they hear your spouse abusing you or your kids before you leave.
 Change your phone number or get a new phone when you leave your spouse. Create new passwords and PIN numbers for your online accounts, including your bank account, email account, and social media accounts.If your spouse harasses you over the phone or online, block them.
If you think there is any chance your spouse might have installed a keylogger or other tracking software on your computer, don’t use it. Use a computer at a public library or internet café until you can get a clean computer of your own.
 Be cautious when you go anywhere by yourself, especially at night. Park close to buildings and avoid using headphones. Stay away from places where your spouse might look for you, and change your route to work, school, and anywhere else you go often. If you feel unsafe, ask somebody to accompany you or call 911 or emergency services.If you’re concerned that your spouse may stalk or harass you, consider asking your boss if you can change your hours at work or work from home.
 If you have kids, discuss potential safety risks with them. Teach them how to leave the house safely and call 911, and have them come up with a list of people they can trust if something happens.For example, you might pinpoint a nearby area they can go to if you are in danger, such as a park or neighbor's house.
If you have an older adolescent or teen, you might also give them a list of phone numbers of shelters or organizations for abuse victims in case they need to make calls.
 If you feel threatened by your spouse, you can speak to someone anonymously by calling a hotline. For those in the U.S., you can get support by calling the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-SAFE.


For those in the UK, call 0808 2000 247 to reach a 24-hour helpline.
 If your spouse threatens to harm you or your children, you may need to file for an order of protection against them. You may file a restraining order against a current or former spouse, even if you left some time ago. Reach out to your city's courthouse to find out the protocol in your area.This order can help you keep your children in your care and away from an abusive spouse. It also may help you stay in your family home temporarily (and have your spouse removed) until the hearing date.
Usually, no fees are associated with filing a restraining order.

