 You may be able to visit your high school early to get a sense of where your classes are without the stress of all the other kids there. Ask your parents if they can schedule a tour earlier than the regular orientation day so you can check everything out at your own pace.If possible, have the schedule of your classes with you so you can find your classes in relation to everything like the cafeteria, your locker, bathrooms, etc. See how long it takes to get everywhere.
Most schools will provide an orientation day so don’t worry if you aren’t able to visit your school earlier than the first day. Make sure to pay attention and ask any questions during orientation to make your transition easier.;
, If you have a chance to meet your school counselors and teachers before the start of class you will be more likely to stand out. See if they are running any office hours or extra programs. You may also see if you can contact them via email so that the first day of school you will already have established some type of rapport.When you meet your school counselors and teachers in the first week, make sure to communicate any anxieties or simply ask questions about classes and how you should approach the upcoming school year. Remember that they have dealt with this many times before and will be happy to help an enthusiast student.
 You may be able to take electives for the first year so speak to your teachers to get a sense of the subjects and whether or not you will enjoy taking one class over another. The more informed you are, the happier you’ll be in the long run.Ask your teachers or principal if there is a suggested reading list or any topics to research to give you a head start in the summer.
 Ask if there is a list of clubs and sports teams that you are able to join. You may be able to reach out to coaches or the head of a club to get a sense of what’s involved so you know whether you can handle an extracurricular activity in addition to your school work.Talk to coaches for any advice on how to train over the summer so that you will be prepared for any tryouts. You may need to practice your shooting or dribbling if you want to join the basketball team for example. Sports teams may have summer workouts or practices so you may contact a coach or principal to see if you can check it out. Or you may need to practice your trombone if you want to get into band.
Like musicals and plays, there won’t be a lot of sports played in the summer so you may have to check these out earlier in the year. See how much school spirit there is and don’t be afraid to cheer on your high school. Have fun and see whether this is something you’d like to be a part of., Get a sense of what’s involved in a production and how involved the audience is. There probably won’t be any plays or musicals in the summer so you may have to check these out earlier in the year., Whether you meet people during orientation or during summer activities, be sure to always be friendly and say hi. You never know who will be your classmate or friends from other clubs and sports teams.Take every opportunity you can to chat to people because they may know some information about classes, schools, or teams from their siblings or friends and can give you their perspective. Is good to to also relate to others who are going through the same thing you are to relieve some of your stress and anxiety.
 Whether you have an orientation day or not, come up with a list of questions that will help you ease into high school. Whether it be related to classes, dress code, or how to make friends, write everything down and ask the appropriate people.You may ask your parents or siblings to help you come up with your list to make sure you don’t miss anything.
 Your high school may put out a newspaper, yearbook, newsletter or literary magazine. See if you can get a hold of last year’s publications so you can get a sense of a typical school year. You may ask to contact the editor if you’d like to be involved next year in the publication., Your high school website is sure to provide valuable information about student life, teachers, locations, and anything else you may have questions about. There is also often a helpful directory so that you may contact people directly if you have specific questions.Check if your school has a social media profile or if certain clubs or sports teams do. This may be an easier way to get a sense of school life because other students will most likely post on these profile pages.
 You may have someone in your life who has gone through the exact same thing you are about to so don’t be afraid to ask about his perspective. Get insider information about teachers, homework, or activities from people who still have it fresh in their mind.Ask questions like “who was your toughest teacher”, “what’s the funnest elective”, “what’s the quickest way to get to the gym to the cafeteria”, and “what’s the best thing to order for lunch?”

, Your school will already have a system in place to help you adjust. Find out which counselors, teachers, and administrators are trained specifically to help you. You will most likely meet them during orientation so introduce yourself.Make sure to take note of what each person specializes in, there may be an administrator who helps with electives and a counselor that helps with stress and dealing with your workload.
 Your school may offer mentoring programs where older students offer support and advice. Sign up if necessary or ask teachers, counselors, or administrators to help you find someone on your own if there isn’t a program currently set up.Make sure your mentor is someone you get along with or find someone new if you feel like your personalities clash.
 Speak to teachers outside of class to get personal advice tailored to you. Let teachers know ahead of time where you think you might need improvement. If you don’t know how you can improve yourself, ask about the class requirements and ask additional questions as you begin to get a sense of the workload.Introduce your parents to your teachers and counselors. While there may already be scheduled parent-teacher meetings, take any opportunity you can to introduce your parents to teachers and counselors so they know they can reach out to each other when you are having problems or have any questions.For example, you may ask the music teacher to help set up a practice schedule and a meeting with the school band leader.
 This may be the first time that you are able to choose electives. Getting your parents involved will give you support and help establish a team atmosphere. They may help find valuable information that you can’t find on your own., Your parents may not want you to join certain sports or activities for safety reasons or they may cost too much. Keeping them in the loop will help you find good alternatives that suit your schedule, budget, and interests.Remember that extra activities may mean that your parents may have to save money or change their schedule to help accommodate yours so take that into consideration when you make the decision together. They may also be considered that it takes time away from you other school and family responsibilities so come up with a reasonable schedule together.
 The more parents and students your parents know, the stronger your support system will be. Your parents will be able to pool resources like carpooling, activities, or study groups.This is also a chance for your parents to form their own support group. Talking to parents of other freshman can help them ease any anxiety.
 High school is the beginning of finding yourself. Whether it’s sports, academics, or art, find something that you are passionate about and begin to focus on it. Don’t neglect other aspects of your school life but competence and accomplishment can strengthen your self-esteem., Make sure to get the appropriate amount of sleep every night. Try to sleep at least eight hours, maintaining the same bedtime and start time every day. Having a set routine and healthy sleeping habits can prepare you for the rest of your life.It may be difficult to get the full night’s sleep when you have an exam or project due so make sure to plan ahead and focus on good study habits to keep your schedule consistent.
 Learn how to keep your concentration by only focusing on one thing at a time. Reading is a great way to develop these skills. Turn off your tv and computer screens and learn how to focus so that studying and working become easier.Find a quiet place and schedule in the same time every day to work or study so that it becomes a habit.
 You don’t always have to eat salad but avoid junk food as much as possible and make sure to eat three meals a day. You’ll be surprised how your mood and energy will improved if you avoid things with too much sugar or heavy fried foods.Talk to your parents or cafeteria workers about healthy choices.
 Being frustrated and failing to meet certain standards are part of growth. Remember to learn from your mistakes and take note of how you can improve for the next time. You may be tested both in and out of the classroom so learn every time things don’t go according to plan., Know that you’re body is perfect no matter what anyone says. Take care of yourself and give yourself time recover when you need it. Respect yourself and don’t let anyone try to shame you.Talk to your teachers, counselor, administrator, and parents if anyone is bullying you or making you uncomfortable about your body.
 Learn how to manage your time with a scheduler. Organize your workspace at home and at school. If you struggle with being on time or keeping organized, ask your parents and teachers for help., Treat others how you want to be treated and stand up for what you believe in. Don’t give in to temptations of cheating or peer pressure. Whether you talk to a student sitting alone in the cafeteria or simply hold the door open for someone, there is always an opportunity to do good.
 High school will teach you about symbolism so be prepared to look for deeper meaning in what you read. Learn about tone and how language is used., You will need to learn how to form an argument and provide enough evidence for what you think a writer might be saying. Be prepared to write persuasively., Learn how to articulate and write in an effective way. You want your ideas to make sense and for the information to be clear., You will be provided with a lot of information about a single topic and you will need to know how to pick out the most important information. You will also need to know how to use different resources like books, videos, and online research., Your assigned reading will start to become more difficult so learn more words and phrases to help you express yourself. Write down new vocabulary words and make sure you understand what you’re reading. Discuss new ideas in class or with your teacher to be sure that you understand them.Make sure you understand new figures of speech.
 You will begin to learn irrational numbers: numbers that can be written as decimals, numerals, or fractions. You can quiz yourself on converting them to each., Figuring out a square root of a perfect square begins in high school. If you multiply a number by itself then you create a perfect square. A square root is the original number., High school will teach you how to solve and graph equations. Be prepared to learn how read a graph., High school mathematics is the start of learning algebra. A function is the relationship of a variable to another variable in algebra. It is the rule that can give the value of a missing variable.For example 2x=y is a function where x and y are variables.
 You will learn how to calculate sizes of shapes using different equations like Pythagorean theorem (a2 + b2 = c2) to find the lengths of the sides of right angle triangles. You will also learn how to find the volume of cones, spheres, and cylinders., You will begin to learn how to solve word problems and how to apply math to solving real world scenarios., Remember that high-school is vital in getting into college. Talk to your family, teachers, and counselors about where you see yourself in the future and whether you want to pursue a post-secondary education. College may be attainable with the right guidance but you have to receive it early and often.Make sure you get your support system involved in the decision making process to make sure you make the best decision for you.
 College can be very expensive especially if you choose to move away. Make sure you have a list of colleges that you want to attend and calculate how much it will be to attend four years including the cost of living. Talk to your parents and teachers to help you figure out an effective saving plan., Take classes that interest you and that will help you in the long term. There may be certain prerequisites that you need to take in high school in order to take certain classes in college. Talk to your teachers and counselors to chart out an appropriate class list., Ask your parents, family members, and teachers to help research and chart out any extra-curricular activities or programs that can help benefit your college application. There may be special financial aid programs, academic competitions, or scholarships that you may need to apply early for., High school is the time to develop habits like strong work ethic and focus. These will be essential in succeeding in college. You should also develop your social skills along with your study habits to keep you well-rounded., Colleges may require standardized testing for you to get in. If you find difficulty in passing the SAT, ACT, or any other test, get help from your teachers, a tutor, mentor, or counselor. It’s never too early to prepare yourself., Explore your interests and learn new things by becoming involved in community and school programs. Not only will this look good on college applications but it will also make you a well-rounded individual., Talk to family members, teachers, librarians, and counselors about different careers so you can carve out the correct post-secondary path. There may be certain institutions that specialize in your interests.Ask questions like “what do you like about your job?” or “what type of classes did you need to take to get into your career?”

