 End-of-life care is a personal decision, but often when treating the illness is no longer an option, hospice care might be the best solution. Hospice care involves care meant to relieve any suffering or pain caused by an illness, along with support, and is available to those who are expected to pass within six months.To qualify for hospice care, a doctor must certify that your parent is terminally ill and has six months or less to live.Many receive hospice care when they have stopped treatment for the illness and wish simply to be comfortable and as pain-free as possible.
Hospice care may be a good choice if your parent would like to spend less time at the hospital and more time at home. If inpatient treatment becomes necessary, this can be arranged by the hospice.
This type of care can also be helpful if your parent needs help with everyday tasks, such as eating, dressing, bathing, and walking.
 An advance directive is a legal document. The document provides instructions to doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel about your parent’s wishes if they become unresponsive or unable to make medical decisions for themselves. Each state has different laws for advance directives, so ask your doctor or research the guidelines for your area.Talk to your parent about their wishes. Do not make decisions for them. Even if you don’t agree, if after discussion your parent still wants that care, respect their decision.
Decide what end-of-life care your parent would like. For example, ask they if they would like to be kept on life support. You should also decide what medical procedures your parent will agree to and won’t agree to if they are unable to decide for themselves.
Discuss options with your parent’s doctor if you are not sure what should be included.
 Your parent should also come up with a power of attorney. This is another document that provides your parent’s instructions in case they are unable to provide it. The power of attorney specifically gives a designated person the responsibility to make decisions for your parent if they cannot make them for themselves.The person named in the power of attorney should be someone your parent trusts completely. The person should be able to make decisions based on your parent’s wishes, not their own ideas.
Your parent should have a conversation with the person they name as their power of attorney. The person needs to learn your parent’s wishes so they can make sure all decisions are ones your parent would make.

