 Yes, it can be rough having braces now. However, you won’t need to wear them for a very long time, and you’re going to reap the benefits of a beautiful smile!


Be thankful that you can afford to get your teeth straightened. It’s a luxury in a way, not a burden! Braces will help correct overbites and underbites as well as crooked teeth.Remember that orthodontic treatment has many benefits. The orthodontist can use braces to guide your jaw’s growth and how permanent teeth come in. The orthodontist can help change whether you need teeth removed, as well as spacing of teeth and the width of dental arches. You will have less chance of such problems as lost teeth or speech problems.Braces usually stay on a person only from one to three years, although the time you will need to wear them can depend on the issue they are trying to fix.
 Yes, smile! If you show that you’re confident and it’s no big deal, people won’t think it’s a big deal.


Gone are the days that people are embarrassed about braces. Even Hollywood celebrities like Tom Cruise and Britney Spears have worn braces!Some fashion models have even worn braces on the runway!If you smile big, people are going to focus on your beautiful, natural smile, not the metal or other material within it. Smiles are infectious and will draw people to you who like your positive, happy attitude. It’s a positive cycle. If you act confident, people will react to you differently, and then you are likely to feel more confident!
Remember that other people probably aren’t focusing on or even noticing your braces anywhere near as much as you think they are.
 With braces, you can continue doing all of your normal activities, including playing sports. Don't change your life!


If you’re playing a sport where you risk getting hit in the mouth, you may need to wear a mouth guard made out of plastic that fits over your braces.Sometimes adults need braces. One reason for this can be if the teeth start shifting away from the gum line. Adult braces are becoming more common, and some adults also opt to show them off with different colors or designs, although work concerns can be a factor here.Don’t worry about kissing someone if you have braces. Just go really slow, especially at first. Try not to bump teeth together, and make sure his or her tongue doesn’t get caught on your braces!