 Cleverbot doesn't have a great grasp of the emotional context that is necessary to understand human communication. It will usually take everything you say literally. Because of this, Cleverbot isn't too "clever" when it comes to emotional questions and outbursts. Try typing a furious, rambling insult or tearfully asking for Cleverbot's forgiveness for some imagined slight — usually, its response won't make much sense.
 One sure-fire way to get Cleverbot's wires crossed is to send it messages that don't make sense to humans, either. Typing in gibberish, either by purposefully misspelling words, making up new words, or just mashing randomly on the keyboard, can get some funny results. For instance, try the sample messages below:


"Asuerycbasuircanys" (random gibberish)
"What is your opinion on the tornalions in reffriddo?" (made-up words)
"Wut arr ewe dewing laiter this eavning?" (misspelled words)

, Cleverbot doesn't have the common sense to be able to piece together sentences that use slang — especially modern slang. Using lots of colloquialisms and "street" lingo in your messages can usually get Cleverbot's metaphorical head to spin. The more slang you use, the better, as even literal-minded Cleverbot can usually figure out simple sentences like "What's up, dog?" Try getting started with one of these examples:


"h0w 4r3 y0u d01n6, cl3v3rb07?" (1337speak)
"Yo, what's up, bro? Lemme ask you a question, broseph - how are you doing today, broheim?" (Bro-y slang)
"Well, pardner, it's about time we saddle up, hit that old dusty trail, and high-tail it out of here." (Cowboy slang)

, The longer and more complex the things you send to Cleverbot are, the less likely it will be to respond correctly. Typing out rambling, meandering messages (or even entire conversations) can get some pretty funny responses out of Cleverbot. Don't be afraid to stop one sentence and begin another — periods, question marks, and exclamation points are allowed in the middle of your message.


For instance, you might want to have the same sort of long, aimless chat you might have when you're catching up with a friend. For instance, you might try: "Cleverbot, how are you? I was just thinking about you. I hope you're doing well. I had a great weekend - I went hiking up on Castle Rock on Saturday. Beautiful views from the top. Have you ever been up there? We should go sometime. Anyway, I just wanted to know what you were up to."

, The longer you follow a certain line of questioning, the more likely Cleverbot is to "crack". By the time you're ten or twelve messages into a conversation, Cleverbot has forgotten what you were originally talking about and is simply responding literally to each message as best as it can. This can lead to some pretty bizarre conversations, especially if Cleverbot misunderstands something you type.


You may want to try using the "Think For Me!" button on Cleverbot.com for this. This button makes Cleverbot think up a response to its own message for you. Since Cleverbot is basically communicating with itself, using this button can quickly cause the conversation to devolve into nonsense, even if you only use it a few times.

