 During season 1, introductions to each of the episodes began with the introductory music. Then all of a sudden the reason for the show (the words "Do You Have It?") flashed onscreen, much like a synthesizer echoed several times. There were several different clips of previous contestants trying all sorts of the Nick Guts games, while the them music yelled, "Guts". The camera then showed a panoramic view of the Extreme Arena as we heard the host introduce us to the area and game show "From Nickelodeon Studios in Orlando Florida, welcome to Guts - the action sports show that's gonna make you sweat!". Each player was introduced, as most post players waltzed out onto the area of the infield near the one side of the track (with the Crag in the far distance). The host always referred to each contestant with a name-nickname pair in this part of the show. In an almost-screamed yell, the host introduced himself "Hello everyone. I'm (host name mentioned later). Welcome to the Extreme Arena - home of Nickelodeon Guts: the action sports show where kids live out their greatest sports fantasies. Today, players will be battling their way through four outrageous events and after that, they'll get a chance to tackle our Radical Rock - the Agro Crag, where almost anything can happen. The player with the most points at the end of all of our events is our winner and he or she will be able to take home a piece of our Radical Rock." The host reminds the viewer how well events will be monitored for safety and the first game is introduced without much detail from the splash on the screen (which differed slightly by season). He'd then say, "Let's go to (announcer's name) for the rules!" The announcer announced the description and rules of the game. And the games began - most often with a whistle.

During seasons 2 and 3, the introductory segment saw some changes. At the very beginning, players were introduced right away "Can (name) or (name) or (name) battle out..." (even before the theme song began). The players didn't waltz out -players didn't enter into the "Extreme Arena" as they did in all the other seasons. The music got shorter, and the host introduced the first game almost right away. This season got "right to the point," and as you'll see later, it introduced a change to the Crag, too. The host simplified his wording in this season down to just "I'm (host's name described later). This is Nickelodeon Guts. Do You Have It?" The audience would scream "Guts", then the shortened-introductory video took over before the contestants jumped into the first game.
During season 4 (when Nickelodeon Guts changed to "Global Guts"), this introduction was revised yet again. The video feed showed kids having just general fun, running wild all over wide open pastures and even a zoomed-in camera shot that passed by a world-famous bridge and finally in on the Nickelodeon Studios building in cartoon style. The introductory wording was revamped as the words "Do You Have It?" were literally splashed onto the screen. Players entered the Extreme Arena again (unlike season 2 and 3). The paragraph describing the show was reworked to: "They've come from all over the world with one goal - a glowing piece of our Radical Rock. But one question still remains - 'Do You Have It?'" Then a few moments later the host would say, "Welcome to the Extreme Arena at Nickelodeon Studios. This is Global Guts - Nickelodeon's world championship for kids. Let's meet today's players.";
, A set of four "extreme games" comprised the show's structure. All three players battled head-to-head in four events; whoever won the event placed in first place. The other players collected second and third place. If one team tied with another, both teams got the same points for their event. During each show, contestants got three hundred points for placing in first place, two hundred points for placing in second place and one hundred points for placing in third place. Each game consisted of challenges players had to endure to get them through from beginning to end. These games will be discussed later but ranged from having players playing "jump ball" (a jazzed-up and extreme version of basketball) to having them surf using a surfboard/ski to race from end-to-end in the arena.

Games were set inside this soundstage in a gymnasium-like setting but often used equipment you wouldn't expect.
 The Crag would generally mark the very end of the game. Utilizing an elastic cord, players had to climb a mountain that was anywhere between 28-30 feet tall.As players climbed, they would have to have had to push button actuators that set off lights that strobed around in a circle (including a final actuator at the very top). But as they were making their way to the top, things such as "boulders" (season 1), which were heavier-weight Styrofoam rock-like masses, or confetti/falling snow (season 2) came falling down onto the contestants. Sometimes, players' actions triggered these obstacles, while others were taken by the stage crew. Players had to climb only their side of the mountain and could not disrupt another player's progress. They were penalized if they hit someone else's actuator (even accidental hits) or if they reached the top by grabbing a hand rail that was seen (more often in seasons 2 and 3). Strobe light lightning flashes were also seen at times. Players climbed what looked like large stereo speakers that sent lots of mist spewing everywhere. Colored lights were illuminated along the entire length of the mountain; these teams' colors designated to the player which path up the Crag to use. The Crag gave 725 points to the team that came in first, 550 points to the team that came in second and 375 points to the team who came in third.The Crag went through many different variations in its names, and each different variation went through different redesign changes. During season 1, the Crag was called just the "Aggro Crag". By season 2, the Crag was called the "Mega Crag" (though in Wikipedia's article they said it was called the Aggro Crag for this season as well). By the time Global Guts came into town, the Crag became the "Super Aggro Crag".Players could also be penalized for not stepping on all of the "boulders" at the base of the Crag, called "Boulder Canyon", or climbing without lighting all of the team's own actuators (though this didn't happen very often).
 At the very end of the game, there was a medals ceremony. The total numbers of points for each team were tallied (including the points received on the Crag) and players stood on a pedestal. Dependent on standing, players either received a gold (for first place finish), silver (for second place finish) or platinum (for third place finish) medal, as well as that much-coveted glowing piece of the Crag ("glowing piece of the Radical Rock") that went to the day's first place winner. The rock would generally glow green and was like a trophy for the team.

Players weren't given trips to Universal after the show (unlike it's other Nickelodeon game shows), but they were able to keep the sneakers and contestant shirt they were given on the show. All other safety equipment had to be returned to Nickelodeon by the end of their studio day.
 Obviously, the "Do You Have it?" motto was well defined, and these are the only words you'll hear over and over and over again in seasons 1 and 4, there were no other lyrics heard, unlike all the other seasons. In seasons 2 and 3, the lyrics were short but contained four sentences spoken by one person (that were a set of two conditions and two questions about the games the players will be playing in the game).



"It takes a certain kind of person to get the party rollin' to the level of precision that's needed to get risen to the top. Do you have it?"
"It takes a certain kind of something to keep your heart pumpin' that everyone needs to achieve to succeed - you'll need a lot! Do you have it?"



, The Spill Your Guts segment was a segue that was meant to introduce the players, just before programming switched to the advertisements during the show. For season 1 and 2, the host or referee/announcer would introduce the player and this would be an interview between the two. But as season 3 went on the air, the players introduced themselves. As you'll see later in this article, when this show changed to Global Guts (for the very last season), for players who came from non-English speaking countries, they had an interpreter speak overtop of their voice in the United States version of Global Guts., Producers came up with nicknames for each of the contestants on this show and for each contestant that came in, the host would mention the name-nickname pair (including the players' last name). However, few times did this ever make much sense, and the origin of the nickname was a mystery to viewers. Similar to the stylings of the nickname of Buford "Mad Dog" Tannen on Back to the Future Part III, most players got something fitting that set in with notoriety but not much else., Beginning in season 2, after the first two games were played and the second player had spilt their guts, the host and announcer would summarize what the viewers had seen. It would end with a look back at the first half of the show and after a short commentary, the host would remind the announcer of her job duties as referee and ask that she return before he ended up finishing his spiel., This game had many games that were used over its four season run, which were categorized as either a field, aerial, gym, track, pool, or mountain (for the one game). Both the type of game and the name of the game would be displayed on a splash screen page prior to the rules being introduced. These games included Aces, Attack, Basic Training, Blade Runner, Blast It, Boogie Down, Bull's Eye, Crag/Agro Crag/Super Agro Crag/Mega Crag/etc., Dodge It, Double Play, Eat My Dust, Extreme Baseball, Free Kick, Fumble/Rugby/Scrumble, Hang Ten, Invisible Boat, Jump Ball, Jump!Jump!, Mad Max, Make Your Mark, Moon Race, Off the Wall, Over the Top, Peak to Peak, Power Ski, Rebound, Shoot Out, Skurfin Safari, Skyball, Slam Dunk, Slam-a-Jama, Slap Shot, Spike It, Spin Out, Spirals, Splash Down, The Edge, The Longest Yard, Totally Tubular, Touchdown, Triple Jump, Vertiboggan, Wave Runner, White Water, Wild Pitch, Wild Wheels, or Zero G. Although there were many game options, four different games were used on each show, as well as the Crag segment at the end. Sometimes pool events would be selected over aerial but this depended on the exact episode. All episodes had the mountain game (Crag) in it, no matter what!, The events took place in Soundstage 21 of Nickelodeon Studios in an arena which the crew called the "Extreme Arena". Any viewer and fan knew what this place looked like. There was an area near the very front that was covered in the mountain. In back of the mountain, there was a track and field-like area that had a track. Inside the track, there were other areas and obstacles that were used for the shows, such as the wave pool for pool/aquatic events, as well as high jump and similar objects devoted to aerial events. On each side nearest the track and field was the audience (on both the straightaways and near the curves). For season 4 when Nickelodeon Guts changed to Global Guts, the set also included a fake set of country representatives, who were in hockey-like penalty boxes and were shown near the introduction conversing over the phone., Team colors never varied over the course of the four seasons of the show. Although each team consisted of only one player, colors included blue, red and purple. However, sometimes blue looked more like an aqua or greenish color on some TV screens., Players wore rather long jerseys and yellow helmets. For aerial events, players were mandated to use harnesses to keep them safe, as well as waterproof vests/lifejackets and goggles for pool/water events. They also wore black and yellow pants along with yellow-colored knee pads. Players' helmets had the team's color emblazoned on them, along with the player's first name on it inside the color. Most often the jerseys were long-sleeved, though for some events, players were given short-sleeved versions. Players were also asked to wear Reebok sneakers which players were given as parting gifts (as described at the end of the show)., The Nickelodeon logo (all caps but with a small caps "I") was present as a flying banner above the Guts (again all caps) logo. This logo was emblazoned on a chalkboard's wiped surface, and each letter of GUTS was outlined in white and colored in in yellow. When Global Guts came, a metallic-like spinning world globe illustration was shown behind the logo, and an equator line was struck around the midpoint of the globe., This show as hosted by Mike O'Malley during its entire run, including for the Global Guts season. This was his second TV hosting appearance, as he had previously worked on Get The Picture (another Nickelodeon TV Game Show airing a few years before this show's initial start date.), Moira Quirk was the announcer during the entire run. She always seemed to dress in referee type clothes, but her unique voice led her to become notable in other areas of TV game shows at the time. The host, Mike O'Malley, most often referred to his announcer as just "Mo" on set., A.J. McLean (of Backstreet Boy's fame) was a contestant in the first season. In the second season, both Anna Morris and Mike Vogel appeared. In the third season, Ashley Drane and Bobby Boswell (DC United soccer team fame) appeared. During the fourth season, Gregory Haney competed. Few of these special contestants ever won more than just a silver medal., Nickelodeon Guts was aired once a week between September 19, 1992 and January 14, 1996, for a total of 160 episodes. This 160 episodes number includes the number of shows aired during Global Guts' run. Each episode (besides the special episode mentioned momentarily) aired for approximately 30 minutes on a Saturday evening., Nick Guts only had one real special episode; it aired during their normal time slot but doubled in time (which aired on July 25, 1993) as Nickelodeon Guts All-Stars. In the All-Star version, they located three former players (Mike Schmidt, Jana Waring, Kelli Marchewka) who had a perfect score on their show, and brought them back to battle the other two for the ultimate special Guts All-Star trophy. It was a one-hour special and included a total of eight events (including the Rebound, Tornado Run, Hang Ten, Fumble, Mad Max and the Aggro Crag).Parts of Nickelodeon Guts were also used on the Nickelodeon All-Star Challenge gameshow day. They used both the Slam Dunk, Dodge It and Slam-a-Jama games, as well as part of its theme song in that days' game show., Two spin-offs were shown of this show, as is described below.

With all the excitement of Nickelodeon Guts, many different nations around the world (including Germany, Israel, Mexico, Portugal, Spain, Ukraine and the United Kingdom) started spinning off the concept of Nickelodeon Guts into their own versions of Nickelodeon Guts. The name of this show was changed to Global Guts instead. Some of the contestants in these other countries would battle it out. Although by the end there were a total of twelve medals given out to each of the eight countries' teams, (slight spoiler) the United Kingdom was the ultimate winner, with a total of eight gold medals, followed by Mexico and the United States with seven and six gold medal wins.These episodes began running as part of the Nick in the Afternoon slot beginning September 5, 1995. In the medals ceremony of Global Guts, the first place finisher team's flag was raised (much like the Olympics), and the winning team's national anthem would be played. Following this, players were able to grab their flag and take a victory lap around the arena where this game was being pre-recorded for the public.
During a 2008 revival of the Nickelodeon Guts series, Nickelodeon aired two seasons of shows called My Family's Got Guts, which brought along this same idea and antics that the old shows had been known to show to their viewers. However, a different host (Ben Lyons) was used along with a different announcer (Asha Kuerten) to complete a game's episode. Also, games didn't run the same way. Teams of two families were formed and points were still given per challenge. Any points obtained over the course of the game could be used to give the family a head start on the Aggro Crag. By the time this revival came out, this was now a bracket challenge-type of game.

