 Certain products work better with certain hair types. Ask a professional or take the time to experiment.


Shampoo the roots and condition the ends. This prevents build-up on your scalp and keeps the ends from breaking.
Wash your hair in cold water. This seals the proteins from the products into your hair, leaving it healthier and shinier.

Hot water leaves your hair's pores open, allowing nutrients to escape.

;
, Don't feel the need to wash it every day! This will dry it out and get rid of good, natural oils.


Thick, coarse, or curly hair does not need to be shampooed as often.

Deep condition your hair once a week, if desired. This is an especially good idea for dyed or damaged hair.
 Hair dryers, curling irons, and straighteners all damage your hair, from root to end. Let your hair dry and style it naturally to avoid unnecessary damage.


If you must blow-dry you hair, use the low setting. The higher the heat, the greater the damage.
 Keeping a styled cut keeps split ends from getting out of control.


No need for a trip to the salon -- do it yourself! Stick to the style you have; just clean up the ends.
 If you have curly hair, rock those curls! If your hair is straight, walk right out of the shower into the world (but put clothes on first). A girl's natural beauty is always her best look.


Use products to enhance your hair's qualities. Use a gel or spray to define your curls or serums to make your hair pin-straight.
 Your hair, skin, nails, and attitude all depend on it.


Extreme dieting may seem effective, but it wreaks havoc on your body. A healthy diet insures you get all the necessary vitamins and minerals your body needs to grow and shine.
Your hair gets nutrients from whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. Without these, it will grow slower and seem duller.
 Establishing a routine catered to your own skin will maximize its effectiveness and leave you glowing and camera ready.


Dry -- sometimes flaky, few breakouts,
Oily -- prone to shine and breakouts, bigger pores
Combination -- your T-zone (forehead, nose, chin) is oily, cheeks are dry

This can change with the seasons or have a tendency to be oilier or drier.


Sensitive -- has allergic reactions to products, turns red easily in more extreme weather

, Many moisturizers or lotions have small amounts of SPF built in.


Stay away from tanning beds. Prolonged exposure in the sun is bad enough for your skin, but unnatural UV radiation is even worse. Tanning leads to wrinkles, spots, and, obviously, skin cancer.Youth is fleeting; don't make it go faster!

, What your mother told you is true. The things that are best for you are also best for your body.


Don't smoke. Cigarette smoking has been proven to add years onto your skin and teeth. Get your beauty sleep! Studies have shown that getting a full 8 hours of sleep leads to lower stress (which leads to better skin), a healthy weight, and higher levels of creativity!, Make-up can clog pores and lead to breakouts. Make sure you wash your face at night and before applying make-up in the morning.


Use make-up remover to get at the stubborn places around your eyes.
 Use an oil-free lotion and apply all over your face and neck.


Moisturizer is useful to even out your skin tone. Use one with SPF 15 to reduce sun damage.
Moisturizer also provides a base for foundation.
 Too much make-up covers up your actual beauty and may look clownish.


Natural make-up (like Mineral Foundation) is healthier for your skin and reduces breakouts -- unlike most make-up, which increases them.
 Clothes look different on everyone. Knowing your body shape will help you pick out the fashions that minimize your flaws and enhance your attributes.


Apple -- larger upper body, slimmer legs
Pear -- wider hips and thighs, smaller bust and waist
Hourglass -- bust and hips similar in proportion
Banana -- shoulders, bust, waist, hips all similar

, If you know what to play up, you can draw attention away from what you're playing down.


A cute jacket is appropriate for all seasons and draws attention away from the arms
Eye-catching accessories go with any outfit (and add personality!)
Heels make even the shortest legs look longer
A top with a cinched waist at the natural waistline helps to create the illusion of an hourglass figure

, If it buttons up, it doesn't mean it fits. Pick clothes that not only fit you, but fit you well.


When in the store, move around. You won't wear clothes that are uncomfortable.
Wear good undergarments when trying things on. Extra lines can create an unflattering silhouette.
 Your own coloring will affect what shades look best on you.


Hold a piece of white paper up to your skin. If you have a yellow hue, you have a warm skin tone; if pinkish, you have a cool skin tone.
Pick clothes that flatter your skin tone. Autumn and spring tones are warm; winter and summer tones are cool.
 The benefits of exercise are not only for your waistline -- it'll improve your mood in addition to you looking and feeling better.
Exercise will:


Lead to weight loss
Lower your heart rate
Improve your complexion
Define your muscles You don't have to do it all at once! If you're on a time crunch, work out a little in the morning and a little in the evening -- the benefits are the same.
 This habit will look after your skin and hair for you.


If you're thirsty, you're dehydrated. Keep a bottle of water with you as often as possible.
Upping your water intake can result in weight loss!A healthy amount to drink, on average, is half of your body weight in ounces (of water) per day. That is, if you weigh 100 lbs, drink 50 ounces of water each day.
 There is nothing more beautiful than a girl whose beauty is her own.


When it comes to clothes, pick the ones you feel good and comfortable in. The girl who can barely sit down is not the girl you want to be.
Don't like today's trends? Start your own! Having a sense of style is knowing what yours is -- not being able to follow the crowd.
 It's contagious. Soon enough, you'll be happier. And everyone around you will be happier, too.


A genuine smile will instantly brighten your eyes and slightly flush your cheeks. Automatic blush!

, Inner beauty affects outward beauty. A vibrant, optimistic personality creates a gorgeous person on the inside and out. A confident person has an aura of self-worth that cannot be wiped off with soap.

