 Acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB), and naproxen sodium (Aleve) are all examples of OTC painkillers that can help with some pain symptoms.Always follow the specific manufacturer’s instructions regarding safe daily dosages and for how long you can take the medication before discontinuing use.;
, Certain stressors in your life—such as work, family, life-changing events, or abuse—can worsen fibromyalgia symptoms.Ensure that you give yourself time to relax and decompress every day. Turn to hobbies, meditation, yoga, tai chi, deep-breathing techniques, prayer, or whatever you find most relaxing to help stop yourself from feeling overwhelmed.Avoid changing your routine completely in hopes of avoiding all stress. Those who quit work and reduce engagement in other activities tend to suffer from worse symptoms than people who try to stay active.Some studies show that gentle yoga and tai chi may be able to help reduce physical symptoms as well as stress reduction., Increased fatigue is a common symptom of fibromyalgia.Studies have also suggested that poor sleep actually worsens fibromyalgia-related pain by impairing pain-inhibition pathways.To help facilitate longer, more qualitative sleep:Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day.
Relax before going to bed while avoiding bright electronic screens from TVs, phones, and computers.
Create a relaxing bedtime routine such as taking a bath or drinking a warm beverage such as milk or a caffeine-free tea.
Avoid caffeine, nicotine, and alcohol before going to bed.
Keep away from heavy meals late at night.
Maintain a comfortable, quiet, cool, and dark room.
Avoid watching the clock when you have trouble falling asleep. Instead get up and do something relaxing until you feel sleepy.
Consider seeing a sleep professional if you still have trouble sleeping soundly despite your best efforts to cultivate a healthy sleep routine., A regular routine of moderate, aerobic exercise has been shown to help with pain, function, and general quality of life for those with fibromyalgia.Most importantly, begin and progress slowly to avoid inducing flare-ups or worsening current ones.Listen to your body with regard to your routine. Start with something as simple as five to ten minutes of walking a day and progress slowly to include cardio activities you enjoy such as swimming, cycling, or dancing. Low-impact exercises are best. Remember to warm up and cool down before and after each session.Progress at your own slow pace. Even a ten percent increase in time every three to six sessions is plenty. The goal is also to feel energized rather than exhausted after exercise.Once you’ve worked into a good routine, try to participate in moderate cardio exercises three to five times per week, and always use proper technique and posture to avoid injury., Your fitness routine should also include exercise to strengthen muscles and improve joint range of motion in addition to aerobic exercises.As with cardio, begin and progress slowly while listening to the feedback your body provides.


Begin with minimal resistance. As you progress, aim to strength train two to three times a week at moderate intensity.The goal is to feel energized rather than fatigued at the end of a workout, so avoid pushing yourself too hard., With both exercise and general activity, avoid pushing yourself too hard. Attempting to cram too much activity into your good days can lead to more bad days with fibromyalgia.This balance additionally means doing your best to stay active on bad days as well. Try to mix each day with a healthy balance of activity and rest.Schedule your rest and activities at the same time in an organized manner.
Doing your best to include some activity each day, including bad days, can help you manage flares faster. Even if you are only able to walk slowly for 10 minutes every few hours, this can make a big difference.
 If you have fibromyalgia, you need support from individuals or groups that can truly empathize with your condition. Frustration and stress related to living with this often misunderstood condition do nothing to help alleviate symptoms. However, support groups for fibromyalgia are common.Look into groups in your area to help develop a circle of supporters who know what you’re going through.


Don’t exclude your friends or loved ones who naturally want to help either. Provide them with educational information about your condition and the frustrations associated with it.This will help them provide the support you need on a daily basis between group meetings.

