 Hourglass figures are all about the waist, and even if you don't have the traditional hourglass measurements, you can create the illusion of a tiny waist by wearing the right clothes and accentuating your waist whenever possible.Go for dresses that nip in at the waist, then flare out from the hips.
Wear trench coats or jackets with adjustable waist belts which you can tighten to give an hourglass silhouette.
Add belts of all shapes and sizes to any outfit to draw attention to your waist.
Go for jackets or tops with padded shoulders which will make your waist appear smaller by comparison.;
, Low-rise pants or jeans are those which sit on your hips, resulting in the dreaded muffin-top effect. Even if you don't carry much weight around your middle, low-rise jeans can push the smallest amounts of fat upwards, making you appear wider across the middle. This is definitely not what you want when aiming to achieve an hourglass figure.


Opt for high-waisted jeans which reach just under your belly button and keep any extra fat safely tucked away.
Go for dark wash jeans which make the leg appear slimmer and are more complimentary to curvier figures. Lighter colors are unflattering on all but the slimmest silhouettes.
Go for boot cut or flared styles, rather than skinny jeans, as these will even out the effect of the high-waist and avoid giving you a "mom jeans" effect.
 Hourglass figures are renowned for their fuller busts, but even if you're not naturally well-endowed you can achieve the same effect by investing in good quality bras. An under-wire bra will help lift the breasts, while a padded bra can give the appearance of greater size.If possible, go to a high-quality lingerie store where you can be measured and fitted for the right size bra. It's amazing how many women believe they are one size when they go to get fitted, only to find out that they have been wearing the wrong size for years.
A perfectly sized bra will work wonders for your confidence - and that's before you include any push-up or padding features - so if you suspect you may be wearing the wrong size, your first stop on the way to an hourglass physique should be the lingerie department!

, High heels are the perfect accompaniment to an hourglass figure. They make the legs appear longer and more toned while also lifting the butt. They improve posture and allow women to stand up tall and be confident, while also providing a sexy wiggle while you walk. For ultimate bombshell factor, aim to wear heels of at least three inches.
 Clothes look their best and are most complimentary when they fit your body perfectly. For this reason, you should avoid limiting yourself to one particular size and just go for what looks best on you. You'll feel more comfortable and confident in clothing that fits like a glove, so forget about the number on the tag.


Unfortunately, many women are stuck on the notion that they should be wearing one size and one size only, not taking into account that individual brands may be sized differently from one another and that a size twelve in one brand may be equivalent to a size eight in another.
Shop around and try to find a clothing brand or selection of brands which produce pieces that suit your body shape and make you feel comfortable, yet sexy.
 Many of the clothes produced in the 40's and 50's were much more flattering for curvier women, so consider rooting through vintage stores and thrift shops for dresses, skirts and blouses which produce an hourglass shape.


You might be lucky and find some amazing bargains, or you may want to invest in a vintage designer piece which will become a wardrobe staple for years to come.
Nothing will make you feel more like a real hourglass-shaped pin-up girl than replicating her wardrobe with authentic vintage pieces!

