 Linen, cotton, and chiffon are all thin, lightweight fabrics that create a breezy, effortless vibe central to the California girl look. While some of these fabrics are common because of their ability to breathe in California heat, they are all extremely low maintenance and easy to care for, lending to the laid-back vibe essential to California living.Linen and cotton tend to shrink, so you may have to size up. If you size up and your clothes don’t shrink, don’t worry! A slouchy silhouette is a hallmark of California style.;
, California girls are known for their denim bottoms, whether that means a pair of distressed denim jeans, a pair of cut off shorts, or a short denim skirt tossed on over the day’s swim suit.Dark jeans are better for more formal occasions, particularly if they are paired with a nice heel.
Distressed jeans are popular for California girl style, and can help create a breeze in hotter weather.
 California is known for two things: heat and sunshine. To play up the sunny atmosphere of California, California girls are known to wear bright, happy colors, ranging from bright fuchsia to a sunny butter yellow. You can wear colors in large spaces, like a brightly-patterned sundress, or add a pop of color with a bright scarf or pair of shoes.If you are nervous about adding bright colors to your wardrobe, start with a purse or a hair scarf.
Using several different colors in a single outfit is one way to immediately stand out with Californian style.
 One of the best and simplest elements of California girl style is the laidback approach to footwear. Tennis shoes are seen on everyone, everywhere. Instead of being used primarily with pants and a tee, sneakers are considered great footwear for pants, shorts, skirts, and dresses, and are the perfect way to dress down a dress or skirt.Sneakers look great with a pencil skirt and a tee tucked in halfway for a simple, but put-together look.
Clean white sneakers are great when paired with a pair of sleek, dark jeans and a bright peplum top.
 Beachy hair is usually achieved through the combination of sun and the salty ocean spray. If you don’t have access to a beach, you can fake your way to California girl hair by using a leave-in salt spray, which will create a thick, wavy texture to hair of all colors, lengths, and textures.You can make your own salt spray using water and dissolved table salt, or you can purchase a sea salt spray from your local salon.
If you do use a sea salt spray regularly, be sure to condition your hair, as well, as salt can be extremely drying.
 Because California is known for its sunshine, it comes as no surprise that the quintessential California girl has sun-bleached hair. To mimic the fresh, youthful appearance of beachy hair, you can have your hair highlighted or balayaged in a salon, or you can do it yourself by applying some lemon juice to your hair and sitting in the sun over the course of a few days., Typically, California girl hair is associated with hair that is at least a little bit wavy, rather than hair that has been straightened or relaxed. Because Californian style is focused on looking effortless and relaxed, allowing your hair to embrace its own natural texture, whether that means a tight curl or a barely-there wave.If you do not have wavy hair, you can tease it, add a salt spray, or even create uneven and messy curls with a curling iron.
 Although long hair is not a strict requirement, the California girl style is usually embodied by long, flowing hair. If you are able, opt for long, let-down hair in a natural texture.If you do have short hair, make sure you play it up by making it as messy and wavy as you can.
 Not everyone can achieve this through sunbathing, and constant sun exposure is not healthy for your skin, anyway. To create the appearance of a healthy, beachy glow, you can use a high-quality tan cream or spray and rub it into any areas that will be exposed--particularly the legs, arms, and shoulders.If you feel comfortable tanning, you can go the old-fashioned route of tanning in the sun. Just be sure to practice safe habits when out in the sun.
 One of the hallmarks of California style is youth. To make sure you appear as youthful as possible, keep your skin full, healthy, and moisturized. Invest in a good-quality skincare routine that wards off pimples and dry skin, while optimizing plump and smooth skin.One of the best way to moisturize is to use various oils. Experiment with different oils (starting with apricot kernel oil or coconut oil) to see which works best for your skin.
 In keeping with the notion of youth, California style usually relies more on good skin than a lot of makeup to look great. Rather than focusing on careful, meticulous makeup application, place your focus on making your bare skin look its absolute best.


If you love wearing makeup, opt for a natural look, focusing on either your eyes or your lips, but not both.
 To make sure you skin is always at its best, treat it like a treasured friend. Always remove your makeup at the end of the day, apply moisturizer each morning and night after washing and toning, and wear SPF any time you know you’ll be in the sun. All of these together will make sure your skin looks its best at any given moment.

