 Carpenter bees can't dig through steel wool, making it a perfect jail cell. After they have left that nest, use some wood putty or caulk to patch the spot. Match the putty or caulk to your wood or plan on painting.
 Although carpenter bees tend to attack all wood surfaces, they don't do so indiscriminately: Exterminators believe they prefer untreated wood.That means it's high time to apply that stain or paint that deck that you've been meaning to but haven't gotten around to.
 Try to find a citrus-based spray specifically designed for carpenter bees, or be industrious and make one yourself. Cut up the rinds of several different citrus fruits (orange, lemon, lime, grapefruit) and boil them in a shallow pot filled with water. Fill a spray bottle with the citrus-extract water, and fill spray bottle with the juice of citrus fruit.


Spray the burrows of the carpenter bees with citrus-extract water. Carpenter bees, like other insects, have a natural aversion to citrus oil (which is why the skin and rind protect the fruit on the inside — to keep it away from predators).
Almond oil and almond essence is another tried and true option that repels carpenter bees., It's not enough to merely kill the adult bees or the reproducing females; you need to kill the bee larvae in their nests in order to keep them from reproducing and starting the whole menacing cycle over again. Here's what to do to try to kill the carpenter bee larvae:


Apply a dust insecticide in each nesting gallery. Using a dust insecticide is important, as other insecticides can become absorbed into the wood or wear off before the larvae is hatched.Be sure not to seal up the gallery hole when applying the insecticide dust. This forces the carpenter bees to burrow new holes, meaning there's a chance they don't pass through the insecticide.
 As soon as the young carpenter bees leave their nest, it's time to seal everything up again, preferably with something stronger than wood (which the bees will burrow into again). Seal off with steel wool, aluminum, asphalt, or fiberglass and cover with wood filler. Paint or stain the surface to discourage further burrowing.

