 Typically, there are three major ways that attorneys bill for their services:


Flat fees: an attorney charging a flat fee will charge one fee (sometimes upfront) for handling an entire matter, regardless of how many hours the matter takes. Some examples of types of cases that are commonly handled using a flat fee:

Criminal cases.
Bankruptcy cases.
Domestic relations cases (such as divorce or custody matters).
Document drafting, such as drafting a will or a trust document.


Contingency fees: an attorney charging a contingency fee does not collect legal fees from the client unless the attorney recovers money for the client. If the attorney recovers money, either through a settlement or a trial, the attorney will receive a percentage of the settlement amount. Usually, the percentage is between 30-40%. Some types of cases that are commonly handled on a contingency fee basis:

Personal injury cases.
Employment discrimination cases.
Or other types of cases where a large recovery from a corporation or business is expected.


Hourly fees: Lawyers charging an hourly rate “bill” hours and then charge the client for the amount of hours worked on the client’s matter. Usually, hourly rates are used by businesses and corporations involved in litigation. Additionally, attorneys charge hourly for individuals involved in long or complicated litigation.
 Decide what you can pay for legal fees and costs. Be honest about your budget with each attorney you meet. Ask if the attorney can handle your case for the amount you budgeted. Additionally, you should make sure to tell your attorney that he/she should inform you before doing anything on your case that takes it out of budget.


Keep in mind that even with a strict budget, your case can become significantly more complicated or take longer than the attorney anticipates. This can result in more legal fees. If this situation could potentially apply, your attorney should inform you in advance and give you the opportunity to look for less expensive counsel.
 Many legal issues are straightforward and simple to licensed attorneys. Generally, as long as your issue isn’t complicated, an attorney will be able to quickly come up with an estimate of how much specific tasks will cost. Ask the attorney to give you an estimate for a “flat fee.” If the estimate is acceptable, the attorney will do everything associated with your case for that amount.


Keep in mind with a flat fee that you may be required to pay the attorney upfront. However, the attorney must keep any fees paid by a client in a separate account until earning the fees. The attorney should send you a bill reflecting when he or she will withdraw money from the separate account and the amount of the withdrawal.
 If your income is too high to qualify for free legal services, there are sliding-fee programs with affordable attorney fees.Each state has a set of programs designed to help people with moderate income handle legal issues without having to pay thousands of dollars.


To find a program in your state, contact the state bar association or look online.
 Some lawyers are willing to work out a payment plan so that you don't have to pay all of the fees at once. You may be able to work out a plan to pay a certain amount every month until everything you owe has been paid. It's up to the individual lawyer to decide whether to make this option available.When you first contact a lawyer, ask whether the lawyer may be willing to accept a payment plan before you go to his or her office for an in-person meeting. Make sure you know what to expect before meeting the attorney in person: regardless of whether you end up wanting to retain the lawyer's services, you're likely to be charged for that first meeting.
Explain your situation to the lawyer in question, give him or her your financial statements and discuss what you need done.
 This means that the lawyer will get a percentage of the money you are awarded. Contingency fee arrangement percentages vary, but 30 percent to 40 percent is common. If the case is lost, you won't owe any legal fees.However, even though you will not owe fees, you could still be responsible for expenses. If you are thinking of entering into a contingency-fee arrangement, make sure that you understand what expenses you may be responsible for.


For example, many attorneys will ask you to provide some money upfront to pay for filing and service fees.
Most lawyers will take personal injury cases (injuries caused by careless drivers, property owners or health-care providers) on a contingency-fee basis.
If you have criminal, divorce or bankruptcy case, then be prepared to pay some amount upfront, called a "retainer." In some case, these attorneys will charge you an hourly rate, but in others (especially criminal lawyers) will charge you a flat fee when you hire them.
In some cases, lawyers are not permitted to charge contingency fees.
 Younger lawyers are up-to-date on the most recent legal developments, but they may have fewer clients and have more time to devote to your case. A younger lawyer may charge less because he/she is not as experienced as other lawyers and may have fewer resources to handle big cases.


Ask your young lawyer how much experience he/she has handling cases like yours. Also, ask if he/she participated in a clinic, internship or a volunteer lawyer project while in law school. In that case, he/she may be well-qualified to handle your case.
Additionally, you should request a flat fee. It's possible that it will take him or her longer to do each task for your case, such as researching and drafting documents, due to lack of experience. If you pay a younger attorney hourly, you may lose any money that you would otherwise save because of that extra time.

