 This could be a matter of life or death, as too much ammonia/nitrite/nitrate can be fatal for any fish.;
, Males are territorial and like to claim areas as their own, so a big aquarium will allow more space for more territories. Sparkling gouramis are one of the most, if not the most, peaceful gourami and will likely not fight most of the time. In the breeding season, however, male sparkling gouramis can become very aggressive with each other and, very rarely, could beat each other to death.
 Due to sometimes aggressive nature between two or more males and in the breeding season, sparkling gouramis feel safer when they have a lot of places to hide. They also love to explore, and are very interesting to watch as they venture into every little nook and cranny.
 Open top tanks can look amazing with floating plants (which sparkling gouramis love for making bubble nests and hiding/exploring) or plants growing out from the tank; sparkling gouramis are unlikely to jump out like some fish as they are mainly bottom dwellers, only coming up for air. It also helps make sure that more air is present above the surface of water for the gouramis, as they are labyrinth fish.
 Sparkling gouramis are notorious shrimp hunters, and have been known to go around in 'gangs' picking off shrimps. However, some people have been able to keep the two together, but it is not advised.
 Sparkling gouramis can live with a range of peaceful shoaling or non-shoaling fish. Tetras, peaceful algae eaters (like otos) and minnows/danios are examples of suitable tank-mates; however, black widow tetras are known fin-nippers. Sparkling gouramis should not go with other species of gourami or other aggressive, territorial fish.
 Sparkling gouramis originate from slow moving rivers, ponds, marshes and rice paddies of Southeast Asia and appreciate shade from floating plants. They are labyrinth fish (like the well-known betta/siamese fighting fish) this means they need little or no oxygen from the water, so they don't need water agitation from a pump, airstone or filter. However, this doesn't mean that you don't have to install a filter.
 They can live in temperatures ranging from 25 – 28°C (77 – 82.5°F) , slightly acidic to neutral water pH (6.0 - 7.0) and have a dH range of 5 - 19, preferring soft water.
 This will allow you to try make your tank very similar to the fish shop's tank so acclimatizing them will be easier.
