 This is best for those who plan to visit the parks on a regular basis throughout the year. Though these passes are still expensive, they are less expensive than continually buying single tickets throughout the season.All passes, except the Epcot After 4 Pass, include a year’s admission to all four theme parks, and the ability to visit multiple parks on the same day, standard parking, a complimentary MagicBand, special discounts and offers, and exclusive communication.
All passes have an option for monthly payments instead of a one-time full payment.
A Disney Platinum Plus Pass costs $777 per year, and also includes Disney PhotoPass downloads, admission to Disney’s Oak Trail Golf Course and ESPN Wide World of Sports, and admission to the two Disney water parks.
A Disney Platinum Pass costs $691 for a year and includes PhotoPass downloads.
A Disney Gold Pass costs $584 for a year and includes PhotoPass downloads. Certain blockout dates do apply to this pass, which means you cannot go to the park on certain pre-determined days during the year.
The Disney Weekday Select Pass costs $276 per year, and blockout dates apply.
The Epcot After 4 Pass $265 per year, and blockout dates apply. It only provides access to the Epcot park after 4p.m.;
, This is the best option for those who know they will only be visiting one or two times during the year, instead of frequently.It is also ideal for residents who plan to visit during off-peak dates, like the winter months.


The price of these tickets depends on the park and the date, especially for one-day tickets. Peak season tickets are more expensive. Three-day tickets start at $63 per day, and four-day tickets start at $52 per day.
Three and four day passes have blockout dates when you can’t use them.
 You can renew your up to 30 days after it has expired.


If you recently bought a day or multi-day pass, but you are considering whether an annual pass might be a better deal for you, you can upgrade to save money. If you want to upgrade, you have to do this at the park ticket window, as you cannot currently upgrade a day pass to an annual pass by phone or online.



Accepted forms of proof include a valid Florida driver’s license, a valid Florida state-issued ID with a Florida address, or a valid Florida-based military ID.
If you don’t have a valid ID with a Florida address, you can use an original proof of current mortgage (not more than two months old), your insurance registration, a piece of current mail, or current utility bill (no more than two months old) along with a picture ID (driver’s license, passport, state ID).
PO Box addresses cannot be used as proof of residency.
Florida residents cannot buy tickets at the resident price for non-resident adults to use.
Children under the age of 18, if accompanied by an adult with proof of Florida residency, do not need to provide their own proof of residency.
 Once you’ve decided which ticket or pass you want to buy, the actual purchasing process is quite simple and can be completed online or over the phone.


To pay for your ticket online, visit the Disney Florida website, and click on the options you wish to purchase.Under each ticket option, the site has a button that leads to checkout. To buy day tickets, you’ll need to select the dates you wish to use your tickets and which parks you want to attend.
You can also buy tickets over the phone by calling (407) 939-5277, and letting the associate know which ticket or pass you would like to purchase. Anyone under the age of 18 needs a guardian’s stated permission to buy tickets over the phone.
The Walt Disney World website accepts the following forms of payment: Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover Card, Diners Club Charge Card, JCB (Japan Credit Bureau), Disney Gift Card, Disney Dream Reward Dollars, or Disney Visa Instant Credit.
Generally, you may only use one form of credit per transaction on the website. If you need to use more than one form of payment, call (407) 939-7675.



On the Disney World website, create an account and link the account to your annual pass. If you bought your pass online, you may have already created an account.
After you’ve purchased your pass, you need to activate it at any Walt Disney World theme park ticket window. You’ll need your valid photo ID to do so.
Online, in your account, you can choose custom colors and information for your MagicBand, and it will be sent to you by mail. Each annual pass comes with one MagicBand. This wristband allows you to access information from your Disney account and get into the parks, so you can travel lighter.After you have your MagicBand, you can make FastPass choices online. A FastPass allows you to skip the lines on a certain number of attractions, usually three, per visit.

