 We learn how to socialize at an early age in the home where we are, hopefully, safe. If your relatives know they can trust you, this support from your family will help you feel more confident in the classroom and wider world. Learning to communicate clearly, establishing yourself as someone your family can rely on, and becoming a productive member of a team are all skills learned as part of a family.Start by telling your family you want to work on developing better relationships with them, so you can learn to have successful relationships in the future. Say something like, “I want to do a better job of setting and achieving goals, and I’d like to start by gaining your trust and respect. I would appreciate any feedback or advice.”
If a family member expresses unhappiness with your behavior, ask them what you could do differently to create a more positive relationship. Say something like, “I’m sorry to have upset you. I didn’t mean to. What can I do differently to avoid causing offense in the future?”
Communicating your goals with others and taking responsibility for your actions and how they affect others are both keys to achieving success at any age., Once you leave the home, your friends or classmates begin to teach you more about building lasting, respectful relationships that will help you become successful. A meaningful relationship may look different, depending on your stage of life, but for the most part, a good relationship is one that pushes both parties to be successful. Creating relationships is known as networking when it comes to achieving your goals, and the more practice you have building meaningful relationships, the better you will be at establishing meaningful partnerships and work relationships.Develop more meaningful relationships by sharing your goals with friends. Ask people you're getting to know, "Where do you see yourself in five years?"
Follow up this initial question by asking, "How are you planning to achieve your goal, and can I help you?"
If you want a friend to help you with your goals, ask. Communication is key, and even the best friends aren't mind readers.
 Every successful person started out as an ordinary teen like you, but they were lucky enough to have people who helped them discover their strengths and build character. Get to know your teachers, tutors, or coaches. Like building relationships with family members and friends, working with your instructors offers you yet another way to network.It’s easy to build relationships with teachers and coaches. Start by treating them with respect and showing you care about your work.
Get to know them better by finding a time (before or after class/practice) to ask some simple questions like, “What got you interested in physics?” You could also ask something more general like, “Why did you decide to become a tennis coach?”
Your widening network should always include people who have education and experience in a variety of backgrounds, so don’t just befriend the teachers in your favorite subjects. Getting to know the instructor can also make subjects you dislike seem more interesting.
 This may be the most important thing you can do to be successful as a teen. Guidance counselors are exactly what the name suggests – people who can guide you through difficult situations. When it comes to choosing classes, joining extracurricular activities, or applying to college, your guidance counselor can help you succeed.


If your school doesn’t have a guidance counselor, ask a teacher or your principal for help., Engaging in extracurricular activities shows dedication and sportsmanship. If you can keep up with these activities and your schoolwork, you’ll be setting yourself up to achieve in the future. Extracurricular activities also give you the opportunity to continue building relationships with new and different people. Additionally, these are great avenues for you to take on roles that will help you learn to work with others on future tasks.


Extracurricular activities also look good on college applications, since a student is able to learn discipline, teamwork, leadership, and other skills by participating in these groups., This doesn’t mean just to be in charge of every group or organization. It can be as simple as supporting those around you. Being a leader is all about staying calm, assessing your situation, and helping people make the right decisions. A good leader sees the strengths of each person around them, and they take the time to help others be successful.


For example, if you are a member of your school’s band and you hear another player struggling, offer to help them. Say something like, “I heard you struggling on that eight note run. Do you want to practice with me later?”
If you’re getting an A in Algebra, ask other students who are struggling to study with you. You could say, “Do you think we should have a study group before the next test?”