 The decision to terminate your probation lies in the hands of the judge. At this hearing, the judge will determine whether to grant your motion or not based on the evidence and testimony given to him.


There will be a prosecutor at your hearing because the judge is required to inform her that a hearing is being held for your case., At the hearing, the judge will consider your probation officer’s opinion. His opinion is a very important opinion because he spends the most time with you and knows more about your particular case than anyone. The major consideration the judge will look for is your probation officer's recommendation for early termination. If he does, that will weigh heavily in your favor.


If the probation officer is actively opposing early termination the judge is very unlikely to disagree with them., The prosecutor has the option of being at the hearing, and can object to early termination of your probation. It is uncommon for the probation officer and the prosecutor to disagree on these matters but it does happen.


The judge reviews your case, but he likely doesn't know every detail. To get the fullest picture possible of your case, he listens to the probation officer and prosecutor's statements and recommendations that are given based on their superior knowledge of your circumstances and case., The judge will consider your performance while you have been on probation. This is reported to the court by your probation officer. The judge will want to know if you passed all of your drug tests, completed all classes in a timely manner, and did your community service.


Other factors that might be included in this category are attitude and cooperation with your probation officer.This also includes your previous criminal history. Judges are less likely to order early termination for you if you are a repeat offender., The judge will review is you have stayed in compliance with the probation sentence. He wants to make sure that you have been following the letter of the law up to this point. He will consider if you have made all payments required under your probation sentence. This includes fines, fees, court costs, and penalties.


If you haven’t made all necessary payments, the judge will not grant your motion. Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 42.12 Section 20(b)</ref>

, If the judge denies your request for early termination, he is required to give a written statement as to why you were denied. He will also tell you what you can do to terminate the probation. You should comply with the judges instructions, and then apply to terminate your probation again.


You should only do this if you have done what that judge has asked you to do. Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 42.12 Section 20(b)

