 ISTP stands for a type that is characterized by introversion, sensing, thinking, and perception. Each characteristic roughly correlates to a different way in which a person relates to the world. Next we'll explore each characteristic individually and what each means for you.;
, People who tend towards introversion tend to be quiet and reserved. Also, introverts generally prefer to interact with a few close friends rather than a wide range of acquaintances and energy is expended in social situations, rather than gained as with extroverts.


Insights to help understand this: social engagement is exhausting for introverts and they can only handle it for shorts periods, and infrequently. Introverts are not marathon partiers and will not feel up to socializing every night of the week, and when socializing, it must last only a few hours maximum for exhaustion to be avoided.
Introverts have to take frequent breaks from social activity in order to recharge, not because they had a bad time or dislike people; they are just drained and need to retreat for a while.
Also, introverts will be overwhelmed by large numbers of people and thrive best/ feel most comfortable when in small intimate groups, less than ten people in size.
To embrace your inner introvert, you must accept your weaknesses as normal variations on human personality and play to your strengths to feel comfortable, fulfilled and socially adept.
To thrive and live comfortably, avoid large parties, they'll make you feel awkward. Opt instead for small group gatherings where you'll feel right at home. Also, try to limit the length of gatherings by making your feelings clear with those involved, you don't hate them, you just need rest.
Try centering gatherings around time limited activities like a movie or dinner. Understanding that you're simply introverted and not "awkward" or socially disinclined will help you to feel adequate in life.
 A sensing person tends to be more concrete in thinking than abstract. Sensing people focus more on details than the big picture and worry more about immediate realities than future possibilities. Understanding a sensing person means knowing that they are grounded more in the current, immediate reality. They are better at reacting in the moment in realtime rather than conjecturing, philosophizing or theorizing about the future.


Embracing this means that as a sensing person, you'll feel most comfortable in jobs and situations that provide immediate feedback and not conjecture.
In a military application for example, a sensing personality would feel most comfortable in a role on the ground where decisions are made right away based on incoming data, not as a politician planning for future campaigns or speculating about international relations.
 A thinking person tends to prefer to rely more on objective criteria than personal values. They give more weight to logic than to social considerations.


This type of person would fit in well as a logistical planner, thinking outside of convention to achieve more efficiency. Thinking people value things that are objectively superior, not just personally preferred. Understanding thinking people means that they do not reach their conclusions frivolously and will continue to reassess for further correctness based on logical criteria.
Embracing this means realizing that you have a gift for making effective, rational decisions based on real, proven realities rather than opinion or preference.
 Perceiving types tend to withhold judgement and keep options open in consideration of possibly changing circumstances. This type of person will not rush to get things settled and will desire to make an up to date decision.


Understanding this means knowing that this person may appear to be postponing a decision, while they're actually gathering lots of data.
Embracing this means learning to live with slow, unrushed but ultimately more accurate decisions.
 ISTP people fit in well in professions such as engineering. They appear to have a detached nature but are known for radically creative insight and unexpected wit. ISTP's think outside the box and are often closet daredevils, seeking stimulation. ISTP's can be very libertarian, thriving in a "don't tread on me" lifestyle.

