
Duration: 30 minutes;
, Once you are seated in a circle, take one of the decks from the Anomia box and shuffle it 5-6 times. Divide the deck into two draw piles so players can easily reach them.

There are two different versions of Anomia, the regular edition with 2 decks (red and blue) and the party version with six decks (brown, pink, orange, purple, green and yellow). While game play is the same, each deck is a bit different.
Each Anomia deck is made up of 92 different cards (sharing 8 symbols) plus 8 wild cards.
 According to the game instructions, the person who shuffles the cards should go first. When it's your turn, draw a card from one of the draw piles, then quickly flip it face-up so that everyone sees it at the same time. Put the card face-up in front of you -- this is the beginning of your play pile.,

Each card has one of 8 symbols. Continue drawing cards until the symbols match.
 If the symbol on your card matches that of another player, you have entered what's known in Anomia-speak as a "face-off round" -- this is the core of the game.

In order to win the face-off round, provide a correct example of the person, place or thing on your opponent's card.
If you finish blurting out a correct answer first, you win the card.
If you win, you take the other player's card and put it face-down into your winning pile (not to be confused with your play pile of face-up cards). Do not move or block the view of your top card.
 Once a new top card is revealed, check to see if the loser's card matches that of another player. If so, immediately enter into face-off mode. Do not draw cards until all possible face-offs have been played.

After all the face-offs and cascades are over, resume normal game play.
 A card with two symbols is a wild card and should be placed face-up between the two draw piles. If the two wild card symbols appear on cards topping any two player's play piles, then it's time to go into another face-off round.

Once a wild card is in play, you must look for both cards matching you own card or matches that match the wild card.
 Anomia is over when all the draw piles are empty. Count the cards in your winning pile. Whoever has the most cards wins. You can resume playing Anomia either with your current deck or you can try another deck to change things up.