 The minimum qualification for most chemical engineering positions is a bachelor’s of science. Without earning a bachelor’s of science, you won’t be able to get a job as a chemical engineer.


Some of the top universities to earn a bachelor’s of science with an emphasis on chemical engineering include: the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Cambridge, and Kyoto University.
Most large public universities offer degrees compatible with a career as a chemical engineer.;
, While you’re in your undergraduate program or after, you’ll have the opportunity decide on what industry you'd like to work in. You can decide on your specialization based on interest, job availability, or compensation. In the end, though, this choice could impact whether you go on to seek a higher degree. Some specializations include:

Petrochemicals
Pharmaceuticals
Food
General manufacturing
Environmental, Apply for admission to a program that offers a master’s in chemical engineering or a related field. These programs could take between 1 year and 4 years to complete, depending on the institution. During your studies, you’ll complete advanced course work and gain hands-on experience working in interdisciplinary teams.Managerial or higher level chemical engineering jobs will likely require a master’s.
 Internships or apprenticeships are positions you can apply for during your education or immediately after. If you are enrolled in an academic program, ask your advisor or a professor if they know of internship opportunities. In addition, depending on the institution you study at, they might have internship placement agreements with businesses in the area.

Visit http://internships.aiche.org/ to view current internships.
These positions generally offer low or no pay, but put you on a track for a permanent position once you’ve finished your education or gained a certain amount of experience.Many good bachelor’s or master’s programs will require or recommend that you complete an internship. In addition, your major professor or department might have contacts that will make it easier for you to secure an internship.
 Many employers value candidates with experience cooperating with other chemical engineers and engineers from different disciplines. Because of this, you should make it a priority to get experience working on teams to solve a variety of problems. You can gain this experience:

During your work as an intern.
In your graduate studies.
At an entry-level job or through other related work experience., While most chemical engineers don’t need to be licensed or certified, being licensed or certified may improve your chances of getting a job. Licensure requires several steps:


Complete your under graduate or graduate education.
Pass the Fundamentals of Engineering exam. After passing this exam, you will earn the title “Engineer in Training” or “Engineer Intern.”
Earn a passing score on the Professional Engineering exam. This typically requires you to have four years of work experience, after which you can take the exam and will gain the title of Engineer.
Visit http://ncees.org/engineering/ for more information., By joining professional organizations, you’ll have the opportunity to gain continuing education and engage in professional networking. After joining an organization, you will be able to attend your professional organization’s annual conference. There, you’ll meet professionals in your field. You may also have the opportunity to interview for jobs at conferences. The most noted organizations are:

The American Institute of Chemical Engineers. This organization hosts annual regional conferences for students, as well as national or global meetings for professionals.
The National Society of Professional Engineers. This organization is employment oriented, offers a job board, and organizes mentoring programs., Visit the employment websites of just about any major multinational corporation to see if they have any openings for chemical engineers. Depending on your region, and whether you’re willing to relocate, you should be able to find a position that meets your skill set. Consider the following companies:

Monsanto
Archer Daniels Midland
Dow Chemical
International Paper
General Motors
Kraft, You’ll be able to find a wide variety of chemical engineering jobs on major internet job board websites. These websites will list positions with various requirements and skills levels. Some websites include:

Indeed.com
Simplyhired.com
Monster.com
Sun Recruiting

