 There are a few ways to do this. You can travel via the Daemonheim ferry located west of the Al Kharid bank (the boat ride is free), or you can travel on foot up the east coast of the Wilderness until you get there. Once you receive a Ring of Kinship, you can also use it to teleport there.;
, You will obtain a Ring of Kinship, which allows you to teleport to Daemonheim and form Dungeoneering parties. The tutor can also explain more about Dungeoneering, and even share some information on Daemonheim and its past.
 You need to bank all your items before you can enter Daemonheim, except the Ring of Kinship and an Orb of Oculus, if you have one. Don't worry, weapons and armour will be provided inside the dungeon.
 It is advisable to wear your Ring of Kinship to save inventory space. At this point, you can form a party. There are two ways to raid a dungeon: in a party or solo.


To raid solo:

Right-click the Ring of Kinship.
Click on "Open party interface".
Click on "Form Party".
Choose a floor (if this is your first time, only floor 1 will be available).
Choose a complexity (if this is your first time, only complexity 1 will be available).


To raid in a party:

Right-click the Ring of Kinship.
Click on "Open party interface".
Click on "Form Party". Alternatively, you could ask to join someone else's party.
Invite other players to join your party. Try to recruit players that are in your combat level range. It also helps if they can access the same floors as you can.
Choose a floor (you can only choose floors available to all players in your party).
Choose a complexity (you can only choose a complexity available to all players in your party).
 There are two: They are located on the left and right hand sides if you face north and are just beyond the door to the castle. Once you have climbed down, you will find yourself in a room with various decorations and objects, and the Smuggler will be in the center. Items will be scattered on the tables, which are located in one corner of the room. Depending on the complexity you have chosen, there should be various kinds of food and equipment lying around.
 Keep the food close at hand, as it can heal you during combat. If you are on complexity 2 or higher, you can buy or sell items to the Smuggler. Be sure to pick up any coloured keys lying on the floor, as these are used to open certain doors.
 Most monsters in Daemonheim are aggressive and will attack you. Pick up any keys you find lying around, and collect the useful items that the monsters have dropped.
 The number of rooms you will have to work through depends on the size of your party and whether you have chosen to raid a small, medium, or large dungeon. Be sure to fight all the monsters you can, because fighting counts towards your Dungeoneering Prestige. It is advisable not to run away from a battle.
 Remember to turn your camera north first, before opening the map, or else the map will be very confusing. The boss monster room (if you have unlocked it yet) will be indicated with a skull symbol. If you do not raid all the rooms in each dungeon, you will receive less experience at the end.
 Take plenty of food (preferably short-finned eels or giant flatfish) with you. Once you reach complexity 2, you can fish inside Daemonheim. Once you defeat the boss monster, climb up the ladder at the end of the room to finish the raid.
 A pop-up will appear on your screen, tallying up your xp. When it has finished counting, you will be awarded a number of tokens. The number of tokens you receive is equivalent to one tenth of the xp you receive (rounding down). You can exchange these tokens for rewards with the Rewards Trader outside Daemonheim.

