 You may want to make a point to introduce your dog to different types of people. This helps your dog to get used to everyone. Start with your friends and family, then try to walk by different people while out.For example, you may want to let your dog interact with people of different ages. Let your dog see people who use canes or wheelchairs. Let them be around people with facial hair and different color hair. Introduce them to people of different ethnicities.
Bring your dog around people who are engaging in different activities, like running, playing sports, singing, or laughing loudly. You may want to let them be around people wearing different clothes.
 Another way to socialize your older dog is to let them interact with people who come to your home. By letting your dog be around people, they can stay social or increase their social skills as they age.You can ask visitors to give your dog a treat when they come in to help them react positively.
 If your older dog has social anxiety, aggressive behavior problems, or reacts negatively when around others, take it slow. Don’t force your dog to interact with too many people or dogs at once. Instead, let them get used to others one by one.For example, let them interact with family or friends one at a time. As they get used to one new person, introduce two, then three.
Take your dog to places where they will see a few dogs one on one. You may try walking around a city park or your neighborhood. Don’t take them to a dog park until they are used to many dogs.
 To stay social, your dog needs to interact with new people and dogs. Seeing dogs or people they are familiar with doesn’t help them socialize more. Look for ways to increase your dog’s interactions.This may include going to parks, finding new walking routes, taking your dog with you on vacation, taking your dog for a hike, or bringing your dog to a family gathering.
 Some dogs end up scared of some people, like men or people wearing hats. If this is the case for your dog, you need to help socialize them with whatever scares them so they can get over the fear. However, you may need to tell people that your dog is fearful and to take caution around them.For example, if your dog is afraid of men, invite men over to interact with your dog. Give them treats to give your dog, and encourage them to give lots of praise and positive reinforcement.
You may have to tell children to be quiet or gentle with your dog because they get upset around loud screaming or when handled too harshly.
Do this slowly. Start with one man, then a few, then more to help your dog get over their fear.

