 Chronic health conditions can trigger feelings of anxiety. This can be true for yourself or regarding the health of a loved one, such as a parent, spouse, or child. Some common chronic health conditions that are associated with anxiety include diabetes, asthma, hypertension, and heart disease.Take note of how you respond to caffeine, alcohol, or other mind-altering substances. These can trigger anxiety.Some medical conditions can mimic certain symptoms of anxiety, such as having an overactive thyroid. If you are concerned, make an appointment with a medical doctor.;
, Anxiety can come on as a result of life stressors or life changes. Some common triggers include work stress or job changes (including loss of employment), pregnancy or giving birth, violence, trauma, or abuse, or the death of a loved one.Think about any life stressors you’ve encountered and how they affect or trigger your anxiety.


Do you feel more anxious when you are stressed? What kinds of stressors trigger anxiety? Stay aware of your stressors and recognize what feelings arise when you are stressed.
 Sometimes anxiety can occur as a result of a scary or traumatic experience.Your anxiety triggers may result from associations you have with a past negative experience. Think about any bad experiences you’ve had and how they have affected you.


Think about situations that have been scary in your life. Perhaps you lived through a natural disaster or experienced violence. These events can affect you and cause anxiety.
If you have experienced trauma, you may benefit from therapy to help you.
 If you grew up in an anxious family, your worldview may include seeing things through a tense or dangerous lens. Your family may have “taught” you to approach people and situations in a certain way.Genetic influences can also affect your anxiety because anxiety can run in families. Some people are more predisposed to experiencing anxiety than others.Think about if anxiety runs in your family and how it affects your family members. Then reflect whether you experience similar anxiety responses.
 One way to identify triggers is to tune into when you feel anxious and what anxiety feels like for you. Begin to notice feelings of anxiety and identify them as soon as you can. You may not notice feelings or thoughts as related to anxiety right away, but your body can alert you through physical symptoms. Pay attention to any changes your body experiences, and begin to say to yourself, “This happens when I feel anxious.” Some common signs of anxiety include:Pounding heart
Sweating
Stomach upset or nausea
Urge to urinate
Shortness of breath
Muscle tension
Headache
Feeling tired suddenly
Insomnia

, Begin tuning into your emotional experience of anxiety. Recognize when your thoughts and mood begin to change and how they change. You may feel irritable, restless, or jumpy. You also may have difficulty concentrating or feel like your mind is blank. Perhaps you feel dread or apprehension.Increasing your emotional awareness will help you identify when you feel anxious and help you uncover what causes your anxiety.


Start to link these feelings to your experience of anxiety and acknowledge when they occur. Say to yourself, “Right now I feel irritable, and this is related to feelings of anxiety.”

, If you don’t know how your anxiety feels or where it comes from, take a few days to observe yourself in and after anxious situations. You don’t have to do anything to change your anxiety, just observe what happens. You may recognize afterward that you felt anxious, and that’s okay. Start to recognize the feeling of anxiety. Observe when you feel anxious without judging it.Notice what feedback you receive most strongly, whether it be physical or emotional.


What made you realize you were anxious? How did you feel? What changed in your body or your mind that felt different?
Observing yourself nonjudgmentally can help you increase your self-awareness.
 When you notice physical symptoms of anxiety, stop and remember what you were thinking, feeling, or doing right before. The same is true of recognizing emotional symptoms of anxiety. What thoughts or situations occurred right before the anxiety reached your awareness? Did you just get off the phone after a difficult conversation? Did you have a difficult commute to work? Were you feeling frustrated about something? By looking back to what happened right before the physical or emotional symptom, you can start to trace your triggers.


Anxiety (especially panic attacks) can result from certain situations or stressful life events.Start thinking about what happened just before and begin to put the puzzle pieces together of your anxiety triggers.
 Sometimes anxiety arises from negative or unhelpful thoughts. One way to identify anxiety triggers is to go back to the thoughts that occurred right before the anxiety.Identify any negative thought patterns you have. Then, notice how you respond to these thoughts. How do your thoughts expand or feed your anxiety?


For example, you may catastrophize situations or assume the worst possible outcome. You may think, “If I don’t study enough for this exam, I’ll fail this class, not do well in college and I’ll never get a job.” These thoughts can make you feel anxious and lead to physical and emotional symptoms.
 Start with a situation you know makes you feel anxious, such as public speaking or taking a test. What thoughts come up? How do you deal with them? How do you deal with the situation once you’re near it or in it?


As you gain more awareness, do this with each anxiety trigger you come across. As you keep writing about your anxiety experiences, periodically go through your journal and notice any common themes. You may find themes in your anxiety triggers, such as anxiety from being around strangers, issues related to work or school, problems related to your family, or anxieties related to health., A therapist is trained to help you cope and work through difficult emotional situations. Working with a therapist can be beneficial in identifying your anxiety triggers and helping you cope with them.Your therapist may have you recall or reenact situations to work with your anxiety triggers.


If you’re interested in working with a therapist, check out How to Prepare for a Session With a Therapist.
 Sometimes your friends and family can help you out. Ask people close to you whether they notice certain things that bring on anxiety for you. The people who know you best can often provide valuable insight to you. Just be ready to accept whatever response they give you, whether you agree with it or not.


Say, “I know that I struggle with anxiety, and I’m doing my best to work on it. I’m trying to discover what triggers anxiety, can you help me? When do you notice my anxiety emerging?”

