 You will need to buy bubble bath to create the bubbly, foamy part of the bath. The chocolate will provide the scent and color of the bath, so do not buy a bubble bath is scented. Instead, look for a bubble bath with as few ingredients as possible. You can find bubble bath at many supermarkets and bath and body stores.A few good brands of unscented body bath are 100% Pure, EveryDay Shea, and Dr. Teal’s.;
, Dark chocolate is better to use than light chocolate because of its antioxidants and purity compared to milk chocolate. You will need to buy at least three ounces of chocolate for the bath mixture. A few brands of dark chocolate you can use are Godiva, Lindt, and Ghirardelli. The chocolate can be in candy bar or block form.You should be able to find these brands at a supermarket, along with other brands of dark chocolate. If you can’t find these brands, look for a brand with a lower amount of sugar and high amount of cocoa. Some brands, like Hershey and Dove, have high amounts of sugar and lower amounts of cocoa, which makes them less pure.
Dark chocolate is great for bubble baths because of the lower amounts of sugar compared to milk chocolate, and the antioxidants coming from the cocoa.
 Chop the chocolate into small pieces using a serrated knife and cutting board. You can also use a cheese grater or food processor to speed the process up. Cutting into thin shavings is ideal, but it is okay if you chop it into squares less than an inch in size., You will create a mixture using the chopped chocolate and heated milk. Dairy milk is commonly used as a bath enriching agent, though you can also use soy milk. Heat a 1/3 cup of milk in a pan or pot. Then, add the chocolate to the milk. Stir the mixture over a low heat setting until the chocolate is melted and liquefied into a slightly thicker consistency than the milk.Do not let the mixture boil. It should not be bubbling.
Allow the mixture a few minutes to cool.
 Pour the chocolate and milk mixture into a bowl. Add one cup of the bubble bath into the bowl. Mix the contents together with a spoon., Turn on the water and begin filling the bath. Fill it until you are satisfied with the depth. Pour the chocolate and bubble bath mixture into the running bath water and blend it with your hand. You are now ready for your bubble bath.