 Test the waters, and don't be afraid to get involved with something you've never tried before. Now is the time to learn new skills and meet new people. Just because it sounds foreign, doesn't mean it's not worth trying.;
, Never underestimate how amazing it is to work hard for something. The sense of accomplishment that comes with knowing you did it cannot be sold for anything. Also, it's nice to be part in a team and possible make friends who will stick by you! And, it never hurts to be in shape when you look back at old pictures.
 Don't be afraid to be yourself. If your friends like you for someone you're not, not only are you hurting them, you're hurting yourself. Don't lie! Be who you are, because you are the only person who can fill that small piece of the universe accurately.
 Let's be honest, no matter how many pairs of sunglasses you wear or all the extra sleep you get in class by acting "cool", there is nothing "cool" about the feeling when you read the big letter F on your report card. There is nothing "cool" about slacking off when you could be making real effort and doing real things before time is really up!

, Imagine being told everyday that what you have devoted your time and effort to telling people, was of no meaning of all and would have absolutely no effect on anyone's life. How many times do you hear kids tell teachers that the things they teach are irrelevant? If you are kind to your teachers they will hopefully reply with the same courtesy. That doesn't mean they'll pass you because you didn't insult them, but they might give a little bit more effort in helping you understand.
 If you need help, by all means, ask! If you didn't know which bathroom was which in a public area, would you rather ask someone politely and discreetly, or accidentally walk into the wrong one and be caught red-handed by all the people there? Exactly! So, bottling up a question just makes it explode in your face later. Teachers are supposed to be informative; let them inform you for your benefit!

, It may sound silly now, but you'll get a kick out of it when you open it later. Get together with your friends and create a box or container full of items and images to reflect who you are. Pledge to open it together at one of your reunions, and you'll really relive the past.


Put some sort of photo or anything about your friends at the current time. Who came; who left? You never know what could change!
Add some kind of memorabilia about the current lifestyle. Example: a CD from a popular band, new movie, some form of advertising or newspaper, etc.
Have you and your friends each put something in without letting the other know what it is.
Make sure that the container is durable against the forces of nature. Bury it in a place that will most likely be accessible in the future. Set a date to open it and wait!
When the date comes throw a small party for your friends. At the end, open it up and slowly pull out everything. My, have things changed!

, Get pictures of social events, parties, important moments, and just humorous or extremely memorable moments. You can never have too many memories!


Get together every so often and have a "photo shoot". Get some pics of you doing your favorite things with cool poses, props, and maybe guests!
Make a photo collage or a photo album. Design it and slowly fill it up. Save the last slot for your graduation picture for an extra special twist!

, It's not there to kill you, regardless of what you might think now. Take your time and don't let things get you down. It won't be memorable if your only memories are of you sitting alone in your room watching tv or listening to music. The best memories are the ones you make with your friends on crazy adventures, where nothing happens twice. Those are the memories that you could one day tell your grandkids!

