 Duties vary greatly by community, but the basic jobs are these:


Preparing the Holy Eucharist for the celebration of the mass. This includes readying the wine, water, and bread and putting them in place for the start of mass.
Setting up the church. Typically, sacristans arrive at church before anyone else- often even the priest/celebrant. They light the candles, arrange the books, and basically perform a little housekeeping before mass begins.
Assisting the altar servers. Sacristans prepare and help the altar servers perform their basics duties before and during mass.

Note: Read Be an Altar Server to see what this position entails.


Cleaning the holy materials after mass. There is usually a sacristy, a room at the very front or back of the church reserved for this position, where the holy containers for the water, body, and blood are stored and cleaned. Everything is set back in its place in the sacristy before sacristans leave the church.;
, Being an altar server before sacristan can familiarize you with the "behind-the-scenes" order of the mass.
Sacristans must be responsible and mature. Part of this job is respecting the body and blood of Jesus Christ. Sacristans should not fool around with the holy materials or try to be funny; they are there to get the job done.
Sacristans should be reliable. Depending on the church, you may be asked to do this job anywhere from every week to once a year. Either way, make yourself available every time, and consistently be at church as a viable substitute or fill-in when needed.
Sacristans should be quick learners, and very organized. This will further help the order of the mass run smoothly.
 The sacristan position requires you to be responsible, reliable, and enthusiastic and willing to help out in any situation. Can you really commit to showing up every Sunday and sitting alone on the side, ready to jump up at the priest's beckoning call? Are you willing to sacrifice time with your family to assist the community? Keep this in mind.
 How you apply for sacristan depends greatly on the church. Check out the church bulletin and call up the office number, or send an email. Catch the priests after mass on Sunday, introduce yourself (if you have not already done so) and ask if the sacristan position is open, and if so, how to apply. Be polite.
 Don't lie to make yourself sound reliable; for example, if you know you're not in town for most of the summer, don't put down that you are available whenever they may call for you. Let your true good qualities shine through, and you are sure to be accepted as a decent candidate for the job.
 Experienced or past sacristans, or even priests or deacons are willing and happy to train a new sacristan. Listen carefully and pay attention to detail, because soon it will be you up there fulfilling that spot- are you ready?

