

In a small mixing bowl, add the ricotta and mash with a fork.



 


Add in the 3-cheese blend, Cheddar cheese, eggs, salt, and pepper.






Mix all ingredients thoroughly until you have a smooth, paste-like consistency.






Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes.





;
,

Crack eggs into a large mixing bowl and beat them with a fork. Add water, oil, and salt. Mix.






Add 1 cup flour to the bowl. Use a fork to mix the flour with the eggs, water, oil, and salt. Repeat with the rest of the flour. Mix until a smooth dough is formed.






Clear and clean off a large work surface and dust it with flour. This is where you are going to roll out your dough.
Take the dough out of the mixing bowl, shape it into a ball, and place it on your work surface. Knead for at least 10 minutes or until it becomes elastic.






Dust a rolling pin with flour to prevent the dough from sticking. Roll out the dough until it is about 1/8 inch (1/3 cm) thick, or about the thickness of 2 stacked quarters.






With a cookie cutter or upside-down water glass, cut out circles in the dough (will make about 15-20 dough circles).






Ball up the unused dough and either roll it out and make a couple more raviolis, or wrap it and put in the freezer for another time. Dough can keep for weeks when frozen. Just make sure to wrap well so that it doesn’t suffer from freezer burn or absorb freezer odor.


Take the ravioli filling out of the refrigerator and place a tablespoon of it in middle of a dough.






Fill a small bowl with water, dip your fingers in, and moisten around the outer edge of the dough circle.






Fold the dough in half over the filling, making a half-moon shape. Be sure all the filling stays inside. Pinch the edges together and then seal the edges of the ravioli with a fork. Make sure to press firmly and go all the way around. This will add a “homemade” touch as well.






Repeat this process for all your dough circles.






Dust the finished ravioli with flour to keep them from sticking together.


Roll the dough into two sheets






Place one sheet on the ravioli maker, and form the filling cups.






Fill with the ravioli mixture.






Lay the second sheet of dough on top, and roll it out. This will seal in the filling.






Remove and separate the finished raviolis.


Fill a large pot with water and bring to a boil.






Place the ravioli in boiling water for 5-6 minutes, or until they float. You can also test for doneness by nibbling on the edges to test.






If you don't want to make all the ravioli at one time, you can freeze the rest (see Tips section).






Take ravioli out of boiling water with large slotted spoon and place on warmed plates







, Top with your favorite sauce, grate some fresh cheese over it, and enjoy!