 Your first step is to set goals and objectives. This is true whether your are starting a business from scratch or writing a plan for an existing enterprise. Spend some time brainstorming ideas and thinking about what you hope to achieve.


Many people find it helpful to brainstorm in writing. You can write a short essay or letter to yourself about your goals, or just jot down a list of ideas on some scratch paper.There are many important questions you should consider as you think about goals. For example, how much revenue do you hope to make in a year, or in five years? How many employees will you need? What area(s) will you operate in? Do you ever plan to sell the business, or go public with it? You should consider all these questions and more.Think of this first step as planning your plan. Try out different ideas and use your imagination.;
, How much money will you need to achieve your goals? How will you get the funding? These are questions to consider carefully in the early stages of planning.Any source of funding has benefits and drawbacks. Some might require surrendering some control over your business. Others involve paying interest. It is important to consider your various funding options early., What you plan to use your business plan for can have important consequences in the way you craft your document. Decide what function(s) you hope the plan to serve. For example:


If you are going to use your business plan to raise money, you will need to focus the plan on how the company will make a profit. You should emphasize how it will cover expenses, and why this business is likely to succeed.If you are going to use your business plan to attract talented employees, emphasize what makes your business a good place to work.Focus on location, compensation, work environment, etc., Once you've settled on the big-picture idea of your business and business plan, it's time to do your homework. Spend some time collecting any information you can that can help you move your thinking from the general to the specific.


For example, collect information on other businesses who do something similar to yours.Who are your competitors, how successful are they? What kinds of marketing to do they do? How much do they pay their employees? What laws or regulations govern these types of businesses?

, The first page of your business plan should be a title page. It should include the business name, date, and contact information., The executive summary is the first section of your business plan, and should summarize the entire document. If you have never written a business plan before, you may want to do this last, even though it comes first.The executive summary should include your business concept. It should also describe your marketing strategy, business structure, and funding sources and needs. It should summarize the entire plan well enough that someone could get a basic idea without reading the whole plan.., If you are planning to use your business document to seek a loan or other funding, your next section should be a statement purpose. This section details the amount of money you are seeking, and what you will use it for.Any other details, such as the term length of the loan you are applying for, should also go in this section.
If you aren't using your business plan to seek funding, you can skip this section.
 The next section of your business plan should include a description of the industry you will operate in. It should also include information about the structure of your business. It should include details about your product and strategies, too.


Begin with a short description of the industry. Discuss its current state and future development, citing reliable sources.Next, describe the structure of your business. Describe what it does and its legal status (e.g. sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation).Discuss your product. What do you sell? To whom do you sell it? How is the service or product you offer different from others?Finally, describe your strategy. What will you do to help your business succeed? How is it different from other similar companies?, A market analysis requires you to analyze the market you will be operating in in greater depth.Based on this information, you will need to provide some details about how you will sell your product or service.


Your market analysis will need to include information about your competitors and their revenues. It will also need to include estimates of how many people make up the market you will sell in.It should also include an estimate of the "feasible market." This is how many people in the market might actually buy your product.For example, if you are selling premium cheese in the city of Seattle, your total market would be everyone in the city. But, your feasible market would only include the number of people who buy premium cheese.
Based on this analysis, you should provide an estimate of what your market share might be. You should also discuss your sales strategies. How will you distribute your product? How will your price compare to competitors? How will you advertise or promote your business or products?, A competitive analysis involves an in-depth look at your competitors. This section should examine the strengths and weaknesses of similar businesses in your market.This section should include information about how your business will stand out from competitors. It is closely related to your marketing strategy. That means these two sections should inform each other and work together., This section gives the reader a more detailed look at any new products or services you plan to offer.It should describe the service, or the product and its design, in detail.
It should also include your product or service-related goals for the future of your business. Go into detail. This section should provide information on exactly how your business will develop. Include a budget detailing the costs. Consider the full range of expenses that will be necessary to develop your new product or service. You should include everything from materials, to staff, to advertising., This section should describe how business will function on an ongoing basis. It should summarize the way this business is run and the division of labor.This part of the plan should discuss the responsibilities of each division of the company. It should also detail the jobs of each member of the management team.This section should also include information on the day-to-day costs of running the business. Consider overhead, staff, materials, insurance, transportation, and any other relevant costs., The last section of your business plan should be a collection of all the important financial data.If you are already in business, you should include recent balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements.


If you are planning a new business, you should include estimates and projections.
 Once you've finished your business plan, the work isn't over. You should update you business plan frequently so that as your business grows, you know what the next step is.


At a minimum, you should update the plan annually. A yearly update can help you focus on new opportunities that present themselves. It can also help you recognize the current strengths and weaknesses of your business. This can be especially helpful if you make these updates based on input from customers.It's also a good idea to make more specific updates on a monthly basis. Every business plan makes estimates and predictions, and every business plan gets some of them wrong. Monthly updates offer you an opportunity to revise your numbers based on experience. For example, imagine your revenue ends up being much higher than expected for several months. In this case, it is probably a good idea to increase your profit estimate for the year. On the other hand, imagine materials end up costing much more than you predicted. You'll need to make the appropriate adjustments so your bottom-line projections will reflect this.