 Contrary to what some people say, a felony conviction does not bar you from getting all jobs. In fact, most employers cannot automatically disqualify you from employment simply because of the conviction.Instead, an employer can only deny you employment based on the conviction if your conviction raises doubts whether you can be trusted to do the job.For example, a conviction for child abuse would disqualify you from working in a daycare.
An employer also should consider the age of the conviction. If a lot of time has passed, then an employer should not give the conviction too much weight.
In some states, employers cannot ask about convictions on the initial job application. However, they may ask about convictions once the job process is underway.
 Depending on your conviction, you might not be able to apply for a few jobs.You should know this ahead of time. Accordingly, get a record of your convictions from your lawyer or from the court.


For example, you might not be able to get government jobs that require a security clearance. Or you may be prohibited from working with children.
Do some research. Avoid assuming your conviction disqualifies you. Generally, however, it is best to look for jobs that are unrelated to your conviction. For example, if you were convicted of theft, then you might not want to apply for a job as a cashier or bookkeeper.
 Email is the preferred method of communication for many employers today, so create an email account as soon as possible. You can get an account for free using a web-based email provider.


Popular providers include Gmail, Hotmail, and Yahoo.
You create an email account by selecting a username and creating a password. The username is part of your email address. Make sure you pick something appropriate, such as “your_name@gmail.com.” Because someone else might have selected your name already, your username might read “your_name1234@gmail.com.”
Don’t create a fun username like “NFLaddict” or “ProudTexan” or anything like that. Those names aren’t appropriate for communicating with employers.
 Some manual labor jobs won’t require resumes, but many jobs do. You can find sample resumes online to use as a guide as you type yours up. If you need help, talk to a career counselor. Remember the following tips:Your resume includes your name and contact information (address, phone, and email).
Identify your education, including the name of the schools you attended and the years you graduated. If you received job-training, mention that as well.
Include a section on work experience. Mention the dates you worked the job and your job title. If you haven’t had much work experience, then include volunteer positions. It’s helpful to include bullet points explaining your duties in more detail. For example, if you worked in a kitchen, what did you do?
Avoid including information about your convictions on the resume.You will disclose this information on a job application, if asked.
 Many non-profits help ex-cons find jobs. Their career counselors can help you draft a resume and identify job opportunities. Look in your phone book or online to find contact information. Then schedule an appointment.


In the U.S., you should find your local One-Stop Career Center.Call 1-877-348-0502 or use the Service Locator at http://www.careeronestop.org/LocalHelp/service-locator.aspx. Type in your address and zip code.
One-Stop Career Centers provide most services for free., Some employers might hesitate to hire you because they are afraid you’ll hurt the company in some way. To address employer concerns, the U.S. government created “Fidelity Bonds” for at-risk applicants. The bond reimburses an employer for a loss caused by an employee’s conduct, e.g., theft.Employers can get fidelity bonds for free.Contact your state’s Department of Labor to ask if Fidelity Bonds are an option for you. Your state should have a list of requirements.
For example, Texas provides Fidelity Bonds for ex-convicts without regard to your credit history. The bond lasts for six months and covers up to $5,000 in losses. The employer has the option to extend the bond after six months by paying a fee., Some websites gather the names of companies that have a history of hiring felons. You should research these websites and look at companies listed. Some of the more common websites include the following:


Ranker
Exoffenders.netjobsthathirefelons.org, Many applications will require that you disclose criminal convictions. You must be honest. However, you should read the application closely. Some might only ask about misdemeanor convictions or about recent convictions. You aren’t required to disclose information that isn’t asked for.


You do not have to disclose a conviction if it has been erased or expunged.
 As an ex-con, you can expect the employer to ask about your criminal history. You can also expect them to study you closely—perhaps closer than other applicants. To give an effective interview, remember the following:Always tell the truth. If you lie, the employer won’t trust you and won’t hire you.
Answer questions about your criminal history directly. However, steer the conversation back to your strengths. For example, you can say, “I did steal from an employer several years ago. But it was a direct result of my alcoholism. I started treating my addiction in prison and have been dry since then.”

, You want to make a strong first and last impression.


Sit up straight and avoid slouching. Remember to make eye contact with the interviewer.
Smile. You can put people at ease by smiling in a natural manner.
Dress appropriately. Try to visit the jobsite before you interview to see how people dress. If they wear dress pants and dress shirts, then make sure to wear the same. Whatever you wear, you must look neat and clean.
 You might not get your dream job right off. However, you should focus on getting your foot in the door. For example, you can accept a part-time job with an employer. Once you prove you are reliable, you can work your way up to a full-time position.


Realize that all work is valuable and no job is too small to accept. You’ll hopefully learn new skills, save some money, and build up your resume.
Once you get that first job, commit to doing your absolute best. Limit any absences to the absolute minimum. You shouldn’t miss work because you’re hungover. You shouldn’t leave work early because you want to go to a party. Instead, commit to coming in on time and leaving on time.
If you can’t get any job, then think about employing yourself. For example, you can advertise on Craigslist that you can do yard work or help people move.

