 Some high schools hold special "alumni proms" (not to be confused with reunions) as fundraisers - alumni and faculty are allowed to attend. These events are usually semi-formal to formal.
 Some high schools allow alumni to attend prom if they wish to do so. Others may require a little coaxing (usually in the form of a donation). Late Wendy's founder Dave Thomas had dropped out of school to serve in the military, but later got his GED 35 years later, and went to his high school's next prom with his wife that year. Many schools not only allow, but encourage alumni to attend future proms. Don't expect to be crowned king or queen - you won't be eligible, and even if you were, would that really be fair to this year's class? - but at least you'll have a prom. This option will work best if you have a really good reason for having missed your prom (military service, etc.), and/or if you are in the financial position to make a reasonable donation to the school. Some schools don't care as long as you buy a prom ticket.
 Taylor Swift famously did this (in addition to having a "prom party" thrown for her after her first record went #1) and it was even the subject of an MTV reality show, where dateless high school boys were offered a chance to have her as their prom date. Now, unless you're famous, you won't be able to have your own reality TV show to find someone to take you to prom with them...but there are other ways to go to someone else's prom as their date. There are actually websites such as Prom Date Depot (www.promdatedepot.com) which allow people to find or become prom dates. Note - You may need to get special permission from the school in advance, and should always inquire with the school regarding their policy about prom guests. This may not be an option if you're older than about 20-24.
 Granted, this is not the same as actually going to your own prom, but high schools need chaperones at every prom, every year. Prom chaperones are responsible adults who attend the prom with the students to ensure the safety of the students attending, as well as to prevent improper conduct. You won't be all that popular, and forget about being crowned king or queen, but you'll be at a prom. Chaperones are typically parents of students and/or alumni, but most high schools will gladly take any extra volunteers for chaperones they can get. If you have a clean record, this might be a viable option for you.

