 It is recommended to have hair at least to your eyes in the front, possibly longer in the back, so that your spikes will be as durable and in-your-face as possible. Longer hair in the back is recommended because the spikes in the sides and back of your head stick out horizontally and won't be as noticeable. Since the intense styling required to keep that fierce hairdo up may stunt its growth, grow your mane out before you do any other steps.;
, While you are spiking it, use the pictures as a reference. Look at these closely, they are your best guide as to how it should look. Jorge, from the band The Casualties, has had a great head of liberty spikes at least once. So has Benji Madden from Good Charlotte, though. You may want to do a Google image search on one of them or on "liberty spikes", "liberty spiked hair", etc.
 Most commercially available hair styling products don't have enough strength to hold your hair in liberty spikes for any reasonable amount of time. Other "products", namely things like Knox brand gelatin, school glue (preferably the clear kind) and supposedly egg whites are much better for keeping hair up. The thing with Knox gelatin is that you have to mix it perfectly or chunks of it will be left behind.
 Free it from any tangles and crap. Make sure you have a clean head because oily hair doesn't seem to cooperate as well.
 You don't have to, but it sure makes it a lot easier if you do.
 Before there is any adhesive in your hair, you can rearrange or resize them all you want. Make them so they are all over your head, are of even size, and are thick enough to stay standing. Proportion is key.
 Undo one rubber band and pull your hair hard enough to wear your scalp raises BARELY with it. Don't make it hurt though. Okay yeah well, get a comb and at the base of the about to be spike comb it downwards and then upwards (for those that don't know how to tease hair). Teasing helps it stay up. You'll know when you're done because when you let go of your hair, the teased section should stick up. The teasing creates a strong base. Do not tease anymore than an inch of your spike.
 Start at the bottom, closest to your scalp, and work your way up. Pay special attention to the base, as it is what keeps the spike standing, but make sure to get the whole spike very well.
 It will most likely not be anywhere near completely dry, but should stay up on its own now.
 Once again, they should be all over your head, long, and thick.
 If they aren't (they don't look like they could stab someone) put a little water on the top and apply more product, twisting just enough to make the hairs come together.
 Even though the instructions may say against it, the blow dryer should be within a few inches or almost touching your hair. If you use Knox gelatin as a product, use the "cool" setting so it will strengthen as quickly as possible.

