 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook with a slipknot, then work up a foundation chain of 200 chain stitches.If you don't know how to make a slipknot or chain stitch, see the "Tips" section for instructions.
This scarf is worked lengthwise, so the length of your chain will be the length of your finished scarf. You can make the chain longer or shorter depending on your desired length, but the number of chain stitches you choose should be a multiple of two.;
, For the first official row, work one single crochet into the second chain from the hook, then in each of the remaining stitches across the row. When you reach the end of the row, turn the work over.


If you do not know how to single crochet, check the “Tips” section for more help.
For this row, the "right" side of the scarf should face you.
 Chain one, then single crochet once into the first stitch of the previous row. For the remainder of the row, chain one, skip a stitch, then single crochet once into the stitch after that. Repeat that pattern until you reach the end of the row, then turn the work over.


For this row, the "wrong" side of the scarf should face you. From now on, each row you crochet should alternate back and forth between the "right" and "wrong" sides.
 For the third row, chain once, then single crochet into the first stitch of the first chain-one space of the previous row. For the remainder of the row, repeat the following pattern: chain one, skip the next stitch, then single crochet into the next chain-one space.


Single crochet in the last stitch and turn the work over when you reach the end of the row.
 Work one chain stitch, then make one single crochet in the first stitch of the previous row. For the remainder of the row, chain one, skip a stitch, then single crochet into the next chain-one space of the previous row. Repeat until you reach the last to stitches.


For the last two stitches, chain one, skip a stitch, and single crochet into the last stitch.
Turn at the end of the row.
 To complete rows five and six, repeat the same steps you used to complete rows three and four.


For row five, chain one, then single crochet once into the first stitch. Chain one, skip a stitch, and single crochet into the stitch after that; follow this pattern until you reach the end of the row.
For row six, chain one, then single crochet into the first stitch. After that, chain one, skip a stitch, then single crochet into the next chain-one space; repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the row.
 Chain once, then single crochet once into each stitch and each chain-one space. Continue until you reach the end of the row.


Turn the work again at the end of each row.
 Follow the steps used to complete rows two through seven as often as needed until you reach your desired scarf width.


A good width for your scarf is 5.5 inches (14 cm), but you can make it skinnier or fatter according to your own sense of style., Cut the yarn, leaving a tail measuring about 3 inches (7.6 cm). Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to knot the scarf and fasten it off.


Hide the rest of the tail by weaving it into the underside of the scarf.
 Reattach the yarn to the hook using a slipknot. Work a foundation chain of 60 stitches.


The foundation chain will need to be long enough to extend from one shoulder, over the top of your head, and down to the other shoulder. If this chain is not long enough, add more chain stitches. Make sure that the amount of stitches in your foundation chain equals an even number.
 Work one half double crochet into the front of the second chain from the hook. For the rest of the row, half double crochet into the back of the next stitch, then into the front of the stitch after that.Chain one when you reach the end of the row, then turn the work over.
If you do not know how to make a half double crochet, check the “Tips” section for additional help.
 For the second row, work one half double crochet into the front of the first stitch. Half double crochet into the back of the next stitch, then into the front of the stitch after that; repeat this pattern across the rest of the row. Chain once, then turn.


Repeat this pattern until you have a total of 18 rows.
 Leave a tail measuring roughly 1.5 feet (45.7 cm) long.


You will need to use this tail to stitch the hood together, so it needs to be close to the same length as your hood rectangle.
 Fold the hood in half crosswise. Use a threaded yarn needle to whip stitch along one side of the hood, from the open mouth up to the fold.


If you do not know how to whip stitch using yarn, check the “Tips” section for further instruction.
 When you get to the top of the hood, gently poke the top corner inward, creating a flat triangle. Stitch across the outside of this triangle with your threaded yarn needle.


This step is not strictly necessary, but it does allow the hood to sit flat on top of your head. If you skip this step, the hood will come to a rigid point behind your head, instead.
 The wrong sides should face out, and the right side should face in.
 Flip the hood so that the right side is turned in. Flatten it along its seam, then line it up with your folded scarf so that the center of the hood lines up with the center of the folded scarf.


Pin the scarf and hood together to secure them in place.
 Use a threaded yarn needle to whip stitch the edge of the hood to the scarf along the shared border.


You will need at least 1.5 feet (45.7 cm) of yarn to attach the hood to the scarf.
Make sure that you only stitch one side of the hood to one side of the scarf. Work carefully and do not stitch two sides of the hood together or two sides of the scarf together.
When done, weave any remaining yarn into the back side of your hood to hide it.
 Turn the hood and the scarf right side out again. Place the hood between two damp towels and let it remain there until the towels and scarf are all dry.


The towels only need to be damp, not soaked. If the towels are too wet, the scarf may take an excessive amount of time to dry.
You do not need to cover the entire scarf. Only the seams need to be covered.
This part of the process is not strictly necessary, either, but doing it can make the seams less visible.
 Your hooded scarf should be complete and ready to wear.

