 Want to romance your partner on the phone? Compliment them. Tell them you can't stop thinking about something that you like in particular. Compliment something specific and unique to your partner.


Compliment their personality. Say, "I love talking to you. You always crack me up."
Compliment their looks. Say, "I can't stop thinking about your eyes. Miss you."
Compliment their talents. Say, "You kiss me so well, it's driving me crazy that I can't do it right now.";
, If you can't be together right now, the least you can do is plan what you'll do when you're together in the future. Talk about dates that you'd like to go on, both exotic and local.


Plan a dream vacation together on the phone and let yourselves dream a little. Where would you go if you could go anywhere? The beach? A cruise? The mountains? Plan it all out.
Plan some everyday dates as well. Talk about how you want to hit up the restaurant around the corner and snuggle in on the couch. Just talk about your lives together.
One good way of ramping up the sexual tension is to talk about what you'll do later tonight. Tell your lover exactly what you plan on doing. In detail.
 Another good way to spend your quality phone time together is to reminisce. Talk about the great dates you've been on before, or the great things that you've done together.Talk about the first time you met, or the first thing that you noticed about your partner. It's always good to remember the early stages of your relationship together.
Another great way to build the sexual tension? Reminisce about the things you did a few nights ago. Tell your partner what mind-blowing moves they have, to be sure they get repeated.
 Sometimes, the phone can be a great opportunity to talk about things that you might normally find it awkward to talk about in person. If you're chatting on the phone, it might be easier to engage in a little risqué chat about your sex life. Talk about things you want to explore with your partner, and talk about what turns you on.


If you're not sexually active yet, and even if you are, having phone sex can be a new outlet to explore together.
 If you have to be apart regularly, it's a good idea to have a regular phone date at a set time, so you can still feel like you've got quality time that you're spending together. Set a half hour or an hour each day so you can catch each other up on your days, talk about the future, and spend a little time talking.You might want to talk every day, or you might not. If you have to be apart for long periods of time, talk with your partner to find out how much phone conversing you both need.
 One great way to spend a phone date is to make a plan to do the same activity while you're talking on the phone together. Plan a fun and easy activity that you can do around the house, and just chat on the speaker phone while you do it. It'll be almost like you're together, even if you're not.


Watch the same episode of your favorite TV show, or a big game, and talk about it while you're on the phone. Cue up your favorite movie. Even if you have to be quiet most of the time, it'll be almost like you're together.
Try out a recipe together and try to make it at the same time. Talk each other through it and laugh at your successes and failures. Text each other pictures of the end results when you're done and see who made it better.
If you can, Skype or other video-chatting makes this even better. Even if you're not saying anything, it'll be like you're in the room together.
 Even if there's really nothing to talk about, just having your partner on the line can be a romantic gesture. Even if there are long periods of silence, it can be comforting and romantic to know that you're both together, even though you might be miles apart. Talk before you fall asleep and keep the phone on your pillow.


Make sure you're in the same network if you're going to spend loads of time just listening to each other breathe. This can be a romantic gesture, or just a huge waste of money and minutes.

