 Cervical spinal stenosis is the narrowing of the spinal canal in the neck.



 


The spinal canal is the open area in the central part of the bones (vertebrae) that make up the spinal column.
The spinal cord is a collection of nerves that runs through the spinal canal from the base of the brain to the lower back. These nerves allow us to feel, to move, and to control the bowel and bladder and other body functions.
In cervical spinal stenosis, the spinal canal narrows and can squeeze and compress the nerve roots where they leave the spinal cord, or it may compress or damage the spinal cord itself.
The seven vertebrae between the head and the chest make up the cervical spine. Squeezing the nerves and cord in the cervical spine can change how the spinal cord functions and cause pain, stiffness, numbness, or weakness in the neck, arms, and legs. It can also affect the control of your bowels and bladder.





;
, Cervical spinal stenosis is usually caused by age-related changes in the shape and size of the spinal canal and so is most common in people older than age 50.

The aging process can cause a "bulging of the discs"—the spongy discs between the bones of the spine bulge out farther than normal—or a thickening of tissues that connect bones (ligaments).
Aging can also lead to the destruction of tissues that cover bones (cartilage) and excessive growth of the bones in joints. These conditions can narrow the spinal canal (spinal stenosis).
In rare cases, the spinal canal is narrowed from birth because of the way the bones are formed.
 Many people older than age 50 have some physiological narrowing of the spinal canal but do not have symptoms. Cervical spinal stenosis does not cause symptoms unless the spinal cord or nerves become squeezed. Symptoms usually develop gradually over a long period of time and may include:

Stiffness, pain, numbness, or weakness in the neck, shoulders, arms, hands, or legs.
Problems with balance and coordination, such as shuffling or tripping while walking. Cervical spinal stenosis can be crippling if the spinal cord is damaged.
Loss of bowel or bladder control (incontinence).


A diagnosis of cervical spinal stenosis usually is based on your history of symptoms and a physical examination.
Your doctor will ask you if neck movements cause pain, numbness, or weakness.
If cervical spinal stenosis is suspected, your doctor will recommend imaging tests of your neck and back to confirm the diagnosis and to see what is causing the narrowing of the spinal canal.
Imaging tests that may be used include X-rays, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and computed tomography (CT) scans.
Your doctor will use the results of tests, including imaging and blood tests, to eliminate other diseases—such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and vitamin B12 deficiency—as the cause of your symptoms.


In mild cases of spinal stenosis, symptoms can usually be controlled with medicine to relieve pain, exercise to maintain strength and flexibility, and physical therapy.
If your symptoms are severe, you have progressive weakness of your muscles or the pictures of your spine show that your spinal cord or nerves are being tightly squeezed; your doctor is likely to recommend decompressive surgery to relieve the pressure. This surgery may be done from the front or the back of the neck. It involves removing some of the disc, bone, and/or tissue that may be pressing on the nerve roots. Vertebrae are often joined together surgically (fused) to provide stability to the spine.
Cervical spinal stenosis can potentially cause serious problems with the nervous system, including problems with bowel or bladder control (incontinence) and permanent loss of strength and feeling in the arms, hands, and legs. Your doctor will not wait for you to have severe symptoms of pain, weakness, and numbness before considering treatment to relieve pressure on your spinal cord and nerves.


Nonsurgical rehabilitation

Patients with mild symptoms of cervical myelopathy may try nonsurgical treatment for three to six months. After wearing a neck brace for up to three months, patients will slowly resume routine activities. They usually visit their doctor every four to six weeks to check their progress.


Post-surgery rehabilitation

Some patients leave the hospital shortly after surgery, but some surgeries require patients to stay in the hospital for a few days. A physical therapist may see the patient for treatment in the hospital room after surgery. Therapy sessions are designed to help patients learn to move and begin doing routine activities without putting extra strain on the neck.
During recovery from surgery, a patient may be placed in a halo vest or rigid neck brace. These braces are used to restrict the motion in the neck to allow the fusion to heal. Patients generally need to be extremely cautious about overdoing activities in the first few weeks to months after surgery.
Most patients spend time rehabilitating at home. Bone fusion may take several months. When the surgeon is absolutely certain the bones have fused together, patients are able to discontinue using the neck brace or halo vest.
After being in a rigid neck brace for four to six months, patients are often weak and deconditioned. They sometimes need the help of a physical therapist to work on neck movement, strength, and general conditioning.
As therapy sessions come to an end, the therapist may help patients with decisions about getting back to work.
Ideally, patients are able to go back to their previous activities. However, some patients may need to modify their activities to avoid future problems.



