 Drinking or eating something warm is known to boost mood, mostly due to the pleasant feelings and sensations it can give us as we consume it. Drinks like coffee and tea are also known to have other positive physical benefits, like a healthy amount of antioxidants.Just make sure you aren’t overindulging in sweet or caffeinated beverages. Coffee can help you feel more awake and alert, and can also give you a boost in mood, but too much caffeine and sugar can lead to difficulty sleeping and a higher caloric intake.
Baking and cooking for yourself is a great way to both keep yourself busy and work on a task that has the benefit of having something delicious to eat when you finish it! Try your hand at a new recipe to help cheer yourself up.
 You probably have a few songs that immediately help you cheer up when you listen to them. Turn on your favorite songs and sing along, or even dance around to them. Upbeat and uptempo music has an especially profound effect on mood-boosting.Online streaming services like Spotify have a plethora of playlists already built that you can choose according to your mood. Pick one of the playlists for happy moods and turn up the volume! You could even discover some new favorites in the process.
Instead of focusing too much on whether or not the music is making you feel happier, just focus on the music itself. Lose yourself in the feelings it brings about, and just enjoy it as you listen.
 It has been scientifically proven that interacting with animals can boost mood by contributing to the production of serotonin and dopamine, two hormones that improve mood. Spend some time cuddling or playing with your pet, or go to a local animal rescue and spend time with the animals there if you don’t have a pet.Pets and animals are known to give people a sense of purpose and belonging. They also help us forge emotional bonds and owning a pet can help fight things like depression, and even contributing to longer lives and better physical health.
 You might notice that a simple shower can help improve your mood just by making you physically feel better. A warm shower is a surefire way to relax your body and, in turn, improve your mood.Try switching the water temperature back and forth from hot to cool. Spend about 1-3 minutes at each temperature before cycling back again. This can help increase your circulation, which can help you relax and calm down.
 You’ve probably heard of “retail therapy,” or using shopping as a way to make yourself feel better. It has scientific merits—buying something for yourself when you’re in a bad mood can actually help cheer you up.You don’t have to spend a lot of money to treat yourself. Grab something sweet to eat on the way home from work, or that extra fancy coffee drink you like from the local coffee shop. Pick up that shirt you’ve been eyeing at the store, or the book you’ve been meaning to read.

