 Even if there is something that you would much rather be doing, during busy times you can practice your diligence and show your coworkers your commitment by putting in when necessary. Gauge how busy your place of employment by checking in with a manager and asking how other projects are going.


Be careful not to overdo it. Working too hard can have serious health side effect., It's impossible for you to address issues if you are unwilling to face them. It can be difficult to take responsibility for your actions, but complete and timely resolution of conflict is impossible if you don't honestly deal with the root of the problem.


Avoid justifications and unnecessary explanations. These are, generally speaking, a waste of time, as there are always additional factors you could list to explain your actions., Avoid minimizing your successes, no matter how minor, and identify areas in which you would like to improve.


Further improve your strengths by joining seminars, classes, and take on roles in the community that utilize your abilities.
Weaknesses can be addressed by interrupting negative thought patterns by doing something else, like taking a walk, admitting your humanity and the impossibility of true perfection, and by finding a mentor to provide guidance and support.
Make specific changes to help yourself be accountable. You might ask your manager to speak about performance related issues privately in the event you are shy.
 Jumping on an opportunity when it arrives takes self confidence, and you can build this in yourself by starting with small goals and working your way up to a more major responsibility.Before you make a suggestion, pause and think if the idea can be implemented effectively. It's easy to be defensive over your own idea, but weeding out implausible suggestions might leave you feeling less self-conscious.
 Human beings are social creatures. No matter how much of a loner you believe yourself to be, a healthy support system will improve efficiency at work, the keeping of resolutions, and diminish the feeling of being overwhelmed.Use your support system for recommendations when trying for a new position or if you are asking for a promotion.
Collaborate with your coworkers. You never know when you might need their help.
Try not to compete. This can be difficult, especially since many managers use competition to encourage performance, but constantly comparing yourself to other workers can leave you feeling dissatisfied or inadequate.