 It is best to not act like your sibling requires your assistance in every situation. Instead, gently ask if they would like your help at certain times. It is best to do this in the moment or, perhaps, in advance if it is a unique situation.For example, you might say, “I notice that we are about to walk down a series of stairs. Would you like my help as we head down?”
If they are struggling with something, but they are getting it done, let them do it. Don't offer unless they ask.;
, It is sometimes difficult for the blind or visually impaired to determine the movement of people in a room. When you enter a space, it is always nice to get close to your sibling and give them a quick hello. You obviously don’t have to do this in informal settings, like at home.Try not to draw attention to yourself when making this statement or you may embarrass you sibling in the process. Aim for subtlety.
 Put your arm out at a slight angle and keep it steady. You can expect your sibling to grab your arm at a spot just above the crook of your elbow. They can then continue to hold or release your arm as they choose, giving them a feeling of control and free movement.You might ask your sibling which arm they would like. They will most likely have a consistent preference for left or right, but it never hurts to ask.
 As you are walking somewhere, feel free to chat about what you are seeing. Try to use descriptive, interesting, illustrative words. You might also describe where certain smells or noises are coming from in the context of the scene.You might say, “As you probably can feel, this road is really bumpy because there are big, black pot holes all over it.”

, If you share a home with your sibling, or even if you don’t, try to fix any home hazards that you see. Also, make sure that you do not create new hazards with your actions. Keep all gates intact at the tops of stairs. Keep all rugs taped down at the edges. Keep doors closed. Make sure all objects are placed at the centers of tables.Do your best to not relocate items as you move around the home space. Your sibling has likely memorized the layout and could be thrown off or injured by any major changes., If your sibling gets an assistance dog, do your best to encourage the dog’s work performance. Do not feed or distract the dog while it is working. Do not pet or interact with it unless your sibling tells you that it is okay to do so. Learn how to place the harness on the dog in case your sibling asks you to.You could also possibly help your sibling with the process of researching and selecting an assistance dog. As this is a long term bond, it requires a great deal of forethought and planning.
 You can now download a variety of apps to your phone that will allow your sibling to “borrow” your eyesight for certain tasks. The app “Be My Eyes” lets a blind or visually impaired user connect with another sighted person who then tells them what the camera is pointed out. You could install and use this app with your sibling.For example, if your sibling gets cash bills from a transaction, they can pull up the app, point their phone toward the bills, and ask about their separate denominations.

