 If you plan on using matte nail polish often, consider making an entire bottle. This way, you won't have to mix the ingredients every time. Here's a list of what you will need:


Nail polish
Cornstarch, matte eyeshadow, mica, or cosmetic pigment powder
Tightly-woven sifter (for cornstarch)
Toothpick (for eyeshadow)
2 inch by 2 inch (5.08 centimeters) square of paper
Nail polish
2 – 3 ball bearings (optional)
Small cup or dish

, Make sure that the bottle you are using is only partly-full. Do not use a full bottle, or the powders you will be using will cause it to overflow.


If you want to make a matte topcoat, you will need clear nail polish and cornstarch/cornflour.You can apply this topcoat over any manicure to make it matte.
If you want to make regular matte nail polish, you will need a solid-colored polish and cornstarch or cornflour.
If you want to make a custom color, you will need a clear nail polish. You will also need matte eyeshadow, skin-safe mica powder, or cosmetic pigment powder into it.Adding some cornstarch will help make the finish even more matte.
 Whatever powder you choose to use, it needs to be very fine. Any clumps in the powder will make your polish lumpy. If you are working with cornstarch or cornflour, pour it through a sifter into a small container. If you are working with eyeshadow, scrape it out of its pan first, and then smash it up using the end of a pencil or brush. Mica powders and pigment powders should already be fine and not have any clumps.


You will need only a few pinches of cornstarch or cornflour.
If you are using eyeshadow, plan on using an entire pan per ½ bottle of polish., Roll the paper into a cone shape. Make sure that the pointy end has an opening in it, so that the powder can pass through., The pointy end should not be touching the polish. If it is, widen the top of the cone so that the point sits higher. If the point gets wet, trim it down, or the powder will get caught in it instead of going into the polish.
 Use a tiny scoop or teaspoon. You can use your fingers, but you may end up wasting some of the powder if it sticks to your skin. Avoid adding in too much powder at one time, or you will make your polish too thick. You can always add more powder later.


If you are using eyeshadow, mica powder, or cosmetic pigment powder, consider adding in a little bit of cornstarch or cornflour. This will help make the polish even more matte, especially if the powder is shimmery or opalescent.
 This will make your polish easier to mix, especially if you are starting out with a clear nail polish base. If you are using a solid-colored nail polish, you probably won't need them, as most solid-colored polishes already have them inside.The diameter of each mixing ball should be about 1/8 inches (3.175 mm). Choose mixing balls made of stainless steel for the best effect.
 Stop shaking once the color is even and uniform. If you are using ball bearings, stop shaking once you can't hear the balls rattling anymore.
 Once the polish is mixed, open the bottle and brush on some of the polish onto your nail or a scrap of paper. Let the nail polish dry so that you can see what it truly looks like. If the polish is too thick, you can try thinning it with a drop or two of nail polish thinner. If the polish is not matte enough, add in some more cornstarch or cornflour. If you are using clear nail polish and it is too sheer, add in some more of the eyeshadow, mica powder, or pigment powder that you were using.
 This will give the pigments and powders you used to dissolve into the polish and make it more smooth and less clumpy., Topcoats are typically glossy, so using one over your matte manicure will take away the effect. Try and see if you can find a matte one to match your polish.

