 When you are looking into antidepressants for elderly depression, you need to make sure that any medications that you are currently on do not interact with what you might take. There are a number of different medications that can cause side effects if taken with antidepressants. Make sure your doctor knows all the medications you are on so you can avoid this.


Also let your doctor know any supplement you are on. These can also cause interactions.Your doctor will know the main risk factors, but there are some smaller risks factors as well. Talk to your pharmacist. They have computer programs that can tell if you are at risk for a bad interaction. In order for this to work efficiently, you should get all your medications at the same pharmacy.
Clinically, citalopram and escitalopram are the two SSRI’s that cause the least drug-drug interactions.;
, There are some medications that can make your depression worse or even cause it in the first place. These medications may be prescribed for other medical conditions and can sometimes have depression as a side effect. These medications include:


Beta-blockers.
Blood pressure medication.
Sleeping pills.
Parkinson's disease medication.
Steroids.
Tranquilizers.
Calcium-channel blockers.
Medication for ulcers, including those over the counter ones.
Cholesterol medication.
Painkillers.
Estrogen.
Arthritis medication.
Heart medication with reserpine., Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are proven effective for elderly adults with depression. There are many different types, such as escitalopram, sertraline, and citalopram, which is the most common.These are used frequently with older patients because they interact less with patients that have cardiovascular problems. These antidepressants do have some side effects, which you should watch out for. These include:


Insomnia.
Dry mouth.
Nausea.
Drowsiness.
Diarrhea.
Agitation.
Excessive sweating.
In rare cases, sexual dysfunction., There are some additional antidepressants that are helpful to treat elderly depression. These may be considered if SSRIs are not an option or if they interact with the medication you already take. These antidepressants include:


Bupropion.
Mirtazapine.
Venlafaxine.
Moclobemide., Although SSRIs are typically helpful for the elderly, there are some medical considerations you need to take into account if you are prescribed these medications. There are some SSRIs that should not be taken by elderly patients because of the side effects and interactions. Medications you need to avoid are:


Fluoxetine.
Paroxetine., Tricyclic antidepressants were once prescribed for the elderly, but are now not considered first line treatment agents for the elderly. The side effects and potential for drug interactions are considered too high to be safe in most cases for elderly patients. The major side effects that can happen include:


Postural hypertension, which contributes to fractures and falls.
Cardiac conduction abnormalities, such as arrhythmias.
Dry mouth.
Urinary retention.
Constipation.
Delirium.
In some cases, the worsening of medical conditions such as dementia, cardiovascular problems, and Parkinson disease.