 Exercising increases the blood flow throughout your body, and that includes blood flow to your uterus.Good blood flow builds a better endometrium. Take at least thirty minutes out of your day to be active – whether you like to swim, run, bike, do yoga, or just take a walk.

If you have a job that requires you to sit still a lot, try to get up and move around for two minutes out of every hour.;
, Stay well rested to keep your hormone levels stable – estrogen and other hormones balance out while you sleep.Try to develop a healthy sleep pattern to ensure you get 7-9 hours of sleep nightly. Try the following to improve your sleep pattern:

Set a specific time to go to bed and wake up each day.
Avoid napping during the day.
Save your bedroom for sleep – don’t watch TV in bed, for instance.
Have a relaxing nighttime routine, like taking a warm bath or giving yourself a hand massage.
Sleep in a cool, dark room.
 Stress and the chemicals it releases can affect your body negatively, including your hormone balance. Manage your stress by taking time each day to relax. Try yoga, meditation, a creative project like writing or painting, aromatherapy, or anything else that relaxes you. If you have a stressful home or work life, try to practice mindfulness., Though these are not scientifically proven to increase uterine thickness, taking certain herbs may help increase your circulation and thus improve blood flow to your uterus, or may amp up your body’s estrogen supply. Many supplements can be found at your pharmacy, health food store, or online (but be sure to buy from a reputable seller). Check with your doctor or pharmacist before starting an herbal supplement – they’re natural, but they can still interact with other medications or medical conditions. Consider the following to boost or balance estrogen levels, or increase circulation:Wild yam
Black cohosh
Dong quai
Licorice
Red clover, Just as you can try practices to increase your blood flow, you should avoid doing anything that minimizes your blood flow. Some of the most common practices that decrease blood flow are:Smoking: Quit smoking! It’s hazardous to your health and decreases blood flow.
Drinking caffeine: Aim to minimize your caffeine to 1 cup per day. Cut back caffeine gradually to avoid withdrawal effects.
Taking decongestants: Allergy and sinus medications that contain phenylepherine or other “vasoconstrictors” narrow blood vessels, so try to use other products without this ingredient.

