 When first reaching Ustengrav, you will come across multiple bandits and necromancers fighting each other outside of the burial site. You can run past them since they are focused on attacking each other, or you can take them down yourself.


Using your bow from a distance is a great way to snipe these foes.
Before charging into the battle between the bandits and necromancers, make sure to bring along health potions to quickly heal yourself while in battle.;
, You will encounter Draugr through the first level of Ustengrav. There is no way to avoid these enemies so prepare for a fight by equipping a weapon such as a bow or melee sword.
 You will find various enemies while in the depths, including skeletons and Draugr. Eliminate them, and don’t forget to heal right after. You will eventually come across a set of rocks that glow when you pass by them. Each rock opens one metal gate in front of you. The only way to get past these four gates is by using the Whirlwind Sprint shout. Equip this shout in your inventory and begin walking straight towards the gates, starting just before the rock furthest away from the gates. Once the last rock is activated, you must quickly use the shout to spring past the gates before they close.


You will know when you pass the four rocks since they each make a sound. Once you hear the fourth sound go off, you will know it is time to use your shout before the gates have time to close.
 After you get by the four gates, you will have to push on and locate the room containing the Horn. Four dragon statues will rise out of the water as you walk over the small stone bridge leading towards the Horn’s location. There will be no enemies within this room. Instead of finding the Horn of Jurgen Windcaller, you will find a note on the stone coffin.
 The note will tell you to meet the unknown person at the Sleeping Giant Inn. It also mentions that you will need to rent the attic room at the inn so this person can identify what your intentions are.
 The inn can be seen on the left-hand side when you are coming to Riverwood from Whiterun. Enter the inn and locate Delphine.
 Ask if there is an attic room, triggering the secret message to Delphine. She will assign you a room on the left of the Inn. Delphine will then follow you and reveal that she took the Horn from Ustengrav. She will hand you the Horn and ask you to follow her.
 Delphine will lead you to a room across from yours and open a secret passage behind her wardrobe. Make your way down the stairs and speak with Delphine privately. She will tell you about the Blades and why she took the Horn. Once completed, you will need to head to High Hrothgar with the Horn.
 Once Delphine gives you the Horn, you will need to make your way back to High Hrothgar to speak with Arngeir.
 Arngeir can be found within High Hrothgar by following your quest marker. Show him that you have recovered the Horn of Jurgen Windcaller. Arngeir will tell you to follow him to the main hall as he will teach you the final word for a shout.
 You will follow Arngeir and the other Greybeards into the main hall of High Hrothgar. They will teach you the final word of the shout Unrelenting Force by speaking to you in the Dragon language. This will complete the quest.

