 To do a proper, professional splint you will require certain medical materials. Gather all of your materials before beginning your splint. You will need:Splinting material, usually made of dry plaster (though sometimes fiberglass material is used).
Scissors.
A bucket or large pot of cool water.
A roll of soft cast padding.
A stockinette.
A roll of elastic bandage.
Medical tape or clips to secure bandage.
Sheets to protect the patient’s clothing.
Sling or crutches, optionally.
Casting gloves, if you’re using fiberglass splinting material.
 Stockinette is applied as the first layer of splinting to protect the patient’s skin from direct contact with splinting material. Measure the stockinette so that it extends 10cm on both sides of the intended splint range. Gently pull the stockinette over the affected limb. Cut small holes for fingers and toes, as needed – especially for the thumb.Use 4 inch wide stockinette for lower extremities, and 2-3 inch wide stockinette for upper extremities.
Make sure the stockinette fits snuggly, and smooth out any wrinkles. If it’s too tight and constricts blood flow at all, use a wider stockinette.
If a lot of swelling is expected, skip using the stockinette or any circumferential materials. In this case, thicker, wider padding material should be used.
 Injuries heal best, and complications are avoided, when the limb is splinted into the appropriate position. Specific injuries require specific posturing, so be sure to learn or consult a professional before splinting. Follow these basic guidelines:Place the wrist in slight extension and ulnar deviation. Let the hand rest in position as if holding a can of soda.
When using a thumb spica splint, place the wrist at about 20° of extension and flex the thumb slightly.Place the ankle into 90° of flexion.
For long-leg casts, allow the knee to flex slightly.
 Splint padding is applied between the stockinette and splinting material to allow the limb to swell. Take your roll of padding material and wrap it around the limb circumferentially – snugly, but not so tight that it impairs blood flow. Roll from one end of the limb to the other end. Each roll should overlap the previous roll by 50%. Apply 2-3 layers of wrapping. Allow for 2-3cm of extra padding on both sides of where the splint will end.As you wrap the limb, apply extra padding to the edges of where the splint will be, between the fingers or toes, and over bony areas such as the heel, malleolus, elbow, and ulnar styloid. This helps prevent pressure sores.
Keep the padding flat and wrinkle-free. If it creases, remove and reapply it.
 Measure the amount of splint material you need – lay dry plaster splint material next to the injured body part to judge the length. The width should be a little wider than the diameter of the body part being splinted, and 1-2cm longer than you want the end product to be. Cut or tear the appropriate length of dry splint material you need.The splint should end up being slightly shorter than the padding.
 A splint generally ranges from 8-15 layers of dry splinting material. On average, use 6-10 layers for upper extremities and 12-15 layers for lower extremities. The necessary thickness depends on which body part needs splinting, the patient's size, and how strong the splint needs to be. Use the minimal number of layers necessary to get the right splint strength.Use fewer layers for petite patients or non-weight bearing injuries.
Use more layers if the splint needs to support weight, the patient is large, or the injury is to a joint (and requires more immobilization).
 Place your dry splint material in a deep bucket of cool water. Try to lay it flat into the water, if possible, to avoid wrinkling or creasing the material. Wait for the splint material to stop bubbling before removing it.


Do NOT use warm water. Splinting material sets faster when warm water is used, and the faster the material sets the more heat it produces as a byproduct. Using cool water will greatly reduce the risk of burns to the patient as the splint sets.Fiberglass splinting material sets more quickly. If you’re using room-temperature water or fiberglass material, you’ll have to work quickly. Remember to wear gloves if working with fiberglass.
 Take out the wet splint material and squeeze it gently to remove excess water. Do not wad or ball up the material – hold the material up with one hand and clamp the material with your first two fingers of the other hand. Apply gentle pressure as you “squeegee” your fingers down the strip, squeezing out extra water and keeping the material as flat and smooth as possible. Plaster will still be wet and messy, but should not be dripping water; fiberglass will feel damp.Lay the material on a flat surface and smooth any wrinkles out of the splint layers. Make sure all the layers are flat. Wrinkled and bumpy material will put pressure on parts of the body when it dries, which can cause pressure sores, nerve injury, and pain.
 Ensure the limb is in its proper posturing. Place the wet splinting material over the padding, and use the palm of your hand to smooth the material into position. When you reach the end of the splint, fold the next layer back on itself to create the following layer. Repeat this until the splint has the appropriate number of layers.


Do not use your fingers to mold the splint; this can create dimpling and cause pressure sores and nerve problems. It’s very important to keep the splint material as smooth as possible.
Splints are applied to only one or at most two sides of an extremity; they are NOT circumferential. Full, circumferential casts can be applied to an injured limb once all swelling has gone down.
 Once your splint is applied, fold back the extra length of padding and stockinette over the edge of the splint. This should create a smooth edge.Check for any discomfort, pressure points, or vascular problems before finishing the splint. Re-perform neurovascular tests at this time to ensure the splint is comfortable and not compromising blood flow or nerve conduction or applying more pressure to certain areas. It’s better to re-do an ill-fitting splint now than before it dries, and much better to fix a splint than cause medical problems later.
 Ensure that the limb is postured correctly. Wait for the splint material to dry completely. Then apply an elastic wrap around the splinted limb, from farther from the body to closer to the body. This should keep the splint in place and provide some support, but should not be constricting. Be very careful to avoid wrinkles, and to keep the wrap evenly layered throughout.Secure the wrap with medical tape or clips. Do not tape around the splint in a circle when finishing it. Tape along the sides of the splint to allow room for swelling.
 If the splint covers the elbow, it may benefit the patient to use a sling. Provide crutches for any lower extremity injuries that require non-weight bearing. Ice packs can help reduce pain and swelling.

