 The use of pressure is a way to train your horse. Using pressure, which can be direct (touching your horse with your hands) or indirect (using a lead rope), can help your horse understand what you want him to do with his body. When done with care and consistency, your horse will learn how to quickly and calmly respond to your pressure, which will strengthen your bond with him.
 By using direct pressure, you are teaching your horse to move his body according to how you touch him.Training with direct pressure can be very time-intensive, so just be patient with your horse as you train him in this way.


Start by applying gentle pressure to his poll (between the ears) to get him to lower his head. It may take your horse a few minutes to understand what you want him to do, so just keep applying steady pressure until he moves, or at least starts to move, his head down.Once he gets more comfortable with the direct pressure to his poll, you can apply pressure to different parts of his body, such as his nose (your horse will move backwards) and behind the ears (your horse will move forwards).Practice applying direct pressure each day until your horse quickly, consistently, and appropriately responds to your touch.
 It is important to remember that it’s the release of the pressure that teaches the horse that he’s doing the right thing, rather than the application of pressure itself. Knowing exactly when to release the pressure will help your horse learn your commands more quickly.


Release as soon as your horse starts to respond in the way that you want him to; waiting a few seconds after he responds is too late.
The release can be full (no more pressure at all) or partial (less than the initial pressure).
Releasing the pressure before he has tried to respond will increase the amount of time it takes him to learn to respond to pressure.
 Using indirect pressure means that you are not directly touching your horse; rather, you are using a driving aid, such as a lead rope, to give him commands.Practice this type of pressure after your horse has mastered responding to direct pressure.


Attach the lead rope to your horse’s halter. While standing about three feet in front of him, start to slowly wiggle the lead rope to get him to step backwards. If he doesn’t move backwards, or moves in another direction, wiggle the rope with increasing force until he takes a step or two back.
Try wiggling from even further back (about 10 feet).
Practice applying indirect pressure for a few minutes each day.As with direct pressure, release the indirect pressure as soon as your horse to starts to respond appropriately. In this case, you would stop wiggling the rope to release pressure.

