 Senior cats can be anxious or uncomfortable with being groomed. Make your senior cat feel calm by grooming them in a comfortable spot, such as on a soft mat on a high table. You can also place a soft mat on the floor and groom them there. If your senior cat has a favorite spot in your home, consider grooming it there.Stick to the same grooming spot every time you groom your cat. This will help your cat get used to the spot and get more comfortable with grooming over time.;
, If your senior cat tends to fidget or move around when being groomed, use a towel to keep it calm. Wrap your cat in a towel by placing it in the center of the towel and wrapping each side around the cat like a cat burrito. This will keep your cat still and calm during grooming.You can then move the towel around as you groom your cat. Wrapping your cat in a towel can be a great option when you groom their teeth, ears, or nails as it will help it stay calm and still.
 Calm your cat down by giving them some attention and care before the grooming. Pet your cat from head to toe. Spend time stroking any spots that it likes to soothe it. Say calming words to your cat as you pet it, such as “Good kitty” or “That’s a good kitty.”, If you have a long-haired cat, use a pin brush. If you have a short-haired cat, use a rubber curry brush. Do not use a brush that has sharp edges or sharp bristles. You do not want to scratch or irritate the delicate skin of your senior cat.You should also get a metal comb made for cats. It will have long and short tines to make it easier for you to brush your cat’s undercoat.
 Start by brushing your cat with the brush from head to tail. Gently work through its coat. Use the comb once you have brushed your cat once through. Be extra careful when brushing and combing the cat’s hips, hind legs, and underside. It should take you about 15 minutes to brush and comb your cat’s coat.Run your hands through your cat’s coat as you brush and comb it. This will help to move the oil in your cat’s coat around.
 Do not try to cut out mats or tangles, as you risk injuring your senior cat. Instead, hold onto the fur just below the mat and gently brush out the mat with the brush or comb. You can also use your fingers to carefully loosen and remove any mats or tangles. Do not pull or yank on the mats, as this can injure your cat.For mats that are hard to get out, try applying a small amount of cornstarch to the mat. Rub the cornstarch in with your fingers and brush it through the mat to remove it. The cornstarch can make it easier for the brush to run through the mat.
If mats and tangles on your cat’s coat are too hard for you to get out on your own, consider bringing your cat to a professional groomer. The groomer will need to use cat-safe hair clippers to remove the mats.
 Once you have brushed your cat fully, give your cat a treat to end the brushing session. End every brushing session with a treat so your cat feels positive about getting brushed. Don’t forget to also use verbal praise as a reward for your cat, such as “Good kitty” or “Great job.”, Long-haired senior cats do well with a good brushing once a day. If you have a short-haired senior cat, you can brush it once a week. Try to brush your cat in the same spot in your home and at the same time. Make it part of your care routine for your cat. This way, your senior cat gets less mats and tangles and is not at risk of infection.If you notice your cat does not enjoy long brushing sessions, you can try breaking up the session into shorter chunks of time. For example, you may brush your cat five minutes at a time. Give your cat a treat between each mini session so it stays calm and positive.
 Most cats do not like getting wet and you will need to work fast when bathing your cat. Start by filling your bathtub, or a large plastic bin, with warm water. Only fill the tub or bin with enough water to cover your cat to its belly. Have the water ready before you bring your cat in for the bath.Always brush your cat before you bathe it. Get out any knots or mats before the bath, as it will be much harder to get them out while the cat is wet.
 Use reassuring, calming words as you do this. Some cats may not like getting wet and will howl or hiss when you put them in the water. This is normal. Pet your cat and say things like “Good kitty” or “Let’s be calm now” as you lower it into the water.If you are worried about water getting into your cat’s ears, you can put cotton balls in their ears.
If you are bathing your cat in a bathroom or a room with a door, close the door before you put them in the water. That way, it cannot run out of the room while you are trying to bath it.
 Dip a clean cloth in the water and gently wet your cat’s fur on her body and chest. Do not pour water on your cat’s head or wet her head right away. You can also use a cup to gently pour water onto your cat’s body and chest. Work slowly and carefully, wetting your cat’s fur., Once your cat is wet, use shampoo made for cats on its coat. Gently rub the shampoo into your cat’s fur. Be careful when lathering around your cat’s ears, eyes, and mouth. Work quickly to lather your cat, as it will likely not be a fan of this part of the bathing session., You can use a detachable showerhead to do this or a cup. Pour water on your cat gently to rinse off all the shampoo. Rinse your cat several times to make sure there is no leftover shampoo on its coat, as this can irritate its skin.

If you are using a detachable showerhead, make sure you hold it close to your cat’s body so it does not make too much noise or spray water everywhere.
 As soon as you are done rinsing your cat, wrap it tightly in a towel. Pat its coat dry with the towel. Let your cat stay inside the towel until it is completely dry.Do not use a hair dryer to dry your cat, as this could burn its sensitive skin.
 Longhaired breeds should be bathed once a month to keep their coats clean and healthy. Shorthaired breeds should only be bathed if they are very dirty or if they have allergies. Senior cats who are very dirty or have an odor should be bathed as needed to ensure their coats are not prone to infection.Your vet can advise you on how often you should be bathing your senior cat, based on its medical history and its breed.
 Senior cats are more prone to ingrown toenails and dirty nails. Trim your senior cat’s nails regularly so its nails stay healthy. Use special nail clippers made for cats.It may help to wrap your cat in a towel while you trim its nails. Expose only its nails and keep the rest of the cat wrapped up so it remains calm and still.
 Senior cats are also more likely to develop dental issues. Brush your cat’s teeth once a month to ensure its teeth stay healthy. Use toothpaste made for cats and a small toothbrush.Wrap your cat in a towel if it tends to squirm around while you try to brush its teeth.
 Senior cats can develop ear infections and other issues, especially if they stop self-grooming. Make sure you check your cat’s ears for any sign of infection or injury. If you notice your cat’s ears are leaking fluid or have obstructions in them, bring your cat to the vet.Do not stick any objects into your cat’s ears when you examine them. Simply flip over your cat’s ear and check inside the ear canal for any issues.

