 Be who you want to be and don't be afraid to show off your true self! Just make sure you don't come off as overly weird or strange in any way, don't be too loud either. People don't like others who don't know how to be quiet sometimes.;
, You can't expect people to look up to you and adore you if you don't love yourself. Treat yourself like a goddess and always give yourself the best. People may think you are self centered but if you want to be the It girl, that's got to happen.
 Make sure that you are unpredictable yet in a very subtle way. This will attract a lot of attention from everyone and make people want to know you better.
 This is absolutely crucial. You need to dress in a very stylish way - just like a model off vogue magazine or the Chanel runway. Try to wear as much designer brands as you can, such as Tod's, Tory Burch, Chloe, Max Mara, Michael Kors, DKNY, Max Azria, L.L.Bean, Ralph Lauren, Miss Me, True Religion and J Crew. Save the designers such as Chanel, Yves Saint Laurent and Gucci for when you're a little older, because this may lead to people thinking that your clothes are knock offs. If you can't afford these brands, try going to high end high street shops and find clothes that are reasonably priced but look very couture. If you still can't afford these brands, go to places that have nice clothing that is in style and your style. Go to places like Forever 21 and Zara.
 Tiffany and Co, Links of London, Wright and Teague, Pandora; anything that suits you! Remember, diamonds are a girls best friend! Try choosing finer jewelry rather than cheap $20 necklaces from Forever 21 or £10 necklaces from Topshop. As for bags, the best brands are Fendi, Ferragamo, Michael Kors, Yves Saint Laurent and Louis Vuitton. However, try to be as subtle as possible. Ensure that you grow a fairly large Fine Jewelry Collection and get a nice display case for it to protect it from any damage. Keep away from *shudder* Cubic Zirconia!! If your not all for the big purses, get a purse that is still a good brand but down size them, get one that is smaller than the totes or the big fancy purses.
 For most days, wear it natural but if it's a special event, wear something very elaborate and stunning. Make sure you get the best make up brands such as Chanel, Bobbi Brown, MAC, YSL and Dior because, after all, the It Girl deserves the best of the best. If you are awful at doing make up, hire a professional make up artist instead. If you can't afford a professional, practice doing your make up and look up good tutorials on YouTube so you can get really good at it.
 Hang around everyone one and make plans with them. Make sure that everyone knows who your are and you know who everyone is. You don't need to start picking members for your clique just yet though.
 You can read them but that's as far as it goes -do not, DO NOT create a blog! Some sour people may make fun of you with this.
, However, don't be too easy and throw yourself at them. Make them run after you, begging for a little more of you. Whatever happens, just make sure you are NOT the slut! Those are the kind of people you keep well away from.
 If you don't already, work harder! You have to feel good about your intellect. Just don't go overboard. Getting good grades is definitely key because people know you know your stuff, teachers and other students appreciate it when a student knows what she needs to know and more.
 It's ok to be a little rough at times! It puts people in their place! Do not let mean bullies make you feel bad.
 This must consist of 2-4 other girls, excluding yourself. You must be the leader of the clique, and you may choose 2-4 of the following to be in your group: The Sweetheart, The Party Animal, The Prep, The Shy Girl, The Athletic One, The Fashion Obsessed One or The Quirky Kitsch One. Make sure that all of the people in your clique are pretty, intelligent and are faithful and nice to one another. These are your "best friends forever" whom you rule the school together with. These are the girls who always know what's up with you before anyone else. Make sure that no scrapes or wannabees get in though.
 The It Girl is NEVER chubby, so put that candy bar back on the shelf! Have a very healthy routine and Try to get yourself into many sports in and around school.

