 Give suggestions to your spouse and/or your family ahead of time to help pave the way for better relations. Suggest “safe” discussion topics to both parties.Tell your spouse or your family about common interests. For example, “John, I’m not sure if I mentioned that you and my brother both love skiing.”
Bring up each other’s interesting hobbies. Perhaps your grandmother has fascinating travel stories she loves to share, or your spouse coaches soccer on weekends.
Make sure to mention what kinds of conversation topics to avoid as well. As a general rule, politics and religion are bad to discuss unless you are sure everyone is on the same page with their beliefs., If your spouse struggles to get along with your family and finds family events stressful, have a plan in place to leave if needed. You may decide to:


Give your family a departure time when you arrive. For example, “We need to leave by noon. We have to pick up a friend from the airport.”
Have your spouse send you a text message when they are ready to go.
Have your spouse give you a prearranged signal, like a gesture or a phrase that means they want to leave. For example, your partner could stand behind you and rub your shoulders to indicate they want to go, while you are still around your family members.
Let your spouse know acceptable ways to check out for a bit, if leaving isn’t an option. For example, “In my family, no one cares if we’re all sitting together and someone is reading a newspaper or magazine. You can do this if you feel like you need a break and no one will question you.”

, If a fight breaks out in the middle of a family event between your spouse and your family, or if your family is consistently treating your spouse poorly, enforce a break and leave with your spouse.Try not to let your partner leave the event alone. You want to indicate to your family that you are supporting your spouse.


For example, you could say, “I think this situation is getting to be stressful for everyone. Kate and I are going to leave now. I’m sorry to disappoint you, but I am getting upset and we need to take a break.”
If you are at an event where you can’t get away easily (for example, on vacation), call a timeout for a few hours or the remainder of the day. In the meantime, get as much physical distance as you can between you and your spouse and your family.
 If the relationship between your family and your spouse continues to deteriorate, consider limited their exposure to each other, perhaps confined to holidays or important family events.Discuss with your spouse how much family time will be acceptable to both of you so you have a plan ready when the next invitation comes.
You may wish to reveal the reasons that your spouse is no longer accompanying you to family events, but you do not have to. You can make an excuse for your spouse (for example, they have to work), if you feel that will be a better way to keep the peace.
You may find that a cooling off period is all your family or your spouse require, and they may be able to move forward after a break. Absence makes the heart grow fonder, after all.
You may also find your family or your spouse more willing to make an effort after a significant life change, like the birth of a child, a death in the family, or a move.

