 Just go to www.LinkedIn.com on your preferred internet browser, and log in with your username and password.;
, It is second from the left on the black banner. Once you select the tab, a drop-down list will appear. Click on “Edit Profile” to continue.
 Look for the blue box that reads “Edit” directly next to your profile picture. This will allow you to edit the different features of your profile.
 This is the first thing on the list. Click on your profile picture to change it. “Adjust Photo” allows you to select from the photos you’ve already previously uploaded to LinkedIn. “Change Photo” allows you to browse your computer for a different picture. Click on the “Save” button at the bottom of the box that pops up to confirm your changes.
 Doing so will make it easier for people to get in touch with you. Right below your profile picture, click on the “Edit Contact Info” tab. You can then edit each individual contact location by clicking the blue pencil icon next to the contact information you want to update. Save it when you’re done!

, The next area is broken down into sections. The first is where you can add or update “Summary” by simply clicking on the “Edit” tab right beside it. “Summary” is where you include relevant information about yourself such as things you enjoy doing.
 Add a new experience by clicking on the blue button that says “+ Add a Position.” State the company name, your title, location, the time you worked there and the job description. When you’re done, save your updates!


Posting the jobs you’ve taken on in the past will showcase what you’re good at.
You can edit everything by clicking on the appropriate box, and updating the information.
 Just click on the “Add” button right next to “Volunteer Experience and Causes.” A box will then appear asking for the name of the organization, your role in it, the cause, the date, and a description. Click on the appropriate box, and type in the information you want to include. Tap on the blue “Save” button once you’re satisfied.
 If you would like to do so, click the “Add Education” button next to the “Education” section. It will then ask for your school, dates attended, degree, field of study, grade, activities and societies, and description. To edit, click on the box next to each tab, and enter the information. Be sure to save at the end.
 These are things such as your address, personal details and advice for contacting you. Edit each of these individually by clicking the “Edit” button next to each one, and then typing in the new information when prompted.
 Add your areas of expertise by selecting the “Add” button. Doing this step will add to the look of professionalism on your profile, and get you more connections.
 To do so, scroll to the very top of the “Edit Profile” page, and click on the blue “Done Editing” button next to your profile picture to save all your changes.