 is salvageable. Check to see how bad the rust is and whether or not it has eroded the material or it is more of a surface/cosmetic issue. Determine whether the item is worth saving by assessing the depth of the rust––if it's only surface and no working parts or pieces are rusted through, then these simple solutions may be helpful. On the other hand, if it is deep rust or it has eaten right through parts, then you'll need to replace pieces, consider using synthetic chemical rust removers or speak to a professional restorer relevant to the item.;
, Use the right tools. You need the right tools to remove the rust. Items that may be useful for scrubbing the rust include steel wool pads, abrasive brushes, sandpaper, wire brushes or crumpled tin foil.These can be used on their own initially, then in combination with one of the methods suggested below.


A dull putty knife may be used for thicker rust, helping with chipping it away.
If it's fabric you're dealing with, don't scrape! Instead, follow the advice offered below relating to fabric.
Whether or not you can scrape the item will depend on its fragility. If the item looks to be rusted through, it's in need of repair, and none of the remedies offered here will be of help and could make things worse.
 For vehicles and other large items, the methods are not necessarily appropriate and separate advice should be sought.


See How to clean silver for appropriate cleaning methods for silverware.
See How to remove rust from a car for vehicle rust removal suggestions.
Jewelry other than costume jewelry should be cleaned according to the specific metal, due to its delicacy and special features. See further How to clean silver jewelry, How to clean brass jewelry , How to clean copper jewelry and How to clean jewelry.
,, After this time, you can scrape rust away with the lime rind.


Do not leave it any longer than a few hours or the salt will increase the rust., Allow to dry completely before storing away.
 This includes trays, baking sheets, and pots and pans.
 Once peeled, cut it into halves, to make it easier to hold.
, Rub until the rust has lifted off.


Dip again on another part of the potato or use the other potato half if you need to keep rubbing for a while or you're rubbing a large area.
 Place on an uncrowded dish rack or sit the drying tinware near a warm oven to speed up the trying.


Alternatively, wipe clean using a damp cloth.
 Use enough vinegar to cover.


Soda or soft drink can also be used in place of vinegar.It usually works faster, thus you'll need to keep an eye on it and remove the nuts and bolts as soon as they appear rust-free.
 The rust should have come off the nuts and bolts.
 Wipe clean. Allow to dry in a well-ventilated place, such as on plastic mesh or a dish rack.
 It's meant to be a thick paste, so add more baking soda if it's too runny.
, With scrubbing, the rust should lift off. However, be aware that you may need to repeat this process several times to be effective., If not, use the cream of tartar paste.


Cream of tartar can be found at supermarkets, while hydrogen peroxide is often sold in pharmacies or drugstores.
 Decide how much paste you need, and use that amount of cream of tartar. Then add just enough hydrogen peroxide to form a paste.If it gets too runny, add more cream of tartar.
 Leave it to dry.
 Check the rust area. If it has improved, you're all done. If not, repeat until the rust stain improves.
 Do so as follows:


Drop salt or cream of tartar onto the area of the rust stain on the clothing.
Squeeze lemon juice over the salt and stain.
Place the clothing into the direct sunshine. Leave for a few hours, to let the sunlight do its work of bleaching the fabric.
 For example, do not leave garden tools sitting in the rain.
 These can absorb the moisture and may help to discourage rust growth., Then wipe with a little oil or WD-40 to help discourage rust., Cover it when it is not in use. This may help to discourage the growth of rust.
 Proper care and handling of cast iron pans and pots can be found here.
 Always ensure such items are fully dried before placing into a cupboard, the garage or anywhere else for storage. Ensure that the storage is not moist; if needed, use moisture soaking devices to reduce the humidity in the storage area.

