 Not only are you more likely to be perceived as educated and intelligent, you are more likely to actually become more intelligent due to the probability that you will have more intellectual discussions and be more challenged.Being around educated individuals will help increase your intellectual stimulation, help further your knowledge base, and help further your own education.
 Impressions are important to conveying a great deal of information including intellect and education. Particularly affecting the perception of education is the amount of exposed skin others can see.The more modest and formal your appearance the more others will focus on what you are saying and thinking, rather than what you are wearing.Wear modest and formal clothes that fit well.
Make sure your clothing is ironed and stain-free.
Keep your hair neat.
Have good hygiene.
Remove facial jewelry.
Keep your shoes, fingernails, and teeth clean.
 Watch out for bad habits or nervous habits such as nail biting, hair twirling, or chewing on pens. You want to communicate confidence in yourself, your education, and your intelligence. While these habits don't necessarily show a lack of education, they will cause you to be perceived as anxious, nervous, or uncomfortable. If you feel the urge of a bad habit coming on, try to actively refocus your mind on the other person or the conversation.
 There is a cultural component among the educated, that includes music, art, theatre, and cultural experiences. Taking part in these activities will increase your exposure to various topics, spark your creativity, and provide you with conversational material which illustrates your education. Some cultured areas to consider include:


Attending theatre performances or the opera.
Listening to classical music.
Visiting museums and art galleries.
Reading books, journals, and the newspaper.
 While this may seem like an odd factor, using your middle initial in your name is largely regarded as an indication of intelligence and education.This appears to be due to the fact that the use of a middle initial often occurs in formal and academic contexts.At events, have your middle initial included on your name tag, or if you like the way it sounds, include it in your introduction, especially if it makes you feel more like the intelligent, educated person that you are! On the other hand, you should be perceptive of what is culturally acceptable. For example, middle initials are rarely used in the UK, and are far more common American English contexts.Therefore, using the middle initial during introductions in the UK may violate the 'stay humble' principle above.

