 Look for something about 1.5–2 inches (3.8–5.1 cm) thick and about 5 feet (1.5 m) long. It should be nice and dry, not rotten or moldy. It's okay if it has bark on it, as you will deal with that later. Make sure the wood is as straight as possible; if it is curved, you will have some trouble.;
, Once that is complete, break off any branches and cut them as close to the branch as possible. Basically you want to make the whole piece of wood as smooth as possible.
 Try to make the cuts as even as possible. You will need 40 Pieces total. Once each piece is cut sand the whole thing down. Don't forget to sand the sides. Make sure the whole piece is smooth before moving onto the next one.
 With this piece, cut small strips of wood that are 2"x1/4"x1/8". You will need 36 per page, totaling to 72 pieces (or links, as we will call them). Try some practice cuts before you get started, and make a few extra in case some break or you mess up. Before you go onto the next step make sure each link is strong by pushing and pulling on it in various ways. You don't want anything to break after you're finished.
 Lay the board down, and about 2 inches (5.1 cm) from the edge mark a straight line going all the way across the board. Do this again on another side of the board so that the lines intersect only once. Use these lines to lay out your circles of wood. It should be 4 circles high and 5 circle wide, totaling to 20 circles per page. Once you have them laid out, move them around to your liking and then use the push pins to secure the outside circles. Then work your way in making sure each circle has at least 3 push pins

, Hold the link down and trace it out. Clam one circle in a vice and use a dremel to eat out the inside of the link tracing. Eat out just a little bit in the top and see if the link fits in the inlay. If it doesn't, expand it till it does, then make the inlay deeper till the link's top is flush with the circle. Check every little bit to ensure you're not going too deep, and make sure the bottom of the inlay is flat. This will create a stronger bond when you glue it later.
 Then glue row one together. Don't use to much glue here: if you do it will seep onto the other side of the circles and dry. If you do spill some out of the inlay, just let it dry. You can pick it off later and sand it down.


Don't glue row 1 and row 2 together yet. Once row one has dried, finish row 2's inlay, and then glue row 2. Only then can you glue rows 1 and 2 together. The reason you work your way up while glueing is that it is much harder to dremel pieces that are already glued than it is to clamp them in a vice and go about it that way.
 Don't use big strokes because you will scratch the wood. Instead, sand each circle down and then each link down so everything is flush. If it is too much to sand, use the dremel to eat out some wood to where it can be sanded.
 Take it and make 4"x1/4"x1/8" strips. you will need about 40 of them. These pieces will be the spine of the book. Lay a few side by side till it is the correct height. Do this for the next column so that that rows are staggered bit. This will make sure the spine won't break. Use pins to hold the rows together and then glue them together. Replace the pins so they push the pieces together. Don't worry about it sticking to the board, as you will be able to sand it down later. Once it is dry, sand it down till it is smooth.
 This step is optional; if you don't want stain, that won't affect the quality of the book. Stain is used to enhance the color and protect the wood. You can use a clear stain if you wish. Stain one side of each piece, and then let it dry. Flip it over and stain the other side. Stain at least twice to get good protection on the wood.
 Measure out six inches of leather and use the E600 or shoe goo to fasten the leather to the spine and pages. Leave enough room for the book to close comfortably. Use more glue than you think you will need and then press the leather to the wood. If glue seeps out, just wipe it off. If it's a lot of glue that seeps out, rub it off; it should come off fairly easily.
 If it isn't right, remove the leather from the wood and rub the glue with some force to remove it.
 Use small strips on the other page so you can tie the strap off. You can glue one side of the strap and tie the other side for a nice effect, but feel free to do secure it however you want.
 Now that the book is complete, use the pictures, cardstock, and other pretty bits to make the meat of the book. Decorate the pages however you wish, but make sure to include enough pictures and make it look good.
 Then you can give it to that special someone, or keep it for yourself.

