 Your artist's statement should stand on its own. Someone should be able to read your statement and imagine what your work looks like.Create a list of words and phrases that describe your work, your process, and your influences. Once you have created your list, edit down your list to the items that most reflect your work and who you are as an artist.Create sentences using the words and phrases that you have identified. You can combine and arrange your sentences until they flow in a logical order.
You may need to repeat this process multiple times until you are satisfied with the outcome.
Also think about the time and space that you would like the reader to view your work.
 This section of your statement is where you write exactly what you make. Let your readers know what your project is. Include information about why you are interested in this type of work and any themes that may be found in your work.


You can describe your art in any way that you choose. Just remember that you must support your description with the how and why you make the art., Once you describe the art you make, describe the methods you use to make the art. What materials (e.g. paint, wood, paper, etc.) do you use? What tools (e.g. brush, hands, etc.) did you use? Do you paint on the floor or do you use an easel? Do you always listen to music when you work? What techniques do you use?You do not have to write down every single step of the process that was used to create the work. Note the things that are most important.
If you do something particularly unusual during your process, include that in your statement.
 Your motivation and purpose for creating art provides a context for people that view your art. It also helps people understand your point of view as an artist. Is your art commentary on current events or social circumstances? Are you trying to draw connections between different concepts?Are you using your art to tell a story? What does your art mean to you?


If your motivations changed while you were working on the project, let the audience know that is well.Maybe you were influenced by a trip you took, a book you read, a movie, or a family member. All of these things help the audience get a better understanding of you and your work.For example, if you wanted your art discussed within the context of feminism, you should clearly outline that in this part of your statement., Your statement should be easy to understand. Do not include any language that is too specific to the art world. Also avoid using complicated, complex words. Your statement should sound genuine and real.Your statement should add information that can not be gathered from looking at your art. Do not use the statement to simply describe what the audience can see with their own eyes.Try not to use a quote from another artists or philosopher. If you do use a quote, do not use more than one and keep it short. Also be sure that you have correctly interpreted the quote.Avoid phrases such as "I am trying to," "I am hoping to," and "I would like to."Just state what you have done.
Be as objective as possible. Your statement should not be used to promote your art or "talk it up."Let your audience interpret your work on their own.

