 If you want to confess your lie and apologize in a face-to-face conversation, but you’re worried that you don’t have the emotional control or wherewithal to facilitate the discussion, you can hire a trained professional to assist you.If you’re in school or college, your institution might provide a free counseling service that performs conflict mediation and relationship counseling. Look over your school’s website for information about this possibility, or talk to an administrative official who can direct you to the right place.
 Whether you are taking advantage of a free service offered by your university or paying an independent professional, base your decision on a variety of factors including cost, personal compatibility, and convenience.Fees for therapists who perform mediation vary significantly, so get a written quote before you commit to one.Make sure the party you choose is a disinterested party and trained in conflict resolution. Even if your parent or relative wants to help and thinks they can be objective, they are only a good option if they are a lawyer or therapist, or if they have completed some kind of conflict resolution training.Even if you like the looks of a mediator, take a little time to review the counselor’s client feedback on sites like Yelp or Better Business Bureau. This is particularly important because some states don’t require professional mediators or conflict resolution counselors to possess a special license or affiliation in order to practice, so you’ll need to do your own research to make sure you’ve found a good one., Before carrying out the conflict mediation, you should sit down with the mediator you’ve chosen in order to explain your situation, needs, and objectives for the session. The mediator can also inform you about the procedure and give you some helpful tips to prepare.Remember that your mediator is a valuable resource and can refer you to a long-term psychological professional if you’re interested. Seeing someone regularly can help you work on living more honestly and avoiding similar mistakes in the future.
 Your mediator can extend a formal invitation to the person you want to talk to, or you can get in touch with them through more informal channels.


If you work or study full-time, you should try to make the appointment for after work rather than during lunch. This will help avoid distraction and work-day stress., Gather your thoughts before the session and make sure you keep your emotions in check.Try meditating, drinking green tea, or doing relaxing exercises like yoga or controlled breathing beforehand. A centered mindset will help you organize your thoughts and be a better participant in the mediation., Instead of jumping right in and confessing your lie, have your mediator set some ground rules and facilitate the discussion.


When it’s your turn, explain your lie. Use “I-statements” to avoid sounding accusatory or blame-shifting, and let your mediator point out any time you seem to be rationalizing or getting off-topic.
When it’s the other person's turn, listen attentively. Chances are, you haven’t understood or considered their side as much as you could have, so listening to the other person will provide you valuable insight., A meaningful apology means that you acknowledge that lying was wrong, that you take full responsibility for your lie, and also that you may have caused harm through your falsehood.The person you've lied to is more likely to forgive your apology if you show that you are changing. You want them to see not only that you're sorry for your mistake, but also that you want to avoid similar mistakes in the future.