 One easy way to get off track is by living in fear. A decision, on your part, has to be made to emerge from the fear of the future. Nobody knows the future so don’t let it be a barrier to a successful future. Hold yourself accountable by being consistent, dependable, and innovative.Action can build your courage. Embrace your fears so that you can move past them and open your world to new possibilities of realizing who you really are.
Positive thinking breeds success. Instead of always anticipating the worst train yourself to always expect the best out of all that you do.
Lean on your family and friends for support. They tend to see your strengths whenever you have forgotten them and are often full of praise and encouragement.
 Repeating failure will result in repeating failure. Break the cycle by resetting your life for success. The important step in resetting your life is to put everything in its proper place so that you can excel in all areas of your life. In other words, live your daily life so that it collides with your dreams and aspirations.Breaking the cycle of failure is not easy. At some point, you will have to interrupt the way you think, act, or feel to reset your life. All three are interconnected but concentrating on changing one link can lead to changes in the other two links.
Interrupt your thinking by improving the answers to your problems. These ideas cannot originate in thin air so take time to read books and articles, ask a professional or colleague, or brainstorm with friends for new ideas.
Interrupt your feeling by channeling your emotions to receive positive thinking that produces the results that you want. For example, keep a journal, review your goals regularly, surround yourself with positive people and ideas, and change your physiology to trigger a positive set of feelings.
Interrupt your actions by changing what you are currently doing. You might have to experiment first to decide what actions to focus on but, generally, start working on new ideas as soon as you can, modify your habits, stop performing negative actions, and try to experience as much as you can to see what does and doesn’t work.
 Be aware of old habits, they are hard to break. Make a new commitment that holds you responsible and accountable for engaging in new priorities. A commitment is more than just changing your actions, you must also change your attitude.Take fifteen minutes a day and think about what makes you feel rejuvenated, relaxed, and happy and keep a list so that you can continue to concentrate on those feelings.
Learn to say no to things that don’t interest you or harm your well-being. If you need help in doing this, then seek out a friend or family member to aid you.
Create a daily ritual like taking a walk, listening to peaceful music, or sitting out in a park to give yourself time to evaluate your day and to remind yourself of your new priorities.
 Remember decisions greatly impact your life. Nothing in your life will change until you take time to evaluate the lifestyle choices you have made. Making poor choices is one of the most frequent reasons why people get off track. Your choices must line up with your goals otherwise you will suffer from the powerless cycle of indecision and deviate from the positive changes you want to make in your life.Begin the process of getting your life back on track by making quality decisions. Once you decide to make change, you must make a commitment to those decisions to reach your goals.

