



An in-tank wet-dry filter behind a false wall in the main aquarium is recommended, but you may have to build it: using a container, powerhead, and air pump. You can hide it behind rocks stacked or glued with epoxy to the front of the container.
Since an in-tank wet-dry filter will consume some aquarium water volume and take up some space, the aquarium should be sized a little larger: for example choose a 75 gallon (283 liters) tank instead of 55 gallon (208 liters) tank, which will add only 3 inches (7.6 cm) of depth usually. A section below has more discussion on wet-dry filter choices.
This set up will not be a FOWLR (Fish Only with Live Rock) system. The rock recommended is dead rock, (which may become living rock over time). The rock you use will not be an important part of the filtration system, because it is inefficient as a filter.




 DIY base before covering

Be sure the base is very strong and can support the weight of tank, water, and rocks. For a 75 gallon (283 liters) acrylic tank, this weight (all included) is about 800 lbs (362 kg). Most buildings can support this weight, but it is best to place the aquarium in a corner near load bearing walls.




 DIY base after covering

The weight is spread over a few square feet/meters. Compare to a bed with two adults that might weigh 400 lbs (185 kg).
Acrylic tanks are much lighter than glass tanks, but acrylic is more expensive and does scratch more easily. However, acrylic tanks will almost never leak, and scratches in the inside are usually hard to see because of the water inside.
Get everything positioned exactly the way you want it, because after you add rocks, gravel, and water, it will be impossible to move the aquarium tank or stand unless you drain and empty the tank again.;
,


For the initial set up, when there are no fish yet in the aquarium:
Rinse rocks first in tap water, and then place any large rocks you will use into the aquarium, because they will take up volume. Lace rock or lava rock are recommended.
Rinse gravel first in tap water, unless it is crushed coral with bacterial starter. Then spread gravel you will use into the aquarium before adding water, because it will take up volume. Crushed coral or dolomite gravel substrate works well. The gravel should only be 1 inch (2.54 cm) deep, and not placed under the rocks.
An example live gravel product that includes live biological filtering bacteria (again, do not rinse before use) is: CaribSea Arag-Alive Hawaiian Black. Black gravel can look very exotic.
You can buy sea water from a fish store, or mix your own synthetic seawater. Using sea water collected directly from the ocean near cities is not recommended because it usually has a lot of harmful bacteria that must be sterilized before use.
To mix a batch of synthetic sea water: in a separate container, add water (the water used can be tap water because we are not setting up a reef aquarium), and add conditioner/dechlorinator (usually a very small amount, see product instructions); an example product is: Seachem Prime. Then add synthetic sea salt, and mix well for about ten minutes. Check after ten minutes to see if all the salt mix is dissolved, and mix again if needed. A premium reef sea salt is not needed, and an example salt mix product is: Instant Ocean Sea Salt.
Add the prepared synthetic sea water to the aquarium using a bucket.
Never add sea salt directly to the aquarium; always mix it first with dechlorinated water in a separate container.
Add a small amount of fish food daily to the empty aquarium to feed the bacteria.
Install a thermometer and heater, and set the heater to 76° F (24.4° C).
It is recommended to wait one month before adding the first fish. If you add fish sooner than one month, then add a small amount of water conditioner, such as Seachem Prime or AmGuard, directly to the aquarium daily for the first week.



 aquarium with black gravel after three months



,


An in-tank or hang-on-back wet-dry filter is much easier to install and maintain, and almost impossible to leak compared to a main tank with a sump.
An in-tank wet-dry container at 1 gallon size would be 231 cubic inches, and might be 3" deep x 7" high x 11" wide. (in metric: 3.78 liters is 3780 cc, sized at 7.6 cm x 17.8 cm x 27.8 cm). Usually two units are needed for mid size to large sized tanks.
Setting up the wet-dry filter should be done at the same time the aquarium is initially set up, because it takes about one month for it to start working effectively.
Use a high capacity biological media such as sintered glass or fired ceramics; for example, use Eheim SUBSTRAT Pro, or CerMedia MarinePure Biofilter Media.
For most wet-dry filters, using an air pump to inject air will increase its effectiveness.
After installation or building, add a biological filter bacteria; example products are Seachem Stability, or API Quick Start. Stability is to be added daily for the first week.
To make:






Obtain a plastic container with an open top that is about 1 gallon (4 liters) in volume.
Make notches at the top of the container, to allow water to enter, by melting the plastic with a soldering iron instead of cutting it.
Install a pump or powerhead with a sponge pre-filter at the bottom of the container to pump water back to the tank using an output spray bar. The pump should be rated at about 265 gallons per hour (1000 liters per hour). An example pump is the Eheim Compact 1000.
Install a plastic separator plate with gaps around the edges above the pump.
Install an air pump that supplies several air-stones above the separator plate. Put the air pump below the aquarium, and use a check value in the air line to prevent leaks.
Place high capacity biological media above the air-stones to fill the container. Never clean the biological media, but once every three months: clean the intake sponge, plate, container, and pump, and also change the air stones.
Conceal the filter with rocks placed in front of, or glued with epoxy to the front of the containers.
It is recommended to make two such units (two containers with two powerheads) for a 75 gallon (283 liter) or larger sized aquarium.


More ideas on a wet-dry filter:

See the "Uniquarium" for an example of a commercial system in mid to large sizes that includes a built-in wet-dry behind a false wall.
Smaller sized aquariums that include wet-dry filters are good for nano-reefs, but are too small for fish that need swimming space such as Tangs or Angels; examples of nano-reef tanks are CoralLife BioCube and JBJ.
Hang-on-back filters could be modified to have a wet-dry action by air injection using an air pump. An example unit is the Hagen AquaClear 110, or Fluval C4 Power Filter. For this how-to, use about 3 units giving a total volume of about 2 gallons (7.6 liters).
In a tidal action wet-dry filter, the water level goes up and down in a cycle rather than dripping or spraying onto the media, like tide pools in the ocean. It is quieter and may be more effective than spray or drip systems. An example is the Eheim 2227/2229 series or a similar design.
A sump is not recommended because it is essentially a second tank with a lot of plumbing; it is usually complicated and adds cost, and it can overflow in some cases. Also, maintenance for a sump and all the equipment in it usually requires you to crawl around under the main aquarium tank.


The wet-dry filter is the most important life support filter of the aquarium. It should be as large as possible, because there will be oxygen demand not only from the fish population, but also from several strains of bacteria that will keep the aquarium clean and in balance:

Nitrifying bacteria, that convert fish waste (mainly ammonia) to nitrate (two strains, that take one month to grow to an effective amount).
Nitrogen fixing and denitrifying bacteria, that convert nitrate to nitrogen gas or bind the nitrate in a film (the film is then removed when you clean the filter and aquarium) (these bacteria take about two months to grow, and are fed by carbon dosing).
Clean-up or facultative bacteria, that remove fish waste and uneaten food from the water.



The main purpose of the canister filter is to operate a surface skimmer intake and spray bar output.




 floating comb intake

Install a surface comb intake for a canister filter input. This removes the thin film of organic compounds (which usually float) that blocks oxygen from getting into the water.




 spray bar output from wet-dry is at surface water level

Install spray bars for a canister output near the top of the water surface to agitate the aquarium water surface slightly. This greatly improves the oxygen level in the water.
Output from the spray bar should be strong. Weak output may indicate:

The filter media is dirty or intake sponge is dirty. Clean filter sponges every three months. Do not use fine filter wool; it will clog very quickly as you add more fish.
The pump impeller may need to be cleaned. Check for and remove any debris, sand, or gravel near the impeller magnets.
Impeller magnets can loose magnetism over time from heat and usage, and may need to be replaced.








If the aquarium is more than three feet (1 meter) long, add a second spray bar from a powerhead or canister filter.
A canister wet-dry pump with tidal action is the Eheim 2229, which is not manufactured anymore. However, you can build your own tidal action wet-dry filter.



 Eheim 2229 wet-dry filter inside home built aquarium stand



,






 Blue Tang

You can stock up to about 1" of fish length per 2 gallons (2.54cm per 7.6 liters); for example 30" of fish for a 75 gallon aquarium (7" Naso tang, 5" sailfin tang, 5" blue tang, 4" yellow tang, 2" flame angel, 2" coral beauty, 5" flagfin angel. These fish were added the the 75 gallons aquarium over about a year).
It is recommended to stock the aquarium with plant-eating fish such as tangs (surgeonfish), which are easy to care for.
The aquarium divider allows the new fish to get used to the new aquarium without being attacked by the other fish already in the aquarium.

After three days remove the divider from the aquarium.
Some of the fish will figure out how to get around the divider anyway, that is OK.
The aquarium divider can be cut from a plastic sheet with holes, such as an egg-crate fluorescent lighting grill.
It does not have to be a tight or perfect fit at all edges.


A natural anti-parasitic agent that seems to work well, and does not affect the biological filter is Kordon Ich Attack Disease Inhibitor; use the agent even if the fish seems healthy.
A stronger agent that must be used carefully is Kordon Rid-Ich® Disease Treatment; this will kill invertebrates.



Use dechlorinated new water used to maintain water level and salinity; this can be tap water if it is low in nitrates and phosphates (test it first), or reverse osmosis water if you have an RO system or wish to buy it.
Check salinity reading monthly. When using a swing-arm type meter, take several readings, since air bubbles in the meter cause false readings; other kinds of meters are floating glass or refraction based meters. Specific gravity at normal aquarium temperature should be in the 1.020 to 1.025 range.
For a fish-only aquarium, salinity does not have to be too precise but it should be stable (unchanging). Salinity will increase when the aquarium water level falls; adding top-off water raises the aquarium water level and will also return salinity to its original reading.
In hot weather, one gallon of top-off water per day might be needed; in cool weather one gallon every three days might be needed.



Fill a very small cup with a mixture of garlic juice, fish vitamins and then add food such as frozen cubes; after a few minutes, pour it into the aquarium.
Garlic juice for aquariums can be purchased; for example, Seachem Garlic Guard is a good choice.
Vitamin examples include Seachem Vitality, or Selcon.
Feed fish about twice per day, offering dried seaweed pieces attached to a rock with a rubber band, also provide green flake food and frozen cubes.
With a larger aquarium, as recommended, overfeeding occasionally is no problem, but in general provide only as food as the fish will eat in about two minutes.



These sponges are the main way that the aquarium water is kept clear and clean; clean the sponges any time they appear brown and dirty.




 mechanical filters

Use strong powerheads, such as 295 gallon per hour rating (1100 liter per hour rating) for each 25 gallons (94 liters) of aquarium size. For example, for a 75 gallon aquarium, use 3 powerheads.
Mechanical filtration from in-aquarium powerheads with sponges can be hidden behind rocks.
An example powerhead with strong flow rate that will accommodate a cylindrical sponge is the Cobalt Aquatics MJ1200 Multi-Purpose Powerhead.
Point the output of each power head into a rock so the water is not too disturbed by the flow.
Installation of this step can be delayed until the third month after initial aquarium set up.
Remove the sponges and clean them each week, then replace.
It is OK to only run the powerheads for 12 hours daily.
If you use a sump, then filter socks are convenient to replace and could be used instead of the in-aquarium powerheads with sponges.



It will take another two months until the bacteria that is fed from the carbon dosing to grow enough to be effective.
Carbon dosing is safest from a prepared mixture of methanol and acetic acid, as in the Red Sea NO3:PO4-X Nitrate & Phosphate Reducer product.
Run the skimmer for only about three hours after adding the carbon dosing mixture.
The skimmer can be a hang-on back type and does not need be extremely efficient.
Use the skimmer size recommended by the manufacturer for the aquarium size.



Example products are: Seachem Pristine, Continuum Aquatics Bacter Clean-M, or Liquid Gravel Vac

,


Use a dechlorinator and conditioner such as Seachem Prime, or Kent Marine Ammonia Detox.
After the third month from initial aquarium set up, begin adding buffer weekly. Note that this more often than is usually recommended. (if measured you would attain a dKH of about 12-14).
Buffer product examples include: Seachem Marine Buffer, Kent Marine Superbuffer dKH, or Brightwell Aquatics Alkalin8.3 Liquid pH Buffer.



Start this step after the third month of operation.
Examples include Microbe-lift Herbtana, or API Melafix.



The next month clean the other half of the aquarium gravel.
It is normal for the aquarium water to get quite cloudy; by the next morning the water should be completely clear.
Don't use sand as your substrate; it is more difficult to clean and will get sucked into pumps. Use larger sized gravel, such as crushed coral or dolomite.
It is recommended to have two sets of rocks that can be rotated: one set is in the aquarium, and the other can dry in the sun outdoors. Some green algae on the rocks is OK, but if they have a lot of brown algae:

Remove the rocks and check the nitrate levels.
Add a dose of the bacterial clean-up agent.


Alternatively, you can leave the same rocks in place permanently, but there must be a way to stir up the gravel beneath the rocks, or arrange the rocks initially so there is no gravel under them. In this case, over time, the rocks will become living rocks, more like a reef aquarium.

