 Don't stalk her to find out what she is doing. Casually look for clues when she is nearby. Notice if she is reading a book whenever you see her. Observe what she is wearing. Does she like wearing a Sublime t-shirt?


Look her up on social media. Everyone stalks each other on social media sites, so you don't need to feel guilty about doing it. Look at her interests!

, Only do this if you are interested in this interest. Don't start wearing a Shania Twain t-shirt if you don't like her music. Pick up a book that she's reading. You want to have a genuinely shared connection. Pretending won't get you anywhere.
 There is a chance she had never seen you before, and didn't want to take a chance. Start saying hello to her whenever you pass her. Small gestures of kindness can go a long way. Hopefully she'll respond or smile back to you.


You could ask her "what time it is?"
Compliment her outfit by saying, "that's a pretty dress," or work with what she's wearing.
 A good way for this girl to recognize what a good catch you are is to be funny. Telling knock knock jokes may not work. Showcase your natural humor when she is nearby. Don't be offensive and tell inappropriate jokes. She could get offended or creeped out by this., Try to strike up a natural conversation about something. This can be hard because you are trying to appear casual when you may not feel casual. Wait for a good opportunity like waiting for an elevator or stuck waiting for the bus. These are good places to share a thought.


You are shooting for her to look at you and actually talk to you.
Talk about an easy topic like the weather or a recent celebrity's antics.
 You can try to approach her friends and ask questions about this girl. Even if you just do small gestures, they could think it's sweet and tell the girl you like. You really just want her group of friends to notice you and think you're nice. Once you have conversations circling around about you, you'll have a better shot.
 Be sure not use the same line or approach as you did before. You want to catch her off guard, but also impress her. Try complimenting her as you do this.
 She is entitled to her decisions and you need to respect that. Nobody likes someone who complains when they don't get what they want.