 Small businesses should consider outsourcing their human resources function to another company. A PEO will handle all payroll processing and tax filings. They also purchase workers’ compensation insurance.Because the PEO is buying insurance for many businesses, they can command a lower price than you could if you bought on the market by yourself. Accordingly, PEOs can save you money by reducing your premiums.
PEOs can also analyze the safety of your workplace, which will be helpful if you create a safety program.They also work with injured employees and help implement return-to-work programs, which you should also create.;
, Workers’ compensation premiums are calculated based on the risk of each type of job. Employees are assigned an employee classification, and a rate is assigned to account for the risk. Rates are calculated per $100.00 of payroll. Each state sets its rates. Accordingly, you want to make sure your employees are properly classified.


For example, employees engaged in production of plastic tubes might have a higher rate than those who work in plastic assembly. You don’t want your assemblers to be misclassified in the more expensive classification.You can find the classification codes at your state’s workers’ compensation ratings bureau.
 Create a spreadsheet of your employees and the corresponding classification code. You will want to send this to your insurer, along with a letter in which you object to the way the insurer classified certain employees.If your insurer agrees, they will lower your premiums. However, you should consider appealing to your state’s workers’ compensation rating bureau if they deny you.
 Workers’ compensation premiums are calculated twice. Your initial premium is a rough estimate. Your insurer will also audit you at the end of the year. The purpose of this audit is to check that the classification codes are accurate.Depending on the results of the audit, you might have to pay more, or you may get a rebate for having paid too much during the year.


You should appoint one person to communicate with the auditor. This helps to streamline the process. Make sure to choose someone who is friendly and works well with others. Auditors may be hostile.
Gather all information on employee payroll ahead of time, including number of employees, hours worked, and the amount paid.Carefully review your audit statement, which should be sent to you within a few months of the audit. Raise any objections to employee classifications in writing.
 You can search online for a model safety program for your industry. Google your industry and “safety program.” You may have to pay $100-150 for the template.This is a very cost-effective method for creating a basic safety program. However, you may need to revise the template to suit your individual needs.
If necessary, reach out to a consultant. They typically charge $100 an hour for their services. You can find consultants by asking other businesses in your industry who they use.
 Many insurers provide consultation services to help you develop a safety plan.Take out your insurance policy and check whether this service has been provided as part of your coverage.


If you’re just starting out, you should make sure your insurer offers these services. You typically have to pay extra. However, for every dollar you spend on safety, you reap two to six dollars in return.
 The federal Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) offers an on-site consultation program, which is free for small and medium-sized businesses.You can reach the nearest OSHA office in your state by visiting this website: https://www.osha.gov/dcsp/smallbusiness/consult_directory.html.


When the consultant visits, they will walk through your jobsite and point out any safety hazards or health risks. Later, they will send you a written report. The consultant may also call you from time to time in the future to see how well you are implementing the safety program.
Realize, however, that you’ll need to follow through with OSHA’s recommendations otherwise you may be referred to OSHA’s enforcement action branch.By contrast, if you use a private consultant, then you can choose the most cost-effective recommendations and skip some of the more expensive ones.
 It’s one thing to have a plan on paper. You also need to make sure employees follow through with the plan. Make sure top management approves of the plan and is fully committed to it.You’ll also need to hold regular safety meetings to discuss safety issues. At the meetings, you hammer home the importance of safety. You can also answer employee questions.
Remember to put some teeth into your safety program by disciplining employees for violating the safety rules and rewarding those who follow them.
 Improving safety is a continuous process. Don’t wait for someone to be injured before analyzing how you can improve safety. Near misses and accidents that don’t result in injury should be analyzed.If you are a medium or large business, you should centralize your incident reporting. This will allow you to see the “big picture” when it comes to your safety culture. Have all information entered into one database.
 You’ll want an injured employee to return to work as soon as possible. Accordingly, you should have a written policy in place. There are sample policies online you can use as models for drafting your own.Your policy should have a section discussing transitional work. Transitional work consists of work assignments modified to account for the employee’s injury. For example, if an employee has reduced mobility, you can have them temporarily do computer-based tasks.
 You should send your first accident report to your insurer within 24 hours, so don’t delay. Make sure to provide as much detail in the report as possible.You can also include photographs of where the injury took place. Note any obvious hazards. Use a digital camera that will record the date, and take pictures from many different angles.
Refusing to provide the first report won’t make the workers’ compensation claim disappear. Instead, you are committing fraud as an employer., In many states, you can’t get off the hook if the employee was intoxicated or high. However, you can certainly help bolster your case. Ask the injured worker to take a drug test as soon as possible.Also consider making random drug testing part of your safety plan. These are legal so long as you tell applicants upfront that participation in drug testing is a part of the job. The mere threat of drug testing can reduce accidents on the job.
 Once an employee files a claim, your insurer will need information from you. Comply with requests for information in a timely manner. For example, you may need to do the following, depending on your circumstances:Provide information on the employee’s payroll history.
Share the employee’s personnel file.
Double check the employee’s story with their co-workers or supervisor.
Tell your insurer if you are contacted by the injured employee’s attorney. Your insurer will handle communications with them.
 Most workers’ compensation claims have merit. However, there are also an estimated billion dollars paid out in fraudulent benefits. Look for the following signs of fraud and contact your insurer if you see any:The accident is reported Monday morning, either because it happened Monday morning or the accident happened Friday afternoon and the employee waited to report it.
The employee has suspicious doctors and/or lawyers helping them. Some lawyers run workers’ compensation mills where all of their clients meet with the same doctor.
The employee won’t meet with an independent doctor to verify the extent of their injury.
You have a hard time contacting the employee—even though they claim to be laid up or disabled.
There are no witnesses when you would expect there to be.
The employee’s own story doesn’t make sense, or they tell contradictory stories.
 Your insurer might decide to investigate a suspicious workers’ compensation claim. For example, if the employee claims to be disabled but is seen shoveling their driveway, then they are not disabled.


You might want to hire your own investigator if the insurance company doesn’t. Remember that your premiums will increase if someone files a really expensive claim or if multiple people file smaller claims.Accordingly, you want to weed out fraudulent claims.
However, if you buy insurance through a PEO, then fighting a claim might not be worth your time. Talk to your insurer.
 The claims process differs slightly depending on your state. However, in some states, employers will be asked whether they agree with the employee’s explanation of events that led to the injury. If you agree, then you’ll approve the claim. If you disagree, then you reject the claim.Your state’s Workers’ Compensation Board or Commission has the ultimate say on whether to approve claims. However, an employer’s approval can speed up the process.
If you disagree with the employee’s claim, talk to your insurer about how to proceed.
 Analyze whether you can use the employee in a modified capacity, at least during a transitional period. For example, an employee might have a wealth of knowledge to share. You can create transitional work where the injured employee supervises others without performing manual labor themselves.


Check whether work modification funds are available from your state’s Department of Labor (or equivalent department). You can use these funds to buy special equipment that helps your injured employee return to work.For example, you could buy a high-backed chair that eases the pain in an employee’s upper back and neck.
Remember that you can’t fire someone simply because they filed a workers’ compensation claim.Instead, you should be focused on getting them back to work as soon as possible, which will reduce your costs.

