 It’s easy to feel less than confident when you try something for the first time. By forcing yourself to do things outside of your comfort zone you’ll gain confidence.Join a few clubs where you can find likeminded people.
Do volunteer work to meet new people and experience new things.
Talk to people that you don’t know everywhere you go, saying hello to people you normally wouldn’t.;
, This can range from speaking at a local community meeting or grabbing drinks with your co-workers at a karaoke bar. The thrill of overcoming fear makes you more confident.


Make it a rule to say yes to any invitations you get for a month. If someone wants to go to dinner, go.
Plan to meet and talk to someone with different views than you. They might have different religious or political beliefs than you do. Use this as an opportunity to learn and find common ground.
Say yes to the next community service group that asks. You’ll gain valuable experience and skills.
 A lot of how people perceive you comes from your body language. Whether you’re going on a job interview or a date, body language can say a lot about your confidence level. Fortunately, great body language is something you can master.Initiate and maintain eye contact with people you’re speaking with so that they feel the intensity of your interest.
Stand tall and straighten out your shoulders. It may feel silly, but proper posture helps you to feel stronger and more confident.
Make a better handshake with a firm grip, an effective shake, and dry hands

, Each of us offers a tremendous amount of value to the world around us, even when it doesn’t feel like it. At times, it’s easy to feel that we could have accomplished more while forgetting all that we already have. Try to always be proud of who you are and what you have done.


Accept compliments no matter who they come from. Many of us are taught our entire lives to be humble. As such, we learn to deflect compliments from other people.
Graciously accept compliments by simply saying thank you. You’ll feel better and so will the person giving the compliment.Advocate for yourself. If you need something, whether in your relationship, at school, or at work, speak up. The people around you won’t know unless you say something.
 You should reward yourself to celebrate your accomplishments, even if they’re small. These small rewards are great reminders of what you’ve done.


If you’re trying to lose weight, mark each 10-pound loss with a pedicure.
If you want to read more, keep a list of each book you’re reading.
If you want to save money, put a sticker in your calendar every day you avoid frivolous spending.

