 It's not always easy to be grateful, especially in the midst of a bad relationship. Nonetheless, gratefulness can help you cope with the bad relationship, and it can lead to you being happier.Take time each day to figure out what you are thankful for. Try writing a few things you are grateful for each day in a journal. You can also use posts on social media for this purpose. Usually, even if the situation is bad, you can find something to be grateful about.
For instance, you may not like how you are being treated in the relationship you are in, but you may be grateful to have financial stability in your life at the moment. Alternatively, maybe you're grateful that the other person in the relationship remains a good parent to your kids.;
, Flow moments are when you lose yourself to an experience by being completely absorbed in whatever it is you're doing. If you're an artist, a writer, or even a runner, you may already understand this type of experience. It's that moment when the world falls away, and you are just experiencing or enjoying what you're doing. Studies have shown that the more flow moments you have, the happier you are in general.Choose an activity that challenges you a little bit, but that is still familiar so that you can lose yourself in it. For example, if you enjoy painting landscapes, then you might try painting a new subject such as a portrait or a basket of fruit.
 That is, if you always find yourself arguing about the same things, it may be time to put that topic aside. You need to decide that you won't discuss it because you can't agree or try to find a compromise that works for both of you.For example, if you tend to fight over politics, then you might want to make politics an off-limits topic. Or, if you often fight about what movie you are going to watch on Friday nights, then you might want to take turns choosing the movie.
 If your marriage is not what you want it to be, it may be time to find some fulfillment outside of your marriage and not in the form of an affair. Having your own hobbies and interests will help you stay independent and keep you happy and engaged with the world. In fact, developing your own interests is a good idea even if you have a great marriage.Consider exploring interests at the library, joining local hobby clubs and cooking classes, or taking a class at a nearby community college.
 Having a sense of purpose and some good social connections with other people is also a good way to feel happy.Because volunteering can give you a sense of purpose in life and it also allows you to interact with other like-minded people, it might help you to feel happier.


Try to find an organization that you would like to contribute to, such as an animal shelter or a food bank, and apply to become a volunteer. You might even ask your spouse if he or she would like to volunteer with you and it might be a good bonding activity for the two of you.
 Many studies point to relationships being key to happiness.If your main relationship is unhappy, then you may not see how you can change your situation. But your spouse doesn't have to be your main source of socializing. You can have fulfilling relationships with friends, as well as other members of your family.


Try to go out to dinner with friends one night per week or get together with a sibling or cousin for a day of shopping.
If you don't have a lot of friends, then try to meet more people who share your interests. For example, you could join a bowling league, take an art class, or find a knitting circle.

