 If you dog has been diagnosed with brain cancer, you should discuss different cancer treatments with him. He may also recommend you see a veterinary oncologist, who is a vet specialist that deals with animal cancer treatments. Discuss all the different options with him, since the treatment will vary depending on your specific dog's case.


Your vet or the vet oncologist can also offer insight into what the treatment will entail, what your dog will go through, and how much it will cost.;
, If you cannot afford treatment for your dog or your dog's prognosis is not positive at all, you may need to plan a palliative care program. Palliative care is supportive care that focuses on maintaining or improving your dog's quality of life without giving him treatment to slow the progression of the cancer or help him fight it. It is similar to hospice care in humans, where you aren't giving up on him but being realistic about his chances of survival. This can be done by giving him:


Diet and nutrition support.
Giving him medications, such as pain medications or steroids to help with symptoms.
This can also include psychological support for the dog's family., You may consider brain surgery to extend your dog's life. Brain surgery on dogs is very rare and requires a specialist veterinary neurosurgeon. The surgeon will go in and try to remove as much of the primary tumors as possible with as little damage to the other brain tissue as possible.


This method can be done on its own or in addition to other treatments., In most cases, surgery should be followed by radiation or chemotherapy. These methods are used to shrink the size of the tumor or stop the tumor from growing. The combination of these methods with surgery will likely give your dog the longest post surgery lifespan.


These treatments will be overseen by a veterinary oncologist at her clinic or at an animal hospital. However, chemotherapy may be given to your dog and monitored at your local veterinarian office.
Radiation is more common, while chemotherapy is not given as often.
Similar options may be available if your dog has tumors in other portions of the body as well., While your dog is battling cancer, you need to monitor her eating habits. She will likely have days where she will eat normally, but there will also be days when she will not eat much at all. Talk to your vet about the best food to feed her, which may be wet, canned, or dry.


Keep her food in an easy to access location, especially if your dog has trouble walking.
Softer foods are generally easier to eat than dry foods, especially since one of the symptoms is swallowing difficulties.
Also monitor how much your dog is drinking every day as well. You don't want her to dehydrate. Clean and refill her water bowl every day. If she needs to drink more, place a few more water bowls around the house to encourage her to drink., Dogs with cancer are likely to be wobbly or unsure on their feet, so your dog may need extra safety precautions. Make sure his access to stairs or steps is protected with a baby gate or blocked off in some way. Only let him go up and down stairs if you can help him.


Watch his movements carefully when he is outside. Don't let him wander unsupervised around the yard. He may wander off or injure himself.
Also watch him closely around other animals to make sure they don't roughhouse or fight.
 When a dog has brain cancer, she is more likely to have accidents. Keep a check on the fur around her bottom for fecal matter and urine. It may collect on her fur if she can't get out in time to go or if she goes while lying down. If this happens, wash the area with soap and water and dry it thoroughly. This will keep the skin from getting irritated.


If this happens often, talk to your vet about your dog's quality of life. It may be time to consider alternative options.
Use waterproof pads under her bedding if she has accident often., Dog brain cancer generally falls into two categories. Your dog may have a tumor that develops within the brain or the surrounding tissues in the area. He may also develop brain cancer from tumors that have spread from other parts of the body into the brain.Tumors that spread from other places in the body generally have a worse prognosis, because the dog has much more cancer to deal with than just that in the brain., When your dog is in the early stages of brain cancer, it can be difficult to recognize the symptoms because they are very similar to those of aging or of minor infections. They can also be vague, non-specific, and can vary from case to case. This can make it hard for most owners to realize that their dog has a medical problem. To compound the problem the symptoms are typically vague and non-specific. Some of the symptoms your dog may have include:Atypical or strange behavior
A change in appetite
Depression
Weight loss
Inappropriate urination
Weakness
Head tilt
Vomiting
Problems swallowing
Loss of balance or drunken gait
Seizures
Loss of vision
Voice change

, Once the brain cancer has progressed, your dog may experience different symptoms. These can depend on the part of the brain that is being attacked by the cancer. The later stage symptoms include:Confusion or acting confused
Hiding
Walking or pacing in circles
Pressing her head into walls or other surfaces
Difficulty or inability to stand
Paralysis
Coma

, If you notice any of the symptoms in your dog, take him to your veterinarian. She will diagnose his conditions from your description of the symptoms, the behavior she sees, a physical examination, and additional testing.


If your vet suspects brain cancer, she may do a spinal tap to test spinal fluid. She will likely refer you to a nearby specialty clinic or university that has a CT or MRI machine that can be used on dogs. These tests are needed because brain cancer does not show up on normal X-ray images.
If any of these tests make your doctor think it is cancer, she will perform a biopsy on the tumor to be 100% sure of the cancer diagnosis.
Your vet should be cautious for any mental changes in your dog if he is over five. Any significant neurological changes in this age group can be because of brain cancer.
Your vet may perform chest or abdomen X-rays to see if the cancer has spread from or to another location.
She may also run blood and urine tests to help rule out any additional possibilities that may causes his symptoms. 