 For more sensitive fish, such as shrimp and sea stars, you may have to use the drip method. With the drip method, you set up a series of tubes running from the main tank to a bucket of water. You will need the following to use the drip method:You will need 3 or 5 gallon buckets, designed for aquarium use.
You will also need airline tubing.
 Fill the buckets a little under halfway full with clean aquarium water. You will need to start off by floating the fish to acclimate it to the water in the buckets.Let the sealed bag float for 15 minutes. Then, open the bag and roll the sides down to create an air tube that will keep the bag floating.
Add half a cup of the water from the bucket to the bag. Wait 15 minutes. Add another half cup. Keep going until the bucket is full.
 Gently lift up the bag. Pour the contents of the bag, including your fish, into the water.You may have to tilt the bag at a 45 degree angle when pouring. This will keep your fish fully submerged in water as you transfer it to the bucket.
 Place one end of the airline tube in the aquarium. You should also tie several very loose knots in the tubing. This will help regulate the flow of water and air. You want to get a rate of 2 or 4 drips per second.You can get water to start flowing by sucking gently on the other end of the tube.
Once water begins dripping, place the other end of the tube on the edge of the bucket.
 It may take awhile for the water in the bucket to double, so be patient. In general, it takes about an hour. As soon as the water doubles, carefully discard half the water. You may have to scoop out the water using a cup or smaller bucket to avoid dumping your fish.When you're done discarding the water, put your tubing back in place. Once again, suck on the end of the tube you're placing in the bucket to get a drip going.
Wait for the water in the bucket to double again.
 Use a bag to gently scoop out your fish. Gently pour the contents of the bag into the main aquarium.Some species of fish should never be exposed to air. Sponges, clams, and gorgonias cannot handle air. Be extra careful when transferring these types of fish.

