 Boredom and depression can lead a person to eating things that will lead to weight gain. If you are bored, try reading a book, playing a sport, or talking to friends. Try to avoid your kitchen if you are home all day. Make sure there is no food in sight or you will get cravings. Study, if possible.;
, Ask someone like a parent to stop you from over-eating.
 It curbs hunger, makes you feel better and makes your skin glow! If you are craving flavour, drink a low calorie, natural fruit juice.
 Eat foods that are low in calories and carbohydrates. Although carbohydrates can help you think better and they fuel the nervous system and power fat metabolism. Carbohydrates also increase the blood sugar and may cause weight gain.Avoid saturated and trans fat (which leads to weight gain). Eat foods that have vitamins and minerals in them. Protein, fiber, and iron are all good for you. If you can't read an ingredient or if you've never heard of it, most likely it is not good for you. Do not go under 1200 calories a day for an extended period.
 If you have a pig-out and want to burn off the calories you just consumed, go for a brisk walk or any other physical activity. Also, eat a nutritious meal after a pig-out. Alternatively, if you are tempted to binge, try eating something nutritious beforehand. By the time you finish this initial food, you may change your mind.
 Do not think that skipping breakfast will make you lose weight! In fact, eating breakfast kick-starts your metabolism, which leads to more weight loss. Breakfast will also help you to concentrate and eat less throughout the day.
,, Too much isn't good for you but a little once in a while is okay.
 It's only okay once in a while, but if you keep buying junk food, learn to overcome it

, Do not over stuff yourself. If you are given a ton of food on your plate, don't feel obligated to eat it all.
 Stress will cause pig-outs.
 If you're reaching for a handful of chips, force yourself to stop, and go grab an apple instead. (Note: this can be easier said than done.)

, Avoid eating chocolate and crisps first thing in the morning. This can make you lose your concentration and you won't be able to concentrate at school. And you may get headaches.
 If the answer is the second one, you know what to do.
 If the answer isn't "It's time for lunch/dinner/breakfast and I'm hungry," PUT IT BACK.
 These are tough to deal with and hurt a lot, so if you can't just ignore it, keep a single Hershey bar (or other candy bar) in your locker a week. Eat a single square when you get a headache and it'll help. Make sure it doesn't melt, or you'll end up tricking yourself into eating more than one "square" (melted lump). Remember to change it out about once a week, or it'll get moldy and make you sick. Even if there's some left.
 Or, make them yourself by whipping together some ingredients. Salads are healthy and with the proper dressings and toppings of your choice and they taste great as well. Use Toppings that are low-fat and avoid toppings such as grated cheese, bacon, and diced eggs since they are high in unhealthy fats and cholesterol.

