 Older brothers are going to get pretty defensive about their rooms. If your brother has his own room, just keep going into it without being asked. Ask him a million questions and start messing with his stuff.


Wait until he starts getting up to tell your parents, then leave really quickly and go back to your room. If they ask you about it, say, "He's making it up."
Do something weird in his room while he's out, like pull out all his clothes and put them in a pile, or take sticky notes and label everything. Put one on the window that says, "Window." Put one on the computer that says, "Computer." Find his change jar and label it "143 cents." He'll be so confused.
Play innocent. If he tries to beat you up, or chases you out, tell your parents you just tried to ask him a question and he started hitting you.
 Wait until your brother is busy doing something, like playing a complicated game, talking to a girl, or doing his homework. Then, it's time to strike. Make stupid noises with your mouth, or with your armpit, or with your toys. Make a big racket.


Make sure your parents are in another room, so you can stop in enough time before you get into trouble.
 Hide his phone, keys, books for homework, or anything specific that he thinks is really important. Make it really hard to find, putting it in a box in the attic, or somewhere strange out in the garage.


Be careful not to leave incriminating evidence in your room, if you are to do this. Be smart, don't hide stuff under your pillow. If its found, you can always play ignorant and no one will be able to prove it was you.
You can also come clean when your brother is looking. Say, "Oh, you need your phone? I know where it is. Give me a ride to the comic book store and I'll tell you."

, Find the Internet router in your house, if you have one, and find the "reset" button. When your brother's busy talking to chicks on the Internet, keep hitting the reset so he'll get really annoyed.


If you don't know where the router is, ask your parents to show you, because you're curious. Don't let on that you want to mess with it. Just say, "How does the Internet work? Can you show me?" They'll be impressed.
 Older brothers and privacy are made to be separated. If your brother really values his privacy on his computer, phone, and in his room, start trying to invade it as much as possible. Mess with him in little ways that'll drive him nuts.


Try to swipe his phone. Delete contacts on his phone, or change the names of people. Find his best friend and change it to "Stupid McButtsniffer."
Try to log into his Facebook and make embarrassing posts, or change his pictures, or comment on other people's stuff with dumb comments.
 If your brother went out really late the night before, wake him up by blasting some loud rock music, like Linkin Park or AC/DC, or starting a battle scene from Lord of the Rings really loud. Do it in his room at 6.00 AM on a Saturday. Instant annoyance.


If he has an alarm, reset it for like two hours earlier than he would normally wake up. Nobody should have to wake up at 4 am. Except your older brother.
 It might not always seem like it, but you're lucky to have a brother, and you'll probably get along a lot better when you're older. Annoying your brother, however annoying he may be to you, can be pretty immature and get you both into trouble. Try to get a long as much as you can.


Instead of annoying an older brother, try to learn as much as you can from him. Older siblings usually know a lot more about their younger siblings. Instead of annoying him, try to understand why he does what he does.

