 Get together a fairly large number of people and form a circle, with each person facing outward and standing about 5 feet (1.5 m) apart while jogging in place. The youngest person becomes the picker, jogs around the circle clockwise and taps or points at each person, saying either duck or goose. If the person is called a duck, he or she must do a squat or a push-up. If the person is called a goose, he or she must chase after the picker, running counter-clockwise. When they meet, they try to block each other, therefore slowing the other down, and gaining an advantage in racing back to the empty goose spot.If the picker gets back first, the goose becomes the picker; if the goose gets back first, the picker goes again.
The degree of physical contact in blocking, such as wrestling and tackling, is up to the group.
Here’s a twist: While the picker and goose are running and blocking, any player in the circle can get up and move to the goose’s empty spot, repeatedly, thus prolonging the round.
 This variation of the game would not only be fun, but it also would be a great way both to get some great exercise and to work on your swimming technique. Find a few fellow swimming buddies and meet at the pool. Get in and form a circle facing outward, with each person treading water. Choose a picker and a swimming stroke – freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke or butterfly. The picker then starts swimming around the circle using the chosen stroke and taps each person, saying either “fish” or “shark.” The person who is called shark then swims after the picker using the same stroke.


If the picker gets back to the shark’s spot first, the shark becomes the picker.
If the shark tags the picker, the picker has to go the middle of the circle and either do somersaults in the water or tread water holding a dive brick until another person is tagged.
 This version of duck, duck, goose would be fun for all kinds of gatherings and parties. Gather an even, not odd, number of at least 8-10 people, keeping two people out. The rest will form a circle facing inward and hold hands. The people outside of the circle are the pickers and will also hold hands. They will walk around the circle and, with their linked hands, touch the linked hands of any two people, saying either “duck” or “goose.” The two people called goose must then run in the opposite direction, continuing to hold hands, and try to beat the other couple back to the geese spots.


If the pickers get back first, the geese become the pickers.
If the geese arrive first, the pickers go to the middle of the circle and put on a performance. They must either sing a song or do a dance together and then wait in the circle until another pair of geese is tagged.
If you have a karaoke machine, you could bring that along and have the geese sing a song to that.
You could also have them sing and do the dance motions of classic children’s songs, such as “I’m a Little Teapot,” “Row, Row, Row Your Boat,” or “If You’re Happy and You Know It, Clap Your Hands.”
Other possibilities include doing the Macarena, the "Gangnam Style" dance, twerking, a line dance, the twist, the mashed potato, the waltz, the tango and so forth.

