 On Friday afternoon, you want to get out of the office or school, and you might leave some loose ends undone. However, if you take some time on Friday to tie up what needs done for the week, you won't have it hanging over your head come Monday morning. Don't leave what you hate for Monday. Similarly, take a look at your schedule so you know what's ahead for the week.For instance, if you need to see financial aid about a problem, go ahead and get it done on Friday. Don't wait until Monday.
Similarly, if you have meet with a client you don't particularly like dealing with, go ahead and see him or her on Friday rather than leaving it to the next week.
As a parent, maybe you want to schedule a fun outing on Monday and finish up some of the housework on Fridays to be ready for the weekend.
 Don't just look at what you need to do that you hate. Look at what you enjoy doing, and focus on that. For instance, maybe you hate cold-calling people. Try to put that out of your mind, and focus on the fact that you get to design a new header this week, if that's something you love doing.Maybe you have a class that you just don't like. Focus instead on the classes you love, or try to find something you like in the class.
 Your problem with work may not be one that can be solved with any outside intervention. It may just take a change of heart on your end. If you look on your work as solely a chore to be pushed through, then you will continue to dread Mondays. You have to think of work as just another part of your life that has both its ups and downs like any other part.Of course you love staying home with your kid because you love your kid. However, maybe you're finding you just don't like it, and you're still stuck in that situation for awhile. Focus on the good parts of staying at home to help change your attitude towards, such as getting to spend time with a great kid.
 Whether it's a simple dinner with your family or a post-work drink, always have a little reward at the end of the day on Mondays.