 A great way to get motivated and stick to a workout routine is to involve other people. If you and a friend both want to get into shape, you can exercise together and motivate each other to stick with it. Some days you won’t be feeling up to it, and some days your workout partner won’t be. Having this support and added motivation can really make a difference.Exercising with other people can also make it just more fun.
Try to figure out a schedule that you can both stick to.
Working out with a partner gives you added support and a feeling of camaraderie.
Not wanting to let down your friend can also be an added source of motivation.
You might also benefit from a little friendly rivalry and competition., If you find doing individual exercise like running or swimming a little monotonous or boring, consider participating in some team sports. Here you will get the benefits of added fun and motivation from exercising with others, while also playing a sport that has more variation than just running or swimming backwards and forwards.


Playing team sports is also a social activity, and associating exercise with seeing friends and having fun makes it easier to motivate yourself to stick with it.
 Another way to make exercise a little more social and a little less daunting is to make the effort to befriend the regulars you see at your gym or fitness classes. If you do a regular spin or yoga class, you will find it easier to motivate yourself to keep going if there is a good atmosphere in the group.


If you are in a group where nobody talks to each other, think about trying out a different class, or even try being the one to start chatting and bringing people together.
Try a few out and see if there is one where people are chatting at the start and the instructor knows everyone’s name., If team sports aren’t your thing, you can still make solo activities, such as running and cycling, into a group activity. Look around for a local running, cycling or swimming club near you. You may be able to join up with a running club that goes for a fairly casual run once a week. By doing this you can avoid the overt competition of team sports, but still get some exercise and make some new friends.
 You can get some the benefits of sharing your experiences with others by joining an online fitness community that is closely related to your own circumstances. If you are trying to exercise to lose weight, you will find loads of forums and websites where people share their stories and progress. Alternatively, if you are training for a specific event, such as a triathlon or marathon, you will find supportive online networks of people doing the same thing.


Participating in an online community is a good way to connect with others and get support if you don’t know anyone in the same situation as you.
You can find a huge variety of online groups, so look around and find a friendly and welcoming forum.
Online groups can set each other goals and report on progress and difficulties just as any face-to-face group would.