 If it's become normal in your family to lash out by raising your voice, it's time that you work on changing that behavior for your entire family. Verbal and physical abuse can come in many forms and includes yelling, screaming, berating, hitting, slapping, or trying to humiliate someone.Instead of letting the argument escalate to that level, talk in a calm voice and get your opinions and views out without yelling or screaming.


Instead of getting personal just say something like "I really didn't like that you went into my room and read my diary. Those are my personal thoughts and I want to keep them to myself."
Older family members should set the example. The more that you yell and scream in your house, the more likely that children will emulate the behavior.If you are a younger person in the family whose elders yell and scream, it doesn't mean that it's the right thing to do. Remain calm and talk to your family members.
Saying things like "calm down" or "it's not a big deal" may make someone angrier. Try to see their point of view and the reasons they are mad instead of dismissing their feelings.;
, If you get angry often, it's important that you start to understand your anger and work towards reducing it when you're in conflict. Being angry consistently can take a physical and mental toll. Over an extended period it could lead to insomnia, high blood pressure, digestion problems, and depression.Be honest with yourself and think about why you are angry, then come up with potential solutions and compromises instead of losing your cool.


For example, if your parents asked you to raise your grades and you get angry, think about why you are angry. Are you angry that your parents are asking you to do something, or are you angry because you're having a difficult time in school and may need help? In the end they are looking out for your best interests.
Let negative feelings of entitlement go. Don't think things like "It's not fair" or dwell on not getting your way. It will make you angrier over time.Do not hold back your feelings or emotions to try to come off friendly or polite. If something bothers you, speak up, or else you may repress your anger, and it could come up at a later time., Engaging in physical activity releases endorphins in your brain that make you happier.If you find yourself getting mad frequently, it may be because of a lack of physical activity. Join a local sports team or club, or take up a hobby that involves exercise.


If you are child or teen, then join a sports team at your school or an intramural sport at the local community center.
If you are older, some hobbies to pick up include hiking, mountain climbing, biking, or going on a jog.
Being heavily involved in a hobby or sport will also get you away from your family more often, which may allow you to appreciate them.
 Sometimes known as the "Golden Rule," treating others as you would want to be treated is a common expression in many religions and cultures.Think back to times where people have been mean, dismissive, or have tried to humiliate you in the past and work to re-live the emotions that you felt during that period. This should help you relate to your family members and how they feel when you are mean to them.


Think about a time when someone at school made fun of you in front of a crowd. Chances are you felt humiliated, embarrassed, and depressed. Realize that this is how your family members feel when you yell or scream in public, at them.
Treating others poorly encourages people to treat you in a similar way.
 If you have negative thoughts about people in your family, and you build resentment towards them, it's hard to break away from the mindset and consider all of the positive things that they do. Think of times in the past that they sacrificed to make you happier or times where you all enjoyed each other's company instead of concentrating on the negative moments.


If you're a teenager, think about what your parents provide for you like food, clothing, shelter, love, and education opportunities. If you are a parent, think about the joy that you felt when you first had them and try to be more understanding.
Another method you could use is to imagine how you would feel if you lost that family member that you have negative feelings for. This may make you appreciate them more.