 Try your regalia on to make sure the items fit properly and are in good shape. Look the material over for any snags or imperfections. If you find any obvious flaws, find out who you must speak to for a replacement. These items cost money and you should receive yours in good condition.


There is a proper way to wear a cap and gown. Your school will have rules about how they want you to present yourself in your regalia. Find these details out as soon as possible.Confirm what side the cap tassel should be on before and after you receive your diploma., Your graduation day will probably be very busy and a little nerve-wracking. Keep your stress levels low by allowing yourself plenty of time to prepare and dress for the ceremony. Set aside a block of time to get ready and use that time wisely. Take an early shower. Comb your hair neatly and take care of basic grooming tasks such as clipping your nails.


If you wear makeup, keep it simple.
Remember that you’ll be taking lots of photographs, so take care of whatever grooming tasks make you look and feel your very best.
 Graduation is a fun and exciting event, but it’s also a formal one. Most schools set expectations for clothing worn under your cap and gown. Find out if there are any dress code requirements and follow them. The most common suggestions are that graduates wear dark shoes and business formal attire like dark-colored slacks/dresses. Males are often encouraged to wear dress shirts with ties and dark slacks.Choose garments that you can move naturally in.
Make sure you feel comfortable. You don’t want to be worrying about adjusting your clothing during the ceremony.
 When your name is called, you’ll need to walk up to receive your diploma. All eyes will be on you! The last thing you want to worry about at this moment is your shoes. Make sure you choose shoes that are comfortable to wear and won’t hinder your ability to walk naturally.


If you buy brand new shoes, you may want to put them on beforehand and practice walking in them.
Find out if there are any requirements for footwear and be sure to follow any rules that are given.

