 If you really don't know where to start a conversation with someone you care about, it can help to have a talk with a health professional. They can provide you with tips and the information you need to have a more productive conversation. Plus, you have someone you can direct the guy to if he asks.Also, keep in mind that you may not be the best person to have this discussion with the person. Consider whether they might feel more comfortable talking with a relative, spouse, close friend, or someone else they trust.;
, When you bring up the issue of an eating disorder, you want to be somewhere that the man feels safe. That could be at home, for instance, where the guy will feel more comfortable having a difficult conversation. A public conversation will likely make him more nervous., Because of the stigma surrounding men and eating disorders, many men don't even realize they are exhibiting symptoms of an eating disorder. If you can, you should help them to connect the dots, by pointing out symptoms you may have noticed and mentioning that men do in fact get eating disorders.For instance, you could start by saying, "I want you to know first and foremost that I say this out of concern for you. I care about you deeply."
Move on to discussing the issue. You could say, "I've noticed that you seem to be anxious about food and eating. You also seem to be dissatisfied with your body most of the time. In addition, you tend to get upset if you miss going to the gym. I'm starting to get worried because I think you may have an eating disorder. Before you look at me all crazy, let me point out that many men do in fact get eating disorders, but they have a harder time recognizing it because it's seen as something women get. I want you to know that you should feel safe talking to me about this."
Be aware that eating disorders may accompany a mental health issue or symptom, such as depression, anxiety, panic attacks, irritability, social isolation, and a loss of interest in sex. You might consider mentioning this to them as well.
 After you've had your say, let the person have a chance to express his emotions. He may deny it or be angry about it, but he needs time to talk about how he feels about the situation. It's important to listen and be open to what he has to say.Use active listening skills to make him feel heard, such as by making eye contact, facing him, putting away your phone and/or turning off the TV, nodding, and asking questions now and then to have him expand or clarify what he means.
Remember, his anger is not about you. It's about what you're bringing up. If he seems resistant at first, you may need to wait a little while to broach the topic again. That way, he has time to think about it in between., Eating disorders are often perceived as something only women have. Because of this issue, men often do not want to seek treatment for an eating disorder, as they may feel like there is a stigma associated with it. Eating disorders can pose serious health risks, but men who seek help often make a full recovery.While a psychologist or psychiatrist would likely be the best choice for help, encourage the man to seek help wherever he feels most comfortable (as long as the person is a professional). For instance, if he's more comfortable starting with his primary doctor, then by all means, encourage him to start there. The person he asks for help from can assist him in finding other health professionals.
You may even offer to set up the first appointment for him. You can’t do the work for him, but helping him to get an appointment is a great way to help him get started, which may be hard for him.
 Treatment for an eating disorder can take a significant amount of time, and he'll need your support. Treatment will likely involve a combination of healthcare professionals, including a primary doctor, a nutritionist, a counselor, and/or a support group. Also, some men may need in-hospital treatment, especially if the disorder has started to take a toll on their bodies.Make sure that you ask him how you can support him. Don’t just assume that certain things would be helpful. Try saying something like, “I really want to support you in any way that I can. What do you think would be helpful to you?”

