 You can use pure garlic oil as a treatment for hair loss. Massage the garlic oil into your scalp before you shampoo your hair. To make it easier and more comfortable on your scalp, pre-warm the garlic oil before you use it. Repeat this two to three times a week until hair re-growth begins or shedding stops. Once it starts working, repeat the treatment twice a month. Puritan’s Pride, Boyajian, and the Eclectic Institute sell pure garlic oil.


You can also buy garlic infused hair products. Try hair oils such as Dabur Vatika Garlic-enriched Hair Oil and garlic hair masks such as Alter Ego Garlic Mask.
You can also just add pure garlic to a mild shampoo you use. Chop two to three cloves of garlic and drop them into a very mild shampoo. Use this shampoo two to three times a week.While there is no direct evidence that eating garlic or taking it as a supplement can help with hair loss, it is reasonable to think that it may. Add garlic to as many foods as you want or take garlic as a supplement to help with hair loss.
There have been some studies that looked at combining a garlic gel with steroid treatment of extreme hair loss and found that the garlic significantly improved hair growth., Hair is primarily protein and strong, healthy hair comes from the inside despite what makers of shampoos and conditioners try to tell you. Make sure you are getting enough high quality protein in order to grow more hair. You should try for a variety of sources of complete proteins, which contain all the essential amino acids, the building blocks of protein.


Eat more eggs, dairy products, quinoa, buckwheat, hempseed, chia seeds, soybeans, tofu, tempeh, natto, rice, and beans., You need to eat a diet high in B-complex vitamins. These are needed for healthy hair follicles and healthy hair growth.These foods include spinach, parsley, mustard greens, romaine lettuce, turnip greens, beet greens, broccoli, beets, turnips, bell peppers, legumes, lentils, calf and beef liver, and fortified grains., The only mineral that has been proven to be connected to hair loss is iron.While low zinc and low selenium have been implicated in hair loss, it is still not known if zinc or selenium deficiencies play a primary or secondary role in hair loss.You can take iron, zinc, and selenium in supplements as well as increasing foods rich in these minerals in your diet.


Eat more foods with iron, such as eggs, lean, grass fed red meat, dark leafy green vegetables, beans, lentils, and liver. You can also get more zinc with seafood, shellfish, spinach, pumpkin, squash, sunflower seeds, and nuts.Omega-3 fatty acids used on the scalp have been shown to increase the numbers of hair strands.Increasing the amounts of omega-3 fatty acids in your diet may be useful for hair loss. Omega-3 fatty acids are found in salmon, mackerel, eggs, flaxseed oil, soybeans, chia seeds, walnuts, herring, sardines, and bass.
If you decide you want to take mineral supplements, don’t over do it and follow manufacturer’s instructions. You can have too many minerals.

