 If you’re building a computer to use in the home office for word processing and emails, you’ll have much different requirements than if you’re building a computer for high-end gaming or even workstation purposes. The role of your computer will heavily dictate the components that you will need. Regardless of the final function of your computer, every computer needs the same basic components.


Keep your budget in mind, too. If your computer will be mostly for office work, internet surfing, or checking e-mails, you could probably get away with a budget of $400. If your computer will be a basic gaming build capable of playing most games with an acceptable framerate at decent settings and 720p-1080p then a budget of around $600-700, (or more depending on if you want a bit more extra power) should be fine. If you want a gaming build that can max out new triple-A titles then you should have a budget of $800 and above, and if you want to build a very-high-end 1080p/4K video-editing machine, you may have to spend more than $4,000. Remember to assign money in the budget for the OS, monitor, mouse, headphones, microphone, webcam, speakers, and any other needed peripherals if you do not have them.;
, This is the "brain" of your computer. Almost all processors are multi-core, meaning they are essentially multiple processors in one. Compare specs and find a processor that is up to date, not one that may sound right but could be an old model. They change, becoming out of date and unsupported by the manufacturers and software makers. Always try to get a processor from the current generation, as they typically are faster and more efficient than their previous generation counterpart. Choose one with the speed that you will need to run the programs you want. Also take into account power usage and the type of and ease of cooling. Inadequate cooling is a killer for the processor.


Intel has two types of CPUs: K and non-K. You need a K-type CPU if you are going to overclock your computer. Most AMD CPUs are already overclockable or easily unlockable so you can overclock them. Avoid the Intel Celeron and Pentium series as most of those CPUs are slow, but they have been improving with clock speeds over 3 GHz. If you are building a mid-end or higher level computer, use an Intel Core i3/i5/i7 or AMD Ryzen CPU with high core count. You can use a Pentium for maxing out Triple A titles when combined with a good graphics card, but you may be better off with a better CPU.
 If the processor is the brain, then the motherboard is the torso. The motherboard is what connects all of the internal components of your computer. The processor you purchase will determine the type of motherboard you will need. Different processors have different “socket” sizes, and only work with motherboards that support that socket. Your choice here will depend on what processor you have, how much memory you want, the size of your case, and how many drives you want to connect to it.


Motherboards come in many form factors, but the most common are ATX and Micro ATX. ATX is the standard full-size motherboard. If you are building a typical tower computer, look for ATX motherboards. µATX boards are smaller than the standard ATX board, and are better if you want a smaller case and have no need for more than four expansion slots.
Make sure that your motherboard supports all of the other components that you wish to install. If you are planning on installing a high-end graphics card, the motherboard will need to support the PCI Express interface. If you want to install lots of RAM, your motherboard will need to be able to hold at least 4 sticks.
Sometimes you can get the processor and the motherboard as a combo package, which could end up saving you a bit of money. Just make sure you're not settling for a model of processor or motherboard that you don't want just to save a few bucks.
Always do at least a little bit of research on the exact specs of your motherboard on the manufacturer's website. If you are unsure if your CPU and motherboard socket sizes match just check what socket the specs say, if your CPU and motherboard both say LGA 1150 then it will match. There are many different socket sizes that exist but in reality you won't need to worry since only a few of those are not outdated.
 RAM (Random Access Memory) is where programs store information that they are using. If you don’t have enough RAM, your programs will run much slower than they should. The RAM you can purchase is dictated by the motherboard that you choose. The speed of the RAM that you install must be supported by the motherboard.You can check the manufacturer's websites for both components to check.


RAM should always be installed in matching pairs of sticks (if you're buying more than one stick). All the RAM in the system should be the same speed, and preferably the same make and model. For example, if you want 8 GB of RAM, you can install two matching 4 GB sticks or four matching 2 GB sticks.
If you intend to use more than 4 GB of RAM, you will need to install a 64-bit operating system. 32-bit operating systems do not recognize more than 4 GB of RAM, even if more is installed. 2 matching sticks will offer the best performance due to a feature called "Dual-Channel".
 Your hard drive stores your operating system, installed programs, and all of your data. Make sure you choose a good manufacturer when choosing your hard drive because nothing is worse than a dead hard drive.


Hard drives come in many speeds, the most common being 5400, 7200, or 10000 RPM. The regular speed you should choose is 7200 RPM. There are also solid state drives, which don't have any moving parts, and allow for faster speeds. The cons are that they're quite expensive and have limited storage space compared to similarly-priced traditional drives. Solid state drives are best used for your operating system and essential programs. Put your games, music and movies on a separate HDD. That way you'll have a PC that can boot quickly, run quickly and have a lot of space. Solid state drives come in several different form factors, like the standard 2.5" size, M.2, and as an add-in card that directly attaches to a PCI Express slot on your motherboard.
 A dedicated graphics card is essential for playing the latest games, but not a major issue for a computer for daily tasks. Nearly all Intel CPUs have integrated graphics, so you don’t need a dedicated card if you’re planning to use the computer for office work, web browsing email, and a little bit of online gaming. If you watch or edit a lot of HD video or play a lot of games, you'll want a dedicated video card. If you are building a PC for gaming or workstation purposes, then a graphic processor unit card (GPU), or an external graphic card (meaning one not built into the motherboard) is extremely important and its selection depends on your budget and your requirements. The GPU with more CUDA parallel computing cores are at higher costs.


Make sure you choose a GPU from an up-to-date line, so that you can play games at full speed. GPUs are important, because it connects to your monitor. AMD has a Radeon line, which range from budget to midrange GPUs that can run things fast enough (but not the best). If you want to choose an AMD Radeon graphics card, choose a Radeon RX 400 or 500 Series. Nvidia has a GeForce GTX line, with cards like the GTX 1080 Ti and Titan Xp that are currently the fastest consumer-grade graphics cards in the world with high-end features like GDDR5X VRAM and more than 3,000 parallel computing cores, but they're very expensive, costing $500-$1,500. Nvidia also has a Quadro line for workstation, 4K movie editing, gas and mining exploration, bitcoin mining, and space exploration. Quadros usually cost more than $1,000 and are not recommended for gaming.
You can use 2 graphics cards at a time, provided that they have the same GPU and amount of VRAM. For Nvidia graphics cards, you will need to use a special connector called an "SLI bridge" to connect the cards together.
 The case is what holds your computer components. A few cases come with a power supply included, but if you are making a gaming build then getting a separate power supply is recommended, as the power supplies that come with cases are often not very high quality. The size of the case will be based on how many drives bays and card slots it has, as well as the size/type of your motherboard which also can support more or fewer drives and cards. Cases range from cheap and functional to flashy, bought for their appearance and expensive. Select one that allows for optimal airflow, and install extra fans if necessary. If you intend to run a lot of high-end components, you will be dealing with a lot more heat output than slower components.
 The power supply powers all of your components in your computer. Some cases come with a power supply already installed, but others require you to provide your own. The power supply should be powerful enough to charge all of your components; don't worry about it being so powerful that you waste electricity by powering more than you need, as it will only output as much watts as you use and the number on its wattage is only its max capacity. Don't skimp on this part, as picking a faulty power supply can damage all of your parts.


Choose a power supply from a reputable manufacturer like EVGA.
If your build will be for gaming you will need a power supply with 500W or more power depending on your hardware. Most power supplies usually supply 400W or more power. If your graphics card has 1 or more power sockets, you should make sure that your power supply has the same amount of power connectors for it. They are usually 6-pin or 8-pin.
 Read magazines and online consumer review sites for more information. Online forums like AnandTech are also very helpful when specific information is needed. Remember, this is one of the most important steps, because everything will depend on your hardware. There are many guides and reviews available from online magazines and consumer review websites.


Don't pick solely based on reviews but good reviews usually mean that there is nothing wrong with the part.
Remember, this is one of the most important steps, because everything will depend on your hardware so do not rush this part as it is not only important but also very fun. Also never be afraid to change things in your parts list, it is an important part of making a good parts list that will work for you.
 Once you know what to buy, you need to decide where to buy it from. Here's what to consider:


Knowing the credibility of a retailer. Choose a trusted and popular retailer so you don't get scammed.
Knowing where they ship to. Make sure your selected retailer ships to your country.
Knowing the price of the component and shipping fees. Make sure you choose the retailer (who is credible) with the best prices on your components. Remember that international and national shipping rates are often very different in pricing and also vary from each retailer to the next.
Buying from more than one retailer. You can buy from multiple retailers to get the best prices for each components but keep in mind you may end up paying more in shipping if some of your components are shipped separately from the rest.
 You might want to wear anti-static gloves or some sort of hand protection, as the inside of the case does not have ground down metal and could be very sharp in some cases.
 Some cases come with the power supply already installed, while others will require you to purchase the power supply separately and install it yourself. Make sure that the power supply is installed in the correct orientation, and that nothing is blocking the power supply's fan.


Make sure that your power supply is powerful enough to handle all of your components. This is especially important in high-end gaming computers, as dedicated graphics cards can draw a significant amount of power.
 Use an antistatic wrist-strap cable to prevent Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) which can be deadly to computer electronics. If you can't get an antistatic wrist-strap cable, plug your grounded power supply unit to an outlet (but don't turn it on), and keep your hand on the grounded unit whenever you touch any ESD-sensitive items.
 Place it on top of its box. DO NOT place it on top of the anti-static bag as the outside is conductive. You will be adding components to the motherboard before installing it in the case, as it is easier to access the motherboard before installing it.
 Observe the missing pins in the processor and match these with the socket on the motherboard. On many processors there will be a little gold arrow in the corner that you can use to orient the processor properly.
 Open the CPU socket and carefully insert the processor (no force needed). If it doesn't slip right in, or it feels like you have to push, it is probably misaligned. Close the socket and ensure the CPU is secure. Some sockets have small arms while others have complex assemblies to open and close the socket., Put only a dot (size of a grain of rice) of thermal paste on the CPU. Adding too much thermal paste will create a mess, such as getting paste into the motherboard socket, which may short circuit components, and decrease the motherboard's value if you plan to sell it later.


Some processors that come with heatsinks do not need thermal paste because the heatsink already has thermal paste applied by the factory. Check the bottom of the heatsink unit before applying paste to the processor., This varies from heat sink to heat sink, so read the instructions. Most stock coolers attach directly over the processor and clip into the motherboard. Aftermarket heatsinks may have brackets that need to be attached underneath the motherboard. Refer to your heat sink’s documentation for exact instructions.
 Place the RAM in the proper slots by opening the latches and pushing the RAM in until the little handles can lock it into position. Note how the RAM and slots are keyed--line them up so they will fit in properly. When pushing, press both sides of the RAM module with equal force. If RAM sockets have two colors, this may indicate the priority slots in case if you are not using all available slots.


Make sure that you install the RAM in the appropriate matching slots. Check your motherboard’s documentation to ensure that you are installing the RAM in the correct location.
 Many modern cases do not have a preinstalled backplate, but your motherboard should come with its own backplate. Some older cases have pre-installed I/O back plates, but it is unlikely that the case will have an appropriate backplate for your motherboard.


Removing the existing backplate may take a bit of force. Sometimes they have screws to hold them in place, but most are held in only by friction. Pop it out by pressing on the bracket from the rear side of the case.
 Push the new backplate into place in the back of the case. Make sure to install it the correct direction., Almost all cases come with a little baggie that has standoffs in it if not some come pre-installed with ATX (Or smaller if your case doesn't support ATX" standoffs. Standoffs raise the motherboard off of the case, and allow screws to be inserted into them.


Your case most likely has more holes available than your motherboard supports. The number of spacers required will be determined by the number of shielded holes in the motherboard. Position the motherboard to discover where to screw in the standoffs.
 Once the standoffs are installed, place the motherboard in the case and push it up against the I/O backplate. All of the back ports should fit into the holes in the I/O backplate. Use the screws provided to secure the motherboard to the standoffs through the shielded screw holes on the motherboard.
 These tend to be located together on the motherboard near the front of the case. The order in which these are connected will depend on which is easiest. Make sure that you connect the USB ports, the Power and Reset switches, the LED power and hard drive lights, and the audio cable (HDAudio or AC97). Your motherboard’s documentation will show you where on your motherboard these connectors attach.


There is typically only one way that these connectors can attach to the motherboard. Don’t try to force anything to fit.
 Almost all modern graphics cards use PCI-E. Some will require you to remove two of the protective plates as opposed to just one. You may have to punch the plates out of the case.
 You may have to bend a tab on the slot to allow the graphics card to be inserted. The tab will help lock the graphics card in place (this is more important for bulkier, high-end cards). Apply light, even force until the card is seated uniformly, and the back panel lines up.
 Once you have inserted the card, use a screw to secure it to the back panel of the case. If you don’t secure your card, you could end up damaging it in the long run.
 If you have any other PCI cards that you are going to add, such as a dedicated sound card, the installation process is the same as the video card process.
 Most cases have panels in the front that protect the drive bays. Remove the panels for the locations that you want to install you optical drives. You do not need to remove any panels for hard drives.
 Almost all cases have cages built in that allow the drive to rest and fit snugly. Once the drive is lined up with the front panel of the computer, secure it with screws on each side of the drive.
 Slide the hard drive into the appropriate 3.5” bay in the inside of the case. Some cases have removable brackets that you can install on the hard drive first before sliding it in. Once the drive has been inserted into the cage, secure it on both sides with screws.
 All modern drives use SATA cables to connect the drive to the motherboard. Connect the cable to the SATA port on the drive, and then connect the other end to a SATA port on the motherboard. Hard drives use the same cables as optical drives.For easier troubleshooting, connect your hard drive to the first SATA port on the motherboard, and then connect your other drives to subsequent SATA ports. Avoid plugging your drives into random SATA ports.
SATA cables have the same connector on both sides. You can install the cable in either direction.
 Most modern motherboards have a 24-pin connector and a 4- or 8-pin connector. Both of these need to be connected for your motherboard to function. Power supply cables only fit into the slots that they are designed for. Push the connectors all the way in until the latch clicks.


The 24-pin connector is the largest connector on the power supply.
 If you have a dedicated video card, chances are it needs to be powered as well. Some require one connector, while others require two. The port is usually on the side or back of the video card.
 All of your drives need to be connected to the power supply using SATA power connectors. These power connectors are the same for optical and hard drives.
 One of the keys to good airflow is placing your wires out of the way. Trying to effectively wire the inside of the case can be a frustrating experience, especially if you are building a smaller tower. Use zip ties to bundle cables together and place them in unused drive bays. Make sure that the cables will not get in the way of any fans.
 Almost all cases come installed with one or two fans. These fans need to be attached to the motherboard in order to function.
 If you are running lots of high-end components, you will likely need extra cooling. 120mm and 140mm fans are typically fairly quiet and significantly increase airflow through your computer.
 Intake fans that suck air into the computer should be mounted in the lower front, bottom, and sides (a side fan is typically used to directly cool a specific component). Exhaust fans that blow air out of the computer should be mounted on the top and upper back of the computer as the hot air naturally rises through the inside. This keeps a good flow of fresh, cool air moving over your motherboard. You can see which direction the fan will blow by inspecting the top of the fan housing. Almost all fans have small arrows printed which shows which direction they blow. Try getting more intake than exhaust for less dust build-up, which looks grody and causes cooling problems. CPU/graphics card heat sink fans and power supply fans should also be counted as intake or exhaust fans depending on the direction the fans spin.
 It is highly recommended that you don’t run your computer with the case open. Cases are designed to maximize air flow, and when a case is open the airflow is not as effective. Make sure that everything is screwed close. Most cases use thumbscrews so that you don’t need tools to open and close the case.
 Attach a monitor to the computer, through the graphics card or the motherboard. Attach a keyboard and mouse to the USB ports in either the front or back of the computer.


Avoid plugging in any other devices until after you have finished setting up the operating system.
 You won’t be able to do much since you don’t have an operating system installed, but you can check to see that all of your fans are working and that the computer completes its POST (Power On Self Test) successfully.
 This program is available to download for free and can be booted from a CD or USB drive without an operating system installed. This will let you test your memory sticks before you proceed to install the operating system. Memory sticks have a higher rate of failure than most computer components, especially if they are budget-priced, so it is wise to test them first.


You may have to set your computer to boot from CD or USB first, instead of booting from the hard drive. Enter your BIOS settings when you first start the computer and then navigate to the Boot menu. Select the appropriate drive that you want to boot from.
 Home-built computers can install either Microsoft Windows or a Linux distribution. Windows costs money, but benefits from having compatibility with nearly every program and piece of hardware. Linux is free and supported by a community of developers, but cannot run many programs designed for Windows. Some proprietary hardware does not work properly either.
 Once your operating system is installed, you will need to install your drivers. Almost all of the hardware that you purchased should come with discs that contain the driver software needed for the hardware to work. Modern versions of Windows and Linux will install most drivers automatically when connected to the internet.

