 Talking to a girl you like can be nerve-racking. You can ease some of the stress by having a few things already picked out to talk about before you sit down. If you are in the same class you could say something about the teacher or the content of the class itself. If you are at lunch or out with friends you might mention a popular movie or the antics of a friend you have in common.


“Professor Fink is so boring. I actually like physics, but he has a real knack for sucking all the fun out of it.”
“Have you seen the latest episode of Supernatural? It was riveting.”
“Today is my dog’s birthday. I’m so excited. Do you have any pets?”

, If you don’t already know the girl you like, introduce yourself as soon as you sit down. Tell her your name and maybe what you think of the class. Just a few sentences. “I’m Steven. I usually sit over by the Coke machine at lunch, but I thought I’d switch it up today.”

, When delivered with the right intentions, a sincere compliment can make anyone feel good. Avoid saying things about her body or comments that are lewd or sexual. Instead, tell her you like her shirt or her earrings. Even better, compliment her ideas while you guys are talking.Be honest. An insincere compliment is usually easy to pick out and can have the opposite effect.“I really like listening to you break down the thematic elements of the latest episode of Supernatural. It’s opening up the show in a new way for me.”
“Those are really nice earrings. Where did you get them?”
Avoid sexually charged compliments., Don’t just monopolize the conversation. Sitting next to some you like is a great way to get to know them better. Ask her about herself. What kinds of things is she into? How is she liking the class so far? What does she usually like to get for lunch from the cafeteria?If this is a first meeting, keep the questions light. Avoid extremely personal questions.
Smile and nod your head. Say things like, “I see.” “Yes.” or “I Understand.” Make eye contact. This helps you appear confident. It also assures her that you are listening when she speaks and that you are engaged in what she has to say., If she is avoiding eye contact or leaning away from you, these may be indicators that she is not into the conversation. You can try redirecting the topic to something more neutral or inline with her interests. This may also be a sign that she needs more space or is feeling somehow intruded on. Try leaning back or scooting over a bit to give her more room.


If you notice her leaning forward, smiling, and/or making eye contact, then this is a good indicator that she is engaged in the conversation and having a good time. Keep it up!