 Then take three more random cards from the deck as well. This trick requires that you gimmick the deck a little bit before you start.


For the Four Robbers, you're going to make your spectators think you’ve put the Jacks into the middle of the deck. In reality, you’ll place the three other cards you've taken into the deck.
These three other cards will be stacked on top of three of the Jacks during the trick.
This trick involves a story, begin your story by telling your audience about four Jacks that decided to rob a bank.
 Hold the four Jacks, fanned out vertically in your hand. All four Jacks should be able to be observed by the audience at the same time. Hold the three random cards behind the Jack that’s on top so the audience cannot see them. This is essential to the trick.


If you are having trouble hiding the other cards, hold them in place by putting your index finger on the top edge of the cards.
Once you have given your audience a bit of time to see the Jacks, square the cards together.
For this part of the story, you can say that the four Jacks helicoptered into the bank, or simply snuck in through the roof.
 Your audience will now believe that the four Jacks are at the top of the deck, which they are. However, your audience will not know there are three other cards on top of the Jacks. Pick the top card off the deck and place it towards the bottom of the deck.


This part of the story involves the first Jack running down to the basement (the bottom of the deck) to clear the basement and keep an eye out for cops.
Make sure that your audience can’t see the face of the card you are picking up as it is not a Jack. When you pick the card up, do it so the face of the card is toward you and the audience only sees the back of the card.
 As you grab the next top card, move up the deck as you place it back in, continuing the story.


You can say that the second Jack went to take the money from the tellers, placing it in the middle of the deck.
The third bank robber went a little higher up to steal the money in the vault.
When you place the third card toward the top of the deck, just make sure not to place it too high so you don’t separate the Jacks.
 Say that this Jack stays up on the roof to look out for a helicopter. You can show your audience this Jack as it is supposed to be on top of the deck.


Note that this will be a different Jack than the one that would be on top if you truly moved the other three somewhere else in the deck. It’s best to match the color of the top and bottom Jacks for this reason.
 To finish the trick, explain how the Jack on the roof saw the police coming and radioed for his friends. Or, the Jack at the bottom saw the police down in the basement and ran up to the roof, taking his friends with him. As you do this, reveal the three other Jacks on top, saying that the Jacks have run up to the roof to escape.


Obviously, you know the Jacks have been there the whole time, but the spectators will think the cards magically returned to the top after having been inserted into the bottom and middle of the deck.
 This trick relies on some good storytelling. You can tell the story as if the Jacks are robbing a bank, or about how four robbers entered a house to rob different floors. Take the top three cards of the deck off one at a time, inserting them into the different levels as you tell your story.


Tell the story dramatically. The more detail you provide concerning what the Jacks are looking for and what the robbers are planning to do with the cash, the more engaged your audience will be. An immersive story will distract your audience from what you’re doing with your hands.
This trick can be performed with any set of face cards, not only Jacks.

