 Fear can have a negative impact on your overall well-being. Familiarizing yourself with aging may help to dispel some of your fears about aging, and talking to people who are older than you is a good way to do this. Spend some time talking with an elderly relative or friend once per week. Ask about his or her experiences and listen to what he or she has to share.By spending time with someone who is older than you, you may start to find it easier to imagine an older version of yourself. Spending time with someone who is older than you may also start to demystify the aging process a bit and make it easier to accept.
 Staying physically active can make your body and mind feel better and can help promote a longer, healthier life. Staying active means you will be more able to keep doing things that make you happy.If you aren't physically active now, start small and work your way up. Start with easily achievable goals. Park farther away from the store and walk a little. Take the stairs instead of the elevator if you're only going up a couple of floors. Then, slowly start building more exercise into your routine.
Stretching and yoga can help you stay flexible and maintain range of motion. This can help you maintain your ability to do other things you enjoy., As you get older, eating the right foods becomes increasingly important in ensuring the good health you need to retain a satisfying quality of life. Pay close attention to what you eat. Specifically:Make sure you get enough protein to help keep your muscles strong.
Limit fat intake, and eat healthy fats like those found in fish and avocado.
Drink plenty of water.
Eat lots of fresh fruits and vegetables.
Consider dietary supplements. Talk to your doctor or a dietician about which one(s) might be most beneficial for you.
 Everyone knows cigarettes are bad for your health. They are bad for your skin and lungs and can cause cancer. Cigarettes have also been linked to faster mental decline in elderly people.If you already smoke, try to quit. Even if you have smoked for years, quitting may have a positive effect. If you don't smoke, don't start.
 Daily meditation can help you deal with physical discomfort that might come with aging, and can also help with the anxiety and depression you might experience if you are struggling to accept aging.Try to clear your mind of all thoughts and focus on your breathing for several minutes. If thoughts begin to creep in, let them pass through your mind and return your focus to your breathing.
 To make sure your health stays good, see your doctor regularly. Catching problems early can help you deal with them before they become serious.


Be your own advocate and ask good questions when you go see the doctor. Bring your health history, and be assertive about asking questions about any concerns you may have.If this stressful for you, remember that it's okay to bring a friend of loved one with you.

