 We already have a general theme "Holidays!". Although, what type of holidays? Is it maybe Easter Holidays, or Christmas holidays? It is up to you! In this article we will focus on making a Christmas theme bracelet, but you can easily change the colours to suit your holiday!;
, Colours are very important in a bracelet, and they should suit the theme. Probably the first things that come in mind for "colours on Christmas" would be green and red, and maybe gold. These are great colours and complement Christmas decorations/clothes.


Remember your colour theme for the next step.
 Searching for the right beads are sometimes hard, which is why you must plan, because planning prepares you. First, have a look around the selection of beads that match your colour choice, and think of a plan in your head. What do you want your bracelet to look like? Will it have big beads and small beads, will it follow a pattern, or will it have a small charm in the middle, then follow red and green small beads?

, Before purchasing the beads, visualize some different variations of the bracelet you would like to make, then buy the beads when/if you are sure you are happy with the selection you have. It is a good idea to buy a bit more beads than what you need in case you switch ideas for the bracelet, but remember do not over-buy beads!

, Hopefully your beads are still in separate little baggies.


Do not dump them all into a big container! It will be hard to find them!

,
Find the centre of your piece: On the string you are using for the bracelet, find the centre to use for separation, or where you will put a charm in the middle. No matter the design, it is good to know the centre.
Pattern or no pattern? Choose if you like a pattern on your bracelet like "red, green, gold, OR red, red, green, green, gold, gold. No matter what the pattern it should be repetitive and you should not stop halfway through. Continue the pattern all the way.
Plain is a choice: Sometimes, less is more! Some simple bracelets look beautiful, especially if you use a three stranded bracelet (which is a bit more difficult) and use 1 row of red, another of green and last of gold, but that is up to you!

, Now that you are ready to start, make sure you know who you are making the bracelet for, so you have enough string. Maybe measure their other bracelets, and leave a bit more space in case you need it. Remember, if you have too little string, you cannot add more, but if you have too much, you can always cut it!

, The process of making a bracelet is hard, so prepare to be patient and take some breaks once in a while!

, You can begin by tying a knot on the beginning of the piece, then continuing with beading. Stop every now and then to check out how your pattern is going. Remember to check the middle!

, Once the bracelet is done, secure the ends in whichever method you use, or get a grown -up to help you do the ends. Wrap up the present and it is ready!

