 Microwaves come in multiple sizes, usually ranging from 10x18x14in (25.4x45.7x35.6cm) (Height-Width-Depth) to 14x24x20in (35.6x61x50.8cm)(HWD). To choose the right size for you, first establish where you will place your oven. Then, consider how large your kitchen counter is and how much food you expect to be cooking.


Measure the space where you plan to put your microwave prior to purchasing the appliance.;
, The internal capacity of a microwave can range from less than 1 cubic foot to over 2 cubic feet. This will typically be listed on the box when you buy the appliance and can help you determine whether your favorite dishes will fit inside the microwave., Wattage is key here: higher wattage ovens typically cook food faster and more evenly than lower wattage ovens. Larger microwave ovens usually offer a higher wattage (power) than smaller ovens. Wattage is listed on the box the microwave comes in., There are many different kinds of microwaves on the market. Learn about what each type can offer you so you can make an informed decision:Countertop microwave ovens. These take up counter space but are typically cheaper and easier to install than the other two options.
Over-the-range microwave ovens. Microwaves in this category are vented to the outside and typically require installation by an electrician. On the plus side, they free up counter space.
Built-in microwave ovens. These are designed to be built into a wall or surrounded by cabinetry. They are a great option if you don’t have counter space, since they can be installed in a microwave drawer under the countertop and they can glide out when you need to warm your food. They are more expensive, ranging from $350-$1500, but can look more streamlined than the other types.

Some countertop microwaves will have a build-in option.
 Pricing for microwave ovens can vary significantly depending on the type, size, and brand of microwave. For example, a midsized countertop microwave could cost you anywhere from $70-$500. Set a maximum for how much you’re willing to spend and refrain from going over that amount.
 You can find great deals by searching for used microwaves on websites like Craigslist or eBay. Keep an eye out for yard sales as well, since people who are moving will often drop prices just to get rid of the items quickly. Some stores also offer scratch and dent appliances, which may have damage to the exterior but are often cheaper and can look and work like new.


Thoroughly inspect any used microwave you are considering purchasing. Ask the seller if they can demonstrate that the microwave works, and look to buy a microwave from a seller who offers at least a 14-day return policy.
 Prior to purchasing a microwave oven, look up the models you are considering online and read reviews by other users. This will allow you to gauge the efficiency, ease of use, and longevity of the appliance at no cost to you. Look up user reviews of the specific model you’re thinking of buying on Amazon. The manufacturer’s website will often also feature customer reviews.
 Microwave ovens offer a variety of features such as defrosting or specialized cooking buttons such as a popcorn setting or a TV dinner setting. These can take the guesswork out of your meal planning and preparation and thus can simplify the cooking process.
 The advantage of using this type of oven is that you don't have to stop and turn the dish while cooking. The turntable does this for you automatically, allowing your food to cook evenly.
 Microwaves that don't have metal racks often only heat up the top layer of food, so you end up with a dish that is half warm, half cold. A metal rack will elevate the food. The heat will then be distributed evenly around your dish, allowing all of your food to heat. With this feature, then, your food will cook more evenly.