 Making your own pea protein powder is easy, but you will need to gather some things before you get started. To make your own pea protein powder, you will need:Two cups of dried yellow peas
Plenty of water for soaking
Paper towels
A large glass bowl to soak the peas
A large baking sheet
A high-powered blender or food processor
A large mason jar with a lid;
, Put the yellow peas into a colander and rinse them under running water. Make sure that you sort through the peas as you rinse them to weed out any rocks or clumps of dirt. This is common with dried peas, beans, and lentils.
 Place the dried yellow peas into a large glass bowl and cover them with water. Make sure that the water covers all of the peas and that there is a few inches of water above the peas as well. The peas will expand as they soak. Cover the bowl with some plastic wrap and allow the peas to soak overnight.Soak the peas for at least eight hours.
After eight hours, drain the peas by pouring them into the colander.
Then, rinse the peas one more time under running water.
 Line the glass bowl with a wet paper towel and then pour the peas over the paper towel. Next, lay another wet paper towel over the peas and then cover the bowl with some plastic wrap. Leave the peas in the bowl for 24 to 48 hours, or until they start to sprout.Keep the bowl at room temperature by setting it on a counter.
 Preheat your oven for 115°F (46°C). Next, remove the plastic wrap and paper towels from the peas and spread the sprouted peas out on a baking sheet. Leave the peas in the oven for about 12 hours.Remove the peas from the oven after 12 hours. To see if the peas are dry, bite into one. It should be crunchy.
 Once the peas are dry, you can pour them into the blender or food processor. Place the lid on the blender or food processor and blend the peas at a high speed until they reach a powder-like consistency.If you want to customize your pea protein powder, then you can add other ingredients to it.
If you just want a basic protein powder, then you can transfer the protein powder to a large mason jar and place a lid on it.
 You can increase the protein content and nutritional value of your pea powder by adding ¼ cup of seeds to your pea protein powder. Use whole seeds and blend them on high until they turn into a powder. Then mix the seeds into the pea protein powder. Some good choices include:Chia
Pumpkin
Flax
Sunflower
Hemp

, Adding almond flour or coconut flour to the recipe can change the flavor and add some more protein as well. Try adding in about ¼ cup of almond flour or coconut flour to the pea protein powder and combine the ingredients well., Cacao can add a nice chocolate flavor to your protein powder and it also contains about 10 grams of protein per ounce. Try adding about one ounce (two tablespoons) of cacao powder into your protein powder and stir the ingredients until they are well combined., Stevia is a natural, calorie free sweetener. You can use it to sweeten your protein powder if you prefer sweet smoothies in the morning. To sweeten your protein powder with stevia, add about one teaspoon of stevia to your protein powder and combine the ingredients well., Spices can add extra flavor to your protein powder. Think about what types of flavors will work best with your smoothie recipes. For pumpkin pie smoothies, try cinnamon and nutmeg. Or for a mango smoothie, try chili powder. Make sure that you only use a small amount to flavor your protein powder. Start with about 1/8 of a teaspoon and increase if desired. Some good spice choices include:Cinnamon
Ginger
Nutmeg
Chili
Cayenne
Curry powder

, After you are finished making your protein powder, you can place it into a large mason jar and place a lid on it. Store your protein powder in the refrigerator or in another cool, dry place.
 You can use a couple of tablespoons of protein powder in smoothies and other recipes to add some extra protein to your diet. Make sure that you stir well or blend the pea protein powder into your liquid to avoid any lumps in your smoothies or other recipes.


If you are making a smoothie, then blend the protein powder in with your other ingredients.
If you are making a soup, then use an immersion blender or a whisk to make sure that your ingredients are well combined.
 This protein powder will keep for about one week, so plan on making a new batch once per week.You can experiment with different add-ins and spices to make a different blend every week or stick with a favorite recipe if you like.


You may also try freezing your protein powder to ensure that it stays good longer.

