 Tap the gear (Settings) icon from your iPhone’s home screen to access its device Settings menu. The Settings menu is where you’ll find different customizable options for your iPhone.;
, Scroll down the Settings screen and select “General” from the list of items found here. Inside the General settings, tap “Restrictions” at the lower part of the screen to view the iPhone’s parental control options.
 Tap “Enable Restrictions” at the top of the Restriction menu screen and you’ll be asked to enter a 4-digit passcode. Put your desired number combination using the on-screen keypad and you will be automatically be directed to the next step. Keep in mind that the passcode you’ll use for the restriction settings differs from the one used to lock and unlock the iPhone home page.
 After enabling your parental restriction, you can pick which apps on your iPhone can be restricted by this setting. To do this, scroll down the Restrictions menu and tap the toggle switch beside the app that you want to apply the parental controls to. The toggle switch should turn from green to gray as you tap it. Color gray on the toggle switch means that the parental control will be applied on the app.


Enabling parental controls for an app here means that a passcode will be required whenever the applications is launched. This is to verify that the user of the iPhone is allowed to open it.
 If you want to have a more specific control over restrictions rather than just restricting apps, scroll down the Restrictions menu, and at the bottom, you’ll see the “Allowed Content” section. This part allows you to specify which media is allowed to be viewed on your device.
 Parental control ratings vary from one country to another. To use the correct ratings for your locality, tap “Ratings for” and select the country from the list whose parental control ratings you want to use.
 Allowed Contents can be used to filter explicit contents per media type. You can filter explicit contents for the following media on your iPhone:


Music and Podcasts
Movies
TV Shows
Books
Apps
Siri
Websites
To filter contents for these media, simply tap it from the list to open the list of ratings you can use to sift out contents. Select the rating you want to use, and it will be automatically applied. For example, if you chose to filter out “Explicit” contents under “Movies,” playing movies with “Explicit” settings will be disabled from any app on your iPhone that is capable of playing movies, like Safari, YouTube, and the Video Player app.
Note that the list of ratings or filters that can be seen under each media varies, depending on the country you’ve selected on “Ratings for.”

, To stop unwanted in-app purchases by your kids, you can opt to disable it by setting the toggle switch beside “In App Purchases” to gray. Your kid or anyone who uses your iPhone will be required to enter the passcode if they try to make an in-app purchase from any application.
 If you want to limit the time your kid uses your iPhone, you can set your device to require a password after a certain amount of time. Select “Require Password” and pick the time intervals you want your iPhone to ask for a password (15, 30 minutes, 1 hour, and so on).
 Every change you make under Allowed Content section is automatically saved after every modification, so there is no need to worry about manually saving the changes you made here., Found at the lower part of the Restriction menu is the Privacy option, one of the minor parental controls settings. You can tap the item you want from the list and choose “Lock” to restrict access on the privacy settings pages of the application. The privacy control feature applies on the following applications:


Location Services
Contacts
Calendars
Reminders
Photos
Bluetooth sharing
Microphone
Twitter
Facebook
Advertising

, Below the Privacy section is the “Allow Changes.” Here you can stop your kids or other users from changing basic options, like usernames, on your email accounts, cellular data use, background app refresh, and the volume limit of your iPhone.


Settings that can be changed here varies depending on the email accounts you have synced with your iPhone and the mobile network carrier your device is using, so the options you may see on your iPhone are different from other people’s available options.
 At the very bottom of the Restrictions menu is the Game Center option. Here you can restrict users from adding friends or playing multiplayer modes on any games installed on your iPhone that supports either of the game center features by turning the toggle switch from green to gray.