 There are several fruit juices that can keep banana slices from turning brown. You can use fresh juice or storebought varieties — it doesn't matter. See our juicing guide if you'd like to make your own. Either way, you won't need much — a half cup or so is plenty for one or two bananas.



Lemon juice is the most well-known juice used for keeping fruits from turning brown. It works just as well for bananas as it does for apples.However, there are many other juices that work well, including:
Lime juice
Orange juice
Tinned pineapple juice
Tinned or fresh grapefruit juice
Apple juice;
, To do this, you can sprinkle the juice over the slices or dip the slices into the juice. You can also immerse the slices in the juice and leave them there for a few minutes, allowing them to soak up some of the juice. This can be great for keeping them fresh-looking but may affect their taste a little more than normal.


Another quick way to coat the bananas is to put them in a sealed plastic bag with the juice and gently turn it over a few times.
To minimize any change to the flavor of the bananas, use the juice sparingly or place it in a spray bottle and spritz it over the slices.
 Once they're soaked in fruit juice, the bananas will take much longer to turn brown. Whether you're eating the slices raw or making a pie, fruit kabobs, a parfait, or a fruit salad, you can trust that your bananas will look fresh well through the end of the meal. They should even last without refrigeration in a plastic container for a few hours — perfect for packed lunches.


Even with the fruit juice, banana slices are best consumed the same day. The cold temperatures of refrigerators can turn the peels brown, but if you're OK with this, the fruit itself should remain fresh.If you do refrigerate the slices, be sure to put them in an airtight container with as little air in it as possible.
 If your banana slices are already brown, all is not lost. You can lighten discolored banana slices by immersing them in tinned pineapple juice or grapefruit juice for 10-15 minutes. They won't quite return to their original pale yellow color, but they will look fresher and more delicious.

