 Before you discuss your concerns with anyone, take some time to reflect on the situation and why it bothers you. There may be reasons why this is bothering you and it is important to understand them. Some questions you might ask yourself include:

Do you feel like this person is taking your friend away from you completely? Or just reducing the time you get to spend with them?
Do you feel dependent on your friend for emotional support? If so, how has the reduced time with them affected you?
Do you feel jealous because the person is your friend’s significant other and they are spending more time alone together?;
, After you have identified your reasons for feeling upset about the situation, it is important to discuss your feelings with your friend. Your friend may be totally unaware that they have been spending so much more time with someone else. Talking with them may help to remedy the situation.


Try saying something like, “I have been feeling left out since you started spending most of your time with Tabitha. We used to spend most of our time together, and I really miss that.”
You might also want to mention specific concerns such as, “Since you started spending most of your time with Joe, I have felt really lonely. I had an awful day at school last week and I really needed to talk to you, but you were hanging out with Joey and never returned my call.”

, A person who is seeking a true friend (even if you were friends with them first) is not looking to do any you harm. In this case, it should be easy to work things out and get some more time with your friend. You might even end up being close friends with the person. On the other hand, if this person is taking your friend to hurt you, you may need to be more firm with them that their tactics are not acceptable., If the person who is taking your friend does not know you, they are likely just becoming friends with your friend. Get to know them, and you might find that you have a lot in common. This can help mend the relationship with your old friend, and lead to a new friendship., If the person is someone you know, you might not want to introduce them to your other friends. Keeping them away from other friends will help ensure that they do not take away any more of your friends. They are likely to continue their behavior by stealing your old friends, too. This kind of behavior will likely drive your friends away from the person and back to you., If this person continues to take away your friends, you could start getting to know their friends. This could also help keep you in touch with your old friends, since you’ll still be in the same social circle. It might also get the person’s attention and help them understand that what they are doing to you hurts.Rather than just using these people to hurt the friend person, make an effort to build genuine friendships.

