 When the sun goes down, turn on the lights in just one central room in your house, and encourage your family to spend the evening hours there instead of scattering around the house and lighting up every room. Lighting just one room will save a lot of energy and money over time.;
, Conserving energy means taking a new approach to everyday conveniences we take for granted, like the ability to flip on all the lights and keep them burning all night long. You don't have to completely stop using electric lights, but using candles instead a few nights per week is a great way to save energy, money and provide inspiration for reevaluating your approach to energy. In addition to these practical reasons for turning out the lights, breaking out the candles provides an instant atmosphere of either romance or spooky fun, depending upon who else is around to enjoy it.


Start by choosing just one night a week to use candles instead of electric lights. Stock up on sturdy, slow-burning candles that will cast a fair amount of light for several hours.
On "candle night," try to do activities that don't require electricity, such as telling stories or reading by candlelight.
Be sure to store your candles and matches in a safe place when they are not in use.
 Open the shades or blinds and let the light pour in instead of automatically flipping on the overhead switch.


If you work in an office, try to arrange your desk so that it's lit by natural light, so you won't have to use a desk lamp or overhead lighting.
In your home, set up your family's main daytime activity area in the brightest room that gets the best sunlight. Drawing, reading, using the computer, and other activities that require good lighting can take place in this room without the need for electric lights.
 These old-fashioned lightbulbs burn off most of their energy as heat instead of producing light. Replace them with compact fluorescent bulbs or LED bulbs, both of which are much more energy efficient.


Compact fluorescent bulbs use about 1/4 the energy of incandescent bulbs. They're made with a small amount of mercury, though, so be sure you dispose of them properly when they burn out.
LED bulbs are more expensive than the other types, but they last longer and they don't contain mercury.
 A lot of people don't think about how much energy is being used by porch lights or path lights that stay on all night long. Decide whether it's really necessary to leave the lights on past your bedtime.


If you want outside lights for security purposes, consider buying an automatic light that operates using a motion detector, rather than one that burns constantly.
Turn off decorative holiday lights before you go to bed, rather than waiting until morning.
Replace path and garden lights that charge during the day and glow warmly at night.

