 Mashed potatoes can be a little bland. Make your healthy mashed potatoes delicious by adding a small handful of fresh, chopped herbs. This will also give your mashed potatoes a great color. If you don't have fresh herbs, you can substitute dried herbs--just use a little less. Try a few of these herbs:


Parsley
Tarragon
Chives
Rosemary
Garlic

, Just because you're making healthy mashed potatoes doesn't mean they can't taste good. Include a little bit of rich flavor which will season the entire dish. For example, include a bit of grated aged cheese or just a little drizzle of olive oil.


You can use blue cheese, parmesan, asiago, or your favorite cheese. Remember to use just use a little of the cheese as a garnish.
 You've probably had really rich mashed potatoes that relied on loads of cream or whole milk for flavor. Instead of using high-calorie dairy products, use a different liquid when mashing the potatoes. Lower calorie options that are flavorful and nutritious include:


Low-fat buttermilk
Low-sodium chicken stock
Vegetable broth
Fat-free evaporated milk

, Instead of flavoring your mashed potatoes with a dollop of sour cream or melted butter, cut the calories and use Greek yogurt or plain yogurt. You can choose nonfat varieties which will give you calcium and creamy flavor without the high fat content.Keep in mind that the Greek yogurt will give your mashed potatoes a slightly tangy taste.
 Russet potatoes are a classic potato for mashing, but you can easily swap out a more flavorful potato. Try to choose a red, yellow, or white potato, since their peels are thinner and you can leave them on. They often have a naturally creamy flavor that makes your mashed potatoes tasty without adding butter or cream.Russet potatoes are higher in starch than the other varieties and you'll need to peel their thick skins before you mash the potatoes.
If you'd like to use an entirely different vegetable, give riced cauliflower a try. You can steam cauliflower and rice it, then mash it just like potatoes.
 If you're using red or gold potatoes (like Yukon Gold), don't peel the potatoes before you cook and peel them. Since most of the potatoes nutrients and fiber are found in the skin, this is an easy way to make your mashed potatoes healthier.Go for rustic mashed potatoes when leaving the skin on. For example, use a potato masher to mash the potatoes until they're roughly pureed. They should have some texture from the peels and the small chunks of potato.
 To keep most of the potatoes nutrients, try steaming the potatoes instead of boiling and draining the nutrients with the water. Put the potatoes in a steamer over a pot of boiling water and steam the potato chunks for 12 to 15 minutes. They should be tender before you remove them.Many sauce pots also come with steam basket inserts. Or you can use a small, expandable metal steamer that you set in a sauce pot.
 While most mashed potatoes are only made with potatoes, you can easily add other root vegetables. These will add a variety of nutrients and a little flavor to the mashed potatoes. For example, turnips can add a slightly sweet flavor while parsnips will give a bit of a spicy kick. Try adding one of these:Broccoli
Turnips
Parsnips
Carrots
Leeks
Spinach

,