 If you are writing a new residential lease form from scratch, it may be helpful to work with an attorney. Some lease provisions will be required by the laws of your state, while some provisions that are required in one state may be illegal in another. Working with an experienced real estate attorney will help you make sure that your lease will be enforceable in your state.Typically, if one provision isn’t legal, then that provision won’t be enforced but the rest of the lease will be.;
, If you are in or near a city, you can probably find a local real estate housing authority. This office exists to provide assistance to landlords and tenants. They also oversee certain low-income rental situations, to make sure that landlords comply with local regulations. In some cases, if you fall under their jurisdiction, you may be even be required to use a particular lease form that the housing authority will provide.The Housing Authority of Salt Lake City, for example, requires the landlord to provide a lease document. However, the landlord must comply with Housing Authority requirements.The St. Louis Housing Authority will review and certify any leases for properties that are rented as part of the affordable housing program.The Baltimore Housing Authority has a full website dedicated to information for landlords. This includes information about requirements for rentals and provisions that must be included in your lease., Use the Internet to find a variety of prepared residential lease forms. A simple search for “residential lease forms” will result in many samples. If you review the results, you will find that some are designated for particular states or cities. These will already include provisions that may be required by state or local law. Other results will be more general but still provide a good starting point for creating a lease.


The Minnesota State Bar Association has prepared and published a sample lease agreement that complies with state property law. You will need to fill in the details for your particular property and tenant.The Chicago Association of Realtors provides a sample lease agreement for use within the city of Chicago.The Province of British Columbia has posted a website with information about local real estate laws. The site includes a template of a residential tenancy agreement, along with other forms that could become necessary.The website RentalLeaseAgreement.org contains a list of all 50 U.S. states, which link to standard lease agreements that will be valid in each state. Select your state from the list, and you will be redirected to a page that highlights some particular rental requirements for your state. You will also find a link to download a lease agreement form., A residential lease is a binding contract between two or more parties. One of the first provisions of your lease should be the identification of the landlord and tenant. If you are using a prepared lease form, you will see spaces to fill in the names. If you are drafting your own lease agreement, you may use complete sentences or simply write out any clear form that identifies the landlord and tenants.For example, your first paragraph could read, “This is a residential lease between John Smith, Landlord, and Robert Adams, Tenant.”
Alternatively, your lease could simply begin, “Landlord: John Smith. Tenant: Robert Adams.”
If you have more than one tenant, you must make sure that you identify each one clearly by name. For example, if a married couple is going to be renting the property, the lease should identify the tenants as, “Robert Adams and Mary Adams,” and not simply as “Mr. and Mrs. Adams.”
If two or more unrelated tenants will be renting as roommates, they should be identified individually., If the owner is going to live at the property and will personally be responsible for any maintenance or emergencies that arise, the lease should say so. If, however, a separate superintendent or property manager will be handling the routine affairs, then this person or company should be mentioned early in the lease. The lease should include information about who the tenants should contact with problems and how they can reach the appropriate person or office., The lease must clearly identify the property. You should begin by giving its address. If it is an apartment in a multi-unit apartment building, be sure to include the apartment number. You should also include at least a brief description of the property, such as the number of rooms, bathrooms, closets, and so on.If you are leasing an apartment in a complex with multiple similar units, it may be a good idea to include a floor plan of the apartment.
If the lease is for a space in a townhouse or single family home, for example, there may not be an apartment number. The lease may just have a description, such as “Second Floor apartment at 276 Grove Street, with use of communal bathroom and first floor kitchen.”
Specify which appliances and features are included or not included. For example, if the landlord is providing a refrigerator and there’s no functioning garbage disposal in the property, those things should be stated in the lease.
 The lease should state the amount that is due. You should include a statement that defines what form of payment will be acceptable, such as cash, check, credit or money order. The lease should also say where the payment is to be delivered., The lease should inform the tenant when the payments are to be due. Payments are traditionally due on the first of the month, although the lease may specify any day that you wish. Some leases will set the last day of the month or set a date in the middle., Many leases will allow five to ten days after the due date for payments to be received without penalty. This is called a grace period. If you wish to allow such provision, make sure that it is written into the lease., In the same provision about rent payments, a lease should include any penalty terms for late payments. If this provision is not written into the lease, the landlord will not later be able to collect a penalty. The penalty for late payments may range from a small additional fee to possible eviction, depending on the degree and repetition of the lateness.Many state laws will regulate the amount of money that a landlord may charge as a late penalty. Check with a real estate attorney or local housing board to ensure that your late provision is in compliance with state law., The lease must spell out any changes that are anticipated for the rent and must define when and to what extent the landlord may increase the rent. For example, in a multi-year lease, the landlord may want the right to increase the rent at the end of each year. This must be identified in the lease, or the landlord may not have the right to do so.Some state laws include sections that limit allowable rent increases. You should become familiar with your local requirements.
 The lease must clearly identify when it begins and how long it will last. You cannot simply assume anything. Usually, a lease term will be planned to begin on the first day of a month and to end on the last of a month. However, this is simply a matter of convention designed to make the dates easier to remember, but the parties to the lease can agree to any dates., Residential leases usually last for a single year. Some leases, more often for apartments than for homes, may have a month-to-month term. Some may also be multi-year leases. As you are writing or negotiating the lease, you will want to consider the pros and cons of each period and choose the one that best suits your needs.An annual lease lasts for one year. At the end of the initial year, the parties will have the opportunity to negotiate new lease terms. A one-year lease provides security to both parties for a year but has the flexibility of renegotiating or terminating at the end of that time if either party wishes.
A multi-year lease is usually written for two or three years. Some residential leases may be written even longer. In some high-end apartment complexes, it may be more common to use multi-year leases because residents there tend to be more stable.
Month-to-month leases provide a high level of flexibility for both parties but they limit certainty. A tenant can give notice to move out at almost any time, with only one month’s notice. Similarly, the landlord on a month-to-month lease has the right to terminate the agreement with short notice and get rid of undesirable tenants. A month-to-month agreement also allows the landlord more opportunity to increase the rent.
 You should consider what you want to happen when the initial term of the lease expires. It is common for many annual leases to revert to a month-to-month lease, if no action is taken. The lease should include a notice provision that describes how much time is required before the original expiration date of the lease. This notice period is intended to give both parties time to negotiate any new terms for a revised lease.As an example, you may include a paragraph that says, "This lease shall continue for one year from September 1, 2016, through August 31, 2017. If the tenant wishes to renew the lease beyond the expiration date, the tenant shall make such request in writing, 30 days prior to the expiration date. If no such renewal is made, then the lease shall become a month-to-month tenancy following the expiration date."

, Every lease should contain provisions about early termination. This clause will apply equally to both parties. The early termination clause should explain how much notice the tenant must provide to leave the property early. It should also spell out what notice the landlord must give before terminating the lease early. Early termination by the landlord may not be allowed in many places other than for cause, such as extreme damage to the property or non-payment of rent.The lease should specify that an early termination notice should be provided in writing.
 The utilities are an important part of any residential property lease. The lease should consider all the utilities that are connected to the property and should define whether the landlord or tenant is responsible for payment.For example, this paragraph might read, "The tenant agrees to be responsible for all utilities for the property except ______." The landlord can then fill in whichever utilities the landlord will pay.
 Both parties to the lease need to understand and agree which maintenance tasks belong to the tenant and which will be handled by the landlord. Very often, a lease will assign minor repairs within the residence to the tenant, with the landlord taking care of more extensive work (plumbing and heating, for example).For example, if the landlord is providing a washer and dryer in the property but will not do any repairs on or replacements of the machines, this should be mentioned in the lease.
 If the rental property includes anything additional and out of the ordinary, these special services should be defined in the lease. Some examples might be available laundry facilities, the use of a communal swimming pool, or on-site trash removal., A standard part of any lease agreement is the security deposit. In the majority of leases, the security deposit will often be set equal to one month’s rent, although different amounts can be negotiated. The security deposit is an amount that the tenant must pay the landlord, which the landlord will keep until the tenant departs.The lease should contain the requirements about the landlord’s handling of the security deposit. Usually, this money must be held in a secure account and not be commingled with the tenant’s rent payments. This provision of the lease should also explain when the landlord must return it to the tenant.
 The lease needs to spell out when the landlord is allowed to keep the security deposit. The security deposit money legally belongs to the tenant, until some event of forfeiture occurs. Such events are usually going to be damage to the apartment or nonpayment of rent.The lease should define what notice is required from the landlord to the tenant if the landlord intends to keep any part of the security deposit. This notice must also contain a detailed explanation of the reason.
 The lease needs to explain how and when the landlord must return the security deposit, barring any forfeiture. Usually this will be some time after the tenant leaves the property. The landlord should have a reasonable amount of time to inspect the property after the tenant has left and determine whether any damages have occurred., If there are any agreements between the landlord and tenant that are not included in the primary lease, they should be written on separate pages called "Addenda." These should then be added to the back of the lease. The landlord and tenants should sign each addendum separately. Some common topics for addenda are:Pet Addendum
Subleasing Addendum
House Rules Addendum

, Include a paragraph in the lease agreement that verifies that the lease represents the entire agreement between the parties. A paragraph like this will prevent either the landlord or tenant from trying in the future to change some provision of the lease by saying, "But the landlord told me...."


This paragraph can be a simple sentence that says, "This agreement constitutes the entire agreement between Landlord and Tenant. No oral agreements have been entered into, and any modifications to this lease shall be made in writing."

, A lease is a contract, and as such must have the signatures of all parties or their legal representatives. At the end of the lease, there should be a space for "Landlord's Signature: ____________" and "Tenant's Signature:___________." Similar signature lines should appear at the bottom of each addendum page as well.


Initial any changes to the lease. Throughout the lease document, if there is a reason to change any of the typed provisions of the lease, the changes should be made in ink, and both parties should initial the change in the margin.
All tenants should sign individually. Except for minor children who may be living in the property, each tenant should sign separately. This applies equally to husband and wife couples, non-married couples, or individuals who will be sharing the lease.
Make sure all parties sign every page and the addenda included and that they clearly understand everything they are signing.
Allow about one hour with the tenants to review and sign the lease.
 After all parties sign the lease, photocopies should be provided to each tenant. The landlord should retain the original in a safe place. If any dispute arises during the tenancy, each party should be able to refer to the signed copies.