 Exhale into the open end of the roll. The dryer sheet will help disperse the smoke and mask the smell.
 Spray a cloud into the air and walk through it. This will help cover up odor on your clothes, hair and skin.
 Carry some extra clothes if you can. The most important clothes to change are your shirt and hat (if you are wearing one). Have a friend keep it or hide it in the garage.
 After you're done, put the jacket back on. Or better yet, reserve a ratty old jacket to wear while smoking. Make sure your parents do not know about this garment.
 Cologne/perfume will not mask the scent of a cigarette. Bathing is the better option because it gets rid of the smell instead of covering it. Make sure to shampoo your hair. Smoke has a habit of getting tangled up in your hair.


If you cannot wash your hair before you see your parents, running a scented dryer sheet across your head (as well as any clothing) will cover up the smell with the scent of clean laundry.
Many people pull back their hair and wear a hat while smoking. This helps keep your hair away from your cigarette's smoke.
 Smoke will stay on your hands for hours after smoking and gloves will help cover it up. Leather gloves work best; little cotton ones provide no odor protection whatsoever. Also: smoking cigarettes will discolor your fingers. Wearing gloves will definitely prevent this.


If you don't wear gloves, try rubbing your hands with one (and only one) leaf from a tree or a bush. By doing so, the oils from the leaf will cover the smell of smoke. Some leaves will give suspicious smells, so try different varieties until you find the right one.






If nothing else, Wash your hands as soon as you get home. And use an extremely strongly scented soap. You may want to keep anti-bacterial hand sanitizer stashed outside of your house, in a flower pot, in the garage or hidden in your backpack. The smellier and more fragrant the better. Blueberry, blackberry and citrus fruit smells cover smoke well. Lotion always works too.
 This way the smoke won't be trapped inside the car. The rushing air will help keep your car and your clothes a little bit fresh.

