 Salmon is a great source of omega-3 fatty acids, which help your body maintain a balanced mood. By eating a salad on the side, you will get your vegetables which are also essential for brain and emotional health.Using your barbeque, grill the salmon steak for four minutes per side. Add the salmon steak to a plate with a garden salad using whatever lettuce and green vegetables you have on hand.



You can also add kidney beans and lean ground beef to pasta sauce.
 A chicken salad, like a chicken Caesar salad, has lots of vitamin B12 and folic acid. These vitamins are essential for your nervous system to properly regulate mood.Try ordering an avocado chicken salad. A salad with both chicken and avocado can be especially beneficial, since you will get healthy fats from the avocado and the B vitamins (like niacin and pantothenic acid) from the chicken., The saffron in the stew will work like an antidepressant by making feel good neurotransmitters more accessible to your brain.Meanwhile, the fish will give your brain plenty of omega-3 fatty acids, which it needs to maintain a positive mood.Heat a tablespoon of olive oil in a large Dutch oven on medium heat. Then, add a teaspoon of fennel, a couple cloves of garlic, a chopped onion, half a teaspoon of ground coriander, and a sprig of thyme. Next, add a quarter teaspoon of crushed saffron threads, alongside a can of diced tomatoes, a cup and a half of water and a cup and a half of clam juice. Bring the mixture to a broil. Then, reduce the heat and simmer with a pound of flounder fillet and a can of white beans. Top with some thyme leaves and serve.
 If you normally serve rice at dinner, try replacing it with some nutrient rich quinoa. Quinoa has loads of good nutrients like lysine, methionine and cysteine, alongside loads of protein.To make quinoa, rinse one cup of quinoa in a mesh strainer. Next, you can toast your quinoa in a tablespoon of olive oil over medium high heat for a minute. Then, you add two cups of water or broth to the pot and bring the quinoa and water to a boil. Finally, lower the heat and cook the quinoa for 15 minutes at the lowest heat setting. Enjoy some tasty quinoa., The lentils will help with your blood sugar levels and avoid a blood sugar crash.The kale will provide your body with tons of nutrients needed for a well-balanced mood such as copper, potassium, iron and phosphorous.Heat some olive oil over medium heat on a skillet. Then, soften a chopped carrot and a chopped onion in the olive oil for five minutes. Throw in four sprigs of thyme, three cloves of garlic, half a teaspoon of salt, and enough black pepper for your taste buds. Mix it all up for a minute. Next, add half a pound of green lentils, three cups of chicken stock, and a can of diced tomatoes. Simmer the mixture for forty minutes. Finally, cook one bunch of dinosaur kale with the stems removed. This should take another five minutes and then you can add the juice of one lemon.