 If you go all willy-nilly like for an example "Okay, so we're just gonna call this club Club of Awesomeness, have it in the morning, and move on", that's showing people that you don't care about the club. It tells them, "This is a club that randomly popped out with no given thought whatsoever. Please risk everything and join." What specific time? Place? What's it about? For the time and place, decide on a room to hold the club in with your friend, and speak with the person in charge of the room. Agree with them on a time, but make it during school hours-and not during lessons or work times.



Plan out how the club will run. At many schools, students start planning the club before the summer vacation. This will give time to plan the club events, fundraisers, and other necessary things to make the club flow steadily upon return to school.;
, For example, if the club is about your school, i.e what you can do to improve it, what isn't going well, etc., for example, Cayuga Elementary School, you could call it "Cayuga Elementary Club". Think about what it will look like presented to other people, and how it relates to the topic.
 Choose a person (either you or your friend) to type it on a computer, print it out, and then discuss it together. Don't forget to check it for errors.
 You can't start a club with only one member. Every club has certain positions that need to be filled by responsible people, defined as loyal, intelligent, and hardworking. A club containing people like this will definitely succeed. Also starting to talk with the responsible friends will help in the planning of the club so that one will not have to do it by oneself beforehand.
 Speak to the teachers of both your classes, your friend's class (if he/she is in a different class), and your members' class/classes. If all of them agree on your plan, you may speak to the principal. If the principal agrees, move on to the next step.
 A club adviser is not an adult/teacher that is supposed to babysit a club; they are a trusted mentor. They also need to possess an interest in the club's activity or goal. So find the perfect one that would take an interest in the club. So that they would love to be involved making the club more active and prosperous.
 Even with the best team, you still need approval. If the club commissioner which approves clubs gets the wrong idea about your club on the form,and they did not interpret the information on the form correctly, the club will unfortunately be rejected.
 Once summer vacation starts, communication may cut off. If it does happen it is best to give officers some work to do during the summer. Like planning for fundraisers. This will help if the club officers did not know what to do and goof off during the summer.
 Make sure there is a high level of communication between the club officers. Without good communication, there will be infinitely many problems occurring. For example: deliveries of fundraiser items are late. Associating with others beforehand makes it easy for an alternative or a solution., Once the club is approved, all of the work rests in the hands of the club's officers. The first thing is to get people to join.


Create a flyer/sign-up sheet.
 On the first day of your club's start, make sure that the people in your club acknowledge the motive of your club and different requirements needed in the club. This will provide a clear view for the club members.
 Now that a club has started, it is not over yet. All of the hard parts may have passed, but there is still the maintenance of the club, without which the club won't stay viable.
