 Think about which circumstances and emotions trigger feelings of self-righteousness in you. This can be a tough question to answer, so be honest with yourself. Often, people are judgmental when they’re feeling insecure or inferior about themselves.For instance, you might judge others for having a negative trait that you possess and dislike in yourself, even if you’re not consciously aware of it.
You might also judge others when you’re feeling envious of them for some reason.
 It’s all too easy to feel self-righteous when you see the world in black-and-white terms, but very few things in the world are all good or all bad. Get comfortable with the idea that your own way of thinking probably has some flaws, and different ways of thinking probably have some good points.Talking to lots of different people is one good way to adopt a more flexible mindset.
You can also practice debating with yourself. Think of an idea you support, like “Cats make better pets than dogs.” Then come up with some reasons people might disagree with you, like “Dogs are better pets for people who spend a lot of time outdoors.”

, Don’t overgeneralize about other people, or you might end up writing them off for no good reason. Get to know them as individuals instead. You might be surprised at how much variation there is between people, even within the same groups.For instance, if your workplace has just hired a new boss, don’t think, “She’s a manager – she must be uptight.” Wait and see what she’s like in person.
 When you feel strongly about something, take a second to fact-check it. Emotion is important, but if you don’t temper your feelings with facts, you might have some distorted thinking patterns. Knee-jerk judgments and thinking the worst are a couple examples of overly-emotional thinking.For instance, if your friend forgets your birthday and you think, “She doesn’t care about me. This is the end of our friendship,” you’re thinking the worst.
 Do you have clear-cut ideas about how you and other people should behave? “Should” is a subjective word, and having a long list of “shoulds” and “shouldn’ts” can make you feel self-righteous when other people don’t live the way you think they ought to. Replace “should” in your vocabulary with other words, like “could” or “want to.”For instance, instead of telling yourself “I should eat vegetables tonight,” tell yourself, “I could eat vegetables tonight.”
Or, instead of thinking, “Other people should do it this way,” adjust your thinking to, “Other people don’t do it this way. I wonder if I can find out why.”

