 A toothbrush is useful for exfoliation. The simplest way to get soft, supple lips is to rub gently in circular motions with a toothbrush that has a little Vaseline spread on it. It is recommended that you use a separate toothbrush for this so dead skin cells don't go back in your mouth. Another simple way to exfoliate is to use sugar and olive oil. Just mix a tiny bit together in a bowl and rub in circular motions, and then rinse (or lick) off.;
, Apply the balm or Vaseline before bed, after exfoliating, and any time during the day when your lips feel dry.
 Lip liner is optional, but in order for your following lip products to last, lip liner is an easy option. You want to try to match your lip liner to your lipstick or lip gloss that you're using, or as close as possible. If the lip liner is darker, it will smudge and look harsh, plus it'll make your lips look smaller. If it's lighter, then it'll probably look unfinished.


Line the very edge of your lips starting with the Cupid's bow and fill your lips completely; that way, if the top lip product rubs off, there won't just be a line surrounding your lips.
 After adding your lip liner, you'll usually apply a layer of lipstick. Lipsticks come in various finishes. The finishes include: Matte (no shine), glossy (color or glitter layer with shine), satin/cream (moist full-coverage), frosty (shiny and metallic pigmentation), and sheer (little pigmentation).


The right lipstick finish for your lips depends on whether your lips are dry or not. If you have dry lips, the best lipstick finish for you would be a glossier formula. If you have normal lips you could go for a more matte finish, since that formula tends to be more drying. If you're somewhere in between, a satin/cream finish might be a good choice.
If you aren't sure what colors would suit your skin tone best, you need to know what undertones you have. Warm undertones look best with orange undertone lipsticks, and cool undertones look best with blue undertoned ones with respect to red lipsticks. Usually you can tell which lipsticks look good with your skin by swatching them on your hand.
Warm goes with warm, cool goes with cool. If you aren't sure what undertone you have, you can check simply by looking at the veins on the underside of your wrist. Cool undertones- blue or purple veins; warm undertones- green or olive veins; neutral undertones- blue-green veins.
 Lip gloss is pretty simple. You can choose a color that matches your lipstick, or a clear one to make any lipstick glossy. You can even wear it by itself. If you want to mattify any lipstick, just put a little translucent powder on your finger and pat it on until the powder is undetectable.

