


Look in your own organization.
Think about community leaders
Think about excellent speakers whom you have heard and would like to bring to your membership.
Ask colleagues and friends to recommend a speaker.
Check with your local Toastmasters club and Chamber of Commerce.
Don't just look locally to save travel expenses, but don't overlook local talent either.
Check out the web sites in the Sources and Citations section below. All three of the organizations provide free listings (and sell upgraded listings) to speakers who would like to hear from you. None of the organizations charge you for their services, although one does require you to register.
Check out LinkedIn Groups. There are several Groups of speakers on LinkedIn eager to hear from you.
If your budget allows and you are looking for a big name speaker, consider contacting one of the Speakers Bureaus who represent well known speakers.
Alternatively, you might consider hiring a speaker-consultant-on-call who can help you.;
, Think beyond just the theme of your event. While any speaker worth their salt will work to customize the presentation to fit your theme in one way or another, you deserve more than that. You want your attendees to walk away from the session saying “What a great speaker!.”

, Interview your speaker before making a decision.
 Don’t let price, budget, name, or even topic dictate your search. Look for the right speaker and if they are a fit, try to negotiate the expenses into the fee.
, Name-recognition speakers are expensive, and sadly there are only a handful of great name-recognition speakers out there accepting dates. Finding a ‘silver bullet’ speaker is rare (great name, great story, great speaker, great message, actually accept engagements). Nearly without exception, one of the things on that list has to be sacrificed. Quite often name-recognition is a contra-indication of speaking skills. It’s a short list! You can save $10k - $20k by hiring a no-name speaker with the right stuff. For well-spoken, engaging, name-recognition speakers, consider those who are famous for a profession that requires giving speeches (e.g.,politicians & activists)..

