 Encountering a Shiny Pokémon in the wild is a 1/8192 chance. Although this chance is 1/4096 in the newer games, that's really, really low. Chaining is the practice of encountering the same Pokémon repeatedly to increase the chances that a Shiny version will appear. Breaking the chain at any time will reset your chances, making it a slightly tedious experience.

You cannot chain in Pokémon Black, White, Black 2, White 2, HeartGold, or SoulSilver as there is no PokéRadar available. You can chain for Shinies in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, X, Y, Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire.;
, The PokéRadar becomes available after you have defeated the Elite Four. This tool will show you spots in the grass where you can encounter wild Pokémon, and is essential to creating a chain.

Register the PokéRadar to one of your buttons, and unregister any other items (bike, fishing rod, etc.). Using any other item while chaining, even by accident, will reset your chain.
 You receive the Shiny Charm after completing your Pokédex, so it may take a while. Equipping it will increase your chances of encountering a Shiny Pokémon.

The Shiny Charm is only available in Black 2 and White 2, X and Y, Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, & Sun and Moon.
 These items keep random Pokémon from attacking you, and are critical to keeping your chain intact. You should ALWAYS be under the effects of a Super Repel while chaining. It is recommended that you have at least 200 for extended chaining sessions.

Make sure you have a good supply of Pokéballs to catch the Shiny Pokémon., Assemble a team of well-rounded Pokémon with lots of PP so that regardless of the type of shiny Pokémon you encounter, you will always have someone in your team to beat it. You can use the PP remaining to count your chain as well.

It will really help to have a Pokémon that knows False Swipes, so you can lower the HP of the Shiny Pokémon to 1 without knocking it out.
Having a Pokémon with Sleep or Paralyze will also make more difficult Pokémon easier to capture.
 Shiny Pokémon appear in the same locations as their regular versions. This means that you should go to a location where you can find normal versions of the Shiny Pokémon you want., To make chaining easier, you will want to find a patch of grass that is at least 5x5 tiles. This will give you enough room to walk around without breaking your chain, since leaving the patch at any time will break your chain.

Some guides recommend finding patches that are 9x9.
 This will give you the most room to move in any direction., Make sure to pay attention to HOW the grass shakes; there are three different ways that the grass can shake. Note the way that the patch you enter is shaking., This will start a battle. If the Pokémon is the type that you want to get as Shiny, KO it to start your chain. If it's not, finish the battle and then walk 50 steps to reset your PokéRadar and start again., After KOing the first Pokémon, move onto the next shaking patch to continue the chain. There are several very important aspects to keep in mind:

The next patch must be at least 4 tiles away from you (the numbers vary from guide to guide, but this number is a safe number that will keep your chain active).
The next patch must be shaking the same way that the previous patch was.
If the patch you pick is at the edge of the grass area, you will need to reset your PokéRadar after the fight. Do this by walking 50 steps without fighting and then using it again. Be sure to not leave the grassy area!

, Keep finding patches of grass to keep encountering the same Pokémon. Each time you defeat one, your chain will increase by 1. You can either make a tally on a piece of paper or use a Pokémon with a high PP attack to act as a counter. Increase your chain until you get to 40.

If your chain breaks for any reason, you'll have to start over.
Saving your game or quitting will break your chain.
Using the Roller Skates will break your chain.
Leaving the field will break your chain.
Fleeing a battle will break your chain.
Encountering any other Pokémon will break your chain.
 Once you've reached a 40 chain, your odds are as high as they are going to get. You can now start resetting your PokéRadar until a shiny patch of shaking grass appears. Shiny patches will start appearing in about 1 out of 50 resets. Reset your PokéRadar every 50 steps to cycle through patches as quickly as possible.Once you've gotten your chain to 40, it can still take a significant amount of time to make a shiny patch appear.
 Once you see the shiny patch, congratulations! You've summoned a Shiny Pokémon. All that's left to do is capture the Shiny Pokémon found inside. You can capture them just like you would a regular Pokémon. Make sure you don't knock it out!