 Draw inspiration from all those who only ‘made it’ in later life and who credit their earlier experiences as being instrumental in equipping them for the career they (eventually) found success in.;
, Seriously consider your personal position from all relevant angles. Assess your financial situation and other practicalities you’ll have to account for. Be sure you’re not viewing a certain career through rose tinted glasses; talk to those already doing it, research it widely, and develop a genuine passion for it that’s so absolute it’s almost tangible. You will need to completely believe in the goal to ensure others will do too!

, Many older workers become overwhelmed at the thought of starting a whole new career in mid-life, but the process becomes much less intimidating if you break it down into smaller steps. You could start by taking a night class at your local community college, or reading a book or guide regarding your prospective new career. Later on, you might volunteer for a relevant organisation for a few hours a week; work shadow someone within your chosen career field; or start with consultancy or pro bono work for people you know.
 Ensure solid awareness of track record, key strengths, career highlights, and sectors where you’re most likely to create interest.
 They can offer an objective and professional viewpoint, helping to identify careers suited to your skill set, interests, background and future vision. They will assist in focusing on the target, as opposed to using a ‘scattergun’ approach by pursing too many options simultaneously.
 If you’re a worker over 50, and on the job market, one of the things you want to do is leverage your experience. This can be one of your major advantages, and experience is one thing that can’t be bought or learned out of a college textbook. Some workers are afraid to put everything on their resume for fear of appearing too old, or “over the hill” in the eyes of an employer.
 If you have college degrees, list them, but don’t give the date when they were awarded. You only need to go back 15 or 20 years when listing past jobs, and it’s best to only include experience that pertains to the job you’re seeking. Don't fossilize. Ensure resumes/curriculum vitae use the latest jargon and drop anything that has lost currency. In some industries the lingo moves on quickly so it’s pointless to use old terminology which is long gone. That is why it’s so key to research your target field, along with the fact that if you’re changing careers, chances are you’ll be shifting to an industry you don’t know much about.
 Smaller firms can be more flexible in their hiring guidelines, and tend to be more open to hiring older workers. Your skills and experience may be more valuable here than in a larger corporation. You can find a way into such firms by initially calling up the receptionist. They’re usually very willing to provide information and help.
 Social media can be very useful for job seekers and career changers of all ages.
 Attend meetings of relevant institutes and have some business cards ready to hand out. Exchange them with anyone who offers you theirs and be proactive in passing them to those you talk with. Be sure to actually get in touch with these contacts afterwards-interacting with people within your target industry is a great way to find out more about it.
 When the opportunity arises, point out your experience and positive attributes. Be sure to tell the interviewer about your past accomplishments. Project an air of energy and youthfulness, and make it clear that you intend to work for the company for a long time.
 No one is going to make your career change happen for you. Take action every day toward your goals, no matter how small. You'll probably find that once you get the ball rolling, the process begins to gain momentum and taking action will become a comfortable habit rather than something to be avoided.
 It may take a little longer, but the opportunities are out there. Just be patient, have a solid game plan, and seek out the employers that put a high value on your valuable wisdom and experience.

