 There are certain situations in which you may be able to prove that your employment contract is void, or not enforceable. If some specific factors existed that caused you to sign the contract, then you may have grounds to legally terminate it. For instance, if your employer promised you certain benefits and then later refuses to provide you with these benefits, you may have grounds to terminate the contract.If fraud by the other party caused you to enter into the contract, you may have legal grounds for ending the contract without penalties. Fraud in negotiations makes the contract void. For example, if an employer lies to a prospective employee in order to get him or her to sign the contract, then the contract is void. If your employer told you that you would be paid $20 per hour, and, after signing the contract, he only paid you $10 per hour, then you most likely have grounds to terminate the contract.
If the parties made a mutual mistake about information that is central to the contract, then the contract is also void. Mistake might occur, for instance, if you thought you were signing an employment contract to work at a certain location, but your employer assumed that you would be working primarily from another, more remote location.
Undue influence might occur if one party is in a superior position over the other when they are negotiating a contract. This is another factor that might void the contract. This is a common occurrence when an employee is negotiating with an employer, as the employer often has a far superior bargaining position than the employee.
A contract may contain provisions that are so unreasonable that it is automatically void. This occurs when a contract is so one-sided or unfair that the agreement is void. For instance, if an employment contract requires an employee to work an unpaid one-month probationary period, the contract very well may be void.
 Some states require that contracts be in writing and be set for a definite term in order to be enforceable. A contract without these elements would be void. Furthermore, even if there is no applicable provision in the contract that allows you to terminate it, there may be other reasons that you can legally break the contract. For example, if the terms of the employment contract are overly vague or illegal in some way, then you may have grounds to legally terminate the contract.For example, contracts that are impossible to perform can be terminated. In order to be “impossible,” fulfilling the contract must not be simply difficult. The terms of the contract must be impossible to accomplish. For example, suppose that an employer contracts with an employee to work for employer’s car wash, and the car wash goes out of business. In this situation, it is impossible for an employee to work at the car wash, so the employment contract would terminate.
A breach of the employment contract may excuse one party’s performance under the contract. A breach occurs when either party fails to perform his or her duties under the contract. A typical breach in employment contract cases occurs when an employer fails to pay the employee at the time or in the amount that is stated in the contract. This type of breach not only allows the employee out of the contract, but may also give the employee cause to sue the employer for damages.
Entering into an employment contract requires both parties to treat one another fairly. This is commonly referred to as the “covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” If one party acts unfairly toward another, then he or she very well may have violated this legal duty, which can be grounds for terminating the contract. For example, if the parties have agreed that an employee should start working as a manager for a store on January 1st, but the store ultimately does not open until nine months later, the employee has a valid reason to terminate the contract. To expect the employee to go nine months without work or pay would be unfair., If you are unsure about whether you will owe the other party money, or are liable to be sued for ending the contract, you should speak with an attorney. A qualified and experienced employment attorney is the best person to give and employer advice about the consequences of breaking your employment agreement. He or she also can help you determine if there is any way for you to avoid these repercussions and still get out of the contract.

