 One way to get some inspiration is to read poems that you love or admire and write a response poem. This could be a poem that you tend to read when you feel like you are in a creative rut or a piece that you recently discovered and cannot stop reading. You can then pretend that you are writing a poem that answers some of the questions presented in the poem or discusses questions you may have about the poem.For example, maybe you are inspired by the poem, “One art” by Elizabeth Bishop.You may then write a response poem that examines your own feelings around “failure” or how you have experienced failure in your life recently or in the past. You may also write a poem around a specific question or detail in the poem, such as “my mother’s watch” or how it would feel to “lose two cities.” This could then allow you to start writing a new poem.;
, Another way you can get inspired is to listen to a piece of music you enjoy and think about how you might describe the music in a poem. Use sensory details, such as taste, touch, smell, sight, and sound, to discuss the music.Consider selecting a piece of music no words or very few words so you can focus on words in your mind as you listen to it. You may start by listing keywords that come into your head as you listen to the music and then create a poem out of these words.
 Mix up your point of view by going into the mind of your favorite movie character and writing a poem based on what that character might think, see, feel, and touch in a space. Maybe this is your favorite bad boy movie character from a film, or your favorite sitcom mom on your favorite tv show. Embodying a different perspective could help you create surprising and engaging poetry.You can also try selecting a movie or tv character that you dislike or find unpleasant in some way. You may end up writing a poem that is full of humor and emotion, as you can channel all your dislike into the poem.
 Sometimes, you can be inspired by a strong visual, especially if you are a visual person. Pull out an old photograph from your childhood and write a poem based on how you felt in the photograph or how you feel now about the photograph. You may describe the scene depicted in the photograph as well as the circumstances around why the photograph was taken.You may also use found photography or images from magazines, newspapers, or the internet. You could then try to imagine how a person in the photograph might feel or think about the world.

