 You don't need expensive designer clothes but if you can splurge, do. Have a few key staples such as a band tee or jeans, and wear jeans as much as possible, even in summer. H&M is a very good store to shop at for Marina-esque clothes because it is her favorite store.;
, They are relatively cheap and Marina loves them. If you can, try to get them in the White Slim Animals style, but pretty much any pair will do.
 Spend a lot of time and effort on your hair, and if you can, grow it out and bleach it so that it is blonde like hers. Never wear it up unless you absolutely need to (eg. it's hot out and you have thick hair, you need to pull it back for sports) and if your school allows it, get turquoise or blue streaks in it. Also, in the later books Marina has side bangs.
 Marina swears by Sephora and Ulta, but also has some other brands in her makeup bag. Absolutely be sure to have white or silver eyeshadow and Dr. Pepper flavored chapstick in your makeup bag at all times. Do not wear mascara or eyeliner. Marina hates it and thinks it makes people look airbrushed.
 OPI and Essie are good brands, but if you don't feel like spending $7.95 on nail polish, you can use Wet n Wild or another drugstore brand. Always use top coat, it makes your nails last longer and it's a very Marina thing to do.
 Good choices are Marc Jacobs Daisy, Pink Sugar, or Jessica McClintock. absolutely do not wear Angel (Marina thinks it's cliché) or Dolce and Gabbana Light Blue (Marina hates it because it reminds her of her ex boyfriend).
, Idolize Adam Levine.
,, They are very Marina.
, When you look for a guy, look for one of these types:


Social outcast
"Adorable"
Make sure you vary the heights/looks of the guys you date. Marina goes from dating someone her height to dating someone 6 feet (1.8 m) tall, and then dates someone who's almost a foot shorter than her.
 If you don't have an iPod, then try to invest in one of the less expensive ones.
 Marina's group calls themselves the Sexy Seven because there are 7 girls.
 Marina and her friends IM each other constantly. Make sure it represents who you are very well.
 An ideal phone is an enV or enV2 by LG or an Alias by Samsung, but almost any phone will do.
 In one of Marina's weaker points, she lets her boyfriend see her sensitive side. But as soon as she bounces back, she stops being sensitive and becomes outgoing again.
, They are Marina's favorite.
 An example is Marina's 3rd boyfriend (in the series) Jonathan.

