


Being an electrician is a promising career but suits a certain type of person. As you will often find yourself dealing with customers directly, it’s important to have an approachable stance and personable attitude.
While being an electrician isn’t all about “working with people”, it is inherent to the job. Becoming an electrician also requires concentration to learn the necessary skills, so you must be dedicated and willing to work hard. People are putting the safety of their homes and businesses in your hands, so it is imperative that you completely commit to the task at hand.;
,


To trade as an electrician in the UK you need to acquire an industry-recognised “level 3” diploma in a relevant area. Accepted qualifications include:

Level 3 Diploma in Electro-technical Services (Electrical Maintenance)
Level 3 Diploma in Installing Electro-technical Systems & Equipment (Buildings, Structures and the Environment)
Level 3 Diploma in Electrical Installations" (Buildings and Structures) if part of an Apprenticeship.


These qualifications can be gained through several official bodies, the main endorser being City & Guilds. A popular way to gain these qualifications is through an apprenticeship scheme, which allows you to practice on-the-job training and earn as you learn.
Alternatively you can choose to train via a college course which you can choose to study on a part or full-time basis. This will allow you to study introductory/foundation courses than can either act as a stepping stone into an apprenticeship or onto further higher level education.
Some training bodies also offer intensive courses for those who want to pick up skills quickly.



Once you are a qualified electrician, you will want to consider gaining accreditation with an official competent person’s scheme. The main recognised bodies in the UK are:

ELECSA
NAPIT
NICEIC


These bodies examine, assess and certify contractors, and the awarded certification therefore proves that the tradesperson is competent in their trade. This can be of great benefit to you when looking for work, as it shows your customers that you are suitably skilled.

