 If you want to use cash, be sure to convert your home currency into the Russian ruble.


Call your bank to tell them you will be traveling to Moscow to avoid your credit card or debit card being declined. As a matter of procedure, banks flag any purchases that are made far away from home in case of theft. Usually, calls have to be made to reactivate the card before making further purchases. Failure to do this may mean that your shopping trip to GUM will be cut short.;
, Although GUM is known for a variety of shops, it is a mall filled with flagship and hard-to-find stores. It is not known for value; it is known for designer goods that warrant higher prices than most shops. It is comparable to the Via Veneto in Italy or Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills.
 It is open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
 Red Square is in the heart of Moscow in the innermost circular road, called Boulevard Ring. This ring was built in the 1820s in the same place as the 16th century walls. The road on the other side of GUM is called Vetoshny Lane. Plan your route from the hotel or the airport in advance because none of the Metro train signs are in English. Look for signs or literature that point to the Kremlin or Lenin's tomb as well, because these sit across from GUM.
 Beware that although their goods are less expensive than the luxury goods, you may pay more at GUM than in the same store at another location in Russia.
 GUM houses Emporio Armani, Guess, Swatch, Burberry, Hugo Boss and many more designer stores. If you can't afford to spend much money on shopping, be sure to window shop instead.
 There are Russian restaurants as well as food from all over the world. Eat amongst the Russian elite or pick up fast food before continuing your shopping trip.
 If you are coming from outside of the country, you can find something that will be unique at home. For example, visit Zolotaya Strekoza or Stolovaya. You will also find the majority of the technology stores and household product stores on the third level arcade. Stop by the Cafe Festivalnoe, a traditionally designed Soviet cafe.
 The beautiful building merits more than a glance. It has ornate steel framework, limestone, granite, and a glass roof. It has been notably compared to 19th century train stations in Paris and London.
 Record the beautiful art and architecture, the abundance of luxury goods and the Russian charm. GUM has become a cult shopping experience through reinvention and word of mouth.

