 Although some people think a “biological clock” explains a women’s window to get pregnant, men have a harder time getting women pregnant after 40.


After 50, a man’s sperm count can be extremely reduced, depending upon genetics and other factors.;
, Doctors suggest 5 to 7 drinks a week is the most you can consume without affecting sperm count.
 Nicotine reduces sperm count and lowers sperm quality, just like alcohol., Elevated temperatures over your body heat reduce sperm count. The testicles are designed to hang down and stay cool.


Don’t spend a lot of time hot tubbing. Also, avoid the sauna and steam room.
Don’t sit with your laptop or other electronics on your groin. The hard drive will heat up, so invest in a laptop desk that keeps air between your legs and the computer.
 Avoid long cycling sessions. Bike shorts and pressure from the bicycle seat can overheat your sperm and break veins. Pick a type of exercise that doesn’t put too much pressure on the testicles.
Wear a cup if you fear contact to the groin.
Choose exercise clothing that allows your sexual organs to hang down and stay cool.
Exercise usually has a positive effect on sperm count. Men who are overweight are less likely to conceive.
 Anti-depressants and drugs for hair loss have been shown to adversely affect sperm count.


However, other drugs may also have this side effect. Read the literature describing the medication and ask your doctor, if you are trying to get a woman pregnant.



Ideally, she should stop taking the pills 1 to 2 months before she wants to conceive. Different women will process the hormones differently.
If a woman is using an intrauterine device (IUD), she will need to get it surgically removed several months before trying to conceive a child.



Avoid using over the counter lubes, since they can decrease the chances of conception.
 You should learn both the beginning and ending dates of her period.


Period lengths vary greatly.
Some women are irregular, having their period at different times each month.
 Ovulation usually occurs approximately 14 days after the first full day of bleeding of the woman’s last period.


If a woman has a longer cycle, then it can be 20 days after the first day of her last period., Approximately 1 week after her menstrual cycle, you should increase unprotected sexual activity.Sperm can stay alive inside the woman’s body for up to 6 days.
The more you have intercourse during this period, the more likely there will be viable sperm during the conception window.
The egg is viable for conception in the time between being released and traveling from the fallopian tubes into the uterus.
Starting to have sex after the egg is released will reduce your chances of conception. The egg will die approximately 1 day after ovulation.
, You and your partner may want to get tested.
 Seek the help of a relationship counselor, if you or your partner has a sex drive that is too low to conceive a child.
 Get your partner to test herself to find out when she is ovulating over several months. The more you know about their body, the more you can plan intercourse during the 6 days before the egg drops.
 Both men and women find it harder to conceive in high stress situations. If you have put a lot of stress on yourself to have a baby, it may be working against you.


Seek a counselor, try meditation or get involved with another of your favorite activities.

