 Be honest with yourself and you may be able to rule out protein silk infusions as a good match for your situation.


Protein silk fusion is ideal for those who have healthy hair.
If you have had recent chemical treatments or have any visible damage, protein silk infusions are probably not right for you. You should carefully examine other methods before returning to further consider this method.;
,


Protein silk fusion is made to last for about two months.
If this does not meet your expectations, it is best to examine other attachment methods before further considering this method.



You will have to choose a size that matches your hair type and texture.
You will have to choose an attachment that is sized according to the length of your hair. The shorter your hair, the smaller the attachment size must be.
Protein silk fusion is said to be a good fit for hair textures that are kinky or curly.
 See how they like the methods and ask about any problems they have encountered during the process and while wearing the extensions.
 It is best to verify the extent to which this is possible and adjust your expectations.
Protein silk fusion can last for up to two months. Again, it is best to determine the reasonable expected life of the treatment and adjust your expectations accordingly.

Continue to wash your hair, condition, and deep condition as needed.
Sleep on a silk or satin pillowcase.
 This step is optional, but it is best to become fully informed. Some potential information sources are:


consumer-based clearinghouses for information
blogs by individuals who are knowledgeable about all aspects of hair extensions
forums threads about the subject
.edu online sources

, If you have done a bit of research, poking around, and talking about this subject, you will likely have questions or concerns. Take the time to write these down before scheduling an appointment.
 During the call, give examples of your unanswered questions and assess that company's ability to provide helpful, honest answers. If it seems right, finalize the consultation appointment.
 Take your list of questions and make sure all are addressed to your satisfaction.
 You have to do something, right? Balance the cost over a year, your worry factor over a and the amount of time taken from things you would rather be doing over a year and compare with the alternatives you have identified.

