 Skimpy is the name of the game for male pornstars, and when in doubt you should always show more skin. Revealing or see-through clothing, like mesh, is also popular if you're confident enough to rock it. Your clothes should show off your muscles and lines, but remember the number one rule of pornstar fashion -- it has to come off easily.



Tops: Try deep, deep v-necks and cut-off t-shirts. Open vests revealing bare chests, leather, and shirts that end before the bellybutton are all easy options.

Pants/Shorts: Depending on your style you should either opt for short shorts or tight, slimming pants, like skinny-cut jeans. No matter what your choice, wear them low on your hips to reveal the "v" leading from your stomach down.

Accessories: Tattoos, piercings, and hair gel are generally the only accessories male pornstars have available to wear.
 Manscaping is the art of grooming your body hair in an appealing way. Keep your neck hair close cropped and trim beards regularly to remove stray hairs. Pubic hair is generally shaved away completely, and some male pornstars opt to remove all of their chest hair as well.


Regular haircuts will keep your face clean and attractive.
Those going for an "old-school" look should cultivate the biggest, bushiest mustache they can muster.
Style you hair with gel and products. You want to clean your hair with shampoo regularly and apply conditioner daily. Take the time in the morning to put gel or mouse in your hair and tousle it gently for a clean, "just-got-out-of-bed" look.
There is not "right" hairstyle, but generally guys have shorter, close cropped hair with a little gel holding it up around the forehead.
 Even the best body and clothing will look unappealing if you slouch your shoulders and hide your assets. Standing tall and making eye contact is important to truly look like you could be in porn.


Stand with your back straight and your shoulders back, opening up your pecs.
Look people directly in the eye when talking to them or listening.
Keep your chin level with the floor and your head up.
Sit comfortably, but keep your spine in a straight line., Pornstars exude sexual energy, so you need act sexy to pull off the pornstar look. Flirting is about having confidence with women and other men -- talking to them, making subtle advances (lightly touching a shoulder, winking, etc.), and putting them at ease. The number one hint for successful flirting is acting like it takes no effort at all.


Smiling and making eye contact are the two best, easiest ways to flirt.
Touching the shoulders, hips, or face all make overt signals of flirtation.
Paying a compliment, when genuine, is a great way to flirt., Male pornstars tend to be gruff, quiet types that stick to traditional gender norms of masculinity like strength and composure. Be quiet, show off your muscles whenever possible, and have personal confidence. You look fantastic, so act like you know it!

