 There are several on the market that are weight-activated, allowing birds to feed but not squirrels. Some have better features, and might last longer, but are also a bit on the expensive side.;
, These tend to be less expensive, and are not quite as sturdy but will do the trick. These feeders will definitely slow down the seed consumption and might work if you only have an occasional squirrel, but are not truly squirrel-proof like the choices above.
 Baffles can be hung or placed on poles or posts and they work if used correctly. The magic formula is ten feet by five feet. That is, athletic squirrels can jump ten feet horizontally and five feet vertically.


Pole baffles are the easiest to situate. You can use either a straight pole or a shepherd's staff pole, just make sure that it is tall enough. Place the pole ten feet away from any trees, fence or other structure from where the squirrel might jump. Mount the baffle five feet high on the pole.
Make sure that feeders hang above the top of the baffle. If you want to hang a baffle, the best way is to string a wire between two trees, place the baffle in the middle, ten feet away from either tree, and hang the feeder underneath the baffle.
Make sure the bottom of the feeder is above five feet. Metal baffles tend to be most effective.
 Nyjer seed, millet, safflower, canary seed and canola seed all are ingredients that squirrels avoid. Unfortunately a hungry squirrel will eat anything that will provide it nourishment.
 It is a non-toxic ingredient and will not harm or kill birds. It will not lower body temperature and will not freeze birds in cold climates. Pepper seeds are disseminated naturally by birds eating these seeds in the wild.


The only caveat might be the use of powdered hot pepper. This powdered form is not natural to birds and if wind-blown could cause temporary discomfort to the eyes due to nerves about the mucous membrane. An alternative would be the use of crushed hot pepper flakes, hot pepper seeds, hot peppercorns (whole or cracked) or coarsely ground hot pepper.
 It doesn't always work that well, but if you can't beat the squirrels, at least enjoy them! Get a squirrel feeder and give them a little corn or some critter munchies. They can be very entertaining when pursuing their own food.


If you prefer the entertainment value, make the feeder difficult to reach and enjoy their gymnastics trying to reach it.
 Suet is very cheap and it bribes the squirrels to eat the suet, which can help encourage them to leave the bird feeder alone. Once again, the entertainment factor will be high., Relocation is not as effective as some of the other method. You can eliminate problem squirrels by using live traps to harmlessly catch them. However, be aware that relocating squirrels to another area is often a death sentence for the squirrels. Moreover, squirrel populations tend to build back up quickly, so this can be an ongoing effort.


Make sure to take the squirrels several miles away and give them a nice, new home with lots of trees.
Do not relocate nursing females.
Know the local regulations concerning relocating wild animals.

