 Before you pursue the use of oral immunotherapy on your own, you should consult with your doctor about this treatment. Make an appointment with your doctor and get all the available information about OIT. Your doctor should be able to outline the process and tell you about where oral immunotherapy is at in terms of approval from the FDA and use by the general public.You may ask your doctor several questions about OIT, including, How does OIT work? Is it safe for use by the general public? Would you recommend it as a medical professional?;
, You should also talk to your doctor about how OIT can be a benefit for your particular allergy. OIT has been used in clinical trials to treat egg, peanut, milk, shrimp and other food allergies.Not all allergies can be treated with OIT. Your doctor should be able to tell you if your allergy will qualify for treatment through oral immunotherapy.You should also ask your doctor about the possible side effects of OIT on your body. Allergic reactions during OIT have been common, and have included severe ones, such as anaphylaxis or eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE).You should be fully prepared for the effects of the treatment before you pursue it further.
 If you are serious about trying oral immunotherapy, you should ask your doctor for a referral to an allergy specialist or an allergist. An allergist is trained to help you treat your allergies with short term and long term treatment. They can also tell you about the viability of a treatment like oral immunotherapy for your allergy.You may ask your doctor to refer you to an allergist who has used OIT before on their patients. This will ensure that the allergist is trained in the use of OIT and can recommend an OIT clinic or specialist that you can try.
 Oral immunotherapy is still in clinical trials, with many medical centers running trials with a variety of participants. You may see if your local medical center is running a trial and volunteer to be a subject. If you are chosen, you will be given OIT in controlled doses to see if it successfully treats your allergy.You may also look up clinical trials at reputable medical centers online and then sign up to be a subject by contacting the medical center directly.
The U.S. National Institutes of Health has a searchable database of clinical trials available at https://clinicaltrials.gov/


, There are a few medical clinics in the United States that offer oral immunotherapy as a treatment for those with certain allergies. Keep in mind that because this treatment is not yet approved by the FDA, it is not offered as a treatment option at many medical centers. Make sure the clinic you select is approved by your doctor or your allergist.You may ask your doctor or your allergist to recommend an OIT clinic where you can receive the treatment. You should also make sure you have no other health issues that could lead to complications with the use of oral immunotherapy for your allergy.
 Some allergists may be able to administer OIT to you, depending on their qualifications. Because oral immunotherapy is still in the testing phase, you may be hard pressed to find an allergist to do OIT on you. However, you can still ask your allergist if they are able to do this treatment for you.


For example, you may ask your allergist, What is your professional opinion of oral immunotherapy? Do you think OIT is right for my medical needs? Can you perform OIT on me to address my allergy issue?

, You should do your research and understand how OIT works on real test subjects. Read the clinical trial results on oral immunotherapy online to ensure you know how positive the treatment works on others. Look for clinical trials that focus on your particular allergy and trials that have been done on children, especially if you are considering OIT for your child.Make sure you read the latest clinical trial results to get a well-rounded picture of how OIT is being tested.You may note if the trial results are mostly positive and somewhat conclusive, as this will tell you whether OIT is a viable option for you or a loved one.
You can find clinical trial results for OIT online through scholarly journal websites or medical journal websites. Clinical trials start by determining a person’s threshold for an allergen. They do this by administering a small amount of the allergen to the person, and then building up the amount every 15 to 30 minutes over the course of three to four hours until there is a reaction., You should be well informed about how OIT could affect your body once you undergo the treatment. Ask your doctor about the possible side effects before you begin OIT.
 This treatment is continually evolving and being tested to determine its viability for use on a national and international level. Make sure you read recent, reliable information about where the use of oral immunotherapy stands and to stay up to date on the use of OIT.