 As bad breath is typically caused by the buildup of bacteria in your mouth, brushing your teeth twice daily can help. Brush your teeth when you get up in the morning and before you go to sleep at night. Use a toothpaste that contains fluoride.Brush both the inside and outside surfaces of your teeth. Spend at least two minutes brushing. You can use either an electronic or regular toothbrush. Both are equally effective at combating bad breath and bacteria in the mouth.Spit out any excess toothpaste when you finish brushing. Do not rinse your mouth out before spitting extra toothpaste. Rinsing your mouth with water too soon can dilute the fluoride in your toothpaste.;
, You should floss at least once a day. Flossing helps remove food particles that may be caught in your teeth. This can help reduce bad breath.Take 12 to 18 inches of floss. Grasp it, using your fingers, so you have a couple of inches of floss between your hands. Slip the floss between each tooth. Use 8 to 10 strokes to guide the floss down to the gums.As you go, periodically adjust your fingers to use a fresher portion of the floss you're holding.
 Mouthwash can help combat bad breath. Use an over-the-counter brand of mouthwash after brushing and flossing. Keep in mind that if your bad breath is caused by a dental problem, mouthwash will not cure it. It will merely cover up the odor. If bad breath persists, you should see a dentist to evaluate the potential cause., Many people neglect to brush their tongue when brushing their teeth. Your tongue can easily become coated with bacteria. Giving it a gentle brushing each time you brush your teeth may remove some of this bacteria, lessening bad breath., If you use dentures or something like a retainer, these supplies must be cleaned daily. If they're left unclean, bacteria can build up. This can cause bad breath and other dental problems.


When you got your dentures or retainer, your dentist should have provided you with information on cleaning. Follow these guidelines when cleaning dental appliances. If you do not remember the guidelines, call your dentist for clarification., Your toothbrush should be replaced every three to four months. Brushing your teeth with an old toothbrush will not adequately remove bacteria from your mouth. This can lead to bad breath and other dental health problems. If your toothbrush begins to look frayed and show signs of age, replace it with a new one.