 The popular saying “You can’t please everyone” is popular because it’s true. Your friends and family may not be ready for you to marry, or even date, again. However, the good news is you are an adult who is capable of making your own decisions. You are responsible for your happiness and if you let others’ opinions affect you, you may sabotage your relationship.Keep in mind that it is typical for people to remarry after losing a spouse, but children will not want to replace their parent. Your experience and your children's experiences will likely be different in this way.
 You’ve undergone a major loss and now you are entering new territory. Chances are, you may not have it all figured out and you may have lots of questions regarding this new marriage. For instance, you may wonder should you buy a new home instead of living in the one you shared with your late spouse, if you should stop wearing your old wedding ring when you get a new one, if you should get new furniture, and so on.


Instead of trying to live up to others’ expectations or attempting to remarry after you become widowed in the “right” way, do what you and your new spouse feel comfortable with. Don’t be hard on yourself about this new chapter in your life and your marriage will likely be happy and healthy because of it.Take the time that you need and avoid rushing through this process.
 You likely don’t want your new spouse to compare you to their former spouse, so try not to compare them to your late partner. Additionally, avoid comparing yourself to their late spouse, as well. Doing so will just add unrealistic expectations to the marriage and may put unneeded pressure on your relationship. Instead, just be yourself and allow your partner to be themselves, as well.


If you believe your new spouse is comparing you to their late spouse, be open about how you feel. For instance, tell them, “I feel as though you compare me to your late spouse and I am not comfortable with that. It’s not fair to me, you, or our relationship.” Your spouse may not even realize what they are doing and may change their ways after you express your concern about it.