 In order to get the best sound quality, you should sit where the sound technician sits to calibrate the experience. This is the most common way to get a good seat.


That means you should plant yourself two-thirds of the way toward the back of the theater, right in the middle. In terms of viewing, most seats in modern stadium theaters are 12-to-15 inches higher than the seats in front of them, allowing for unobstructed viewing. That’s why choosing where you sit based on sound is a good idea.Experts recommend that you sit slightly off center to amplify the effect of the sound. Try sitting one or two seats from the dead center of the theater, two-thirds back. You will have a “dynamic, stereo sound” from this position.
This phenomenon is widely known. The sound is going to be sharper – and you will get the full effect of it - in this spot.;
, Almost all movie theaters have a spot where the visuals and audio will be best. You want to find that “sweet spot.”By some standards, a 36-degree viewing angle from the farthest seat in the theater is the best place to sit. You want the viewing angle to be maximum. People have even applied complex mathematical equations to this question!
The Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers has a visual guideline that advises that the vertical line of sight of the viewer should not be more than 35 degrees from the horizontal to the top of the projected images.
The ideal sight line should be 15 degrees beneath the horizontal center line of the projected image on the screen. To feel more immersed in the action, sit in the row where the screen’s edges are just inside your peripheral vision's edges., Home theaters are no different than other movie theaters: There are ways to maximize the viewing experience.


The optimal viewing distance is the size of your screen’s diagonal measurement divided by .84. That means that a 44-inch set should be viewed at 5.4 feet. This is the THX home theater standard.
THX recommended viewing distances for a 60-inch TV are 6 to 9 feet.
The style of cinematography can also affect how far away you should sit from the screen because some movies were designed to be shown on very large screens.

