 The most important aspect of a homework "plan" is consistency. Set aside a block of time for your child to work on homework every day. It doesn’t have to be a substantial amount of time. In fact, allow them to weigh in on when they'd prefer to do their homework, and how long they think will be enough to complete their assignments.A half an hour will often be more than enough for grade school children, while an hour may be better for middle and high school aged kids.
Early evening is usually ideal. Avoid asking your child to do their homework right after school.
 For instance, young children will likely be the most comfortable doing homework in the kitchen or dining room with you nearby. Ideally, you can use the time to work on something yourself.Avoid watching television or messing around on your phone while your child is working. Not only are these potentially distracting, they may also seem unfair to your child.
 Teens may prefer to work in the privacy of their room. As long as the room is free of electronic distractions, including their phone, allow them to do so. Homework time is actually a great way to start granting the independence that older children will start to desire. Do check in from time to time to make sure they’re working on homework for an agreed upon time., Positive encouragement can be extremely helpful, especially if your child gets stressed about their homework from time to time. In particular, make sure to acknowledge and compliment improvements. Meanwhile, avoid pointing out every mistake a child makes.Favor language that praises their effort, as opposed to their ability. For instance, say things like, “I can see you’re working very hard on you home work. Good job!”

, It may be tempting to try to motivate children to work on homework by saying things like, “If you don’t finish your homework, you won’t be able to play with your Legos tonight.” However, threatening language like this risks angering or stressing your child. Instead, say things like, “When you’re finished with your homework, we can all go sledding!”