 Evading the Hunter-Chopper is difficult, but you can deter it from following you once you acquire a pulse turret for your airboat in which you're traveling.;
, It is a large open valley recognizable by the numerous supply crates lying around and explosive barrels floating in one section of the water. Stock up on health and suit batteries before entering this area.
 A good spot for finding crates is around the capsized ship on the right of the valley when you enter from the sewers.
 It is far easier to move around and destroy the Hunter-Chopper when you don't have to worry about running into an exploding barrel or having secondary explosions hit your airboat. Shoot them with your pulse turret to ignite them.
 It will stay fairly high in the air, out of reach, initially, so get used to its movements, attacks, and weaknesses while you are avoiding it. Note the pulse turret attacks and the contact mines it drops.
 The key to defeating the Hunter-Chopper is to keep moving and not staying in one spot. Moving through the valley will also provide cover for you as the rocks in the middle will protect you from the Hunter-Chopper's pulse turrets.
 It will blanket a large portion of the valley with them, so either run directly through them or away from them; either way, do not stand still or they will detonate on you. Avoid touching them or they will explode. The gap between mines should be enough to get through to avoid them.
 It will alternate between mines and pulse turrets frequently, so you won't have to wait long. The only way you can viably kill the Hunter-Chopper is when it is using its pulse turrets, so wait until then. Gather some supply crates if you need them.
 However, it won't be for long, so immediately spin your airboat around. The Hunter-Chopper will be within range and for a much longer period of time. This is the perfect time to attack it and do a lot of damage.
 Before long pieces will begin to break off and when it is critically damaged, it will dump its entire payload of mines into the valley, blanketing it. Run to the sides to avoid these.
 Its falling debris will not hurt you so it will bother you no more. If you are on the Xbox 360, you will receive the Revenge Achievement immediately after you see the Hunter-Chopper fall to the ground. Congratulations, you just destroyed the Hunter-Chopper!

, It is represented by the Hunter-Chopper in flames.

