 You need to take a little time to think about what you want in a relationship, and why you want to wait for sex. Are you planning on waiting until marriage? Do you want to take new relationships slowly, without the burden of sex? Most importantly, think about your personal reasons for wanting to wait. Knowing why you want to wait will make it easier to explain to your partner and stand firm with your beliefs. There are a lot of reasons to wait to have sex, including:


Religious beliefs.
Desire to find the right person.
Getting to know someone emotionally before sex.
Avoiding complications, like STDs or pregnancy.
Taking the relationship slowly.;
, What sort of behavior do you classify as sex? Are you okay with kissing and touching? Are you waiting for all forms of sex, such as oral sex? You need to think about your lines now, not in the heat of the moment, so that it is easier to stand your ground when temptation comes.

If you were to have a physical relationship, what kind of things would be okay with you? What would you find acceptable, and what would you rather avoid?, Hollywood and pop culture put a lot of emphasis on sex, and it would be almost impossible to escape it all. But that doesn't mean that you need to seek it out. If something makes your uncomfortable, feel free to leave. You'll never change how other people view sex, but you can respect your own boundaries and keep sex at the periphery

Most of the depictions are fake, fictional accounts of sex. The promise of "life-changing sex" is not reality, and you should remember this if you feel pressured to become sexually active., Even if your friends are sexually active, letting them know your decision and reasoning will help them help you. This may include asking them not to discuss sex as much, helping you out at parties or difficult situations, and being a support system if you have questions or feel temptation. Having a good group of friends around you makes every situation easier, and this is no exception.
 This doesn't have to be the first thing you say, and it doesn't need to be a big conversation. But letting someone know that you aren't interested in sex is the best way to get people to stop pressuring you. If someone is flirting a little too heavily or making suggestions you don't agree with, look them in the eyes and let them know that you're not interested in sex.


"I've really enjoyed talking to you, but I'd like to slow things down a bit and get to know you more."
"Thanks for the offer. I'll be going home alone tonight, though."
"I'm not interested in hooking up tonight, thank you."

, Never let peer pressure, media influences, or guilt-tripping force you to compromise your convictions. If someone is not respecting your decision to wait for sex, it is time to leave and go somewhere more supportive. A simple and firm, "no thank you," or "it's just not for me" should be enough to get people off your back. If someone still pressures you, you should remove yourself from the situation.


Let your friends know your feelings so that they can support you in any intense situations.
You do not owe anyone an explanation for your decisions. Keep your explanations brief, firm, and to the point if you decide to give one., If you're at risk of breaking your own boundaries, and can't remember why you decided to wait, just remember the practice consequences of your decision. Abstinence is the only way to completely avoid STDs and unwanted pregnancies. No matter what other reasons you have for waiting, this tangible and immediate benefit of abstinence that can help you overcome temptation.

