 Take some time to look inward and analyze your personal preferences, your personality, your values and lifestyle. More important than an astrological sign is whether or not you and this person have similar values and lifestyles, if you can communicate and get along well, and other determinants of compatibility. It's fine to take astrology into account, but remember to do it with a grain of salt.
 Investigate your own astrological sign and read about the characteristics of that sign. You may find you fit the description of your astrological sign, or you may not (just like your Gemini may or may not have the characteristics of his sign). Geminis are most compatible with the following signs:]


Libra, September 23 – October 22: Geminis and Libras are compatible because of their ability to communicate and socialize well. They also share a love of art, culture, and adventure.

Scorpio, October 23 – November 21: Scorpios tend to enjoy privacy. This can clash with a Gemini’s need to be social and outgoing with others. Geminis also have a light-hearted approach to life, which can be counter to Scorpio’s intense and private nature. However, for highly intelligent Gemini, Scorpio may be the perfect partner as the Scorpio can engage in enriching, deep discussions, talk openly about sex without judgement, engage in playful sex as the expert sex sign and most loyal sign of the Zodiac, and is an expert at flirting with the mysterious play and openness Gemini craves. Scorpio and Gemini share the arts, sexual adventure, strong needs for loyalty, and intelligence. The twin nature of Gemini -- the social, public side and the private, intimate side, is just the mystery Scorpio adores and respects.

Aquarius, January 20 – February 18.: Aquarius is a good match with Gemini because both signs thrive on variety and change. Both signs are also good at socializing and communication. Many Aquarians and Gemini signs end up becoming close friends and romantic partners.

Aries, March 21 – April 19: This is a good match because both signs are full of drive and energy. Aries have a flare for leadership that will complement Gemini’s resourcefulness. Both signs also have a passion for knowledge and learning.

Leo, July 23 – August 22: Leos tend to be outgoing, dramatic, and bold. They are a good complement to the creativity and intelligence of a Gemini. Both signs tend to feed off of each other’s energy and enjoy making others, and themselves, laugh., You should also be aware of the astrological signs that are not considered compatible with Geminis. This does not mean you cannot or should not seduce a Gemini if you are non-compatible sign — remember, this is all in fun. The following signs are considered incompatible with Geminis:


Pisces, February 19 – March 20: This water sign tends to be very sensitive and do not do well when they are paired with the fickle traits of a Gemini. Often, Pisces get hurt easily by Geminis and can be too sensitive and brooding for the playfulness of Geminis.

Virgo, August 23 – September 22: Virgos do not do well with change or flightiness, making them a poor match for Geminis. Virgos also tend to have high, specific standards and expectations, and may end up criticizing the more open, playful ways of a Gemini.
 There are two signs that can be potentially good matches for Geminis, with a little work and focus. These wild card matches have the potential to work out if both parties learn how to communicate and interact with each other in healthy ways. These two signs are:Gemini, May 21 – June 20: Pairing a Gemini with another Gemini can lead to a relationship full of good conversation, adventure, and fun. But both people will need to focus on building stability and commitment into the relationship for it to work.

Sagittarius, November 22 – December 21: Sagittarians tend to be understanding and patient, so they can be a good match for Geminis. Both signs also have a love of knowledge, variety, and sexual activity. But neither sign is very grounded, so both people will have to work on staying grounded and committed to each other.

