 Empathy is important for all relationships because it helps you built trust and rapport with others. A lack of empathy can make you seem brusque and unfriendly. What’s more, being indifferent to others’ emotional experiences can lead to alienation in the workplace.Demonstrate empathy in your work relationships by paying more attention to the social cues of the environment. You shouldn’t be so caught up in work that you fail to notice your office-mate is crying or has been absent for a week.
When you notice another’s emotions, speak on it. You might say, “You seem upset, Josie. Is there something I can do?” Or, call or email your absentee colleague and say, “I’ve noticed you’ve been out of work for the past few days. Is everything okay? Let me know if there’s anything I can do.”

, Good friends recall the key details of their friends’ lives. To demonstrate your interest and show that you can be a good friend, try to do the same for your coworkers. This shows you’re paying attention and actually makes the two of you feel more connected.If you’re friends on Facebook and know their birthday is coming up, purchase a cupcake or decorate their cubicle for their special day.
If they have kids, try to remember their names and ask about them regularly.
If you go to coffee regularly with a coworker, you might ask, “Non-fat latte and cinnamon scone, again, Tracie?”

, Being helpful is a great quality to have in a friend. If you spot a coworker in a bind, reach out and offer some assistance. They’ll feel like you care. And, you’ll have an opportunity to spend more time with this person and get to know them better.Determine what level of helping best suits your relationship with the person and your office culture. For instance, if your office discourages helping a coworker outside your department, avoid doing so. But, you can still lend a hand if the same person needs help carrying materials to a conference room or if they have trouble setting up the equipment.
 Close relationships are grounded in vulnerability. A person is likely to feel more emotionally connected to you if you show off your vulnerable side. You can do this by requesting their assistance on a work-related matter.You might defer to their expertise on a project like, “Charlie, I know you coordinated the conference last year and you did an awesome job. I’m having a tough time corralling up vendors. Do you have any pointers to help me move this along?
People naturally feel good about helping others. So, asking for help or advice works favorably for both parties.
 If you’re wanting healthy friendships with people in the workplace, it’s best to avoid any form of office gossip. While the smallest gossip chatter may seem harmless and innocent, it can easily spiral out of proportion. It is best to stay out of any gossip you overhear and avoid making any judgments.

