 MS may make it so you cannot do the same household or daily activities you used to. If this is the case, your partner may take more and more of the responsibilities until they have taken on too much. If you are able, try to figure out a way to share or balance the responsibilities so your partner feels like an equal and doesn’t feel just like a caregiver.For example, you may be able to take over paying bills online and balancing the finances. You may be able to make menus and take out the ingredients, or load the dishwasher. You may be able to fold clothes or put a load in the washer in the morning.
Set realistic goals and expectations for your partner and yourself. Make sure to discuss these so that you are both on the same page.
Keep in mind that you can always adjust responsibilities as needed. Try to stay flexible. Some days may be better than others, so it is important to anticipate these needs.;
, When you are diagnosed with MS, you may feel like you are not going to be able to do the same activities you did before. You may not be able to do everything you were once able to do. However, you should continue to do activities that you and your partner are interested in, or find modified activities that you can do with your MS.For example, if you and your partner used to go hiking and camping often, you may need to modify what you did. Instead of camping in a tent, you can go in a comfortable camper or RV. You may be able to walk along a short trail or get a scooter to take you along accessible trails.
You may have to give up going to crowded professional sports events. Instead, you can go to sports bars or install a home entertainment center to enjoy to games at home.
 If it is impossible for you to do what you were once able to because of your MS, you and your partner should look for new ways to have fun together. This may include trying new activities or finding new hobbies. Neither of you have just one interest, so expand your horizons and try new things. Being flexible is an important part of dealing with MS and your relationship.You and your partner can get together and come up with new activities you can do together. Remember, the idea is to spend quality time together while enjoying yourselves.
You may have to adjust the way you have sex. Try new things, like new positions, sex toys, or extended foreplay. You may also consider seeing a sex therapist.
 If you and your partner are in a serious, long-term relationship, you should both commit to one another. This means your partner commits to you and your MS. You can have healthy relationships and marriages if one partner has MS. You can nourish each other, enjoy life, have new experiences, and experience intimacy despite your condition.One way of committing to the relationship is to have the mindset that “We” are affected with MS instead of just one of you. The MS will influence both of your lives and futures.
Deciding to stick by each other through everything, not just MS, will help you build a stronger and fulfilling relationship.
 Exercise is a common MS management technique. You and your partner can decide to exercise together. This gives you time to spend together, involves you both in your management, and helps promote healthy lifestyles for both of you.For example, your doctor may have given you a list of approved exercises, such as walking, gardening, dance, yoga, tai chi, swimming, cycling, or something else. Work with your partner to decide what exercise will be enjoyable for both of you.
 MS is stressful for both you and your partner. You can both work together to manage your stress. You can talk to one another about your stress, or work actively together to prepare to face your stress triggers. Daily exercise can also help relieve stress.You may want to do yoga or tai chi together. These activities are great stress reliefs.
Consider deep breathing exercises, meditation, or progressive muscle relaxation.
Make a list of your stress triggers and use it to help you avoid unnecessary stress whenever possible. This may help to keep your symptoms from getting worse.
 One way you can have healthier relationships is to accept yourself for who you are. You may feel less like a person due to the MS, and it may take you awhile to cope. However, accepting yourself can lead to a healthier view of yourself, which can help you form a better relationship with your partner.For example, accepting yourself helps you reduce stubbornness and helps you be more willing to ask for help. Being able to be honest with yourself helps you be able to be honest with your partner.
By accepting yourself the way you are, you may feel better equipped to move forward in a realistic way. This will also help you to identify your current limitations and find ways to take care of your needs.

