 It must be large enough to move around the workbench in an uninhibited way. This means removing tripping hazards (for example, power cords, throw rugs, toddlers, dogs, other snakes).;
, Snakes tend to move around a lot and knock stuff over when you try to pin them down to a cold metal table. Make sure it is about waist high, to enable you to easily reach your labeled venom collection vessels.
 Use rubber bands to make sure the saran wrap stays taut.


Stick a piece of masking tape on the collection glass and label it with the type of snake that you will be collecting from. record the number of snakes if you using the same vial for multiple individuals.
Label a code number corresponding to each individual snake.
Label the names of the people involved in the extraction process.
 It will save you a lot of heartache when you're trying to self-administer antivenom.
,, Choose items that make it more difficult for the snake to bite through, including boots.
 Be absolutely focused when handling a venomous snake.
 For example, some people prefer gloves for protection while others do not because such gear comes at the cost of reduced dexterity., Milking a snake should never be attempted by an amateur without any training.
 Snakes can be trained to enter this "shift box" through conditioning.
 Afterward it can be safely removed from the main enclosure when you want to transport the snake to another location.


Shift boxes can be fitted with capped ports for administering anesthesia or installing a clear plastic restraint tube for handling.
, The diameter of the tubing has to be large enough for the snake to enter without turning around.



This can be done by adding water through a small port in the top of the box to encourage the snake to want to exit.
If you do use water, make sure the box is dry before putting the snake back.
Wait until the snake is near the end of the restraint tube before attempting the next step.
 When the snake is near the end of the tube quickly detach the tube from the port on the shift-box and grab the snake's body at the base of the tube. It is important to keep the snake from moving forward too much or backing out. You don't have to squeeze too hard.
, Let the snake do the work.
 You don't want the snake to strike the edge and break a fang.
, The venom should be frozen −20 °C (−4 °F) or colder within an hour after extraction. Venom can be stored in this way for up to one month.
 Keep one port open for the snake's reentry.


Since the snake's head is already near the end of the tube, it is often easier to let the snake progress forward. Return the snake to the shift box by allowing the snake to crawl through the port head-first.
 You don't want your hands near the open port of the shift box.
,