 Initiatives that support the development of healthy relationships, respect between partners, the importance of sexual consent, and dating skills can all help reduce rates of domestic violence.Call your congressperson or representative and ask them what they will do to support domestic violence prevention.
 Ending domestic violence starts in the home, where we teach our children what relationships look like every day. Remember, when you teach your child how to be a part of a healthy relationship, you are teaching him or her both not to be a victim and not to be an abuser.Model a healthy relationship. It is impossible to teach children how to prevent domestic violence in their own future homes unless you can model that type of relationship for them. If you are in a violent relationship, it is important that you make a safety plan and leave, not only for your safety and your children's safety, but in order to model healthy relationships for your children.Teach your children about respect and consent. Teach your children that healthy relationships do not involve pressure, force, or coercion, and that if someone loves them, they will never try to make them do something they are not comfortable with. Respect their boundaries beginning at an early age. For example, if your young child does not want a hug from Grandma, do not force her, because you are teaching her that she does not have control over who she is affectionate with.
Help your children develop a healthy level of self-esteem. Abusers often abuse because they want to feel powerful and in control, and so they belittle their victims and take away their victim's feelings of self-worth.You can help your children develop self-esteem by bonding when they are young, spending quality time together, praising their achievements and encouraging their talents, telling them frequently that they are loved and valued, and by being involved in their friendships to ensure that they are not making friends with the wrong types of influences.Teach your children about the importance of equality. A relationship that is unbalanced, where one partner has more power than the other partner, is more likely to become abusive. Instead, teach children that both partners (no matter the gender) should have equal power in a loving relationship, and that decisions should be made through team work and compromise rather than pressure or one person deciding for the other.
 There are many ways you can help put an end to domestic violence. Find a way that works for you and get involved today.Volunteer at your local women's shelter or crisis center, or call and ask if they are accepting donations of clothes, food, or household goods. Many survivors have to leave dangerous situations with just the clothes on their backs.
Donate to an organization working to end domestic violence. Visit http://nomore.org/donations/ for a list of organizations.
Become a mentor. Through organizations like Big Brothers Big Sisters or your local church or YMCA, you can become a mentor to young people and help them develop relationship skills and self-esteem to prevent domestic violence in their futures.
Support legislation that supports survivors and punishes offenders, and contact your congressperson and ask him or her to support anti-violence legislation and services.

