 The actual steps for making your own account are quite simple. Go to Etsy.com, click ‘register’, and fill in the blanks. The tricky part is coming up with a suitable username for the long haul. This will become your identity on Etsy. It will also be part of your URL (username.etsy.com) and your brand. Choose carefully because it cannot be changed later.


Make sure your username is easy to spell so that you don’t have difficulty referring people to it. You can capitalize the first letter of each word if you want. It won't affect the url or your login, but makes it look nicer when people come to your page.
You may not always sell the same type of item or craft, so try not to make your shop name too specific. If you originally name your account “Yarnworks” but later stop knitting and begin selling jewelry instead, it will be confusing to customers.
 Etsy automatically sets everyone up as a buyer, so you must change your account settings so that you can sell things as well. Log into your account, click the ‘sell’ tab at the top of the page and then ‘get started’ on the following page. You will just need to enter in a valid credit card to complete the process.
 When buyers visit your Etsy shop, they will be directed to your ‘storefront’. This is the front page of your shop, from which you are allowed to add text, a banner, and personal information about your shop. Having an attractive storefront will significantly increase your chances of making a sale, so make sure that yours looks professional.


Design a banner to go across the front of your shop with your shop name. Make sure that it is professional and relevant to the products you sell.
Fill out your “about the seller” tab. Include a small photo and some personal information about you or your shop. Giving buyers the opportunity to know who is making the products they are viewing will encourage them to support you.
 Before you can begin listing your items, you must know prices you want to sell them for. The best way to determine an accurate price is to input information into this equation: labor + material + expenses + profit = wholesale x2 = retail price.Look up the costs for shipping your products around the country (and the world). You will have to have a shipping table available for viewers to examine beneath each product you list.
Set up the financial side of your account at this point by adding your credit card or PayPal information under the settings tab. This will allow you to receive payments and make your own purchases via Etsy.
 It won’t matter how absolutely amazing your handmade product is if the photos you take of it don’t do it justice. Etsy gives you five photos per item, so be sure to use them all. Take photos of your product from several angles, and if applicable both on and off a live model.


Use natural lighting for the best photos. Either take your photos outside or in a well-lit room near an open window. This will allow the true colors and textures of your item to show through in the photos.
Create a backdrop for your pictures. Classic white is a go-to background for many product photos, but your options are endless for possible backdrops. Whatever you choose, make sure that it enhances, rather than distracts from, your product.
Don’t feel the need to splurge on a fancy camera. If you use the aforementioned design pointers, a digital point-and-shoot camera is all you need. If necessary, use a photo editing program on your computer to adjust your images to your liking and further increase their appeal., It is important to consider what you will be responsible for when it comes to selling. Make your policies openly available to buyers visiting your shop. Do you accept exchanges or returns? Will you do custom work? Are you liable if your product is damaged while being shipped? Do you have a waiting period prior to shipment?

, As you list items for sale, you will be given the option to add ‘tags’ to their description. These are the terms that may be searched on Google or Etsy and refer viewers to your item or shop. You can add up to 13 tags, and it is best to use all 13 rather than settling for less.


To increase your SEO (search engine optimization) use specific terms. Instead of tagging your product as simply ‘jewelry’ tag it instead as ‘handmade gemstone jewelry.’ This will narrow down search results and make yours more likely to rise to the top.
Cover all your bases with your tags. If you’re making handbags, consider tags referring to the color, material, making process, style, size, et cetera. Include as many specific tags as you can.
 To keep track of your business and organize all your information into one place, create a business plan. Make a writeup of your business description, a competitive analysis of similar products, a design and development plan for your products, an overview of how you will manage your business, and the financial factors involved. You may or may not be showing your business plan to others, so make sure that it is professional and includes all the pertinent information from your shop.Include your one-year goals for your shop. How many sales do you hope to make in one year? What is your estimated profit goal?
Your business plan can be flexible - you are allowed to make adjustments to it whenever you want. Starting out with one will help you to stay focused on your business goals for your shop though.
 To keep up with your business goals, it will be important to set a schedule. Make a daily or weekly schedule, and try to stick to it! Create related to-do lists and stay on top of your projects by avoiding procrastination. Staying mentally and physically organized and timely will help your business to run more smoothly, and help you to feel less stressed.


Break projects down into manageable tasks so that you don’t overwhelm yourself. Instead of stating “make new inventory for the store” on your to-do list, write “create three new night lights for the store.” This is more specific and easier to manage.

