 Avoid drinking too much coffee. Caffeine, despite the fact if reduces stress and improves focus, spikes cortisol levels up to eighteen hours after drinking it. This goes for sodas and teas that are caffeinated as well. Not drinking coffee will help control your cortisol levels and your wallet.About one 12 oz cup of coffee has 200 mg of caffeine. That amount increases cortisol levels by thirty percent within one hour. Eliminating coffee (caffeine) from your diet is the fastest way to decrease your catabolic metabolism and increase your anabolic metabolism.
Too much caffeine, more than 500 mg of caffeine a day, will cause headaches, restlessness, or anxiety. This, in turn, affects your sleeping patterns and will increase your cortisol levels.
 Combined, vitamin C’s multifaceted approach to protecting cells is how it counteracts stress.Sources of vitamin C can be found in all citrus fruits such as oranges, lemons, and grapefruit, as well as in tomatoes, broccoli, and peppers.
A does of 1,000mg/day of vitamin C supplements greatly improves the capacity of the adrenals to normalize cortisol release.
Other “stress-formula” multivitamins that contain vitamins B-1, B-5, and B-6 were able to bring cortisol ranges back to their normal levels.
Minerals such as magnesium greatly reduce cortisol levels following extensive exercise while zinc shows a dramatic fall in plasma cortisol levels, also after exercising.
In addition to reducing stress and controlling cortisol, these supplements also boost the immune system.
 Melatonin is the natural hormone your body produces at night to regulate your wake/sleep cycle. Before going to bed, boost your melatonin levels by taking a supplement to make sure you get at least eight hours of sleep.Although there are many clear connections between melatonin, it does not have the same impact on everybody. Therefore, consult with a doctor before you decide to start taking this drug.
 Avoid refined carbohydrates and sugar to keep your insulin production low. Rather, eat small meals that are balanced in protein, complex carbohydrates, and good fats like olive oil and flaxseed oil. This will keep cortisol levels low.Glucagon is released overnight while you are sleeping and between meals. It is important to control glucagon in order to regulate the body’s blood sugar and fuel balance. If unbalanced, then cortisol will be produced to increase blood sugar levels.
Stay hydrated by keeping bottled water or a thermos with you to drink water when you get thirsty.

