 More likely than not the bird has sustained a concussion, in which case it should be removed from all stimuli. Anything else will make its condition worse. If it has sustained injuries to its limbs, it will require professional assistance anyway.;
, If birds frequently collide into your windows, be sure to keep on hand a towel, a small box (a shoe box is ideal), gloves, and, if possible, safety glasses

, Often the bird will only need a couple of minutes to recover. You should stay to watch the bird and ensure that no predators attack it before it recovers. If it does not recover within five or six minutes you should be more proactive.If you are not comfortable handling a bird you should call the local bird or wildlife rehabilitation center immediately. These can be located with the Wildlife Rehabilitation Information Directory: http://wildliferehabinfo.org/Contact_A-M.htm.
If the bird has a shoulder injury it might be able to fly for short distances horizontally. However, it will not be able to lift its wings above its shoulders or obtain any elevation in its flight.
Should or wing injuries will require skilled medical assistance and months of rehabilitation. If the bird seems to have extensive damage to its limbs, call the local bird or wildlife rehabilitation center.Conversely, if the bird seems unconscious the bird has sustained head trauma and will merely need a safe place to relax.
 Removing all stimuli will significantly increase the probability of the bird recovering from a potentially fatal concussion. You want a small box that will block all incoming light. To make it comfortable you should line it with a paper towel or a soft cotton cloth.If the bird is larger, you can place a towel on the bottom of a paper bag and staple or tape the top the bag, leaving enough of a crack to allow for airflow. However, if the bird is large enough to potentially injury you, you should consider avoiding contact and calling for professional assistance immediately., Use gloves and safety goggles if possible. Hold the bird upright so that it can breathe. Use a firm grip without squeezing. Hold by the wings, near the body., Make sure the box has breathing holes in it. Put the box in a warm sheltered location (out of direct sunlight). Keep it away from predators, including cats., Observe the box every 20 minutes for about 2 hours. When the bird appears to have recovered take it outside., After two hours take the box outside to the woods. Remove the lid. Watch to see if the bird flies away., If after two hours the bird is not able to fly away you should consult the Wildlife Rehabilitation Directory. Call an expert who can provide specialized care for the bird.


Do not keep the bird in your possession for more than two hours. It is illegal to keep a wild bird.

