 Thoughtful people tend to consider a statement before they make it. While there are some familiar situations where you can freely respond to a question or comment without fear of saying the wrong thing, in most cases it pays to consider your response.Think of the best way to word what you are saying. You might have a generous thought that, if worded incorrectly, will make the hearer feel terrible. Think of the words that will best communicate to your listener what you wish to say.
Listen to your gut. If you feel a pang of misgiving, pause and consider the implications of what you are saying.
Similarly, you may choose to re-read an email before you send it.
 You will be more thoughtful in all things if you take the time to remember and analyze your day. Talk about your day with your friends and family, so long as you also listen to their account of their own. Write what you did and how you felt about it in a nightly journal. This is a way of dedicating thought to the mundane, a practice which will necessarily make you more thoughtful.Consider getting a therapist if you feel you have more to sort through than you can possibly cover in a conversation.
 If you are faced with a big decision, or even a medium-sized one, take your time making it. Come up with careful questions and run them by people in your life. While you may feel strongly inclined one way or another, letting your thoughts settle in your mind will result in a more satisfying decision. If you can, sleep on it before you give your verdict.If you don't have the time to actually get a full night's sleep before making a choice, do try to step away briefly. If you are making an important decision at work, for instance, try taking a brief walk or giving yourself a long lunch break before you express your decision.
 The old saw that "anything worth doing is worth doing well" has some merit. Work produced thoughtfully tends to impress. Allocate enough time to give every project the attention it deserves. Keep the main aim of your project in mind while exploring possibly related themes that may end up informing the end product.


As with decisions, taking time away from projects will help you see them more clearly.

