 Before you do this, make sure your topic is appropriate. Some topics, such as advice on what color to paint your room, lend themselves nicely to multiple anonymous comments. Other topics may not be as appropriate.


Make sure you're ready for a barrage of anonymous comments before you post anything online. If the topic is so sensitive that you might get easily offended by advice you don't agree with, or if you think hearing multiple conflicting opinions will just confuse you further, you may want to reconsider posting online.
Topics that require an extensive amount of background knowledge about your life may not work well on these kinds of sites.
Take anonymous online advice with a grain of salt. You may get some great advice from a really thoughtful user, or you may not. It's perfectly fine to disregard advice you don't agree with, especially when you don't know anything about the person giving it to you.
 This may not be possible for all topics, but if you find an appropriate one, you're likely to encounter a community of people who have an interest in the topic that you need advice about. If, for example, you want advice on how to eat a healthy diet or how to raise your children, you are likely to find lots of forums with very active users.


To identify a good site, read through past posts and make sure the majority of the questions get reasonable responses. Also, check to make sure that the question you want to ask fits with the theme of the questions other people are asking.
You may also be able to find sites that offer free advice from professionals in industries such as medicine and the law. Be sure to do your research to make sure the site is legitimate.
 If you are dealing with a serious issue like mental illness, grief, or domestic violence, and you need someone to talk to, there are a variety of free crisis hotlines available. Calling a hotline will provide you with the benefit of speaking anonymously to people who are highly knowledgeable about the specific problem you are dealing with. They vary by specialty and geographic region, but a quick search should reveal what's available for you.