 The right to remain silent and the right to refuse a search apply to both citizens as well as non-citizens, in most cases. If you are a non-citizen of the U.S., and a federal agent seeks to question you, you should realize that you may refuse to answer most questions until you contact an attorney.You may be required to identify yourself by name and address. Do not provide any incorrect information, as this may create further problems. You are not required to answer any questions about your residency or citizenship status at this time without an attorney.
 One exception to the rule about keeping silent or searches is that a non-citizens who are over 18 years old must carry any valid U.S. immigration papers with them at all times. If you fall within this description and are asked to produce your immigration papers, you must do so. These papers include any of the following:alien registration documents
permanent resident card (a/k/a “green card”)
I-94 paperwork
Employment Authorization Documents (“EAD”)
border crossing card
anything else that authorizes you to be in the U.S.
 If you are an immigrant to the U.S., and your workplace is raided by immigration agents, you should not attempt to flee. You have the right not to answer any questions, other than to provide immigration paperwork, if you have it. You should continue doing your work, and comply with any directions you are given. You may ask if you are free to leave. Contact your attorney if the agents persist in questioning you., Even non-citizens have the right to representation by an attorney for questioning or at any immigration hearing. Contact your attorney as soon as possible. Do not answer any questions or sign any papers until your attorney is with you and can advise you., If you are detained by immigration agents, you have the right to contact your consulate. Alternatively, the arresting agent must notify your consulate on your behalf. You have the right to have a representative of your consulate visit or speak with you. The consulate representative may also assist you in getting legal representation.