 If your cat likes to snuggle with you and is less interested in playing with your computer than in getting close to you, then you may just need to give it a place to curl up than isn't your keyboard. Provide distinct "safe zones" for your cat, such as a basket that is located near you but not next to the computer.

Place a comfy cat basket on top of a filing cabinet situated alongside your desk. This will let your cat know it's allowed there and that it can still view the action, including eyeballing you when needed.
 Be sure there's enough space for your cat to get into your lap. Typing over its back may be just enough intimacy if what it wanted was to get your attention rather than just to get at your computer.

This will only work for certain cats. If your cat is more playful than cuddly, then it is not likely to be content with a place to curl up.
 While it's cute when a cat chases something on a computer screen or lies across a keyboard once in awhile, allowing them to keep doing this cements the habit and encourages them to do it again. Don't start the habit and your cat is likely to be attracted to your computer in the first place.Be tough and remove your cat as soon as the activity starts, and keep doing it until it gets the point.
 Be sure to give your some toys to replace the fun you are denying it by keeping it away from your computer. Some fake mice, jumping things on a stick, and small balls are all great distractions to get it interested in something more suitable than the computer.

Place toys near the desk so that your cat can play with them while you get some work done.
 If your cat keeps trying to play with your computer or walks across your keyboard, you may be able to shift its focus by playing with it somewhere else. If you leave the computer area and your cat follows you, this may be a sign it simply wants to spend time with you.

If so, take a break, and play with the cat until you've both had a good break. If your cat gets tired enough, then you can get back to your computing uninterrupted.

