 The size does not matter for where the Spirit of God is presented/manifested: there you'll find the love, joy and peace of God that can satisfy the seeker's soul. Seek first the will of God and all His provisions can freely be yours on your life's path and at The Judgment. If one place does not have really receptive and welcoming followers of Jesus, you need to find a happier group of believers at another meeting place. Try different Christian meetings, churches in your area, and see how you feel.
 Conversion is a venture in which you may start out with one congregation or a home Bible study group, and then decide to go to another., A Bible is a universal book you can find in many places. A Bible contains both the "Old Testament," Jewish/Hebrew books or law, foretelling of Jesus, and of prophetic scriptures -- and the "New Testament," Christian scriptures together.

"The New Testament" is what you'll want to read to understand Jesus Christ and Christianity. Its first four books are a day-by-day report in the actual words and teachings of Jesus (the books of "Matthew", "Mark", "Luke" and "John", written by those four of his disciples) depicting the earthly ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ and presenting great teachings by Him and several other of his disciples, especially of St. Paul, who explained the essentials of Christianity in great detail.
You will learn about love, hope, salvation by grace through faith, and doing good works appointed to you, but realizing that works do not buy grace which is free (a gift of God), and forgiving the wrongs of others, helping the needy/least of God's children, and much more.
As you read, there may be times when you become unsure or confused. If so, you can ask believers about scriptures, including teachers, priests, pastors, and search the Bible online or in Christian books. Just keep in mind that some teachings differ among different denominations, so at times, you may receive differing "answers" to your questions. Keep in mind that Satan is the author of confusion, but God is the author of mercy, grace and peace (choose God's way of grace). God's grace is beyond understanding, but it is all sufficient.
The most popular English Bible for Protestants for over 400 years has been the King James Bible. Does that translation sound like Elizabethan/Shakespearean English, well that's simply that the early, modern English "thee, thou, thy, thine, hence, thence, whence, comets, ghost, etc." are from that time period. It is important to consider that English speaking Roman Catholics use the Douay-Rheims Bible (with Apocrypha), also from about 1600. Whereas, Protestants use Bibles with only 66 books (omitting the Apocrypha by excluding several Jewish writings, of chapters and books of obscure origins such as Esdras and Maccabees, etc.)







, Find sermons online on the Internet that are inspiring and lead to a deeper, daily walk with Jesus Christ. Scholarly preaching is not what the new believer can get much from. You need the simple, milk of the word of God, before you will need the meat of doctrine or religious opinion...