 Although they are advertised to remove odors from a range of products from carpets to rooms, they are sometimes not suitable for clothing. Consider using household items instead.


Too many uses can ruin the brightness of your clothes
They can cause itchiness or irritation from the chemicals in the solution.
The scent of the commercial product can also mix with sweat and become intense and too potent.;
, You might have these things laying around your kitchen somewhere. If you don’t, a quick trip to the grocery store to buy the items will only set you back a few dollars. The amounts listed below assume that you’ll be washing a few items of clothing.


1 tsp baking soda
1 cup lemon juice1 cinnamon stick
Regular laundry detergent

, If there are only certain parts of the clothing that smell bad then you should applying baking soda to specific areas of the clothing.


Smell the clothes to determine which area is the worst. If some areas are far worse then others, mix one tablespoon of baking soda with one cup of water. This will form a white paste which you can then lightly spread on the worst areas., Once you’ve pretreated the bad areas, throw the garment in the wash and run it on cold water with the appropriate amount of laundry detergent. You’ll create your mix for the rest of the clothing while it is in the wash.
 While the garment is in the wash, create the liquid mix using the items that you just gathered. Find a small pot or bowl and put the baking soda, the lemon juice, and the cinnamon stick inside.Make sure you mix the baking soda in with the lemon juice and then wait for the cinnamon stick to get soaked. The color of the liquid should be a light brown.
 Once your smelly clothing has finished its wash cycle, coat the garment with the mix. You can pour it on the garment, put it in a spray bottle and spray it, or even spread it on the garment lightly with the flat side of a knife. You do not need to soak the garment; just make sure you cover the entire surface of the clothing., Place in dryer on "Low Heat" setting, as the low temperature will keep bacteria from growing. Remove the garment from the dryer and check for any smells still present in the garment.


If it still smells, repeat the process.

