 If you're bored during detention, sometimes socializing can be fun. However, talking is often not allowed when you're being punished. Therefore, passing notes can be a great way to socialize without getting in more trouble.


There are many stealthy ways to pass notes in class. You can write notes on small pieces of paper. Slide them to a classmate. You can also fold up a piece of paper until it's very small and then "accidentally" drop it near a classmate while going to, say, sharpen your pencil.
Watch what you write. In the event your note is found, you do not want to write anything that could get you into more trouble. Avoid writing down the names of teachers or classmates. Do not include your own name anywhere on the note.;
, Most schools will allow you to have a small notebook on your desk during detention. You can use the notebook to pass the time. Draw or write when you get bored.


Just start writing. Let your thoughts pour onto the page. Try starting with, "I'm bored" and go from there. You may find a lot of new and interesting ideas spilling out when you release your thoughts without filter.If you're a creative type, try to write a story. Look around the room and find three things and try to incorporate all of them into a short story. For example, write a story that includes an eraser, a lunchbox, and a boy named Jason.
If you like drawing, try drawing or doodling in your notebook. Draw a rough sketch of the teacher overseeing detention. Draw a picture of a scene outside. Doodle a fun comic to pass the time.
 Oftentimes, boredom stems from a lack of challenges. If you're being forced to sit and do nothing, this can grow boring. If you want to combat boredom, try to think of a challenge for yourself to pass the time.Think of your favorite song. See if you can write down the lyrics from memory.
Write the alphabet down the side of a piece of paper. Then, pick a category, like "Girl's names." Try to think of three girl's name for every letter of the alphabet. For example, "A. Ava, Ada, Annie, B. Bonnie, Bridget, Brita, C. Cassie, Carol, Camille..." It may seem easy, but it can get tricky when you get to letters like "X" and "Y."
Is there a clock in the room? If so, try to write down that poem you had to memorize for 8th grade English on a piece of paper. See how long it takes to write it down. Then, try to beat that time.
 If you're allowed to do so, reading can be a great way to pass the time. You can escape to the world of a book, making the hours fly by more easily.


Ideally, you should choose a book you're reading for pleasure. If you're reading a book for school, you may feel bored by it more easily.
However, some schools may have rules that dictate you have to do homework during detention. Try to at least pick a book that deals with a subject you enjoy. If you loathe your science class, but always enjoyed history, thumb through your history textbook during detention.
Some teachers may allow you to read as long as it's educational. Try to find fun educational books in your school's library. New Journalism, for example, is a form of journalism that uses literary techniques to talk about historical events. It can be more engaging than a typical history book. Try reading some Gore Vidal and Joan Didion and see if you feel engaged.
 If you're able to listen to your headphones in detention, this can be a fun way to pass the time. Try listening to a podcast you like or an album you enjoy. This can make detention pass by more easily.


If you're not allowed to listen to your headphones, you may be able to do so in secret. If you have a hooded sweatshirt, for example, pull up your hood and place your headphones in your ears.
If you're listening to anything not appropriate for school, keep the volume low so your teacher doesn't overhear.
 Oftentimes, a short walk can help to alleviate boredom. If you feel like the time is dragging on, a short walk through the hallway can break up the monotony. Ask for the bathroom pass or claim you need to get something from your locker. Then, enjoy the freedom of walking through the hallway for a few minutes.Try not to be gone too long. If you take 15 minutes to run to the bathroom, or are getting your science book for 20 minutes, your teacher will get suspicious. You may end up in more trouble than you were to begin with.
 Daydreaming can be an excellent way to pass the time in any given situation. It's particularly nice in detention because it's risk free. Your teacher cannot read your thoughts, so you'll be able to daydream without getting in trouble.


Fantasize about imaginary realities. For example, what would it be like if you had super powers? How would you feel to be part of your favorite television show? Have you ever wondered what it would be like to meet a celebrity?Allow your daydreams to occur organically. It's very hard to force yourself to daydream if you're not in the mood. If you're struggling to daydream during detention, try to do something else., If you're allowed to have your phone out during detention, playing with your phone can be a great way to pass time. You can text your friends, watch videos, go on the internet, play games, or listen to music.


If you're not allowed to have your cell phone in detention, you may not want to risk it. It's very hard to stealthily use a cell phone, and you may risk getting your phone taken away if you're using it in detention.
Be careful when using the internet. If your school does not have wifi, streaming movies on Netflix can eat up a lot of your data.

