 Pesticide exposure has been linked with the development of childhood ADHD.You can be exposed to pesticides by either eating contaminated foods, drinking contaminated water, or through direct skin contact. To reduce your child’s risk of pesticide exposure:


Wash fruits and vegetables before eating or cooking them (even if they are organic).
Avoid gardening products that contain chlorpyrifos (Dursban). If you have any products that contain chlorpyrifos, call your local hazardous waste control agency to get information on how to dispose of it.
Do not use any flea control products that contain propoxur, tetrachlorvinphos, amitraz or carbaryl;
, Polychlorinated Biphenyls PCBs have been banned in the US since the late 1970s. However, they are still present in dirt, water, contaminated fish, poultry, and other meats. PCBs have been associated with low birth weight, slowed growth and development, and ADHD-like behaviors.Some things to avoid include:


animal fats, which often contain PCBs.
farmed salmon from anywhere other than Washington state or Chile. Choose wild salmon whenever possible.
 Phthalates have a strong association with childhood ADHD.Phthalates are often added to plastics to increase their flexibility, durability, transparency, and longevity. They are also known as endocrine disrupters, which means they can affect the hormonal systems in both males and females. You can find phthalates in:


plastics, including plastic baby bottles, food storage containers, and toys. Choose glass baby bottles and food storage containers instead. Throw out plastic toys that were made before 2009. Also, avoid plastic containers with the recycling codes 3 and 7. These containers may still contain phthalates.
solvents
anti-foam agents
pesticides
tubing
alcohol denaturants
vinyl products
personal care products such as fragrances, cosmetics, shampoos, and nail polish. Avoid any scents or air fresheners unless they are labeled "phthalate-free."

, Polyfluoroalkyl chemicals have water repellent, oil repellent and stain resistant properties. You can find PFCs in food packaging, nonstick cookware, paper/textile coatings, foods, stain-resistant carpets, industrial surfactants/emulsifiers, non-stick cookware, personal care products, and firefighting foams. PFCs have been associated with ADHD, liver dysfunction, cancer and thyroid hormone disruption. They are also endocrine disruptors.To minimize your child’s exposure to PFCs, avoid:eating fast food, packaged foods, or greasy foods
stain-or dirt-resistant furniture or carpeting
clothing that is water, dirt or stain-repellant
teflon-coated cookware
personal care products with the terms “fluoro” or “perfluoro” in the ingredient list

, Certain additives, especially preservatives, food colorings, and artificial sweeteners may be linked to the development of childhood ADHD.However, there is no solid evidence that these additives cause ADHD.


Check labels before you buy and opt for foods that do not contain any preservatives, food coloring, or artificial sweeteners.
Consider putting your child on an elimination diet or take your child to see a dietitian or pediatrician.
 Exposure to the chemicals in tobacco has been linked with the development of childhood ADHD.To eliminate this risk factor for your child, do not smoke while you are pregnant and do not smoke around your child either.
 Drinking during pregnancy can increase your child's risk of developing ADHD as well as put your child at risk of other health problems. To reduce your child's risk fo developing ADHD, do not drink during pregnancy.