;
,



Approach him in prayer. Jehovah wants you to talk to him. Do not be afraid. Pray according to his will.

Read the Bible daily. Do what is right according to the Bible.

When you commit a sin. Ask him for forgiveness. He will look with mercy upon you. But, Jehovah will only forgive you if you forgive other people when they do wrong to you.
Love your fellow men.

Study the Bible and get to know God. Find out what his qualities are - there are many. The more you know God, the closer you are to him.
Consider him as a friend.
Follow his commandments.
Praise God!

Contact Jehovah's Witnesses. Check out jw.org, it is the official site of Jehovah's Witnesses.
 Investigate the rise of monotheism in a world dominated by polytheism. Note the first commandment of Jehovah is: "You must not have any other gods against my face." (Exodus 20:13)

the Hebrew word for God (Elohim) and Jehovah (YHWH).

documentary hypothesis. See how different original sources were split, developed independently and were finally rejoined to form the initial portions of the Bible. For example Genesis 1:1 to 2:3 uses Elohim was joined to other material at Genesis 2:4 that used Jehovah.

decline of Jehovah. Note how superstition about pronouncing the name Jehovah would eventually lead to the removal of the name in copies of scripture. See how this impacted Christian writers who wrote in Koine Greek and never used the name Jehovah.

power of saying things in the name of God. Bible writers often spoke in the name of God. Likewise modern religious leaders often claim to speak in the name of God. Note how such adds power and authority to their spoken and written words.

Bible writer's love of Jehovah. For example the author of Deuteronomy wrote "For I shall declare the name of Jehovah. Do YOU attribute greatness to our God! The Rock, perfect is his activity. For all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness, with whom there is no injustice; Righteous and upright is he." (Deuteronomy 32:3, 4; NWT)

Bible writer's love for Jehovah compared to some of the shocking acts of Jehovah. The recorded acts of Jehovah moved Richard Dawkins, author of the God Delusion, to write: "The God of the Old Testament is arguably the most unpleasant character in all fiction: jealous and proud of it; a petty, unjust, unforgiving control-freak; a vindictive, bloodthirsty ethnic cleanser; a misogynistic, homophobic, racist, infanticidal, genocidal, filicidal, pestilential, megalomaniacal, sadomasochistic, capriciously malevolent bully."

why Psalms 14:1 says what it says. Many quote Psalms 14:1 to suggest atheism is senseless. The full verse says, "The senseless one has said in his heart: 'There is no Jehovah.' They have acted ruinously, they have acted detestably in dealing. There is no one doing good." Clearly the focus is not on mere belief, but on acting badly and not doing good.

