 If you have not yet already, cook the sushi rice. If you can't find sushi rice, or if you want a healthier option, try brown rice instead.The sushi rice does not need to have the extra flavoring in it.;
, Just about anything that you'd put into a sushi roll or bento box is a safe bet for a sushi sandwich. This includes things like sushi-grade raw fish, fish roe, and cucumber. If you don't like sushi, you can use other items too, such as:Lettuce
Shredded, pickled red cabbage
Thinly sliced avocado
Thinly sliced tomatoes
Smoked salmon or sashimi
Chicken katsu or pork tonkatsu
Fried or baked tofu

, If you plan on making a chicken katsu or tonkatsu sandwich, you will need to fry the chicken or pork. Let them cool before using them. If you are using any fruits or vegetables, such as avocadoes, cucumbers, or tomatoes, cut them into thin slices. If you are using raw fish, make sure that it is sushi-grade first, then cut it into thin slices, like you would sashimi.
 Cut or tear off a sheet of plastic wrap that's bigger than your nori sheet. Place it onto your work surface, then place the nori shiny-side-down on top. Turn the nori at an angle with one of the corners pointing towards you. It should look a little like a diamond.
 Use a bamboo paddle to place ½ cup (125 grams) of cooked sushi rice onto the center of the nori sheet. Wet your fingers, then shape the rice into a 3½-inch (9-centimeter) square. The square needs to be right-side-up, with one of the flat sides facing you., You can also use vegan mayo or Sriracha. Add some seasoning, such as salt and pepper, if desired., Make sure that the ingredients all go in the same direction. Have them all point either side-to-side or top-to-bottom. Don't arrange them perpendicular to each other.


For extra flavor and texture, add some white or black sesame seeds.
If you are making a sandwich using sushi-grade raw fish, consider adding some fish row.
 Use the remaining ½ cup (125 grams) of cooked sushi rice. Wet your fingers, and pack it into a square so that it matches up with the bottom piece., Fold the left corner over onto the middle of the sandwich. Dampen the corner with a wet finger, then fold the right corner over. Repeat the process for the top and bottom corners.Wrap tightly enough so that the nori is snug around the rice, but not so tightly that it rips.
 If you want to, you can add a julienned carrot (or a carrot matchstick) on top of the sandwich first. Make sure that it runs perpendicular to the ingredients inside. This way, the layers will look nicer when you cut the sandwich., You can also refrigerate it overnight. Some chefs recommend placing a cutting board, can, or box on top to help weigh the sandwich down.If you used raw fish inside the sandwich, it would be better if you ate it the same day that you made it.
 If you placed a julienned carrot on top of the sandwich, cut alongside the carrot, then remove the carrot.