 Even if there aren't any leaks in your home, you may still develop mold problems if the air is very damp. This may be particularly problematic in wet, humid environments. One way to reduce this problem is by improving your home's air quality to produce a cooler, drier environment.Use a dehumidifier to pull moisture out of the air. Try to keep your home's level of humidity between 30 to 50 percent, and be sure to clean out the dehumidifier on a regular basis (every day, if you can).
Use air conditioning in your home, ideally with a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter. You should also change the filters in your air conditioner and furnace on a regular basis.
 Your home may not have a mold problem, but if you sleep with your windows open you may be exposing yourself to outdoor mold spores. Because the air tends to be cooler and damper at night than during the day, mold spore concentrations are typically highest in the air at night., If you know you will be encountering a mold problem, wear a dust mask that completely covers your nose and mouth and disposable protective gloves. This will help prevent mold spores from entering your airways or irritating your skin.Use protective gear if you intend to clean an existing mold problem, fix a damp/wet environment in your home, or do yard work after a lot of precipitation.
You can purchase protective gear at most home improvement stores or through an online retailer.
Look for an N-95 respirator mask, which will protect your respiratory system from mold exposure.
Kill the mold while wearing protective gear. Your protective gear should include an N-95 respirator, nitrile gloves, and a disposable gown.
 Some people with severe reactions to mold may need to limit their exposure to outdoor air when mold spore concentrations are at their highest. If at all possible, limit outdoor time on those days and try to avoid strenuous activity as much as you can.Most weather reports include a mold count for the day. This can tell you what the expected prevalence of airborne mold spores will be for a given day.
Check your region's mold counts and limit or avoid outdoor activities on days when the mold count is high.
 If your home has any mold, you'll need to act fast before it gets worse. Treating the health problems caused by mold will only reduce your symptoms; the only way to solve the problem permanently is to remove the mold from your home. Your best course of action is to contact a professional who specializes in mold removal.


You can find professionals who work with mold by checking your local phone book or by searching online.
If you or someone you know does not have a known mold allergy, you may be able to clean up a small mold patch on your own. Be sure to wear proper protection: protective eyewear, a breathing mask, and rubber gloves.
You can purchase a commercial cleaning product designed to treat mold, or mix one ounce (29.5 milliliters) of bleach in one quart (0.95 milliliters) of water., When it comes to mold, it's best to take preventative measures and reduce the chances of developing a problem in the first place. You can do this by reducing the moisture levels in your home and cleaning or removing objects that have grown mold.Clean your shower and/or bathtub on a regular basis. Mildew and mold can quickly build on the walls and curtains of your shower if left unattended.
Fix any leaky pipes or water seepage immediately and clean up any standing water or condensation. Dampness, especially in cool, dark areas like a basement, can quickly lead to mold growth.
Get rid of old paper products, particularly newspapers and books. Leaving these items in a damp environment like your basement can cause mold to develop very quickly.
Use a fan to help ventilate your bathroom and prevent mold from growing.

