 If you are involved in too many things, and find yourself dreading your next activity instead of looking forward to it- then drop it. The same goes for your classes or your job. If you've tried to enjoy what you're doing but can't, then drop it & try something new. Don't drop school or working all together! Just find something you enjoy and look-forward to.;
, Set some time in your life to reorganize your space and your life. Get a handle on all the projects you wanted to complete & all the chips you've been waiting to dust off your shoulder. Once you're ahead of the game, you'll feel much more relaxed.
 People in the Caribbean are very close with their families, that's why they're always so happy! They put themselves around the people they love & are rarely alone. Sometimes it's good for us to be alone, but having people around us satisfy our social life & make life a little more interesting.
 Once in a while you need to make time for you. Take a day off from work and go to a spa, or just sleep in at home!

, Instead of listening to sad music or lovey-dovey tunes when you've just come out of a relationship, blast some Bob Marley or Bee-Gees, you'll start feeling better just by listening. You can even learn to play your own instrument, it will help express yourself and you'll enjoy it.
 In life there are many things to get us down. If we go down with them, then it makes it even harder to come up. Instead of worrying about all the stresses in your life- tackle them. Don't let 'em get to you! Keep a positive attitude through & through & laugh about the things that bother you. Example, if someone at work is upsetting you or putting you down- don't stress it. The next time you see them let them know instead of avoiding them. Keep smiling through & through & no one can get to you.
 You can't buy your way to heaven, or bring your money to the grave, so don't push it. Making money and saving is very important in life but it should not rule you. People in the Caribbean are not all wealthy, but they're all happy because they don't stress it. Manage your money, and respect it, but don't get carried away by greed. There are more important things in life than money.
 If you find yourself at a boring party- make fun of it! Dance, laugh, tell interesting stories. Never be bored! Always find a way to make someone laugh or at least yourself. Don't take life to seriously, because it's meant to be enjoyed, so enjoy it already!

, Take it easy. Don't hurry, and don't worry. Go along with the flow, and live life in an easygoing, happy-go-lucky manner. Be reasonable & responsible but don't stress it! Enjoy your life knowing that you can't always control everything but you can try! Live your dreams & do what drives you!

,