 Mix until the salt and sugar crystals are dissolved. When mixed, move on to the next step while this mixture cools.


1 cup of warmed milk can be substituted for the powdered milk combo, as well;
, The water should be very warm to the touch, but not so warm you can't stick your finger in it without burning-- just on the edge of "hot." Stir in the sugar and add the yeast, letting it sit for about 10 minutes, until frothy.
 Use a stiff spatula or wooden spoon to mix everything together. This mixture should frothy and bubbly.
 Beat everything together with a flat wooden spoon, stiff spatula, or the flat blade on your stand mixer, stirring until everything is blended into a shaggy, somewhat sticky dough.


Salt can halt or slow yeast production. This is why you only add half of it at first., If you have a stand mixer, attach the dough hook and let it work on the shaggy dough for 4-5 minutes, until you have shiny, smooth ball of dough. If not, sprinkle a cutting board with flour and turn the dough out on it. Knead for 3-4 minutes, until you have a shiny, solid bowl of dough. It should be just barely sticky, and bounce back after you press into it. To knead:


Stand so that the dough is about waist height, allowing you to put your weight into the knead.
Fold about half of the dough on top of itself as if you were making a taco shell shape.
Use the heel of your hand to press the dough down into itself, "sealing" the fold.
Rotate the dough a quarter-turn and repeat.|
Keep folding, pressing, and rotating until the dough is a shiny, round ball.
If the dough is sticking too much to you, add a little more flour to your hands and the countertop., Place a damp towel over the dough and let it sit as it rises. It should be about twice as big as when you started.


You can let the dough rise up to 24 hours if you put it in the fridge, and some cooks believe this leads to a better flavor. The next day, all you have to do is shape and cook the muffins., These will be your muffins, so try to get nice, even pieces so they all cook nicely. You can cut as many different pieces as you want, depending on how big you want the muffins to be, but this recipe nicely creates 10 medium-sized English muffins.


Lightly flour the knife or your hands if the dough sticks to it.
Know that this dough expands, slightly, when cooked.
 Place the dough balls on top of the sheet, leaving about an inch of space on each side (they will rise and expand). Sprinkle the tops with cornmeal as well so that you have the classic crunchy bits on the tops and bottoms of your muffins.
 The rising stage lets the yeast create air inside the dough, which is why it puffs up. These same air bubbles create the nooks and crannies in a great English muffin, crafting the perfect texture you're looking for.


If you're in a rush, you can skip this second rise and just start cooking. They will taste good, though the texture won't quite be perfect., English muffins need to cook quickly enough to get a hard, toasted crust but slowly enough that the insides cook as well. If your griddle lets you pick temperatures, set it to 300. If not, or if you want to use a cast-iron or non-stick pan instead, set it to medium heat and let it get nice and hot.
 Know that, once you do, you need to be ready to keep going on the recipe before the butter burns. You don't need much -- 1/2 tablespoon should be good for every 5-6 muffins.
 Simply drop the dough balls, covered top and bottom with cornmeal, on the hot griddle and let them start to cook. If you have muffin rounds -- little rings used to help keep the muffin's shape, add them to the griddle and put your dough balls in the center of them.


Muffin rings are not necessary but do lead to a more uniform shape. Tuna cans that have both the tops and bottoms cut out with a can opener are a great substitute., You'll flip the muffins after about 5 minutes. When flipped, the cooked side should be an appealing dark brown color, but don't worry if you got their too soon -- you can always re-flip them to finish a side if need be., Make sure that the centers are cooked -- the outside edge shouldn't be shiny or doughy anymore, but firm and cooked. If you took them off too early place the muffins in a 350F oven for 3-4 minutes to finish., To get the best texture, including all the nooks and crannies, make sure that you cut the muffin open with a fork, not a knife. This allows all the air pockets to stay intact.