 Make a point every day to talk to your sibling. Ask them, “How are you feeling today? Is there anything you need to talk about? What can I do to help you?” Let your sibling know clearly and regularly that you are there to help them when times get rough.Make sure that you talk with your sibling about things that are not related to their illness as well. This will give them a break from thinking about their illness and help them to maintain their identity, and protect your relationship with them.
If your sibling does not feel like talking, be understanding. They need to cope and process their hardship in their own way. Simply let them know that you are available should they want to talk.
 Offer to help your sibling out with day-to-day tasks like picking up prescriptions and scheduling doctor’s appointments. Volunteer to help them out with chores or housework, and if you can drive, offer yourself as a ride to and from appointments.Ask your sibling what feels the most difficult or overwhelming for them. Offer to step in and take charge of those tasks they just don’t feel like they can complete at that moment. You can also enlist other family members in helping out your sibling. Be careful not to take on too much by yourself or you may become overwhelmed.
If your parents or a significant other is helping to care for your sibling, ask them how you can help out.
 Go with your sibling to appointments for treatment and offer emotional support during doctor visits. This lets them know that you are there for them, and also helps normalize things for you.If you do go to appointments with your sibling, make sure that you take notes for them. It may be hard for them to remember everything due to the stress of the appointment.
Remind your sibling regularly, “You are not alone. I’m here to help,” while they undergo treatment.
If you are helping a child or a teenage sibling, have them come with their brother or sister to appointments. This can help strengthen family bonds and make the process of treatment less scary for both siblings.
 When your sibling has cancer, things will change. You can't expect a sense of normalcy, but you can work on maintaining your relationship with your sibling to help keep things as consistent as possible.


Schedule time every day or every week, if you are able, to do something you and your sibling both enjoy. Play a board game you both like, or go get a cup of coffee and just chat.

