 It is the focal point of the room and should not be overshadowed by other furniture or art pieces. The bed in a romantic bedroom is the ultimate place to express your inner spirits, closeness, and romantic feelings. A neat and well-dressed bed can enhance passion.


Try centering the bed on a wall with no doors or windows to make it a focal point.
Think about whether you want to place it directly in the center of the room and put a low couch or chest at the end of the bed.
 If you’re buying new items, be sure to lie on the mattress before you buy so you can be certain it’s comfortable. If you’re reusing old items, think about how to make your bed frame fit into your new romantic room. Some options for changing your bed frame might be:


If it’s wood, refinish in a different varnish or strip the varnish and paint a different color
If it’s metal, paint a new color
If it’s particleboard, consider some vinyl pieces to attach and create texture and interest.
Make a new one out of repurposed boards and paint a romantic message on it.Consider a four-poster bed with a canopy over the top of a fabric that goes with your theme

, Choosing the best sheets, blankets, and comforters you can is essential for a wonderful bedroom. Think about your color scheme and start looking for bedding. Feel the fabrics -- will they provide the textural feel you want in your bed? Think about what kinds of coverings you want -- whether it will be blankets, a comforter, or a duvet -- and how it might change with the seasons.


Do you like the feel of silk or satin sheet? Some people love them, while others find them slippery.
Have you tried cotton sheets with a high thread count? These are often chosen by both men and women as some of the most comfortable sheets -- many luxury hotels use them.
Do you need a lot of warmth in your blankets or comforters? Or will you be fine with a thin blanket? Think about what you will need year-round.
 Some people like to have many accent pillows on their bed, while others prefer a more minimal look. At minimum, you’ll need fluffy comfortable pillows for your head (and the head of your partner). If you want accent pillows, think about how many you want, their sizes, and their shapes. Think about buying the pillows to match your bedding -- either to echo the colors or textures you’ve already chosen.