 Both before and after your child’s game, dine with them. Kids tend to eat healthier when they dine at home with their parents. When your child sees you making healthy dining choices, they will do the same. Plus, dining with your child athlete will give you two the chance to bond.Busy parents might find it difficult to coordinate their schedule so that they can eat with their child every night, or even before and after every game. Set time in your schedule to do so, and eliminate or reschedule obligations that are less important like organizing your stamp collection or folding the laundry.
Use a daily planner to write down the dates of your kid’s athletic events so that you will be sure to eat with your child and see their match.
 If you are unable to be with your child before or after their game, leave something in the fridge that they can quickly and easily warm up on their own. Inform your child that their pre or post-game meal is available for them, and let them know when they should eat it. If you will not be around with your child after the game to ensure they receive a post-game snack packed with carbs and protein, place the snack in a bag or lunch pail along with a bottle of water so that they can keep their energy up and rebuild their tired muscles., Unless your child has been instructed by a medical professional to lose weight, your child should not be on a diet. Likewise, encouraging or allowing your child to gain weight in order to “bulk up” for a particular athletic activity is a bad idea. Kids need a balanced, healthy diet in order to grow strong. If your child dramatically increases or reduces their calorie intake significantly — or adopts a fad diet like a high-protein diet — this could negatively impact their health., It is not necessary to snack during games lasting an hour or less. But if your child’s game lasts more than an hour — and especially if they’re pushing themselves hard — they might want a small snack. Provide your child with an energy bar, a banana, or a small box of raisins in the event you expect their game to last over an hour.Remind your child that they are not obligated to eat the snack, but can if they get hungry.
 Fill a water bottle with cool water so your kids can cool down and quench their thirst as needed. Encourage your child to drink water or an electrolyte-rich beverage with low-to-moderate amounts of sugar every 15 to 20 minutes during physical activity.Remind your child before the game that they should be drinking regularly even if they are not thirsty.
Do not provide your child with sugary drinks like soda and sweet juices. These beverages can spike the blood sugar levels, leaving your children with a quick burst of energy, but a steep decline in energy once the spurt wears off.

