 A watery vegetable or fruit, especially raw, can help clear your mouth of debris and any lingering food that could cause bad breath.Maintaining a healthy, balanced diet and eating regular meals can also help keep the bacteria in your mouth from piling up or drying out.
Certain diets, such as extreme fasting and very low-carb diets, can give you bad-smelling breath. This is due to chemicals called ketones, which are made by the breakdown of fat in your body. Breathing the ketones out of your mouth can create bad breath. So be aware of this unpleasant side effect before trying these diets., These foods will create very strong smells in your mouth. Chronic garlic eaters not only have chronic bad breath, they also have strong body odor because foods such as garlic and onions contain acids that stay in your body long after you eat them., Sugary foods leave traces of sugar in your mouth. These traces act as food for the bacteria in your mouth to thrive on, which then develop into acid that can contribute to tooth decay and tooth erosion, not to mention stale breath.Avoid snacking on sugary foods such as candy and sweets. Limit your consumption of fizzy drinks, including fizzy water and fruit juices, because these are usually very acidic.
If you do drink fizzy drinks such as soda, drink them quickly through a straw. Don’t swish them around in your mouth or hold them in your mouth for a long period of time.
 Coffee has a strong odor that leads to coffee breath and it can be difficult to get rid of the smell of stale coffee in your mouth. Caffeine can also cause you to become dehydrated and lead to dry mouth.Alcohol can also lead to dry mouth and will leave a stale odor in your mouth that is hard to brush away.
If you currently smoke, try to cut back. Tobacco products can give you very bad breath and the mouth odor from tobacco is difficult to get rid of.
 This will help to get the saliva flowing in your mouth and clear out any smelly bacteria. Look for gum that is 100 percent xylitol-sweetened, which not only gives you nice, fresh breath, it also reduces cavities.Be careful with breath mints. Sugar-free mints are fine for a quick fix after a meal. But they will only briefly mask the smell and don’t do anything to remove the harmful bad bacteria.
Skip the sugary after-dinner mint. The sugar will sit on your teeth and make your bad breath worse.

