 Roughly get a number of how many bags you need. Choose plain bags if you are happy to decorate them yourself, or buy ones with dinosaur designs printed on them if you aren't keen on making the bag. You can usually buy party goody bags from your local party supplies store, department stores that stock party items, quality paper/stationery stores and online sellers.

Always have more bags than guests, in case of additional guests, errors or the like.
, You can make them in any of the following ways:

Stamped dinosaur goody bags
Attaching dinosaur images
Hand drawn dinosaur goody bag
Cardboard cut-out dinosaur goody bag.


Each of these types is explained in the following steps.
 Use your own dinosaur stamps or purchase some. These stamps can be found in the dollar store, through retailers who sell stamping equipment (hobby, craft and toy stores) and from online sellers.

Decide on the design. Either stamp the dinosaurs onto the goody bag randomly, or design a pattern on a piece of plain paper first and use that as a guide.
Stamp the dinosaurs in place. It's easier to do this as a production line if there are lots to do––set the goody bags out in a row and work your way down the row methodically.
Write, print or stick on the words "Dino Goody Bag" if wished.
 Find suitable pictures of dinosaurs in magazines, old books, online pictures printed off or stickers.

Decide on the design. Either glue or stick the dinosaurs onto the goody bag randomly, or design a pattern on a piece of plain paper first and use that as a guide.
Glue or stick the dinosaur images or stickers in place. It's easier to do this as a production line if there are lots to do––set the goody bags out in a row and work your way down the row methodically.
Write, print or stick on the words "Dino Goody Bag" if wished.
 This is best done by young children, allowing them the freedom to draw any dinosaurs they like. Don't make this too involved, especially not if there are lots of goody bags to make, as it can be time consuming and the bags are never kept for long anyway.

Set out the goody bags. Give your child plenty of coloring tools (markers, pencil, paint).
Ask your child to draw at least one dinosaur on each bag. They're allowed to add a tree or more than one dinosaur if they like but not too much, as they need to finish all of the bags needed.
 Draw or find an image of a dinosaur that is the size of the goody bag. It can be slightly bigger if wished, as having some of the image hang over the top or sides of the bag is fine. Make a template of this design for tracing around. Another alternative is to purchase or make a stencil.

Transfer the image to thin cardboard by tracing around the template (or stencil). Use any colors you like, perhaps match the cardboard to a party color theme if relevant.
Make as many as you have goody bags.
Cut the dinosaur images out. Be as neat as possible.
Glue the image onto the front of each goody bag. Do not allow any of the image to go under the base of the bag but sticking out of the sides and top is fine. The base needs to be able to stand up properly.
Allow to dry. Done. The cut-outs can be written on, such as a child's name, if wished.
 Head on down to the dollar store or other cheap toy or party supplies store to find some dinosaur related goodies. Here are some ideas for fillers:

Toy dinosaurs
Dinosaur stickers or temporary tattoos
Dinosaur candies
Dinosaur play sets
Dinosaur coloring books
Dinosaur mini games
Dinosaur poster or postcards
Dinosaur wallets or purses, and so forth.
 Consider tying a helium-filled balloon on the handles to keep the bag tied together. All the better if you can find a dinosaur-designed balloon., When the kids are leaving, hand out the goody bags as they go.