 If you play guitar, you obviously need a guitar. Depending on your style, and whether it's an electric or acoustic guitar, you will need different type of equipment. If play drums, TRY to get an electronic drum set. Much easier to record. Bass usually has the same requirements as the guitar. If you want to sing, MAKE SURE THAT YOU REALLY KNOW HOW TO SING. YouTubers are not that nice with critics and reviews.;
, Learn how to record your instrument/voice. What equipment you need, the time it should take, place where to record, etc. Once you are really sure and you've got some money to spend on it, continue to the next step.
 These are some examples for each Rock traditional instrument. NOTE: You WILL need an Audio Recording Software or equipment for all of these, and it's better if it's a DAW (Digital Audio Workstation), that way you get Equalizers, Amp/Effects simulators, etc. If it's a video, you will also need a camera and a Video Editing software.


Acoustic Guitar/Acoustic Bass: Guitar/Bass, Microphone and Microphone stand (You can look recording techniques in Internet), Audio Interface (Unless your microphone can connect directly into your computer, like USB or 1/8 inch Microphones).
 There are many ways to record these, so these are what you need for each one. Direct Recording is connecting your guitar directly into your computer, without changing its signal before it enters the computer: Cables, Computer Audio Interface, and a DAW with an Amp simulator. Semi-direct Recording is a rarely used type of recording, and is done by connecting your guitar/bass to your amp, and connecting the headphone/line out output to a Recording Interface, a Computer Sound Card, or a Recorder. For this you will need: Amp, Cables (At least two), Recording Interface/Recorder (Unless you connect it directly to your computer Sound Card, which is not recommended). The last one is Miking Recording. As said by the name, it means using a microphone to catch your amp's signal, and sending the microphone signal to your recording equipment. For this you will need: Amp, Cables (Instrument and probably also Mic, or XLR, cables), a Microphone, Microphone stand, Audio interface or Recorder.


Acoustic/Electric Guitar/Bass: All of both Electric and Acoustic Recording techniques will work.
 Then you just record it with your audio interface, recorder, or computer. Another better, but more expensive way, is using specialty microphones. This is a method that includes several microphones, each one used for different purposes, such as a bass drum mic, a snare mic, a high and mid tom mic, etc. This offers greater definition in each drum. These types of microphones can be bought in sets of 4-piece, 5-pieces or so on drum sets. However, this method can be expensive. You must buy the mics, cables, and an interface with a lot of inputs, or a mixer with a lot of inputs that connects to the interface.
 It is almost certain that the Electronic Drum Set has a line output, so you just connect it to a Line input in your interface or recorder, and you're all set.


Keyboards/Piano: If you use an electronic keyboard, which is very common, it probably has a Line Output, so you just connect it to the line input in your recorder or interface, and you're set. If you use an acoustic, or Grand Piano, you will have to use one or two microphones. You can look for techniques in Recording Piano on the Internet.
 To record Vocals in a Studio or near-studio quality, you will need a Vocal Condenser microphone. This are much more sensible and will capture nicely your voice. Condenser microphones, however, need electric signal to work. This signal is also called "Phantom Power". Some interfaces have a Phantom Power applier already built in, but if it doesn't, you'll have to get one for the mics to work. Also, to provide a better vocal recording, you should get a shock mount and a pop filter. You can look up on the Internet what those are for. You can also use a dynamic microphone, which are mostly used for live performances, since they are less sensitive and don't use Phantom Power. You will also need a really quiet place, with good acoustics. On the internet or in Recording books they tell which acoustics are best for recording vocals.




Once you have learned how to record your instrument or voice, it's time to look for Musicians on Youtube.
 You can look for musicians all over YouTube. There are thousands of them. You can also tell someone you know to make a collaboration. To look for them, look for a cover of the song you would like to play, or a cover of a song by that same artist. This is to get better probabilities that they will like, know, and want to play the song. If you want to make an original song video, think it very hard, because you could probably be giving them rights to the song. If you are sure of your decision, then look for a musician with a similar style to yours. Also try someone with a number of subscribers and views as you. This will increase the probability that they will accept. Remember that a collaboration doesn't necessarily mean to cover all the parts of a song. It could be a two guitar collaboration, a guitar, bass and drum lineup, or a whole virtual band.
 If they want another song other than yours, then try doing both, or settle for one. If he says no, then accept it and look for someone else, and asks if they know someone that might like to do it. If they say yes, tell them to look for the musicians missing.
 To do this, there are various way. This could be the traditional multi-track recording. This means that, first, the drummer will record him/herself. USE A METRONOME. It's essential, specially for the drummer. Then comes the bass guitar, which will record him/herself over the drum track previously recorded. After that, the guitar(s) will record themselves. As with multi-track recording, first rhythm, then lead guitars, and at last the guitar fills. Then comes the keyboards. Since both guitars and keyboards are often used as melodic and rhythmic, they are at the same level in the order of recording, so either could be first. At last, and at the very last, come the vocals. This is because vocals are completely melodic, and they have to follow rhythm over all, so everything must be set into place before vocals.
 This means mixing, equalizing, leveling, etc. ALL the recordings, so that it sounds like you want it to sound. In case you all have different software, the Audio Editor must get each recorded track every time one is made. He/She must get it in an Audio form. That way, he/she can put it on the software easily, and it can still be edited and leveled. Like this: He gets the drum track, he mixes, levels, etc., and sends it to the bass player. He/She records the bass track with the drum track as a backing track in his/her own recording program. This type of situation is one of the reasons why you SHOULD use a metronome. The drummer can use a metronome track, and another drum track. You use the audio file with the metronome as a backing track on every recording, or until it's not required anymore. At the end, the drummer sends the audio file with ONLY the drum track, and substitute it for the one with the metronome in the Editor's software. So it's also important not to cut the drum track, so that it's easier.
 It's as simple as this: You video-record yourself while recording, send it to the one that has the Video Editor Software. He/She makes a video showing everyone's video in an equitable way. That means using a "Picture in Picture" kind of thing. That person also has to get the final Audio Record, which will include everyone's tracks and the final mix. He/She will sync the videos with the Audio. This can take some time, so be patient. Also, use good cameras. Invest at least $100 on a good camera. This will also work as a normal camera, so it's worth it. To make yourself known with the others' channels, put the names, channels, and if you want even the country of the musicians collaborating. This will help get views by someone other than the ones that already know you. So you all should have the final video to upload it to your channels.
 Because it will be a lot of data in one single video (around 5 videos and around 5 audio tracks in one video), the upload to YouTube will take a lot of time. An option is to get up early one day, upload the video, and leave the computer on to let it upload the video, and then go to work/school/anything. Come back later and see the progress. If the upload is taking way too long, try changing it to a more suitable video and audio file (the best ones are: video, mp4, and avi, and audio file being mp3).
 This will increase your and their views.

