 You can report a lost package at the United Parcel Service (UPS) website if you have your UPS Tracking Number. This begins the process of a UPS Package Search. This investigation may require UPS to contact you, the sender, or receiver. The whole process typically takes around 10 business days.Ensure that your package is indeed lost. UPS defines a lost package as a package that was undelivered 24 hours after the expected delivery date.
You can check the status or progress of your claim on the UPS website and with your claim number.
 If you are receiving a package, you may need to contact the sender. UPS recommends that senders report packages because notification letters or package details are not often sent to the receiver. When the package is found or not found, details are typically sent to the receiver. However, both senders and recipients are able to file claims.
 If your package is not found, UPS will send a Loss Notification claim letter to the sender. If your package is found UPS will send the delivery information to the sender as well.


If you package is found, UPS may require you to re-ship the package. However, if you explain your situation over the phone they will usually refund you the cost of re-sending.
 If UPS could not locate your package, UPS will review your case to see if you are eligible for a refund or reimbursement. It is almost always easier to get your refund over the phone, where you can explain everything to a real person. UPS will require you to submit documents such as:


Documentation cost, purchase price, or replacement cost of the package.Original invoices or purchase orders.
Proof of shipment.
 If you claim is authorized, UPS will send you or the sender a check in the mail within 3 to 5 business days. Remember to be firm and fair with customer service. While some may not want to reimburse you, kindly remind them that the lost package was their fault and they need to make it right.


If your claim is not approved, UPS will contact you to let you know if you are the sender. Unfortunately, you will not be able to recover your lost package or receive reimbursement from UPS.

