 All horses have different attitudes. This is a very important thing to know when training your horse. Some may be the kind that would fight or act aggressive towards you, others choose flight and avoidance. Others act aggressive or shy if they are afraid and/or unsure about you. Whatever the attitude, you need to work with him according to what he is trying to tell you and what you need to do to gain his trust and respect. It also may help if you learn horse signs because different positions of the ear means MANY different things.;
, Try the joining up process done by horse trainers like Pat Parelli or Monty Roberts if you're experienced, patient, have a round pen, the right tools, and lots of time. If you don't have the experience, you may be best to consult with a trainer or experienced horseman or woman to know what the best methods are available for you to gain the trust and respect of the horse. However, more patience, persistence, consistency, and time can do wonders as well. Your horse will come to you when he's ready.
 If he loves oats, then you can use this as a positive reinforcement for him. If he likes another treat, such as a carrot, you can use that too.


When you're giving your horse treats, always give them it to him in a rubber bowl or bucket (or something similar) so that they won't start pushing you around and getting in your pockets, or start nipping you. If you keep hand feeding horses, they may start nipping you, or pushing you around trying to see if you have any treats in your pockets. Make sure that every time you get done handling food, you wash your hands because the horse will smell it and nip, even when it's on your clothes!

Sometimes making friends with a horse simply by giving him treats doesn't solve anything. You need to make him trust you even when you don't have treats in your pockets all the time. Treats can be a good reinforcement that he is not going to be hurt, but even touches/strokes on the neck or head (never the nose or muzzle) can be reinforcement that you mean no harm.

If you give him treats all the time, he learns that the presence of you means food, not as a part of his herd or his social hierarchy, and that can be detrimental in the long run.
 Sometimes though, the whole part of the gaining trust process and rehabilitation of this abused horse is to help him get over his fears. Of course it is always best to let a more experienced trainer work with him than you doing it yourself.


One really good thing other than treats you can do is groom your horse. The horses will love it because you are near them and touching them so much and caring for them that you get 3 in one done. You get your: grooming, desensitizing, and care done all in one and it benefits both you and your horse.

