 This is optional although it can give the ball better flight movement in the air. When Ronaldo takes a free kick, he always lines up the ball so the valve will make contact with his foot. It's difficult to know if this contact has any real effect on the trajectory of the ball or if it's just superstition, but it can't hurt to try., He then stands with his arms straight down and his legs spread very wide, more than shoulder-width. As he approaches, he works a distinctive stutter-step into his kicks. Taking a few quick stutters tends to throw off the goalkeepers and other defenders, so they won't know exactly when the kick is coming.
 Plant your other foot beside the ball and to the opposite side of your strong foot to get the proper angle for an upward arch of the ball.









His free-kicks tend to go up high very quickly, seeming to explode off his foot. This comes from the quick and short follow through right after making contact with the ball. Done properly, the kick won't spin, but will arc up, then dip back down quickly, or zig-zag according to the power put in with the follow-through., You want to make contact on the ball with the long bone in your foot that runs from your big toe to the top of your foot. Aim for the nozzle valve that you faced toward you at the beginning of the kick.









To give it the knuckle-ball effect, you need to avoid putting any English or spin on the ball whatsoever. Try to hit the ball just below the middle but not too low so that it doesn't take backspin.Not rolling it off your foot at all.
 The most important part of the kick is the follow-through. Follow through by pointing your kicking foot where you want the ball to go, swiveling around toward your target and driving your plant foot off the ground and up into the air. Bring your kicking knee straight up instead of the more traditional follow-through in which you end up to the side.









Imagine you wanted to make the knee of your kicking foot touch your chin after you make contact with the ball. Done properly, your kicking foot should hit the ground first. Now stand back and watch your knuckle-ball in all its unpredictable glory.


