 When we get a bad grade and we're not used to it, we panic. We think we've lost our smarts, our focus, our mojo. But that's just not the case most of the time. Everyone can slip up from time to time. In fact, it's the mistakes we make in life that really teach us who we are and how to do even better the next time.


Don't panic because panicking will cause stress, and stress doesn't make for good grades. One recent study found that students who stressed over big exams actually did worse than those who stay calm.;
, Your academic career is made up of lots of different tests, not just the tests you take in class or the presentations that you give. Your academic career depends on the relationships you make with your teachers; the impact that you make on other friends; and most importantly, the stuff you learn. Judging the success of your academic career by only looking at a single grade is like judging the success of a party after only a single guest has arrived. It's not an accurate guess.
 Make sure the teacher didn't make a mistake in counting the points or arriving at a grade. Remember, even math teachers make counting mistakes!


If you do happen to find a mistake, double check that it's actually a mistake and then find a time when you can talk to your teacher. Instead of accusing them of making a mistake — "You made a mistake on my test, I want my grade changed immediately!" — try to be more understanding. Remember that you get more bees with honey than you do with vinegar. Try something like: "I noticed that the numbers don't add up here. Am I missing something?"

, You probably won't feel bad about getting a C or a D if everyone else in the class got a C, because C was the benchmark. Still, be careful about finding out other people's grades — they may not want to share, or they may want to know yours in exchange.


If your teacher grades "on the curve", the grade that you get will take into account the grades everyone else got. So if the highest grade on a test was a C, then a C might become an A and a D might become a B-.
 Teachers love it when students who get a bad grade show a willingness to learn and get better. That makes the teacher feel successful, like they're doing a good job. So if you go up to a teacher after a bad grade and say something like "Hi Ms. Kowalski, I'm not happy with my performance on the test. Could we go over the problems that I missed or talk about preparing better in the future," they just might faint with satisfaction.


Even though it's really hard to do, a lot of good can come from meeting with your teacher:

The teacher will explain problems you missed or ideas you struggle with
The teacher will see that you want to learn and may factor this into your final grade
The teacher may give you extra credit work



, It feels good to help other people, which is why many students who ace tests offer to help out students who didn't. Just be sure to actually spend time studying and working on improving instead of goofing off. And remember to try to choose someone you're not attracted to or have a secret crush on — we all know how much "studying" gets done when you're in the same room as a total man-hunk or she-angel.
 Although you may not have to tell your parents, it may very well be a good idea. Your parents care about you succeeding. That's why they show concern over a bad grade — not because they want you to feel bad. Remembering this will help you open up and hopefully make getting help a lot easier.


Your parents may sit down and explain to you what you got wrong; they may hire a private instructor or tutor to help you out; they may schedule a meeting with your teacher (even though this is unusual after just one bad grade) in order to learn how you could improve.
 A lot of people think that studying the right way means studying for a long period of time. That's not always the case. Studying with purpose and enthusiasm usually wins out over putting in longer hours.
 Studies have shown that writing with a pen and paper actually enhances your memory over simply typing the same out on a computer.That's because the act of writing out letters and numbers with a pen activates motor memory in your brain. Increased motor memory means increased overall memory of whatever it was that you put down in your notes.
 10-minute study breaks every hour can be helpful in memorizing and learning your material. So take a walk, play with your dog, or call your best friend and commiserate for one-sixth of an hour before you get back to studying.
 Practice test are great if you can find them. They give you a good idea of how well you're doing and what areas or problems you need to improve on. Practice makes perfect!

, You probably don't want to cram for a test if you can afford it. Cramming leaves you tired, with a weaker understanding of the material, and sometimes with an outsized confidence in how well you'll do.
 Studies show that for each hour of sleep you lose during the night, your chance of psychological stress goes up 14%.That's not necessarily a problem until you realize that stress affects your academic performance. So be sure to grab a good night's sleep at least a couple night's before the big test in order to give your body the best shot at success.
 Your brain and body need fuel in order to do well on the test. So getting prepared with an excellent breakfast is a huge priority not to be overlooked. Try not-so-sugary cereals, whole-grain bagels, yogurts and granola, as well as oatmeal and fresh fruits to give your body all the energy it needs to do great.