 Have they been nagging you about cleaning your room or taking out the trash? If you want that iPod, it's time you begin doing what they ask. Your parents will be more likely to want to give you good gifts when you've been a star student and stellar help around the house.


When they ask you to do something, complete the task efficiently and effectively.
Do it when they first ask you, and don’t allow the request to become nagging or an explosive argument.
Be proactive in your actions. Think about what your parents would want you to do before they even ask.;
, Set high expectations for yourself. If you’re getting Cs and Ds, try to get As and Bs instead. Being a model student at school can help you be seen as the model child at home.


If you’re on a sports team or club, do your best to join the leadership of the team or organization.
Do your homework on time, and review your notes every day. You may also want to join a study group or create good study habits to allow you to do better on your assignments., This will show your parents that you’re responsible and deserve good gifts (like an iPod).


Clean up after yourself, and keep your room tidy.
Make sure you do the dishes, vacuum and mop the house frequently.
Offer to cook breakfast on a weekend.
Take the trash out before your parents ask you to.
 Be respectful of their time. Don't be rude and talk back to them. Treat them as you would like to be treated.


Parents can be tired and frustrated after a long day of work. Respect their space, and allow them to relax.
Always remember that when your parents have something to say, they are usually speaking for your benefit.
Be kind to your brothers and sisters as well.
 If your parents see you throwing your laptop, cellphone, or belongings all over the house, they may not be willing to buy you an expensive iPod.


You should also take care of other items you own, such as clothing and things in your room. Treat your clothes well by folding them after use.
Don't throw your book bag or items on the ground. Place things down gently.
Don't slam the fridge door or drop any kitchen glasses frequently. Appearing clumsy may deter your parents from wanting to buy you a breakable item.
 Asking your parents in the middle of the Apple store while crying may not be the best option.


Try asking on their day off, or some time when they seem relaxed and comfortable - like after you've helped them do the dishes after dinner.
Don't ask right after your parents come home from work. They may feel tired and a bit burnt out from all their responsibilities.
Ask when you're one on one with your parent. Don't ask when you're around friends or family as it may be uncomfortable for them to answer.
Make sure you're being a responsible child before asking.
 Screaming or crying won't get you the iPod. Be reasonable in your approach. Be mature and know that a "no" is a possible answer.


Ask in an appreciative tone by stating something like, "Thanks for the wonderful dinner, mom. I was wondering if you had some time to talk about me getting an iPod?"
Avoid raising your voice or getting frustrated.
 Explain that it would come in handy for the long car ride, the airport, or to kill time.


You can also mention that the benefits of music include enhancing moods, relieving stress, and improving cognitive abilities - like acing that exam next week.Make sure to say that you’ll share it with your brother or sister.
 Be reasonable. Leverage something that’s important or meaningful for them.


Prove to them that you’ll ace the next test or join the sports team if they buy you an iPod.
Offer to walk the dog or take out the trash for the month if they’ll purchase you the iPod.Don’t expect them to buy you the iPod if you don’t hold your end of the deal. If so, your promise could have an opposite effect., They would be more willing to split the difference especially if you’ve been good, responsible, and helpful around the house.Save money by running errands or doing chores for your parents around the house.
Save the money you get from birthday gifts and holidays.
Consider getting a job by asking around the neighborhood or looking online.
 Often times, used or refurbished products can be less expensive and won't break the bank. Consider asking for an iPod that still plays music but doesn't have the flash of the most current model.

You can find used or refurbished iPods online and in stores as well.
 Ask for the gift for a special occasion.


Try asking a month before your birthday or a holiday that includes gift-giving.
Ask around Black Friday, gray Thursday, cyber Monday, and super Saturday, so money won't be a problem.
 Don't expect them to buy you a $150-$300 item the first time you ask them for it. You might have to wait until your parent's next bonus or the holiday season. Understand that it will take some work on your end to convince your parents for an iPod.


Accept your parent's response, no matter what.
Be okay with the answer, whether yes or no, and find another time to ask.
Don't argue back with them. Accept whatever answer they give you in that moment, and plan for the next time you'll ask.
If they say they'll purchase it for you next month, don't nag them and ask for it now.
 If they've answered that you're not responsible enough, do the things that'll make you appear responsible to your parents.


Listen to their directions, and help out around the house.
Get good grades in school, and always be prepared in class.
 If they said yes and they get you the iPod, make sure you thank them properly.


Genuinely say thank you for the iPod.
Use it in moderation. Don't ignore your parents and responsibilities now that you've got what you wanted.
Share the iPod with your siblings.
Don't overspend on the apps and albums.
Say if I get too distracted with it you will gladly be able for parents to take it away for awhile

