 Place the onion, garlic and the serrano chiles on a clean, dry cutting surface. Peel and quarter 1 onion, split 4 chiles in half down the center saving the seeds, and smash 4 garlic cloves with the flat side of a chef's knife. Set the vegetables aside while you prepare the pork shoulder.;
, Use a sharp knife to cut the shoulder into strips approximately 2 inches (5.1 cm) in length and 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide. Don't remove the fat; during the cooking process, it melts with the meat and causes it to be deliciously tender.


If you'd prefer to cook the pork shoulder whole, that's fine too. Skip this step and follow the rest of the instructions using the entire piece of pork.
 Place the pieces in a bowl and pour the spices over them. Use tongs or your hands to toss the pork pieces with the spices until they're completely coated. Add a liberal amount of salt and pepper and toss to coat.


You can get creative with the spices in this recipe. If you like your meat extra spicy, add 1/2 teaspoon of cayenne pepper.
Don't skimp with the salt; you can add up to 2 teaspoons.
, Place a heavy dutch oven on the stove. Put a few teaspoons of oil in the dutch oven and turn the burner to medium high. When the oil is hot, put the pork shoulder pieces in the dutch oven. Cook them on one side until they get brown, then use tongs to turn them over and brown the other side.


Don't cook the pieces too long. You don't want to cook them through, just enough to bring out the flavor in the meat.
Remove the dutch oven from heat when you're finished.
 Arrange them around the meat pieces so that they make contact with the bottom of the pot. Pour in an inch or two of water and cover the pot.
 Place the pot in the oven and let the carnitas cook for 4 hours. Check the pot a few times during the course of cooking to make sure the meat isn't drying out or burning. Remove the dutch oven from the oven when the carnitas are meltingly soft when poked with a fork.If you'd prefer to cook the carnitas in a slow cooker, transfer the meat and vegetables to a slow cooker and cook on high for 4 hours, or on low for 8 hours.
If the carnitas look like they could use some moisture during the course of cooking, add 1/2 cup of water.
Don't remove the carnitas until they are completely tender; cooking the carnitas for a shorter period of time will leave you with tough meat.
 Place the carnitas on a plate with shredded lettuce, diced tomatoes, a section of lime, some cilantro, and chopped onions. Serve with warm tortillas and some sour cream.
 Fill taco shells or soft taco tortillas with few spoonfuls of carnitas. Top with the taco toppings of your choice, such as salsa, guacamole, lettuce, cotija cheese, and black beans.
 Fill tortillas with carnitas, then roll them up and line them on the bottom of a deep baking dish. Pour red or green enchilada sauce over the rolls, then top with grated cheese. Bake the enchiladas for 20 minutes, or until the cheese is bubbly. Serve with sour cream and lettuce.

