 The surface should be a table or countertop that has plenty of space for your glass. It should be clean and clear of any unnecessary items or tools.
 Be careful when handling the glass, so that you do not accidentally drop or break it.
 Use a marker to draw the line where you intend to cut the glass. There are plenty of markers available that are designed for writing on glass that you can use for this purpose.Use a ruler to help you draw a line that is perfectly straight by placing the ruler right next to the pen as you draw.
 Lubricating the cutter will prevent the blade from dulling and make scoring the glass easier. Be sure to dip the cutter in oil before each cut.


Oils traditionally used for glass cutters are kerosene oil, motor oil, and lamp oil; however, any type of oil could work. You could also use coconut oil, olive oil, or avocado oil. It is completely up to you!, Scoring means slicing the glass with the cutter. Hold the cutter perpendicular to the surface of the glass and slide it firmly along the cut line. Use enough pressure to make a line but not so much that you leave a white residue (which means the glass won’t break cleanly). You will know that you are using the right amount of pressure if you hear a “zip” sound as you cut. It will help to practice making cuts on cheap sheet glass first.You do not need to cut the score line very deep. Using too much pressure could prevent the glass from breaking evenly.
Be sure to cut from one edge to the other. It is not possible to break the glass evenly if the cut is not from edge to edge.
Do not cut over a previously cut score line if you make a mistake. You will need to cut another score line. Doing so will ruin your cutter., Line up the score line with the edge of the table. The largest piece of glass should rest on the table and the smaller piece should be off the table.
 For large pieces of glass, lift the glass one to two inches off the edge of the table and then bring down firmly with both hands. The glass piece should break off against the edge of the table.


The larger piece should be on the table and the smaller piece in your hands.
 For medium sheets of glass that can hold in your hands, you may be able to simply bend the glass in each hand until it breaks and you are holding a piece in both hands.
 For small pieces of glass, use pliers instead of your hands to break off the glass. Hold the largest piece of glass with your non-dominant hand and use your dominant hand to grip the pliers.


Position the pliers in the center of the glass, running parallel to the score line.
Using the pliers, push down on the smallest piece of glass, as if you are making a folding motion along the score line.
The glass should break off cleanly.

