 Gather four cardboard tubes from around your home. Use scissors to snip a “fringe” on the end of one of the tubes. Start by making a cut at least two inches long. Move over about half a centimeter and make another cut the same exact length. Keeping doing this until you’ve gone all the way around the tube.Toilet paper and paper towels are two good resources for cardboard tubes.;
, Repeat the same process to create fringe on the ends of all four tubes. Give each cardboard tube a different fringe length. This will allow you to create fireworks in four different sizes. Leave a few inches of uncut tubing on the opposite end so you can hold onto the tube easily., Use your fingers to push the cardboard strips back, away from the tube. Do this all the way around the tube so that the fringe opens up and resembles a fan. This fan tool will allow you to create a firework “print,” very similar to the way you'd use a stamp., These colors are for the fireworks, so consider what you want them to look like before you begin.You can use almost any color you want. If you aren't sure, try out any combination of red, white, yellow, blue, green and purple.

Feel free to try additional colors for your fireworks, but avoid dark hues like midnight blue and black.
 Choose the color you want to start with. Press the fringe end of the tube into the tempera paint. Make sure you pick up paint on all of the cardboard strips. Lift the tube straight up out of the paint and carefully bring it over to your paper.Large pieces of white or black construction paper will work great for this.
Don’t use anything smaller than 11x17 or you won’t have much space to work with.
 Choose the location for your first firework print and bring the fan directly down onto the paper. Lightly bounce the tube down, then twist the fan in one direction. Bounce it again and then twist in the opposite direction. As you twist, the paint on the fan will transfer to the paper.Don’t place the cardboard fringe into the paint until you’re ready to make the firework print. The strips can get soggy and fall off.
 Create your next firework print by repeating the actions you just used, except this time use a different color of paint. You could use a slightly smaller size to stamp another print right over the first one. You could also start small and work your way up to the larger sizes.

If you want to start out simply, make single-colored firework prints that don’t overlap with each other.Experiment with different ideas and see which approach you like best!

