 You can use anything from fine papers to scrap booking papers to plain white copier paper. If the paper is extra thick, it may take longer to stain.
 The process will render the paper rugged and uneven, and the ink will not distribute well on the page.
 It will add to the appearance because the creases will mimic handmade parchment or vellum. Do not do this step if you want your paper to lie very flat for your project.
 Place the tray on a very flat surface, or the tea will puddle in a lower corner.
 Preheat your oven to the lowest setting, approximately 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93.3 degrees Celsius).
 Pour it into a bowl.
 The more tea bags you brew, the darker your stain will be. Wait between 5 and 20 minutes to remove the tea bags and begin tea staining.


The hotter the tea is, the more orange it will appear. Many older parchments have a slightly burnt orange hue. An orange spiced black tea may also create a warmer hue.
 Apply it unevenly to the paper in order to make an older look.
Apply the tea with 1 of the tea bags. Make sure the tea bag is not too hot before using. Brush it over paper, while allowing some places to be wetter than others. This will give a look of uneven aging. If the tea bag starts to come apart, throw it away and use another.
Pour the tea directly onto the paper. Pour slowly and stop when it starts to pool. Make sure you don't pour too much. Tilt the cookie sheet so that all areas of the paper are in contact with the tea. This is the best method if you want to do a few sheets at a time, because you can set pieces of paper on top of each other and it will soak through.
 If it has not, apply it again with your method of choice.
 Blot up any areas where the tea has pooled. If there is too much liquid in 1 area, it may create a hole when you attempt to use the paper.
 This will make the sharp edges look worn. You can rub other areas of the paper if you want to create holes.
 Bake the sheet for 5 to 6 minutes. Take it out just as the paper starts to curl very slightly.
 Loosen the edges from the cookie sheet with a fork or spatula while it is still warm. Lay it on another flat surface to cool.


You can also allow the tea soaked sheet to air dry. It will take about 45 minutes for a piece of copier paper to dry. Make sure you weigh the edges down with pebbles or utensils, or the paper will curl.
, The rule is one tea bag per paper.;
, Which means, don't overfill it to the top or give it so little the teabags can't float.
,, The teabag has to be cool enough for you to touch it without a problem.
,,,,