 If your washing machine is not draining all the way after the cycle finishes, then this may be causing the mildew smell. Check your washing machine for defects to see if water is pooling somewhere. If so, then you may need to hire a professional to fix your machine or you may need to replace it.
 If your towels smell like mildew, sometimes the washing machine could be a part of the problem. Since the gasket is the rubber seal inside the washer that prevents water from leaking out when a load is washing, cleaning the gasket is very important to eliminating mildew smells coming from the washer. Wipe down the gasket with a rag dunked in soapy water, or sprayed with a mild mildew cleanser. You could also use a cleaning solution of 50% water 50% bleach.


Consider using an old toothbrush to get hard to reach places of the gasket.
Make sure to get all areas of the gasket. You may need to pull back sections of the gasket to get into small rubber folds., Take out the detergent dispensers from the machine and scrub them with a soapy water mixture consisting of a small amount of dishwashing soap, and water. Leftover soap residue or stagnant water on the detergent dispensers can make this area of your wash machine smell bad too.


If the dispensers cannot be removed from the machine, do your best to clean inside the dispensers with a rag or pipe cleaners., Make sure that your washing machine is empty and then run a wash cycle using the longest, hottest temperature setting. If the mildew smell remains, try running another cycle. It might take a few cycles to remove the mildew smell.Consider adding one of the following straight into the washing basin of the machine:1 cup of bleach.
1 cup of baking soda.
1/2 cup of powdered enzymatic dishwasher detergent
1/2 cup of a commercial washer cleaner
1 cup of vinegar

, If none of these methods help with getting rid of the mildew smell, you may need to call a professional to come look at your washing machine. There may be mold growth behind the drum of the machine, or perhaps a blocked drain or filter.A certified repair professional can assist you with diagnosing what is wrong with your machine, and may be able to dismantle the machine to find the source of the smell if need be.
 Once you figure out if where the mildew smell is coming from, take some preventative measures to ensure that mold doesn't accumulate again. You might want to consider:



Airing out the washing machine. Leave the washing machine door open between washing uses. However, be aware that pets and young children could become trapped in the machine.Using detergent wisely. Use detergents that create a small amount of suds, and are specifically made for highly efficient machines. Powder detergents usually tend to be less sudsy than liquid detergents. Also, don't exceed the recommended amount of detergent. Sometimes, even less detergent works better for cleaning your clothes.Avoiding fabric softener. Fabric softeners that come in liquid form tend to leave a residue that supports mold growth. Instead of using liquid fabric softener, consider using dryer sheets or dryer balls to give your clothes a softer feel.Drying the gasket. Use a rag to wipe everywhere surround the gasket, and inside the grooves of the rubber gasket. Ideally, you should try to wipe the gasket after every washing cycle. If you’re not going to wipe and clean the gasket after every wash, you should try to regularly wipe the gasket every week or so to remove trapped mold.Doing a bleach cycle. Run a hot water and bleach cycle once a month. This is a good opportunity to disinfect your washer, but also to wash heavily soiled items like work cloths and grimy towels.