 Much like rubbing alcohol, the hand sanitizer will preserve the insect’s body and keep it from breaking or decaying. However, unlike alcohol, the thick consistency of hand sanitizer will suspend the dead insect, making for a more attractive display and facilitating easier viewing.Use a jar that is large enough to contain the suspended insect, but that will not require a wasteful amount of hand sanitizer to fill.
 Avoid handling the insect directly; use a pair of forceps or tweezers to pick the body up.Gently press the insect’s body down into the hand sanitizer, until it is suspended in the gel.

If you’re suspending a delicate insect, such as a bee or wasp, take care not to break the wings or body when pressing it into the gel.
Larger hard-bodied insects—such as butterflies—may be difficult to preserve in hand sanitizer, since the gel may snap off part of the body. While it’s OK to preserve other hard-bodied insects in hand sanitizer, look for ones that do not have delicate protruding wings or antennae.
 To remove the unsightly air bubbles from the hand sanitizer, fill a sauce pan with 1–2 inches (2.5–5 centimeters) of water. Boil the water, and place the jars (still 2/3 full of hand sanitizer, with the insect on top) into the boiling water and simmer for 15 minutes.Remember to leave the lid off of the jar, or it will explode.

Avoid getting water into the jars, as it could weaken or dissolve the hand sanitizer.
Many will consider the air bubbles aesthetically unpleasant and a distraction from observing the preserved insect. If you are not bothered by the air bubbles in the hand sanitizer, you can skip this step.
 Once you have removed the jar from the boiling water and let it cool to room-temperature, pour or pump the hand sanitizer gel over the insect’s body until the jar is full. Once the jar is full, you can reach into the jar with tweezers or forceps to reposition the insect’s body until it’s displayed in the desired pose. Place a label on the outside of the jar, screw on the lid, and the preservation is complete.

These jars can be handled by children (with adult supervision) and are excellent for museums or outreach events.