 Because back pain can have so many different causes, it is important to talk with your doctor before starting any exercise or treatment regimen. This is particularly important if you have suffered a major injury like a fall or a car crash. Some injuries or causes of back pain must be treated with rehabilitation therapy and medication.


It is important to let your regular doctor know about any treatments and steps you are taking to relieve your back pain. This will ensure that your doctor is able to give you the most effective care.
 If your back pain is not the result of a serious injury, returning to normal movement after a few days will help you recover from short-term back pain faster. Unless recommended by your doctor, try to avoid more than 3 days of bed rest.Always consult with your doctor before returning to your normal activities. If you have serious injuries or trauma, trying to “tough it out” could result in re-injury or further trauma.
 Low-impact aerobic exercises, such as swimming, walking, and biking, can relieve chronic back pain.Exercise may aggravate acute back pain, however, so do not begin an exercise regimen immediately. Usually, it is safe to begin an exercise program after 4-8 weeks.Do not put extra pressure or strain on your back muscles immediately. Exercises that can strain your lower back include leg curls on exercise machines, straight-leg sit ups, and toe touches.Gradually strengthen and tone your muscles, and don’t try too much at once.
When possible, work with a professional to create a personalized exercise plan. Your doctor, physical therapist, personal trainer, or exercise physiologist can help you figure out what exercises are right for you., Improving your body’s flexibility may help reduce pain. Stretching exercises and yoga have been shown to reduce back pain and keep it from recurring. Below are a few exercises to try.Lie on your back with your legs together. Bend your knees. Lay your arms to your sides. Roll your knees to one side of your body, keeping your arms at your sides. Hold this position for 20 seconds. Breathe slowly and evenly as you hold and release. Repeat for the other side.
Lie on your back and bend your knees. Take hold of one leg behind your knee. Pull your leg gently toward your chest. Don’t pull it farther than is comfortable. Hold this for 20 seconds, then release. Repeat with the other leg.
Stretch your hip flexors. Kneel on one knee. Raise the same arm straight up (e.g., if you are kneeling on the left knee, raise your left arm). Shift your hips slightly forward. Hold for 20-30 seconds.
 Chronic low back pain can be irritated when your core is not strong enough to properly support your body. Doing some lumbar/core strength and stability exercises will strengthen your core muscles and improve your posture.



Supermans. Lie on your stomach with your arms and legs extended (hence the “superhero” posture). Keeping your hips on the floor, draw your shoulder blades down towards your lower back. Lift your arms and legs off the floor. Hold this for 3-5 seconds, then release. Repeat 10-20 times.

Pelvic tilts. Lie on the floor on your back. Bend your knees and keep your feet flat on the floor. Contract your stomach muscles. You should feel your back press into the floor and your hips rise. Hold this for 10 seconds while breathing evenly, then release. Repeat 8-12 times.Bridging. Lie on the floor on your back. Bend your knees. Keep just your heels on the floor. Pushing your heels into the floor, lift your hips off the floor. You should feel your buttocks contract. Lift your hips until your knees, hips, and shoulders are in a straight line. Hold this for 6 seconds, then release. Repeat 8-12 times.Crunches with an exercise ball. Use a large exercise ball to improve your crunches. Begin by lying on your back on the exercise ball. Slide down until your hips are just off the ball. Plant your feet shoulder-width apart, and keep them flat on the ground. Cross your arms over your chest. Contract your stomach muscles to draw yourself forward. You should feel the crunch in your abdomen, not your shoulders or back. Repeat 10-20 times.
 Tai Chi is a gentle Chinese martial art that combines fluid movement with meditation.. It has been shown by several studies to be effective in relieving lower back pain.Yoga has also been shown to be effective in treating chronic low back pain.It is thought that the combination of mindfulness, meditation, and low-impact physical movement in tai chi and yoga promote pain relief.If you are pregnant, have joint problems, fractures, or hernias, consult your doctor before starting tai chi or yoga., Back pain can be caused by improper lifting technique. Whether you’re working out or just working, be sure you don’t put additional stress on your back by lifting incorrectly.Keep your back straight and bend at your knees. Never bend over at your hips.
Hold the weight or object securely. Do not lift and twist at the same time.
If you’re a fan of squats and similar exercises, make sure you do them with proper form. Poor form in squatting, such as hunching your back or shoulders, can result in pain and injury. Consult a physical therapist or personal trainer to learn proper form, or at least watch videos of correct squatting.If you frequently lift heavy objects at work, use a back brace -- but only in moderation. Wear the brace in 15-minute intervals, or only when you need to lift something heavy. Otherwise, your back muscles may not get the strengthening they need., Being overweight creates additional pressure on the intervertebral disks in your spine.These disks act as “shock absorbers” for the vertebrae in your spine.Americans who are obese are four times more likely to suffer back pain than individuals at a healthy weight.Fortunately, exercising even 20-30 minutes each day can lower your risk of back pain by 32%. Even light exercise is helpful., Smoking is a factor in many health problems, and back pain is no exception. In one recent study, researchers found that people who smoked were much more likely to experience back pain than non-smokers. This finding was consistent across all weight ranges, from healthy weight to obese.Smoking is thought to interfere with your brain circuitry. It is likely that smoking reduces your body’s ability to handle chronic pain. People who smoke are, according to one study, 3 times more likely to suffer from chronic back pain than people who don’t smoke.Good news: stopping smoking reduces your vulnerability to chronic pain, including back pain.