 You must search the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office's databases before you attempt to register your trademark to make sure there are no similar marks already registered.


The USPTO will examine your application to determine if the mark you want to register is likely to be confused with another mark that is already registered. The more original and distinct your mark is, the more likely you'll be able to obtain trademark protection.The strongest marks typically involve invented words or words that bear no immediate relation to the goods or services you intend them to represent.For example, although you may associate the word "Nike" with athletic footwear and apparel today, the word itself is the name of the ancient Greek goddess of victory.At least until the rise of the U.S. company, the word had no relation to shoes or clothing.
You can search the USPTO's database online at www.uspto.gov/trademarks-application-process/search-trademark-database. The electronic database includes active registrations as well as pending applications and abandoned marks.
 Trademark applications can be complicated, and an experienced trademark attorney can help smooth the process and make sure your application is completed correctly.An attorney's familiarity and experience with the USPTO and the trademark examination process can keep you from making mistakes that could result in your application being denied, and save you from the expense of having to make multiple applications.
Since your application ultimately will be reviewed by an attorney, it makes sense for you to also have an attorney on your side. The attorney who examines your application may help you through the process, but he or she cannot give you legal advice., Your application informs the USPTO of the words or images you want to register, and where and how you intend to use them.


Generally, you must include information on the formats in which you'll use your trademark, and the goods or services to which it will apply.You can file your application based on actual use, or intent to use. If you haven't publicly used your trademark in the marketplace, your application typically would be based on intent to use.
Applications based on intent to use require additional forms and fees compared to applications based on actual use., Once you've completed your application, you can file it electronically on the USPTO's website. Your pending application becomes a matter of public record and is added to the USPTO's searchable database.When you file your application, you must pay filing fees of at least $375. If you want to register your trademark in multiple commercial classes, your fees will be higher., After your application is filed, it must be reviewed by trademark attorneys who work for the USPTO.Your examiner may send you a letter requesting additional information or revisions to your application before it can be approved. If you don't respond to this letter within six months, your application will be classified as abandoned and you'll have to start the process all over again if you still want trademark protection.It may take several months for the examiner to complete his or her evaluation of your application. In the meantime, you can check the status of your application on the USPTO's website and update your address or other contact information as necessary.After the examining attorney approves your trademark, the USPTO will publish notice of your pending registration in its official gazette. This publication gives anyone who wants to file opposition to your registration 30 days to do so. You'll have to attend a hearing to defend your registration if anyone files opposition to it.If no opposition is filed, the USPTO will issue your registration certificate., You must file periodic documents and pay the requisite fees to keep your trademark registration active.While you aren't required to register your trademark with the USPTO to get intellectual property rights in your trademark, registration provides a number of advantages including the right to sue in federal court and a legal presumption that you are the rightful owner of the mark.If someone is using your trademark without your permission, you must sue them to protect your rights and enforce your intellectual property rights. The USPTO doesn't police your mark for you or enforce your rights against infringers.You can lose trademark protection if you allow non-trademark use to the point that the word or image becomes generic – that is, people associate it with the product in general more than with your specific brand. For example, although aspirin used to be trademarked, the word over time came to be used generically to mean any pain relief medication, and lost its trademark protection.