 Sugar-based traps use sugar to attract ants. Protein-based traps use a protein source (usually combined with a sugar source) to attract ants. When dealing the odorous ants, the best option is to use a mixture of both sugar and protein-based ant traps., Mix two tablespoons of mint jelly and 1/4 teaspoon of boric acid powder. Place a dollop of the mixture on a small piece of wax paper and place the trap in an area with a high volume of odorous ant traffic. Place another trap near the entrances the ants are using to come into the house.If you don’t have mint jelly, you could use another jelly as long as it is not sugar-free.
You can obtain boric acid at your local pharmacy or hardware store.
After a few days, the ants will no longer be interested in the sugar-based trap. Discard old traps and replace them with a new batch every few days.
 Since odorous ants are also attracted to protein or grease-based traps, place a protein-based trap alongside each sugar-based trap. You can easily make a protein-based trap by mixing two tablespoons of honey, two tablespoons of peanut butter, and 1/2 teaspoon of boric acid powder. Just as you did with the sugar-based trap, scoop a bit of the bait on some wax paper and leave it near the odorous ants’ points of entry.Replace trap every other day or so, since it will not be appealing to the ants after it dries up.
 If you have pets or young children at home, keep a baby gate between the ant bait and your child or pet. Store the powdered boric acid on a high shelf where your pet or child cannot access it., If you don’t have the appropriate materials on hand to craft an ant trap of your own, there are plenty of options available at your local big box or grocery store. Many ant traps are meant to be used against specific ant species, so look for one that is designed to be most effective against odorous ants.While the exact directions for use vary according to manufacturer, you can generally snap off one of the ant traps from the packet and place it near the ants’ point of entry or their trail.
Consult manufacturer instructions before use.

