 Shih Tzu may be small dogs, but they still need a place to stretch their legs and play. This breed loves to play, so buy (or make) some toys, and make sure to go to the dog park as often as you can.Despite their sometimes delicate appearance, Shih Tzus are sturdy dogs and they don't mind getting a little dirty every now and then.
Remember that dogs who nip and go crazy inside the house may need more exercising outside! Exercise not only helps a dog's body but it can also help their mind.
 Keep in mind that some Shih Tzu have allergies or stomach sensitivities. If you try a brand of dog food that doesn't seem to agree with your dog, try changing it. If you continue having problems, check with your vet for a recommendation of a good 'breed specific' brand of food.
 As with any pet, your goal should be for your Shih Tzu to be happy and healthy and your veterinarian is the best person to help you achieve that goal. You need to make sure that your dog's health care needs are taken care of on a regular basis. Important veterinary procedures include, but are not limited to, vaccination, control of internal and external parasites, neutering, and microchipping.
 With this breed, frequent vet visits are even more important because they are prove to a variety of unique health issues. This includes hip dysplasia, Von Willebrand disease, and Autoimmune Haemolytic Anaemia.


Shih Tzu are prone to eye problems like Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA), a group of diseases that attack certain breeds of dogs.It is characterized by the bilateral degeneration of the retina, basically progressive vision loss culminating in blindness. Be alert for the dog bumping into things, not spotting where a toy is, or sudden loss of confidence in novel situations.
Shih Tzu are also prone to disc problems and back pain. While back problems are genetic in these dogs, as so they can't always be avoided, you should do a few things to limits the possibility of injury. First and foremost, minimize the risk of a slipped disc by not allowing your dog to jump from heights and keep them slim.Also, if your dog seems to be in pain take them to the vet. A veterinarian can assess the health of your dog and manage their pain at the very least.
 Shih Tzu can have issues with their teeth, including missing or misaligned teeth from birth.Brushing their teeth when you brush yours is a good idea. Just like humans, they can get gingivitis and plaque build up, leading to infections or tooth loss.In the worst cases, they can lose the ability to eat due to mouth infections.
 Make sure that there is water out for your pup to drink whenever they get thirsty. Take your dog to the bathroom. Like us, dogs need to go to the bathroom to stay healthy.


You should also trim your pup's nails every week or two., Every dog needs love. Pet them and praise them on a regular basis. Even if you just let them sit in your lap while you read or watch TV, it shows them that you care.

