 Close your IRC client/window or change your nickname to your "away" nickname and step away from the computer for awhile. You won't miss anything significant while you're gone, so don't attach yourself to the chat room. Read a book, talk to your friends on the phone, or get outside of the house for a few hours.


Try deep breathing. Deep breathing can be helpful because it causes you to slow down, be present and focus on the breathing cycle rather than the arguing.
Use self soothing to calm yourself. Self soothing techniques can be used to good effect where you feel that you have been somewhat bludgeoned, blamed or abused, to restore a sense of self and distance. Things to help can be to take a walk somewhere that you love being, eating something you enjoy and savoring it slowly or running a bath filled with bubbles and your favorite scent.
 Don't go back to the IRC until this period of time has truly passed. The amount of time is likely to vary dependent on the severity of the arguing––likely it will be longer if you felt your personal beliefs were attacked, while making you look silly as the butt of a joke probably requires less time for you to get over. It's very personal and you'll know when you feel steady and calm again.

Use self distancing. By removing yourself mentally from what is happening, you can take a detached view of the event and witness it as if were a play or story. You won't feel the aggression or anger when detached.
 If you are not a part of the situation, ignore it completely and don't voice opinions or comments about it. One comment may get you a free ticket of trouble. Even after a person leaves, don't say anything negative that is relevant towards the person or situation.

Have a side, private conversation with a trusted friend if you really feel the need to discuss what has been said on the channel with someone who was present. This will give you a safer outlet to let off steam than doing so in public. Just be sure to choose someone you really trust.
What if the person you wish to respond to isn't in IRC? Resist the temptation to gripe about that person with other IRC users. Will Bowen, founder of the Complaint Free World movement, recommends that you quit gossiping unless what you have to say is a) positive and b) something you'd say if the person were present. Most times your griping will get back to that person and can inflame things.

