 These should be done on the ground, regularly for several days before you begin to train without stirrups. Without having something to push down on while riding, you will be more responsible for your own balance while astride, and strong core muscles are a must.;
, Make sure the horse is responsive and both you and the horse are relaxed. Ride some schooling exercises, stretch your legs, and do some work with stirrups.
 If necessary ask someone to hold the horse.
 Do it in this order in case you need to get back on at any point (getting on with the left stirrup).
 Feet and knees pointing forward, heals down, back and shoulders relaxed, even weight in seat bones... It's even more important without stirrups to allow the weight to fall into your knees and have an independent lower leg. Sit like you would with stirrups, don't let your legs or feet lose their position or flop down. Point your heel far down, this makes it easier to grip with your legs.
 When you feel comfortable, start to post to the walk, rising out of your saddle as the horse's outside shoulder moves forward. This may be hard at first, so stick to just walking for now and move on to a trot next time. Don't use your hands for this: do NOT use the reins or pull on the horse's mouth for balance. Keep your posture, especially hands, in the correct riding position most appropriate for your discipline.
 When you are ready and relaxed ask for trot.
 Relax your back and shoulders.
 A common fault in novice riders is to raise straight up. Posting without stirrups will force you to post correctly by swinging your hips forward and moving your core. Keep proper riding posture. If you can't post, it is recommended to return to the walk to prevent any accidents.
 Let your hips swing side to side, and grip with your thighs. Do not grip with your knees, as this will cause uncomfortable pressure points for your horse, and do not grip with your calves as this is the aid that asks the horse to speed up.
 Grip with your thighs and let your leg straighten a bit to help you keep your balance. If you feel you are going to lose your balance, return to the walk. Remember, having a death grip on the reins is very bad for your horse and will not make you a better rider.

