 Cats do not like to use a dirty litter box and they may begin going to the bathroom elsewhere if their litter box is dirty when they need to go. If you are not cleaning your cat’s litter box every day, this may be the reason that your cat is urinating on the carpet.In addition to scooping out your cat’s litter box every day, once per week you should also remove all the litter and clean the box with warm water and unscented soap or baking soda. When you are finished, dry the box and add fresh litter.
Try a self-cleaning litter box to make it easier to keep your cat’s litter box clean.
 It is important to have one more box than the number of cats in your household. For example, if you have three cats, then you should have four litter boxes. If you only have two litter boxes and you have three cats, then the number of litter boxes may be the reason why your cat is urinating on the carpet., If your cat has to make a long trip to get to her litter box or if the litter box itself is difficult for your cat to get into and out of, that might be the reason why your cat is urinating on the carpet. Place your cat’s litter boxes where it is easy for her to get to them in a hurry, such as one upstairs and one downstairs.Make sure that your cat will be able to see approaching humans or animals and easily get away. Cats don’t like to feel cornered
Attend to the needs of older cats by providing boxes with lower sides, for easier entrance and exit to the litter box.
Place litter boxes near or over where your cat tends to urinate on the carpet.
 Cats may avoid using the litter box because they dislike the smell or texture of the litter, or because the litter is too deep. A shallow bed of medium to fine grain clumping litter is best, but you can also try offering your cat different types of litter to see what she prefers.Give your cat a choice of litter types by placing two litter boxes with two different types of litter right next to each other. At the end of the day, check to see which one your cat used.
Provide a shallow bed of litter. Most cats prefer a litter box that has about 1-2 inches of litter.
 Some cats avoid using a litter box because they don’t like the size or shape of it. Liners may also cause your cat discomfort that can make her avoid the box. Remove the liner and hood from your cat’s litter box to determine if they are what is causing her to avoid using the box.Consider the size of your cat’s litter box as well. If it is too small for her, then she may avoid using it.

