 The handle of most lightsabers is usually round with a single energy blade coming out of one end, though specialty lightsabers, like the one used by Darth Maul, also exist.To mimic the round shape, you're going to decorate an empty roll of paper towel. All in all, you're going to need:


Belt
Binder clip (1)
Duct tape (red, gray, and black)
Cardboard tube (i.e. - a paper towel tube or wrapping paper tube)
Marker
Scissors
Square Lego (2 studs by 2 studs; 1 piece);
, Take your empty roll of paper towel and hold it in your hand by its end, or give it to the person who will be using the pretend lightsaber. Your fingers should curl around the side of the tube and your thumb should lie along the topside of it.The total length of your hilt should be about the same as the distance between your wrist and elbow.Younger children with smaller hands might find that smaller rolls of cardboard, like a toilet paper roll, fit their hand better. You could trim your paper towel roll to an appropriate size with your scissors.
If you make your lightsaber too small, you run the risk of it being missed by the people who see your costume. This can leave them confused as to what your costume is. A clearly visible lightsaber hilt at your side will mark you as a trained Jedi.
 The main color of most lightsaber handles is gray, so you should use gray duct tape to cover your cardboard tube completely. This will make your lightsaber appear like it's made of metal. When your tube is covered from top to bottom, use your scissors to cut the tape free of the roll and smooth the loose end to your hilt.Wind your tape around the tube smoothly and evenly. Air bubbles or bunched up tape will make your lightsaber look less realistic. You can prevent these by smoothing the tape with one hand while winding it around your tube with the other.
 In the Star Wars movies, TV shows, and comics, there are many small accents on lightsabers. These give your lightsaber a more complex appearance. The colors used for lightsaber accents are most typically blacks, grays, and golds.Tear or cut off two 5–10 inch (12.7–25.4 cm) pieces of the black duct tape. These black pieces will be used to give your hilt a hand grip. Stick the tape to the edge of a table so you can get it easily when you need it.
 First you'll need to cut a strip of duct tape (any color) ½ inch thick and 1 inch long (1.27 cm wide by 2.54 cm long). Then roll this strip of duct tape tightly so that the sticky side is facing out. Your rolled duct tape should be small enough to hide under your Lego piece.Stick the rolled, outside-sticky piece of tape to the bottom of your Lego piece. It will eventually become your on button. For now, you can stick it out of the way with your accent strips.
Since the classic lightsaber design uses many metallic and base colors, like black, gold, and gray, you should consider using a colorful Lego block to give your lightsaber some character. Blue and red are popular choices.
 Around the bottom of your lightsaber, you're going to wrap your two black accent strips. You can do this in whatever way you find most appropriate - as a Jedi you should have a natural intuition for the placement of your lightsaber hand grip. Wind your accent strips completely around the hilt until they are smoothly attached.


You might overlap both strips to create one large grip, or you might break up the strips so there's a small space between. You could even spread out the bottom part of the grip so it's wider than the top.
If you don't have black duct tape, you can substitute black electrical tape. If electrical tape is unavailable, you can color clear scotch tape black with your marker and use that instead.
 Now that your grip is done, you can place the switch for your lightsaber accordingly. You can place your on switch wherever you please, but the most realistic placement will be close to the hand grip. This way, you can easily turn your lightsaber "on" and "off" while holding it.The Lego on/off switch for your lightsaber is only there to make it look more realistic. Pressing it will not have an effect on your lightsaber.
If you have split your hand grip so there is a small space between the upper and lower part of your grip, you might want to put your on/off switch there. You could also place it above or below your grip.
 Any color of duct tape will work for closing off the open end at the bottom of your lightsaber. A vibrant color, like red or blue, will give it a dash of character. Cut a strip of duct tape with you scissors wide enough to cover the hole, then cover the hole with the tape. Then you should tuck the sides of the tape to lie as flat as possible against the sides of your lightsaber.


Because the bottom of your lightsaber is round, your tape might bunch when tucking the sides down. You can cover this up with another piece of gray duct tape around the cylindrical part of the bottom. This extra piece of gray tape will also help hold your bottom cover in place.
You might want to use two strips of duct tape to close off the open end. This way you can use one piece to cover half of the hole and the other piece to close it off completely. The extra tape on either side will be easier to tuck down to the sides of the lightsaber.
 Luke Skywalker is frequently seen with his trusty lightsaber at his hip. If you want to look like a real Jedi, you'll need to make a belt clip of your own. Cut a 3 - 5 inch (7.62 - 12.7 cm) strip of duct tape in half lengthwise and stick it out somewhere out of the way but close at hand. Then:Hold a binder clip flat to the side of your lightsaber toward the bottom of the hilt.
Position the binder clip so it's open side is facing the top of the lightsaber.
Orient the silver "wings" of your binder clip to bend away from its mouth. The inside wing should run mostly flat along the side of your lightsaber.
Fasten your binder clip in place with your strip of tape.
You could also use a string, hook, or Velcro strap to make your belt clip. A loop of cord tied to your lightsaber and a carabiner on a belt loop would also work well., Since the lightsaber is an imaginary weapon, you could add any features that you see fit. For example, you might add a small red duct tape square next to your on/off switch and call it your self-destruct switch. You could also add tiny black buttons for your lightsaber power settings.


Evil Jedi called the Sith prefer to use red lightsabers and red accents on their weapons. This is because Sith masters have an aggressive view of the force, which is represented by red.Good Jedi can have lightsabers many different colors. You might choose the color for your imaginary lightsaber and then use this color in your accents., Put your belt around your waist and clasp it around your front. Now that your lightsaber is mostly done, you'll need to check your belt and belt clip. After all, you don't want to run into a Sith lord and not be able to get your weapon free! Once your belt is on, press the metal wings to open the mouth of your binder clip and clip it onto your belt.
 Now that your lightsaber is done, you can create your own Star Wars character and dress like a Jedi Knight. Armed with your trusty lightsaber and with the Force on your side, you'll be ready to face anything!

