 Hackers monitor the online activities of the user and according to their interests they attach the links of their suspicious sites with the content users are exploring. They may send you spam and junk data to promote their financial and promotional intention.;
, Using different password for different sites will protect you such cases, if your one ID has been hacked. And if you’re using the same password for all the sites it’ll create the risk for all if one is hacked.
 Antivirus programs help to scan, detect and remove the malware from your device. They also provide the protection when you’re online and surfing the information. So run a software which can provide in-depth security in real-time on a regular basis.
 Often you would have seen that lots of advertisements keep on nagging on your system display. They offer very attractive deals and forces the users to click on them. And once when you click on them, they ask you to make the payment or provide your personal and financial information. Ultimately, in this way, anonymously you allow them to misuse your details.
 The wireless router is the first firewall or line of defense, so, don’t leave it ‘Open’. To secure your network, make some necessary changes like to enable encryption option, exchange default SSID with your own unique ID and keep a different password for web access.
 Once your system is hacked, hackers install ‘back doors’ to get the access at any point. Check your email account settings to ensure that nothing is being forwarded to other accounts. Check your security question and email address, is it altered or same?

, When you’re using your social media accounts, you need to be very careful. You don’t know what attachment keeps what. So to stay protected don’t download the document received from unknown resources and don’t like or share everything without paying attention to it.
 You may not feel it, but the regular updates send by your operating system and other major programs are really important from the safety aspect. Because with these regular updates the developers put shielded protection for your computer and keep it up-to-date in the consistently changing and threatening environment.

