 Is he/she hungry? Does he/she need a diaper change? Does he/she need to be burped? There are not that many reasons why babies cry - their world is limited to feeding, comfort, companionship, health, and sleep, so it shouldn't be hard to decipher their need. In general, the best order to follow would be to:


Check his diaper.
Feed him.
Burp him over your shoulder.;
, Unfortunately, there is little you can do. As long as you have a baby monitor, place the child in their crib and walk away. If the crying persists for more than 10-15 minutes, check back in to make sure nothing is wrong.


If you've fed her, made sure she is warm, burped her, and changed her diaper, then there is little more you can do. Go relax for a few moments and come back after she's gotten over her crying spell., This pediatrician-approved technique is a great way to calm a baby down no matter the circumstances. It is often used after shots or other procedures that can quickly upset a small child.


Tuck both of the baby's arms across it's chest.
Use your palm to secure the arms to the baby's chest.
Grab the baby around the diaper, holding them securely.
Gently rock and shake the baby with both hands, keeping it at a 45-degree angle.
Make sure one hand supports their head and chin and the other has a firm hold between they're legs., If you're cold in the house, chances are your baby is too. Make sure their clothes are loose enough that their skin can breathe, and that they are comfortably warm. If in doubt, it can't hurt to add another blanket and see how they respond., Colic is when a baby cries for more than three hours a day, and it usually resolves itself by three months. You can, however, take steps to avoid excess crying due to colic by eliminating:


Dairy
Caffeine
Onions
Very spicy or irritating foods., Using a rectal or oral thermometer, see if your baby is running a temperature. This sort of discomfort will cause a baby to cry incessantly. If the baby is warmer than 100.3 degrees Fahrenheit (the average high for a normal baby), you should call your pediatrician immediately., If you feel your patience snapping, have someone else take care of the baby, even if this means going to a neighbor and asking for help until you regain your composure. Take a good walk around the block to clear your mind and frustrations. Don't be surprised to find your baby calm upon your return; they often pick up on a parents' tiredness and distress.



Never shake a baby -- it can cause serious and life-threatening injuries.
Many doctors suggest placing the baby in its bed and stepping out for a few minutes. Sometimes babies just need to cry for a little while.