 A clean catch is also known as a mid-stream urine sample. This works best for older, toilet-trained boys who can pass urine when asked to do so. However, such boys may still need help. A clean catch involves placing a cup under the urine stream to collect the urine., Lay out a couple paper towels to provide a clean area to set the specimen cup, three sterile wipes, and the urine specimen cup. You should be able to reach the supplies easily., Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water, and have your son wash his hands with soap and water. It is important that you keep everything clean in order to avoid contaminating the urine sample.Avoid touching anything unnecessary, such as the wall, your face, etc. until after you collect the urine.
Put on rubber gloves if they are available.
 It is best to pull underwear and pants down to at least his mid-thighs to avoid getting urine on them.
 Place the lid with the flat side (outside) facing down on the paper towel. Do not touch the inside of the lid or inside of the specimen container. It is best to keep your fingers away from the rim when handling the container., You must clean your son's penis in order to prevent contamination of the urine sample.


If your son is uncircumcised, gently retract the foreskin. Ask a nurse or doctor how to do so if you are unsure. Wipe the entire surface with the sterile/alcohol towelettes provided by the doctor's office.Using the sterile wipe, stroke around the urethral opening (end of the penis) toward his stomach. Discard the wipes.Replace the foreskin once the area dries.Gently pat the tip of the penis dry with a sterile cotton swab or gauze pad.,, With the specimen cup ready, have him start urinating into the toilet. If he has difficulty, try turning on the water faucet., After your son has urinated a small amount into the toilet, position the cup under the stream.He should continue to urinate. Hold the cup close enough so that the urine doesn’t splash, but not so close that his penis touches the cup.Moving the cup into his stream while he is peeing is a bit messy, and your fingers may get wet.
 Take the cup away when it's about 1/3 full. Do not allow the cup to overflow.


Your son should finish urinating into the toilet/urinal after you have removed the cup.If the cup is even a 1/4 full and force of his stream lets up, remove the cup before he stops peeing., Place the cover tightly on the specimen cup without touching the cup rim or inside of the lid. Once it is closed, you may wipe off any urine from the outside of the cup.


Set the cup in a safe place to give to the doctor/nurse, or place it inside the special door for urine samples if there is one in the bathroom.If you are taking the sample at home, refrigerate the sample until you take it to the doctor's office., If he is uncircumcised, gently pull the foreskin forward after he has finished urinating. Help him to pull up his underwear and pants, and have him wash his hands. Wash your hands, also.