 At the first sign of a tornado, or if a tornado warning has been issued, stop whatever you're doing and seek appropriate shelter immediately, even if you don't see a tornado. A warning, as opposed to a watch, means an actual tornado has been sighted.


An underground tornado shelter or a specially designed tornado safe room is the safest place to be during a tornado. Some homes, businesses, and schools in areas prone to tornadoes have these shelters.
If a tornado shelter is not available, go to the basement of a building. Stay away from windows, and cover yourself with a mattress, cushions, or sleeping bags. If possible, get under a heavy table, which can protect you from falling debris.;
, In a building with no basement, avoid windows and go to the lowest floor and seek shelter in a small room that is located near the center of the house, under a stairwell, or in an interior hallway with no windows. Bathrooms can be particularly effective because they are fortified by pipes and you can lie in a bathtub. Regardless of where you are, crouch low to the ground or lie down, face down and cover your head with your hands and arms. Take cover under a strong table if possible, and cover yourself with a mattress, cushions, or blankets.


Stay out of elevators, as you could be trapped in them if power is lost. Instead, use the stairs to descend to the lowest floor.
 Not all hiding spots are created equally. The following locations should be your absolute last resort during a tornado, as they all have the potential to be severely damaged by high winds.


Mobile homes
Tall buildings
Open rooms with lots of windows
Buildings with flat, wide roofs (cafeterias, gyms, etc.), If possible, listen for advisories from the National Weather Service (in the U.S.) and Environment Canada on a NOAA weather radio or on local radio or TV. Keep in mind that multiple tornadoes often form in an area, and it may not be safe to leave shelter even after one tornado has passed., After a tornado strikes, you are likely to encounter hazards such as flooding, falling debris, collapsing buildings, and blocked roads. Avoid fallen power lines and puddles with wires in them, and avoid using matches or lighters in case of natural gas or fuel tank leaks. Be alert and proceed with caution, as there may be sharp objects scattered about the ground. Do not enter damaged buildings under any circumstances, as they may be prone to collapse.