 Most locks turn clockwise to open, but try turning counter-clockwise if this doesn't work. As long as you have the correct key you will hear a faint "click" and the door will open.


If the door does not open, you likely have the wrong key.
 Lock picking works on any traditional pin lock. f you can use a key to open the lock, you can pick it.
 You will need two tools -- a torque wrench and a pick. In a pinch, resourceful locksmiths have used bobby pins, paper clips, and butter knives as well. However, the easiest way to pick a lock is with a professional kit, which can be found cheaply online.


Try using a flathead screwdriver, butter knife, or small Allen key if you do not have a torque wrench. Anything small enough to fit in the keyhole but sturdy enough not to break.
Try using a bobby pin or paperclip if you cannot get a pick. Simply straighten them and use pliers to angle the last half a centimeter up 90 degrees.
 You should see several "pins," which are small metal cylinders that keep the lock in place. The grooves on a key are made to push all of these pins up into the right place, allowing you to turn the key. When you pick a lock, however, you use your pick to manually push each pin out of the way.
 You want to wedge it lightly into the bottom of the lock so it is only a few centimeters deep.
 Act as if you were using a key, using light pressure to turn the lock. It will not go very far, but keep this pressure on the lock as you work.
 Using your pin, feel each of the pins in the lock. You should be able to move them up individually,

, You easily push the pins up with your pick. To make them stay, however, you need to use your torque wrench to keep turning the lock so it doesn't slide back into place.
 When you push each pin up, the subtle turning of the torque wrench prevents them from sliding back into place. If the pins don't stay up when you push them, add more pressure the torque wrench. If they are too difficult to push up, apply less pressure.


This is the "art" of lock picking, and takes some practice. Each lock is a little different, and you'll need to feel out how much pressure is correct as you work.
 Keep up your pressure with torque wrench as you push up each pin.
 The pins are what keep the lock from moving, but with every pin out of the way you'll be able to turn the lock freely.
 Locksmiths are professionals who can open almost any door. Make sure, however, that you can prove that the lock they are breaking belongs to you, or they may not provide service.

