 The most common type of travel rewards are airline miles. In order to earn the most miles, including in double-dip scenarios, you’ll need to join a a frequent flyer program that you will be most able to use. For many people, this is simply the program affiliated with whatever airline they fly with most often.One factor is proximity to an airline’s hub. For instance, if you live in a city where a certain airline is based, it likely makes sense to join their program, as you are likely to fly with them most often.;
, If you anticipate earning miles or other points through purchases other than flights, choose a program that gives the most miles for whatever types of purchases you most often make. For instance, if you drive more often then fly when you travel, default to a program oriented more towards lodging.Furthermore, different programs accrue miles or points at different rates, but these rewards may be worth more in certain programs. Don’t assume that the program where you can rack up miles or points the quickest is the best, because it may be much harder to actually use those rewards.
 Even within certain types of travel rewards programs, the actual rewards you can earn can vary widely. For instance, some miles rewards programs will award you with actual flights, while others will award you access to nicer seats on the flights you buy or access to airport lounges.As such, before you start trying to accumulate points or miles, you need to take the time to figure out exactly what you’re hoping to earn and join the programs that offer those rewards.
Further, even within programs, some points or miles can only be used for certain program rewards, even if the program offers multiple types of rewards.
 Most frequent flyer programs offer members access to an affiliated credit card. These cards have hotel and retail partners. When you make purchases at these partners, you can earn miles for your frequent flyer program. These provide the easiest and most common ways to double dip travel rewards.For instance, you can book a room that rewards you with 500 miles in your frequent flyer program. When you pay for the room and use the credit card affiliated with your frequent flyer program, you’ll also earn miles on the purchase itself, thus “doubling” your rewards.
Whenever you make a large purchase, use this credit card to do so unless you have a specific reason to pay with a different method (such as a lower cost for cash).
 Many rewards, including miles, expire if you do not use them. Some have special rules you must follow to keep rewards in good standing. In short, familiarize yourself with the small print regarding your rewards programs, especially your frequent flier program.


For instance, you may have to make regular purchases with an affiliated credit card in order to keep your miles current.

