 If you are trying to reveal your natural beauty, stay away from the makeup cabinet. Let your body speak for itself. Using natural products and creating a healthy lifestyle may make these products unnecessary in your daily routine.
 The quickest way to dry out your skin is by losing moisture during showering. Use warm, but not hot water. Use all natural soaps or cleansers only. Keep the bathroom door closed to keep moisture in the air. Pat your skin dry with a soft towel rather than rubbing.
 Your skin accumulates dirt and sediments throughout the day. Splash water on your skin and use a towel to pat it dry before you go to sleep. This will help your skin retain its natural oils.
 This is a natural way to make your skin softer. Get a small spoonful of raw honey and rub it between your fingers. Apply it to your face and leave it for 5-10 minutes. Wash away the honey with warm water and pat your skin dry to retain the moisture., This part of your body is often drier and more stretched than the rest of your skin. This means elbows and knees probably have more dead skin cells. Cut the orange in half and rub it on your elbows and knees. This should help revitalize your skin and remove dead skin cells, making it look brighter., This is a simple and natural way to keep the skin on your face smooth and bright. It is simple to do, and should make your blackheads go away within a couple weeks. You will apply egg whites to your face, letting it dry before adding the next layer. See this guide for a more detailed description of the process.
 Shampoo often strips your hair and scalp your body’s natural oils. Some may need to use shampoo to create a texture that they prefer. However, if you are trying to unveil your body’s natural beauty, use only water and rinse your hair thoroughly to clean it. You will soon find that your body is capable of regulating your hair hygiene without the aid of chemicals.
 You might even consider not shaving your legs, since many men and women have more or less unnoticeable leg hair, or often wear pants. If you would still like to shave your legs, try pure coconut oil instead of shaving lotion.