 You used to be able to hit three meetings, make your deadlines and get the kids to soccer on time. Now you are lucky if you leave the office at 7pm.


Your work and life schedule hasn’t changed, but you are having difficulty meeting the same demands. Even though you have the same deadlines and requirements, you seem to have trouble getting everything done during the day.
You feel as though you are working harder to get the same tasks accomplished. This includes putting more time and emphasis into the same task and project as before.
You are always running behind. From meetings to deadlines and personal demands and even housework--nothing seems to get done in a timely and efficient manner.;
, You used to be able to tackle new projects or explain how to get through a chapter of history to your child but now you feel as though the creativity well has completely dried up.


You have trouble expressing your feeling and thoughts. When it comes to communicating with family, friends and coworkers you can’t get your thoughts or opinions across clearly.
You always feel hurried so you can’t take the time to fully communicate or discuss ideas or thoughts.
 ADT can impact your overall health and well-being if not addressed. Do you find that your fitness and/or sleep patterns have been disrupted to the point where you are exhausted all the time?


Sleep only comes sporadically. You are exhausted throughout the day but can’t seem to get a full night’s sleep. Some consider over the counter sleep medications, which can further exhaustion during the day, creating a cycle that is difficult to break.
Exercise was part of your daily routine but you’ve almost completely abandoned it. You hit the gym five or six days a week, however now you can barely fit in a quick walk on the weekend.
You have an overall feeling of malaise and ill health. In addition to feeling sluggish you are more susceptible to viruses and illnesses.



Test your overall level of attentiveness when you are on vacation or away from the office for a certain number of days. If you seem to be able to get back to old patterns of getting tasks accomplished while away from work, you may want to explore the possibility that you may have acquired ADT.
Do you gradually revert back to old ways when you return to work? Did you seem to be able to accomplish tasks while away from the office but feel overwhelmed within a few weeks of returning to work?
Do you feel more distracted or unable to complete tasks in certain work environments, but efficient in others. For example, if your job is in outside sales, do you feel overwhelmed and have trouble when in the office surrounded by voicemail and email, but free and focused when on the road, meeting with clients?

, Instead of self-diagnosing you should rule out other health or mental issues.

Have a complete physical. Make sure your sleeplessness and overall feeling of malaise has nothing to do with an underlying physical issue. Ask if the doctor could run blood work in order ensure you are in good physical condition.
Discuss how you’ve been feeling with your doctor to determine if visiting a therapist may be necessary. While your general practitioner may not be able to provide you with a concrete diagnosis and treatment for ADT, he/she can advise you on whether further assessment is necessary.
Consult with a therapist for diagnosis and strategies you can use to lessen the effects of ADT. Instead of treading water, just trying to make it from 7am until 9pm every day, ask your therapist for strategies that will help you thrive and excel not only in the workplace, but also at home.
 In many cases, busy professionals may be taking a phone call while sending a text and finishing paperwork. While you may think doing all three at once will save time, but in the long run it will take you longer because you are not focused on one thing at a time.


Have a certain time of day you answer emails. Turn off the email alert system on your computer so you aren’t distracted every time a new email hits your inbox. Then schedule time throughout the day when you will check emails based on how much your job depends on it.






Return voicemail messages twice a day. Check your voicemail before lunch and before you leave at the end of the day. Of course if you are working on an urgent project or need to return voicemails make an exception on that day, otherwise don’t have a phone stuck to your ear 24/7.
Put your cell phone away. Friends or family members may want to text you during the day, however getting texts all day can be extremely distracting. Instead of keeping it on your desk so you can continuously read text messages, put it in a drawer and out of sight.
Stay off social media. Although seeing friends’ pictures and commenting on the Red Sox game from last night may be fun, it is sucking time from your schedule. Resolve to only to tap into your Facebook page or Twitter account after work.
 Check with human resources to see if the company has built in certain days that don’t fall under the umbrella of sick or vacation time.

Use your mental health day to restore your energy level. If you haven’t been sleeping or overly exhausted, use the day to rest and relax.
Consider getting items checked off your “to do” list. Perhaps you continuously try to get errands accomplished but never can. Schedule doctor’s appointments or other necessary visits on this day.
Try to be unavailable during your day off. Don’t check email or voicemail all day, but instead ask a coworker to back you up during that day (and then do the same for that person when he/she is out).







