 The most common way to lengthen your lashes without mascara is to apply false eyelashes. You can find false lashes in full strips that fit your entire lashline or individual clusters that you can place exactly where you want extra length.Full strip false lashes offer the most dramatic look, so they work best if you want major length for your lashes.
Individual lashes work best if you want a more natural, subtle look.
You may need to cut or trim strip lashes to fit your eye shape. Always test a pair before trying to put them on.;
, To secure the lashes to your lid, apply lash glue to the false lash band or cluster. Let the glue sit for 30 seconds to 1 minute so it dries and becomes slightly tacky. Set the lashes just above your natural lash line starting at the outer corner and pressing inward to secure them.When you’re applying your lashes, it helps to set your mirror below you and tilt your chin downward so you can place the lashes at the right angle.
After you’ve applied the lashes to your eye, let them sit for another 30 seconds to 1 minute to ensure that the glue has bonded with your skin.
To remove the lashes at the end of the day, simply peel up one of the edges and gently pull the lashes off. You may need to use eye makeup remover to take off any glue residue that may be on your lashes or skin.
 When your lashes are perfectly straight, they tend to look shorter and more sparse. Curling them helps lift the lashes so they have a longer appearance. Use an eyelash curler to curl your lashes along their entire length for the longest look.You can purchase an eyelash curler at drugstores, beauty supply stores, or any store that sells cosmetics.
Start with the eyelash curler at the base of your lashes, and hold it closed for approximately 3 seconds. Next, move the curler to the center of your lashes and hold it closed for another 3 seconds. Finally, place the curler at the end of your lashes and hold it closed for a final 3 seconds.
If you don’t have an eyelash curler, you can use a clean toothbrush to help curl your lashes. Run the brush under hot water and then dry it lightly with a clean towel. Next, run the brush through your lashes, starting at the base and holding it at the tips for several seconds to create the curl., If you want to skip mascara, using eyeliner strategically can help make your lashes appear longer. Instead of applying the liner to your lid, trace it right along the base of your lashes. Next, gently pull up on your eyelid to expose the underside of your lashline, also known as the tightline, and apply liner there as well to make your lashes appear thicker and longer.Use a dark eyeliner so it blends in with your lashes. Black is usually the best option, but if your lashes are light, you may prefer a brown liner.
For the liner at the base of your lashes, you can use pencil, powder, liquid, or cream eyeliner. For the tightline, use a pencil or cream liner.

