 Start introducing your pit bull to different people and animals as early as you can. This will help your puppy get used to all sorts of people and animals.The best time to start socializing your puppy is when he's around 3 to 5 weeks old to when he is 14 to 16 weeks old. During this time, your puppy easily learns and absorbs new information which can make him confident later in life.


Give your pit bull treats as a reward for greeting people. You can let others feed your puppy the treats so that he associates people with good things.
Treats can also keep your puppy's attention around loud or possibly frightening situations like traffic, skateboards and bicycles.
 Your pit bull puppy might be frightened when meeting new people or encountering new situations. Put him at ease by starting with calm, comfortable situations before gradually introducing more exciting situations. Watch your puppy for signs that he's content. Never force your dog into an interaction that seems to overwhelm or frighten him.For example, if your puppy appears frightened by meeting new people out in public, try introducing people to him at home. Your puppy may be more relaxed in this environment. Eventually, you can expose him to new things outside of the home.
 One of the best ways to socialize your puppy is to take a puppy socialization class with your puppy.You could find a responsible pit bull dog group, canine good citizen program, or dog therapy training program. These classes can give you skills you need to teach your puppy commands and help your puppy interact with other dogs.


You can find available programs through community education centers, humane societies, and large pet stores. Your veterinarian may also be able to recommend local classes., You should always watch your puppy when he's playing with other puppies or dogs. If you notice a problem, stop the behavior before they start fighting. For example, play has moved too far towards fighting if one puppy is biting another's skin,especially if the biting puppy is shaking his head and pinning the other to the ground.Once you stop the fighting and the puppies calm down, reward them and let them play again.


To easily interrupt fighting, keep both puppies on six-foot leashes. Or, keep blast horns and squirt bottles around to quickly interrupt fighting.
If your puppy doesn't often fight with other puppies, you can practice commands. For example, call your puppy to you and reward him when he obeys.

