 A rectangular, flat organizer pouch can work as this core element. Its size and centered position in the bundle depends on the amount of clothes you are packing.








The organizer pouch is basically just a rectangular shaped pouch with different organizing pockets. It's a great place to store things like smaller items that can get lost in your bag., Put soft items, such as underwear, socks, a swimsuit and a laundry bag, into the pouch to form a pillow shape. Do not stuff the pouch with items, because this will make it too bulky.
 Start with a heavier item, such as a jacket, laid out on a bed or other flat surface. Smooth out wrinkles in the clothes as you go.









Most garments will lie face up. Only tailored jackets should lie face down with the sleeves positioned as naturally as possible. This is because of the tailoring in the shoulders of jackets, which if you do it face-up will cause them to wrinkle.
 Fold skirts in half lengthwise. They should alternately be oriented left and right as they are added.








Follow with (buttoned) long-sleeved shirts and T-shirts that alternate pointing up and down. The shirt collars should line up with the armpits of the next shirt.
Add pants (trousers) or slacks, alternately oriented left and right.
Include any sweaters or knit garments, alternating up or down in orientation. Place any shorts on top.
 Try to align its edges with the shirt collars and waistbands of skirts. This is ensure that the bundle doesn't fall apart when you try to place it in your case.
 Wrap clothing tightly to avoid wrinkles but do not stretch out the clothes. Wrap both sleeves and the bottom of each shirt or sweater around the pouch. Tuck in long sleeves around and under the pouch.
 Secure the bundle in place with tie-down straps for your luggage. Your bundle and your suitcase is ready to go and should be wrinkle free.









The only irritating thing about this method is that you have to unpack the entire bundle to get the things you need. Best thing to do is hang up your clothes when you get to your destination.

