 Tattoo infections are fairly common, and can become a medical hazard if left un-addressed.


Your doctor is your best resource for diagnosing infection and prescribing the appropriate measures to treat it.
As with most skin infections, the most effective treatment is usually antibiotics.
Additionally, your doctor may order blood tests, if he or she deems it necessary.
Treating your infection early will prevent medical complications, and will protect your tattoo from damage and discoloration.;
,

Use a topical ointment, such as Bacitracin, A&D Ointment or Neosporin if your tattoo is confirmed infected.

Only use a topical antibiotic if your tattoo is confirmed infected, because otherwise you will clog your skin's pores and potentially increase the likelihood of infection.
The ointment will also make your bandage less likely to stick and pull your skin.
 Ensure the cleanliness of your bandage by redressing your tattoo once a day.


Make sure to wash your hands before redressing your tattoo.
The bandage will help to protect your infected skin from abrasion and from germs.
 To minimize itching and swelling, apply a cold pack to your infected tattoo. Do not place ice or an ice pack directly on your skin. Instead, wrap the ice or ice pack in a thin towel so that the ice does not harm your skin or cause tissue damage.Hold the ice on your tattoo for 15 to 20 minutes. Remove the ice and let your skin warm back up. Repeat as necessary.
 Expose your tattoo to open air as much as possible. Exposing your tattoo to fresh air, rather than keeping it bandaged up, will actually help it to heal more quickly. It will also help to keep the infection dry.
 While the infected tattoo needs fresh air to heal more quickly, you also need to ensure that the wound is guarded against dust or dirt particles. Use gauze to cover the wound whenever you go outside or do an activity that might get your tattoo dirty.


Change the gauze frequently to help your infection heal.
 Try your best to keep your tattoo from getting wet while the infection heals. As mentioned above, you should try to dry the tattoo out as much as possible.


When taking a bath or shower, cover the tattoo in plastic wrap and hold the edges of the plastic wrap down with tape. This will help to keep the tattoo from getting wet.
Avoid swimming as the chlorine content in the pool water could harm your skin.
 Avoid all chemical products including soaps and creams as they can be harsh on your skin and aggravate your infection.


You should still consider applying sunscreen if you go outside, but try to find a lightweight sunscreen that contains natural products, if you do choose to use sunscreen.
 Over-the-counter medications such as Acetaminophen, Ibuprofen, Naproxen and Aspirin can be taken to relieve the pain and swelling associated with an infected tattoo.


Do not take these medications on an empty stomach as they can cause you to have an upset stomach and can lead to liver problems.

