 Lay the pocket square flat and pinch the center of the fabric with your thumb and forefinger. Lift the square straight up, bunching the loose ends together with your other hand. Fold the ends over and insert the square into your pocket to leave about two inches of the rounded edge billowing out.Don’t worry if the pocket puff comes out looking a little loose. This is a casual fold, so it’s not supposed to be perfect.
Alternately, you can wear the puff inverted (sometimes referred to as a “crown fold”) so that the corners of the loose ends poke out the top of your pocket., Place the pocket square against a flat surface with the upper and lower edges level. Fold the square widthwise across the middle, then again lengthwise from the bottom, leaving only a thin strip exposed at the top. Slide the square into your breast pocket to complete the look.The square fold is also sometimes known as the Presidential fold. It is generally thought to be the most professional way to wear a pocket square.
A square fold will look best with pocket squares in solid colors, or those with neat, subdued patterns like stripes or dots., Set out the pocket square in a diamond shape. Fold it neatly in half from the bottom so that the top and bottom points are aligned. With the resulting triangle, fold the left and right points inward to the center to make the square small enough to slip into your jacket.Double check that the folded points are perfectly centered—there should be no overlap whatsoever. Be careful not to be too rough with the square as you fit it into your pocket.
The one-point fold is one of the quickest and easiest methods of wearing a pocket square. It’s uncomplicated yet sleek enough to be worn in a business setting or for most formal events., Begin with the square lying flat in a diamond shape. Fold the bottom point up at a slight angle so that it ends up in line about an inch beside the top point. Crease both side points over and smooth the square before placing it in your pocket. You should end up with two identical peaks side by side.This fold can be a bit tricky to get right. You may have to give it a couple test runs to achieve a neat, symmetrical outcome.
It will be easier to form natural-looking folds that hold their shape with a soft, flowing fabric like silk., Starting with the square in a diamond shape, fold the bottom point up and slightly over to one side so that it’s positioned just next to the top point. Then, take hold of the squared point on the side you just folded and bring it across to the opposite side of the top point. Tuck the remaining side point behind the other folds and carefully fit the square into your suit pocket.Folds with three or more points provide an air of suave sophistication that will turn heads at high-profile events.
Solid colors and simple patterns tend to work best for multi-point folds. If you’re not careful, a more complex pattern may clash with the intricate design of the fold.