 Hang around him a lot, you might soon become friends.;
, What are his interests, what does he like doing and what things do you have in common with him?

, If you don't know his friends, make more effort to get to know them.
 Don't try to push his other best friends out of the way though, or he'll never like you.
 Do not scold, boss or yell at him; he won't be interested in staying friends with you if you display these tendencies.


Don't call him stupid or ugly or anything mean.
Show him you're there for him but don't baby him.
 Stand up for him and let him see that you really mean your friendship with him.
 That means, give it time. Even if it progresses no further than friendship, at least you have a good friend in the making. After all, you're both still really young and there is a lot of life ahead of both of you.
 If he is playing basketball in PE, then tell him he did a good job. If you like the sport, join in and suggest you play together, either for practice or for real.


Show off your athletic ability because you are good at it and enjoy it. Don't show off just to impress him; you're too smart for that.
 Not all the time. He'll think you're weird. But sometimes.
 Talk about things you have in common, things you both like doing and things that happen at school. Keep it light and friendly.
 Find out when he is happy to spend time together and let him know when you're free too, and when you'd rather spend time with your girlfriends.
 You could even study together, and help each other to learn the things you're both best at.
 Seek first to be really good friends. If you want something more, give it a lot of time. You are both very young and it's a lot more fun to spend time together as friends, learning more about one another and having fun than making things awfully serious and complicated. The moment you get serious, the fun stops and the worries start.
 These sorts of actions might cause him to not like you or to find you silly.
 Don't tell him you like him until you are either moving or going to a new school or until you are in at least grade 5. The awkwardness of learning that you have feelings for him might ruin your friendship!

, You're in elementary school. You have the rest of your life for romance. Don't rush it.

