 Use your usual cleansing routine, which consists of washing your face with a gentle facial wash/cleanser, a toner to close up pores after cleansing and a rich moisturizer to leave skin feeling smooth and supple. Doing this regularly is one of the best things you can do for your skin, as it will keep your skin in perfect condition and can even help to prevent breakouts! Afterwards, pat face dry with a soft towel.
 Smooth on so it looks natural and fresh, not like you're orange! Conceal any imperfections(such as spots or dark shadows under the eyes) with concealer. Get rid of any unwanted shine by applying powder(with a powder brush)over your t-zone(forehead, nose and chin). To avoid looking overly done or even orange looking, make sure all the shades you choose are exactly your skin color., There are two ways to emphasize them, by either sweeping one whole color over the whole lid, or by doing some smokey eyes. You will need the correct brushes, so having a good quality brush set is essential. A couple which are handy to have while doing your eyes are an eyeshadow tipped applicator(the ones with a foam/sponge tip on each end), a small eyeshadow brush and a large eyeshadow brush. They should be soft and easy to use, not rough and raggedy. If going for one color, take your eyeshadow color and use the applicator or brush and sweep the color over closed eyelids. Blend in well to avoid obvious lines and if using a light color you can bring it up to your brow bone. Keep on just the lid. Some good colors for just one color are dark browns, pinks, purples, baby blue, pink, greens and lilacs. Keep it light but so you can see it clearly to make an impact., Choose a color theme(colors in the same color range, such as a sliver, grey and black) and make sure your brushes are clean. Always start of with the lightest color, and blend in the center. Next, take the second darkest and use in the crease and outer corners. Finally, use the darkest color in the inner corner and also in the outer area. Blending in well is vital, as the point of creating smokey eyes is also about not being able to tell where certain colors begin or end. Remember, it isn't just blackish colors that can be used for smokey eyes, combinations of greens, pinks and purples and baby colors look just as amazing!, Match the color to the eyeshadow for a cool and coordinated look. But you can also be a bit bolder and mix and match! Great combinations are: purple and blue, brown and golds, black and pinks and blue and green. Gently(and not tugging) draw a fine line in the outer corners and smudge slightly to achieve a smokey look. Mascara are good too. Be really brave with bright colored mascara and again, coordinate this time, as colors of the same sort will look the best together if matching., Go for either bold eyes and neutral lips, or bold lips and neutral eyes. Never go for both at once, as it will probably just look clash, not cool. A clear lip gloss or one with just a hint of shimmer will do well. If lips are the parts you want to play up, you could even try a lipstick or a brighter shade., Any color looks great, like pink, red, purple, etc. Paint three strokes on each nail and allow to dry. Now your make up is bold and beautiful!,