 Babies are unable to tell you what they want directly. This means you will need to pay attention to the actions and non-verbal cues that your baby gives. When you know what your baby needs, give it to them. If that doesn’t work then you may have misinterpreted their needs, and you should try something else.For example, if your two week old is crying and isn’t soothed by their bottle, they may need to burp instead of eat. Try burping your baby, and if that doesn’t sooth them, move to the next thing (such as rocking), and so on.;
, Adults sometimes make the mistake of assuming children play just to pass the time. This is not true. In fact, children gain most of their skills through playing. This is how they explore the world around them, and it should be encouraged for them to learn new skills while playing.For example, you could play peek-a-boo with your child. While on one hand it is a simple game, on the other hand they learn that you will go away and come back. They also learn to be excited when they see you.
 While your baby is exploring their world through play, they will learn new skills. It is up to you as a parent to reinforce those skills by giving your baby positive feedback. This makes your baby feel confident and secure in their development.While it might not seem like much work to hold a bottle, it is quite the feat for your six month old. Tell them that you are proud of the things they are able to do.
 All of the skills we need in life have to be learned. Sometimes, this means pushing the limits a bit. You should play with your baby and challenge them to do something that is a little harder than they are used to. For example, if your baby likes to roll a ball, try making them roll the ball into a set of pins or a basket.Be sure to keep this light and do not make it competitive.
 Babies thrive on attention from their parents. You should hold your baby, and talk or sing to your baby often. This interaction will help them feel loved. These things need to be done both when the baby is calm and cute and when the baby is crying and being fussy., Two key elements of making babies feel safe are to respond to their needs as soon as you can and to make their day predictable. By responding quickly when your baby cries, you are teaching them to trust you. Keeping a regular schedule for your baby helps them to predict their day and keeps them from being confused and frustrated.When you are dealing with a newborn, you typically need to respond in an “on demand” way. Babies usually do not adopt a schedule until sometime between three and six months.

