 Doing something that is good for your health can keep your mind off of cutting. It also allows you to have control of your body in a positive way. Exercising can also help to release stress, anxiety, anger, and other emotions you usually use cutting to help with.


If you got into an argument with your friend, physical activity can be a positive replacement to cutting. Walk, run, bike, lift weights, take a yoga class, or participate in any physical activity to distract yourself.This will be more effective if you get involved in a structured exercise routine, such as working out with a trainer or training for a 5K. Don’t work out only when you feel like cutting because this will not help to prevent anxiety the way that a regular exercise routine will.;
, Music is a healthy and productive way to express yourself. Playing an instrument also keeps your hands and mind occupied. You can use music as a way to convey your feelings, instead of cutting yourself.


Take lessons or look for videos online if you don’t know how to play an instrument. Get inventive if you don’t have an instrument: banging on pots and pans is a great way to make some noise and provide a release.If you are an experienced musician, then try taking on something challenging, such as learning a new piece.
 Keeping your hands busy may stop you from wanting to use them to harm yourself. It will also give your mind something to think about other than cutting.


You felt ignored by a group of kids at school and your fingers are itching to harm yourself. Knit, draw, squeeze a stress ball, cook, clean, bake, make origami, or finger-paint to keep your fingers and hands occupied. Engaging in this type of activity will not only stop you from hurting yourself, but you may come out with a treasured work of art or delicious meal., Ask a local senior center, nursing home, or animal shelter if you can volunteer your time. Volunteering at a facility that lets you come by when you want is ideal, as you could go there whenever you feel like cutting. Being around others who are in need of your time and help can boost your self-esteem, which could prevent you from hurting yourself. It can also help to provide perspective by showing you the experiences of other people.


Sometimes you may have the desire to cut because you're lonely or feel rejected. A volunteer commitment can give you something to do and help you connect with others.
Similarly, you could go through your belongings and pull some items out to donate. Doing so keeps your hands and mind busy and also makes you feel good about yourself for helping those in need., The environment you are in when you feel the urge to cut yourself may be contributing to the urge. Get a change of scenery by going to a different room in your house, going outside, going for a walk, or going somewhere totally different, such as a café or a friend’s house.

