 Figure out which foods you like are dairy-based or have dairy. You can do this by reading the ingredients on product labeling, which often says, “Contains milk.” This can familiarize you with exactly what is in your food. It can also help you gradually remove it from your diet and give it up entirely. Common foods that are dairy-based or contain dairy include:Frozen desserts
Frozen meals
Cow’s milk
Mayonnaise
Dressings and dips
Whipped and ice creams
Fresh and frozen yogurt and kefir
Pudding
Cheese
Quark and sour cream
Butter;
, There are dairy-free options that can replace most foods. Foods marked “vegan” are dairy-free. Reading product ingredient labels for “contains dairy” can alert you to foods containing milk to milk-based products. Many non-dairy versions of products, such as shredded cheese, yogurt, and coffee creamers, are made from the following types of non-dairy milk:Soy
Rice
Hemp
Flax
Coconut
Almond

, Giving up dairy cold turkey may cause cravings and take you off track. Start with the groups of dairy you like least, such as milk or coffee creamer. Work up to the dairy group you love most, such as yogurt or cheese. Getting rid of certain dairy products a bit at a time can help you give it up while minimizing cravings and helping you stick to your goal.Add a new group of swaps after a couple of weeks or when you feel comfortable using the alternative. Keep going until you’re dairy free.
 Plan and make your own meals each week. This can minimize the risk of eating or drinking any dairy products. It can also help you figure out what to eat if you’re having dinner at a restaurant or another person’s home.Examples of dairy-free meals include:


Pasta with marinara sauce and steamed vegetables
Salmon sautéed in olive oil with a baked potato and nutritional yeast for flavor

, Dairy can pop up in a lot of sneaky places. This is especially true in restaurants. Check online menus for dairy-free options if you are going out. You can also ask your server or a manager if certain dishes contain any dairy or if they have been cooked with butter. Some restaurant foods that often contain or are cooked in dairy include:Creamy soups such as chowders and bisques
Oatmeal
Thick dressings including ranch and thousand island
Omelets
Sautéed vegetables
Smoothies, including those with whey powder
Sherbet

, Eating dairy-free doesn’t mean you have to give up delicious and decadent foods. Making yourself dairy-free treats once or twice each week can keep you excited about your diet and satisfy your taste buds. They can also keep you on track. Some easy, dairy-free ways to indulge include:Vegan ice cream
Vegan fudge
Vegan pizza
Vegan cake

, Let your friends and family know you’re going dairy-free. Ask them to enjoy dairy-meals with you or share in your journey. Having support from loved ones can help you stay on your dairy-free diet., It’s easy to have a non-dairy breakfast that satisfies you and helps get your day off to a good start. The following are some delicious, non-dairy breakfast options:Cereal with coconut milk and a cup of coffee with soy creamer
Almond milk yogurt with berries
Toast with cashew butter and a cup of coffee with almond milk
Smoothie made with hemp protein powder and coconut milkAlmond milk pancakes or muffins

, Your midday meal can give you fuel to get through a big part of your day. Some examples of satisfying, non-dairy dishes for lunch include:Baked potato with avocado or tahini
Tomato soup thickened with ground cashews
Sandwich with hummus or nut butter

, Wind down your day with a rich and savory dinner. Some easy non-dairy evening meals include:Pizza with homemade crust, veggies, and shredded soy cheese
Burritos or tacos with guacamole and salsa
Burger with a slice of avocado

, Many people associate dessert with creamy dishes including ice cream and pies with whipped topping. You can easily get the same delight from a dessert even without dairy. The following may satisfy your sweet tooth without the guilt of dairy:Nut milk ice cream
Frozen banana “ice cream”
Baked goods with coconut oil instead of butter
Sorbet

, Some people are not able to fully digest the lactose, or sugar, in milk. This can lead to uncomfortable symptoms and even malabsorption of calcium.Most symptoms of lactose intolerance occur 30 minutes to two hours after consuming dairy-based foods and beverages. These may include:Diarrhea
Nausea
Vomiting
Abdominal cramps
Bloating
Gas

, Lactose intolerance and not consuming dairy can lead to a calcium deficiency. Incorporating alternative foods and beverages high in calcium can prevent a calcium deficiency. Non-dairy foods and beverages high in calcium include:Collard greens
Broccoli
Kale
Bok choy
Edamame
Figs
Oranges
Sardines
White beans
Tofu
Canned salmon
Okra
Almonds

, Make an appointment with your doctor if suspect that you are lactose intolerant or worry about not getting enough calcium in your diet. Your doctor can run tests to diagnose lactose intolerance or a calcium deficiency. They can also form a treatment plan for you if you have either condition and want to get enough calcium without dairy.Let your doctor know what your symptoms are, when they started, or when you gave up dairy products.

