 Although you may be able to wear your yoga pants to the office,you must consider how they mimic other clothing to be successful. In general, the more your yoga pants resemble dress slacks the better your chances. This doesn't mean they have to look drab. Just opt for a looser fit and hem for more formal activities.


To be safe, consider your yoga pants as a replacement for blue jeans.In other words, if blue jeans would be too informal, avoid yoga pants. As your yoga pants resemble dressier slacks, the rule is less clear.
Some companies make yoga pants expressly to look like dress slacks., You can pick any color or pattern that you feel comfortable with. Pretty much anything goes with yoga pants.Be cautious wearing odd looking yoga pants to the office. Stick with solid colors such as you would find in any dress pants section. Blacks, browns, and grays are generally safe choices.
 This will largely depend on what you are doing and the temperature of the venue. If you are doing something rigorous or in warm weather you may want to consider a synthetic fabric that breaths when you sweat. If you are wearing them indoors or where it may be cold, a thicker cotton pair may be more appealing. Different fabrics are also stretchier. Try fabrics with a 4-way stretch for increased comfort instead of fabrics with only a 2-way stretch.
 Some people wear yoga pants simply as a replacement for other casual clothing. Others wear yoga pants so they don't need to change clothes before or after a workout. If you are one of the latter type of people, you would want to consider the type of physical activity when choosing your dress. Try picking a pair of yoga pants that will functionally work well with your activity, and choose a color or style that will fit your casual attire.
 Depending on who you base your fashion decisions on you may be pressed with many options. Patterns may be fashionable by some standards and grossly tacky by others. As a reliable friend to be the judge in these scenarios if you have questions as the matching and pairings are based solely on popular opinion.

