 You never know what you might pick up while you're browsing in New Look or River Island.;
, There are many great places in Dublin (City Center and Dundrum) and London to get the clothes you're looking for.
 Some suggestions include:


Cheap clothing stores where clothing is but a few pounds or euros. Look for cheap clothing stores with such items as pink and black legwarmers for under two pounds/euros. Pick up quirky little things such as kitsch jewelry, coloured skinny jeans, bows, animal print, etc. If the store doesn't have it, ask and they'll probably get it sooner or later.
Try punk stores. Although focused on punk, many do some pretty scene stuff there, too.
Hit the little girl's section in clothing stores and indulge yourself in Hello Kitty stuff and big bow clips for pocket money prices.
 Check out the sites with original indie apparel or manga-themed items. Look for sites considered to be "underground" and somewhat unknown, so you can be the first one in town to own their adorable apparel! How indie is that?

, Still searching for the perfect tutu? Make it yourself! Find some simple instructions on the Internet, order some tulle from eBay and get stuck in! You'll have your dream skirt in no time.
 Plaster your country's flag prominently on outfits. A huge Union Jack will make your tight black skinny jeans look amazing.
 Scene hair is quite easy to do. Having a thick fringe sweeping over your forehead will always be classed as scene. But, you also have to look at the rest of your hair, so get lots of layers. Tease them to give you that choppy, messy look but don't let it get out of control.


Dyeing hair is really popular with scene teenagers. Make it colourful but not so much that you look out of place. If you don't feel confident enough, then you could try to go for a more natural colour, such as blonde or black.
Use extensions. If you're not allowed to dye your hair then buy some extensions. It doesn't matter whether they're clip-in or glued-in. Most people prefer clip in because they are easily removable if you decide to change the colour.
 Bows are always a must! The bigger the bows, the better you look. Scarves are also considered slightly scene. For necklaces, try making Kandi ones, or go for cute, cartoon-like styles. If you have any light coloured Jesus bracelets, then turn them inside out and write random things (with one letter on each block) or draw symbols on them, wear them like that when you go out.
 Converse and Vans are always popular in the scene style. Ugg boots are acceptable (especially if worn with full length leggings). If you think the shoes you already own aren't scene enough, then update them by adding some new laces and style them up (just don't go overboard).
 It will lead to people calling you a poser. If that happens, then you have no shot at being a scene queen (which is every scene girl's dream). You may also lose some of your friends because they either don't like the new you or they think you're just purposefully trying to change and you're not the friend that you once were to them. Scene kids are pretty random though... some good random things to do are:


Draw a mustache on your finger and hold it above your top lip
Random 'silly' dancing while you're out with your friends is considered slightly scene so that's always a must (plus it's fun)
Just basically think of random things to do.
 Join sites such as Facebook, Tumblr, DailyBooth, Twitter, Bebo, YouTube (make lots of update videos to increase your popularity as a scene girl) and more as you go along. Most scene girls model for a modelling site, this means your pictures are put onto the internet for people to see, and this will boost your popularity a lot (if your parents don't let you do this then don't worry, just wait a year or so because they may think you're just too young).


Especially use Bebo. Although www.bebo.com isn't limited to the U.K. and Ireland, it is definitely more popular here and is yet another haven for gaining Internet fame. Don't let it limit you to only Irish/U.K. websites, though- you can still have your Myspace and Buzznet privileges.

