 Since poder isn't irregular in this tense, all you have to do is drop the "-er" from the verb stem "pod-." Then add the ending that matches your subject pronoun.Yo podía (I could)
Tú podía (you could)
Él/ella/usted podía (he/she/you could)
Nosotros podíamos (we could)
Vosotros podíais (you all could)
Ellos/ellas/ustedes podían (they/you all could)

, The verb poder is irregular in the preterite tense. The verb stem for conjugated forms is "pud-," not "pod-." The appropriate endings also vary from those you may have learned for regular -er verbs.Yo pude (I could)
Tú pudiste (you could)
Él/ella/usted pudo (he/she/you could)
Nosotros pudimos (we could)
Vosotros pudisteis (you all could)
Ellos/ellas/ustedes pudieron (they/you all could)

, In Spanish, there are two different verb tenses used for actions that occurred in the past. In most contexts, you want to use the imperfect tense, which also may be referred to simply as "past tense."This tense is used when an action happened over a more general period of time, happened intermittently, or don't have a definite end date.
You also want to use this tense when talking about someone's characteristics or personal traits, or when talking about a mental or physical state in the past.
The verb poder is regular in the imperfect tense, and roughly translated as "could" or "used to be able" in English., The preterite tense in Spanish should only be used when you are talking about an action that had a definite beginning and a definite end.The verb poder is irregular in the preterite tense. Although the translation in English is the same, it will be understood slightly differently in Spanish than if you used the imperfect tense.
If you're talking about something that only happened for a specific period of time in the past, or on a specific date, you usually should use the preterite tense.
The verb poder is regular in the imperfect tense, but irregular in the preterite tense. In both tenses, you translate the verb as "could" in English.