 Your face, shoulders, hips, and feet should all be facing the ball before you swing. Your body should be parallel to the hole. Make sure that your feet are shoulder width apart for maximum balance. Lean forward slightly as you position the club to the ball., Place your dominant hand below your non-dominant hand. Keep your arms straight. Since you are leaning forward, your arms will be hanging down below your chin.For example, if you are right handed, your right hand will be closer to the ground.
 Move the club back away from the ball. If you are right handed, you move the club backwards to the right. Your right elbow should bend slightly, but your left elbow will remain straight. Your shoulders will twist slightly. Raise the club until it is somewhere between hip and shoulder height. This should feel comfortable. Do not force your body to swing the club high.If you are left handed this will be reversed. You will bring the club backwards to the left, bending your left elbow and keeping your right elbow straight.
 Swing the club forcefully towards the ball. If you are right handed, you will swing the club to the left. Once you hit the ball, follow through with your club. Allow the club to continue to swing over your left shoulder. At this point, both of your elbows will be bent.


Keep your eye on the ball the entire time. Look where you want the ball to go before you swing.
If you are left handed you will swing the club to the right.
 As you get closer to the hole, you will want to change your swing slightly. When you putt, use a shorter backswing. Lightly tap the ball. The ball should roll on the ground instead of flying through the air. Continue your follow through and keep your eye on the ball at all times., There are several different types of clubs in a set of golf clubs. The driver is the club that is used for long distance. This should be used on your first hit. The putter is the club that is used for short distances. An iron is used for hits that are less than 200 yards away. Hybrid clubs have been developed recently to be used in place of drivers and irons.