 Playing single player campaign with three AI survivors is preferable to playing an online campaign with other people, as the computer-controlled survivors rarely have friendly fire incidents. The best campaign to select for getting this achievement is Blood Harvest - the wide open forests means that there are less points where the survivors are confined together like in the No Mercy campaign.;
, When in front of your team, crouch so they can shoot over you (the computer controlled survivors are good shots and will not hit you if you are crouched). Crouching also improves your aim, making it easier to aim past team members. Generally, if a survivor is near you, be aware of yourself and not put yourself, or them, in the line of fire.
 The main cause of friendly fire is the weapon you are holding. When attempting to unlock this achievement, avoid picking up the shotgun (which has a wide spread of fire) as they are more likely to hit a passing survivor. Instead, pistols and the sniper rifle are ideal for unlocking this achievement due to their precise aim and slow firing nature. The assault rifle and uzi are good as well, but only if you're going slow. You should be going slow if you're trying not to shoot up your teammates.
 These explosives have a wide range of damage and will usually injure nearby team members if they are not thrown far enough away. These explosives can also set off other exploding canisters nearby, causing further damage, so be aware.
 If the horde attacks, resist the urge to unleash a flail of bullets in all directions. This will probably lead to you hitting one of your own team members. Instead, calmly melee the horde away from you, shoot what you can safely and let your team mates finish the rest off. If you have time, back off from the situation and pick the rest of the horde off. Whatever the case, a cool head will prevail.
 Attempting to shoot the special infected which has pinned the survivor may lead to you accidentally shooting your own teammate, so get close to them and free them manually before they take too much damage.
 If you are not sure if you have unlocked it (if the message saying you've unlocked it doesn't pop up for example), then wait for the final credits to show how many friendly fire incidents there was during the entire campaign and who did them. If it shows any, then you'll have to try again.
 It is represented by a sniper rifle pointed away.

