 The garbage bags can come in handy for waterproofing, water collecting, insulation in layers or if one was stuffed with boughs or needles, extremely large storage potential, small amount of space needed for empty storage, and weight.;
, Tin foil can be useful for signaling, cooking, waterproofing, water collecting (can be made into a primitive cup), moderate storage potential, heat reflection, small amount of space needed for empty storage, and is very light weight.
 By this time your kit should look like the one to the right.
 A Leatherman tool is not recommended because its hard, brittle steel has the potential to break in the cold. Hard steel is industry standard now is because it does not dull as easily. In the image, compare the Leatherman at the bottom to the older jackknife above it. The jackknife has undergone 50 years of use because of the soft steel used in its construction, with the downside being that it needs sharpening often. When weighing soft steel vs. hard, weight should be given to the fact that one has a very tangible need to keep one's survival implement in one piece. That is the main advantage of soft steel vs. hard. You should add a Leatherman as an option - it's nice to have as long as it's in one piece. But consider it an also item.
Flint/magnesium starter - easy to use, can light in very wet conditions.
Thick roll of electrical tape - can function as rope, adhesive, straps; bring for durability, weight.
Two smaller zip lock bags - good for water collecting, storage potential; can be made into a primitive cup.
Several small bottles to hold the following liquids and supplies:

Honey: antiseptic, high energy intake, low to no spoilage.
Fir Sap: adhesive, flammability, high vitamin C for immunity during low energy phases, antiseptic properties, good for a sore throat.
Salt: preservation, spice, intestinal cleanser in larger amounts, helps your water supply go further as it encourages fluid retention.
Mini Fishing Kit: Includes sinkers, swivels, fishing line, hooks and artificial bait.
Black Walnut: A poison poured into a stream during a survival situation to kill and provide safe fish meat to eat if they are not biting.
Cotton Balls: Used For lighting fires and first aid.
Band-Aids Basic first aid.
