 One of the keys to preventing babies from ingesting too much air while feeding is to position them so that they get a tight seal when they latch-on. Try to sit the baby upright and feed them at roughly a 45 degree angle or greater. You should also support the weight of the breast and let the baby wrap around you instead of dangling away from the breast. This will help ensure a tight seal and minimize the baby’s intake of air., Infants who are breastfeed have fewer problems with burping. This is due in large part to fact that they can control the flow of milk, which allows them to better coordinate breathing and swallowing. Bottles have a faster milk flow that babies are unable to control, forcing them to swallow air between quick gulps.Try different bottles and nipples if possible. Some bottles have an angled shape or a bag inside to reduce the amount of air that your baby swallows. Different nipples can also reduce air intake. You can also try smaller nipple hole sizes to slow down the milk flow if your baby seems to drink too quickly.
 If you are nursing your child and they get fussy, it may be better to stop the feeding than to continue. Letting your baby fuss and nurse will cause them to ingest more air, which will only make them more uncomfortable.Your baby might also spit up if they get too much air.
 Some babies will need to be burped regardless of what you do. They may be fast feeders and gulp lots of air, or the mother’s milk flow may be too fast for the baby to control. It is therefore important to pay attention to what your baby is doing. If they are fussy, take a break from feeding and give them a burp. However, if they are not fussy, it may be better to continue on with your feeding.If your baby is chronically fussy, they may be suffering from GERD or colic. Be sure to consult with your pediatrician if you believe that your baby suffers from either issue.
Spitting up is normal for most babies, and not usually a cause for concern. However, if you believe that your baby is spitting up more than normal or seems to be more uncomfortable or eating less, be sure to contact your pediatrician.

