 Do not wait for the drug to wear off; call for help right away. A drug overdose can be fatal or cause permanent damage to a person's organs.;
, There are many symptoms of drug overdose, which include:


Change in body temperature (sweating or overheating; shivering or drop in body temperature)
Heart rate changing drastically
Chest pains
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Difficulty breathing
Abdominal cramps
Dizziness
Seizures
Snoring deeply
Skin turning pale

, Someone who has overdosed can go in and out of consciousness. Try to keep the patient awake., If you do not know what they have taken, or even if you do, it may not be safe to put other chemicals in the body, as this can have a negative or even dangerous reaction., In some cases, an overdose can cause a person to have a seizure, which can be doubly scary if you've never dealt with either situation before. However, the steps for dealing with someone's seizure are actually fairly simple in nature.


Lower the person to the floor.
Make sure the person is still breathing.
Stay with the person. Especially since this person has just overdosed, do not leave them alone.
 A common suggestion for those who have overdosed on drugs or are suffering from alcohol poisoning is to get the person into a shower and turn on the cold water, dousing them. Avoid doing this in any situation. The water temperature might put the body in shock and cause the person's body temperature to drop into dangerous levels - and it's pretty tough to drag a person in and out of a shower if they're incapacitated., If the person is conscious and able to communicate, try to get information on what they overdosed on. This will help the doctors or paramedics to give the appropriate treatment without wasting any time.
 After the overdose, the person who overdosed should get immediate medical attention. This will help others to understand if the overdose was intentional or accidental, which, in turn, helps the person and medical figures figure out if they need psychiatric help.
 Get them the proper help. Give them the right contacts such as a rehab or addiction hotline.

