 If you feel like you are good at doing your job, this is a sign that it is at least partially a good fit. However, if you feel like nothing comes naturally to you at work, you may be in the wrong job.Consider whether the tasks that you have to complete for your current job remain very difficult despite having had to complete them for many months or years.
If you are a carpenter and find framing very difficult after many years of doing it, perhaps this job is not ideally suited to you. Perhaps other kinds of carpentry would be more rewarding.
You can also check in with yourself every day before you go to work to see how you are feeling about it. For example, if you dread going to work every day, then this is a good indication that you should look for something different.
 If you have received some positive feedback recently, this may be a sign that the job is a good fit for you. However, if you are constantly getting negative feedback at your position and experiencing very few rewards, the position may not be a good fit for you.If you receive feedback from your boss orally, try to write down the feedback that you receive for a few months. At the end of a few months, review your notes and make a list of all of the areas needing improvement and all of the positive feedback. If the feedback is mostly negative or in the needing improvement area, you may need to consider other work.
 If you feel like you can be yourself at your job, this is a sign of a good fit. If you feel like you can’t be yourself at the workplace or your identity is marginalized, the job might not be a good fit.If you are differently abled, consider whether your employer takes steps to make this job and the workplace more accessible.
If you are out in the workplace as part of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning (i.e., LGBTQ+) community, consider whether your employer has a LGBTQ+ employee resource group. LGBTQ+ resource groups share information on LGBTQ+ issues and events at the company and help connect LGBTQ+ identified people in the company., If you enjoy chatting with your friends and family about your work and feel a spark of passion about work related subjects, this can be a sign of a positive match. If you really don’t like talking about your work, this may be an indication that your passion for the position has dwindled or was never there.Bring up the subject of work at your next family event. If you find yourself enjoying the experience of talking about your current job, perhaps you are happy in your current position. However, if you find it painful or stressful to talk about, you should consider why the subject is so difficult to talk about.
 It is fine if you are partly motivated by the money, but you should have other reasons for doing the work. If you are really just doing the job to make a buck, it might not be a good fit.There are many people who manage to find work doing what they love, whatever that may be, so look around and try to find yourself a job doing something you are passionate about.Consider what type of work you would like to do if money were not an issue. If you would still be doing your job or something similar, then this is a good indication that your job is a good fit for you. If you’d rather be doing something totally different, then you may want to look into changing fields.

