 Declining performance in school or work is often connected to drug use. Drugs not only decrease mental capacity, they increasingly dominate a user’s thought process. Instead of focusing on issues related to education or employment, a drug user may be constantly thinking about becoming intoxicated, and how to obtain more drugs. , Both insomnia and unusual sleepiness may indicate drug use. Does the individual sometimes seem strangely lethargic and tired? Do they suddenly crash and sleep for long periods of time? Alternately, do they have giddy or manic energy even without sleeping? See-sawing between high and low energy, between periods of excessive and insufficient sleep, should raise the alarm.


Opiate users may exhibit a euphoric wave of energy and then abruptly fall asleep, even while sitting upright.
Alcoholics might be full of energy at night and then sleep well into the morning, exhibiting an aversion to light and sound.
An LSD high can last for up to 12 hours, during which time an individual cannot sleep. But following the high, a user may “crash” and sleep for an entire day.For more information on the relationship between sleep and drugs, see: http://www.drugs.com/medical_encyclopedia.html


, Have they started doing things they previously considered immoral? Have they been lying and skipping school or work? Are they asking to borrow unusual amounts of money? Have property, valuables, and money gone missing? Are they taking risks that put themselves and others in harm’s way? Answering yes to any of these questions may indicate problematic drug use. , Have they become more reclusive, avoiding family and long-time friends? Are they more irritable and distant with loved ones? Has the individual started hanging out with mysterious new friends that they refuse to introduce? Are they taking suspicious phone calls, or constantly texting unknown people? If so, the individual may be using drugs. , Consider looking through the individual’s dresser, desk drawers, or clothing pockets. Suspicious items may include eye drops, mouthwash, “baggies,” cigarette rolling papers, cotton swabs, roach clips, pipes, bongs, needles, pill bottles, incense, or room deodorizers. While some of these are common personal hygiene items, they could also indicate a drug use problem.


Be very careful when infringing on an individual’s privacy. You may anger them greatly and you will be very embarrassed if you are mistaken about their drug use.
Only look through someone’s personal things if you deeply concerned about their wellbeing and willing to face the consequences of doing so.

