 Keeping inappropriate food away from your dog may depend on other people following the rules. Ask guests to keep plates out of reach of your dog and to not feed the dog any of their food on purpose.If you tell them the damage it could do to your dog's system, they should respect your request and follow the rules.
If you are still worried about guests feeding your dog, put out a dog-safe treat they can feed it. This could be little bits of your dog's kibble or commercial dog treats, whatever your dog will respond to while still being healthy for it.;
, It is best to avoid having items at your barbecue that could injure or kill your dog if it accidentally eats them. While most human foods can give your dog digestive distress if it eats them, there are some foods that are very toxic to dogs and could kill it. These include:Chocolate
Grapes
Raisins
Onions
Products sweetened with xylitol

, Dog's digestive systems are not meant to process the same foods as human digestive systems are. Dogs also need a consistent diet to avoid digestive problems. In order to avoid digestive problems, it's best to never feed your dog from your plate, so that it doesn't even know that is an option and won't beg.Some foods humans love to eat at a barbecue, such as corn on the cob, can lodge in a dog's intestines if your dog is able to get its paws on them.
Other foods, such as meaty scraps, as simply bad for your dog's health if given in large quantities.
 While it may seem natural to throw your dog a bone after you are done with it, cooked bones are actually very dangerous to give to dogs. Cooked bones can easily splinter and lodge in your dogs body, which may puncture body systems and require life-saving surgery to remove.


If you must give your dog a bone, make it a raw one. Raw bones do not splinter the way that cooked bones do. However, you still need to supervise your dog while it chews on a raw bone, in case of choking., Your dog doesn't just want to eat your barbecued meats, it also probably wants to drink your beer or wine. However, it is important to keep alcohol out of the reach of your dog because the basic ingredients of most alcoholic beverages are actually toxic to dogs.Both raisins and grapes, the key ingredient in wine, are toxic to dogs. In addition, hops, a primary ingredient in beer, are also toxic to dogs.
In addition, dogs are simply not meant to ingest alcohol. They have not built up a tolerance to it over time and, in general, they have much smaller bodies than humans and their systems don't process it well.

