 You want to get an idea of the how much blood loss you are dealing with. Immediately after cleaning the wound, inspect it for depth and any signs of damaged blood vessels, such as squirting or pulsatile blood flow. The average person has approximately eight liters of circulating blood; a loss of 10 percent of this blood volume can have serious consequences, including loss of consciousness and lack of blood supply to vital organs.Take this opportunity to evaluate for wound depth, as a wound of one centimeter or greater will usually require sutures once you can get some medical care.
Do not remove an object if it is embedded in the wound. Leave it in the wound; it is helping to stem the blood flow. Removing the object will actually increase blood flow. Medical professionals will be better able to remove the object without damaging any internal organs or causing massive blood loss in the process., Since you don't have gauze or bandages, apply firm pressure on the wound with a clean and absorbent material, like a shirt, towel or sock. If the item becomes soaked with blood, don't remove it as this can disturb any blood clots that may be starting to form. Instead, place another piece of material on top of the soaked one and keep applying direct pressure.If there is an object is still in the wound, press firmly around it. Applying pressure to the wound will help to slow the flow of blood.If the wound is gaping and bleeding profusely, try stuffing the wound with a towel or blanket, or with tampons if they are available, and then applying pressure. Right now it is more important to stop the person from bleeding out than worry about possible infection.
Some first aid training suggests using the edge of a credit card to "seal" the wound, an item that's handy because so many people have one on them. Not only does this stem blood flow, but it may also prevent lung collapse (by keeping air out of the wound) if the wound is in the chest.If the wound is bleeding profusely, apply pressure to the major artery leading to the area with your hand, while your other hand continues to apply pressure on the wound. These areas are called "pressure points". For example, to slow bleeding in the arm, press the inside of the arm just above the elbow or just below the armpit. If the wound is on the leg, press just behind the knee or in the groin.In certain situations, it may be necessary to use a tourniquet. A tourniquet should only be used on a limb and if the person is experiencing a life-threatening limb hemorrhage that is not controlled with the application of pressure or if there is a life-threatening injury to the limb, such as an amputated or mangled limb., This will help reduce blood loss. If the victim can sit, get him to move himself into an upright position; if not, then help the victim if possible.Make sure the patient doesn't walk. Walking, and especially running, can act like a second pump to the circulatory system and can cause as much trouble as the heart.
 Since you don't have gauze or bandages, use a piece of your clothing (shirt, coat, socks, etc.) or other material (from a tent, raft, etc.) to cover the wound once the bleeding slows or stops. Alternately, you can also use plant life to cover the wound to stop any bleeding. Look for plants that have leaves large enough to cover the wound. Depending on the regional flora and fauna, you may even find some plants or leaves with medicinal purpose, such as the Comfrey or Ki plants.Avoid using tissue paper or toilet tissue as these are quite fragile and may actually contaminate your wound with fragments and debris. Any fabric that absorbs the blood effectively can be used to apply pressure.
Do not lift or remove the dressing as this will disrupt clot formation and re-start the bleeding. If the dressing becomes soaked with blood, add more cloth material on top of it.
For a chest wound, be careful. Cover the wound with something like kitchen foil, a plastic bag or cling-film and only cover three sides of the wound and leave one un-taped or bandaged down. Air needs to be able to escape from one side of the bandage to prevent it from entering the pleural cavity in the chest. If air enters the pleural cavity, the lungs can collapse.
 Use string, tape, rope, or torn strips of clothing to tie the dressing in place. Do not tie so tightly that blood flow to the affected area is cut off.


If you don't have any materials to fasten the dressing in place, simply continue to apply pressure. This will help the blood clot.