 It’s your key to dressing appropriately on this special day. Weddings, at their heart, are serious occasions and often take place in a house of worship. If there’s any time to follow a dress code, this is it! Your attire should be appropriate, conservative and respectful. If the invite does not state a specific style of dress, then follow the “Dressy Casual” or “Semi-formal” step below, or ask someone in the wedding party; they usually know months in advance.Along with the invitation, base your attire on the season, venue and weather. The time of the ceremony is also important. Weddings in the evening often have a more formal dress code than a daytime event.
If you don’t know the couple (perhaps you’re going as the date of a friend or family member of the betrothed), you may want to call the venue and see what dress is appropriate. Consider packing a few accessories to either dress up or dress down your outfit.
 The dress code calls for a tailcoat; white pique, formal shirt; white pique bowtie; white pique vest; matching trousers; gray or white gloves; and black, opera pumps (shoes without laces)., You should also wear a white, formal shirt, black bowtie, black vest or cummerbund, suspenders, and patent leather shoes. If it’s during the summer, black tuxedo trousers with a white dinner jacket are also fine.There will always be a few guests who misinterpret the invitation to simply mean “formal” and will dress in whatever they feel is dressy. A gracious host will understand. In technical terms, though, a tuxedo is the best choice for black tie events.
If the invite says “Black Tie Optional, the safest choice is still a tuxedo. The hosts worded it this way because they don’t want to exclude those who can’t afford one. So if you genuinely can’t, then a dark suit and tie is just fine., But consider outside factors. A summer suit paired with a linen shirt (no tie required), khakis or linen pants, and sandals are just right for this kind of wedding.


As a general rule, bathing attire should not be worn, even under an ensemble unless the invite specifically states.
 Wear darker, more formal colors for an evening wedding. Opt for lighter fabrics and colors for a daytime fete.
 However, tank tops, shorts, and jeans are probably not appropriate unless the invite specifically states. Dress pants paired with a polo or button-down shirt are good selections.

