 Not only will this remove any chipped or leftover polish, but it will also remove any moisturizer from your nail. If you have a moisturizing agent, such as lotion or oil, on your nail, the polish will not stick properly. Make sure that you’ve created a perfect canvas for your French manicure.





;
, For a classic French manicure, the base coat should be a nude or light pink color. The white tip is the star of the show, so the base coat is simply a neutral backdrop.To create a smooth base, paint your nails in three thick strokes. Do a stroke down the middle, and a stroke on either side.








If your base coat is very sheer, apply two coats. Allow your nails to dry completely between each coat.
 Be patient, and don’t rush this step. Because you will be applying adhesive tape to your nails, the polish needs to be absolutely dry. Watch TV, chat with a friend, or listen to music while you wait for the polish to dry. Check the status of your nails by very gently tapping the nail with the tip of your finger. If you aren’t sure if they’re dry, wait a bit longer. If you try to hurry your manicure, the tape will peel bits of the base coat right off.


If you're crunched for time, try blow drying your nails. Just make sure you use the cool setting on your dryer.
Drug stores sell nail polish drying sprays, so you can invest in one of those if you know you don't have the time to let your nails dry naturally. If you don't want to buy a spray specifically for your nails, regular old cooking spray can do the trick as well! Just make sure you wash your hands well afterwards, so your white polish is able to adhere properly to the nail., You can use any type of adhesive tape for this step, but Scotch tape will be most gentle on your base coat. Carefully place the tape so that about ¾ of your nail is covered, and make sure that the exposed tip is the proper width. Push the tape down firmly, so that it is a completely sealed barrier between the tip and the rest of the nail.
 Because the tape is in place, you don’t need to worry about perfectly staying in the lines. Paint in strokes going upwards to the tip of the nail. This will help make sure that white polish doesn’t leak under the strip of tape, ruining the crisp border you are trying to achieve.
 Again, this step is extremely important and should not be rushed. Your nails will look a bit funny covered in tape and messy white polish, but it is well worth the wait. If you try to remove the tape too early, you can peel off some of the white polish, creating sloppy, jagged borders. Distract yourself while you let the polish dry completely.
 Remove the tape very gently, so you don’t risk messing up any of your base coat or white tip. As you pull away the tip, you should expose a sharp, crisp border between the base coat and the tip of your nail. To seal in your beautiful manicure, apply a sheer top coat to the entire nail.
 The cuticle is the little piece of skin that connects your nail to your finger, and it is visible at the base of the nail. In order to give your polish a smooth, beautiful surface, you need to push back the cuticles so that they aren’t visible. You should do this step when your cuticles are soft and damp, such as right after the shower. You can also soak your fingers in a cuticle oil, or simply warm water, to make it much easier to push them back.








Don’t cut your cuticles. They serve as a barrier and protection against germs, and cutting them can lead to nasty nail issues.
 French manicures work well on nails that have a little bit of length, because the white tips will extend further from the fingers. However, you can create a French manicure on any length of nail. The key, however, is to make sure all of your nails are the same length. Your manicure will look a bit strange if your pointer finger nail is twice as long as your ring finger.


Trim cautiously, and be careful not to cut too short. When you file them later, they will get a bit shorter.
Don’t worry about trimming them into the perfect shape— that comes next. Just make sure that you have cut them all to the same length.
 Gently use a nail file to smooth and even out the ends of your nails. With the file, you can shape them into a rounded or more squared off tip.French manicures work on either shape, so just go with the one you find most aesthetically appealing.









Continuously examine your work to ensure that your nails are the same length and shape across the board.

