 The tip traps work best. Put a bit of peanut butter at the end of the trap and set it out where ever you think the mice are likely to go.;
, When it is, get a big high sided container with a lid (this isn't your cage) and put your trap in with the mouse still inside. Open the trap door and wait until your mouse comes out.
 Many mice carry diseases, and you should only keep it if you are very experienced in keeping mice.
 It might be a vole, and if it is, don't worry! Voles are just as lovable, and in some circumstances easier to tame!

, For now, give it bits of fruit and vegetables.
 NEVER try to hold your mouse the same day you catch it.


This break gives you the perfect opportunity to get all the things you need to care for your mouse from the pet shop. The first thing you will need is a cage. Look for a Glass aquarium with a screen lid. Rotastak cages do not work. Do not worry if they escape. Just put the original trap out and shut the front door and they will come back.
 Also buy some hamster cereal and some mouse treats and some puppy treats. Hide these in little crevasses for your mouse to find. For bedding, use aspen wood shavings.
 Tomorrow you will start his training!Now then, you have everything you need to start a brilliant relationship with your mouse.
 Give them any bits left over from your salads, give them brown bits off your old lettuce, whatever. Remember, these are WILD by birth mice, not TAME by birth mice. They are very immune to food.
 Wild mice do make a BIG smell when not cleaned. Get a pet safe disinfectant and clean everything in your cage.
 First, put on your strong gloves. Then try to find your mouse. Be gentle! When you have got your mouse, take him/her gently in you hands OVER the cage in ONE hand so you have one hand free to block your mouse from running up your arm. Do this as much as you can.
 Then start to take your hand out of the cage. Don't move very far, so you can rush back to the cage if your mouse makes a move to jump. Gradually move further and further away from the cage until you can move a couple of rooms away. Then take your gloves off and start again from the cage outwards.
 Start from the cage outwards again, as before. Be very careful with this, and if your mouse tries to walk off your hand have your other and ready for him/her to walk onto.
 Why not try to catch another one for company?! Why not try new toys with him/her? Its up to you! There is a whole world of fun to be had with your little mouse! Good luck!

