 Begin with your feet shoulder width apart facing the net. Your dominant arm should be directly in front of you, palm up, with the ball in your palm.


You should be at least 5–8 feet (1.5–2.4 m) behind the line to have enough space for a 3-4 step approach.
 Step forward with your dominant foot and keep the toss in line with your hitting shoulder. As you step forward, throw the ball high into the air and slightly forward with your dominant hand. Flick your wrist when tossing the ball to create spin on the ball.








A consistent toss results in a consistent serve. The toss influences every aspect of the serve; a bad toss can ruin an otherwise good serve. Toss with your strong hand, keep the ball in front of you, and don't throw it too high or low. These things result in bad serves., This should go slow to fast, so that your last two steps are much quicker and should look like they're happening at the same time. On your last step forward, launch yourself into a jump. Use the momentum from the steps above to get higher in the air.









If you're right handed, your steps will be left-right-left. If left handed, you'll be right-left-right. These last two steps are called a "step close" and are the most explosive part of your approach.
 Both arms should swing back to generate power for the jump. As you jump, swing your dominant/hitting arm back behind your body at a 90 degree angle. As with the basic overhand serve, your elbow should be pointing upward, with your wrist rigid and at or slightly above your ear. Your non-hitting arm should point at the ball to track it.









Your non-hitting arm tracks the ball in what is commonly referred to as a bow and arrow movement.
 Aim to hit the ball just above the center of the ball.Unlike in a basic overhand serve, don't stop your arm when you hit the ball. Swing all the way through and snap your wrist.


If you can't get the snapping motion, practice. This wrist snap is what makes a top-spin serve powerful and unique. Practice perfecting the snap of the wrist along with hitting the ball correctly to send it sailing over the net.
 Create lots of forward momentum by rotating your hips and body through the serve. You should be broad jumping into the court on your jump serve and jump float. At the highest point of your jump, bring your hand down in a snapping motion slightly underneath the ball. This way you can aim upwards, but wrap your wrist over the top, which creates an up-down arc with the serve.This should create a topspin.









If you're right handed, your left hip should lead with your left shoulder. Then your right hip should power through, followed by your right arm.

