 One way to get relief from swollen veins is to put on compression stockings. These are tight-fitting stockings that put pressure on your legs to help push blood through your veins, reducing vessel diameter and improving blood flow. There are two types of compression stockings you can get without a doctor’s prescription, or you can get the strongest kind by talking to your doctor.Follow manufacturer recommendations regarding when and how long to wear compression stockings. Make sure to check your skin condition underneath the stockings multiple times each day. Advanced age, diabetes, nerve damage, and other conditions can place an individual at greater risk for skin damage associated with prolonged pressure and skin infections. The stockings should be the appropriate size for the person using them and not too tight.
Support pantyhose. These are merely tight stockings, which offer the least amount of pressure. They will provide pressure to your entire leg, not a particular part, but can be helpful if the swelling isn’t serious.
Over-the-counter (OTC) gradient compression hose. These are sold in medical supply and drugstores, and will provide more targeted pressure. Look for products labelled “gradient” or “graduated.”
By talking to a doctor, you can get prescription stockings. These are the stockings that give the most pressure to your legs. They can be targeted to different parts of your legs to make sure you get pressure where you need it most. Make sure you wear them as often as directed. If you do get a prescription, don’t stop wearing them without consulting your doctor.;
, To get blood flowing out of your legs and back towards your heart, lie down and raise them above your heart. Elevate your legs at least 15 minutes, three to four times a day.:


Some good ways to elevate your legs include putting pillows under your legs while you lie in bed, lying on a couch with your legs elevated on pillows on a chair in front of you, or leaning back in a reclining chair that will elevate your legs above your heart.
Do not elevate your legs more than six times a day, as it puts a good deal of pressure on your vein’s walls.
 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can help reduce swelling in your veins. NSAIDs provide relief by blocking the release of prostaglandins, which cause swelling and pain. It is important to take NSAIDs on a full stomach to prevent tummy aches and hyperacidity.Do not start taking NSAIDs without consulting your doctor first. He can recommend dosage amounts to provide the best relief while not overdoing it. Use of NSAIDs for more than two weeks may cause the side effect of stomach or intestine ulcers.
Common NSAIDs include aspirin, Ibuprofen (sold commercially as Advil or Nuprin), Naproxen (Aleve), and Ketoprofen (Orudis KT).
 If you are suffering from thrombophlebitis, you may need medication that thins the blood or dissolves clots. You will need a prescription for these drugs, so talk to your doctor about the best options for you.Blood-thinning medications will prevent your blood from clotting, creating better flow in your veins. Common blood-thinners include heparin or fondaparinux (sold as Arixtra), warfarin (Coumadin) or rivaroxaban (Xarelto).
Clot-dissolving medications deal with clots that already exist, and are usually used for more extensive and serious cases. These include alteplase (Activase), and will dissolve blood clots currently in your veins.
 If you are uncomfortable, or unable, to take NSAIDs, consider some natural remedies to reduce the swelling. You should talk to your doctor about using these treatments as well, making sure that your dosage is right and that they don't interact with other medications you may be taking.Licorice root extracts can be taken internally or externally. Make sure the form you take it in is diluted properly. Avoid using if you have heart disease, hormone-sensitive cancers (breast, ovarian, uterine, or prostate), high blood pressure, diabetes, disease of the liver or kidney, low potassium, erectile dysfunction, or if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.Apply marigold herbs to the affected area before putting on compression, either a cloth or your stockings.
Epsom salt baths can also reduce swelling. Add one to two cups of salt to bath water and let it dissolve before soaking in it. You don’t need to wash yourself with it, just sit and relax.Take at least one bath per week, or soak your feet in lukewarm water with Epsom salts daily.

