 With small fish tanks, you must do fifty percent or larger water changes at least twice weekly but preferably every other day. Without massive, frequent water changes, the tank can destabilize and put your fish at risk. Thus, it is important to schedule time to do your fish tank water changes and cleaning.Every other week, perform deep cleanings in which you remove decorations and scrub the interior.


Observe your fish daily to see whether they look healthy and are behaving normally. Do they have good color, clean scales, unclamped fins? Or are they slimy and ragged? Remove any dead fish. If your fish look sluggish, stressed, or they are gulping for air, do a water change.It is not beneficial to perform deep cleanings too often, as you will remove essential bacteria.;
, Make a checklist to ensure that you have all the necessary supplies. Having your supplies on hand will speed up the process. Most supplies are available at pet or home goods stores. Use this list to help you.


2 fish nets
Temporary fish tank or container
Fresh water in the quantity you want to replace
Algae pad
New toothbrush
2 large buckets (5-10 gallons)
Gravel vacuum
Siphon
Water conditioner
Aquarium-safe glass cleaner or a vinegar-based solution
Clean cloth
Towel

, Place tarps or towels on the floor to catch any spilled water. Keep the tank in place. Do not move your tank or tip it into the sink. Juggling your fish puts them under stress and stirs debris in the tank. , Wear a short-sleeved shirt or tank top. You might consider wearing a bathing suit. Aprons also can protect your clothing. Wearing water-resistant shoes like water shoes or flip flops is also a good idea.
 If applicable, unplug the aquarium’s aerator, filter, and heater. Leave hood lights plugged in. Place the hood behind the tank to illuminate the tank., It is important to clean the glass before removing any water. Use an aquarium sponge or clean soap-free cloth to remove algae and grime. Some fish owners leave algae, as it is preferable to green water and provides food for many fish. Still, it is best to remove some algae., By using the current tank water, you will cause less environmental stress on the fish.Make sure your temporary container is clean and has no soapy residue. If you are unsure of its cleanliness status, clean it with an aquarium-safe glass cleaner or a vinegar-based solution.
 Be gentle and mindful. You may want to use two nets. Use one net to herd the fish into the other net. Put your fish in the temporary container with the original tank water. Never put them in tap water. Do not allow the fish to jump from the temporary tank. Put a cover on the tank., While you do not need to remove decorative items for every water change, remove them for cleanings. Put them on a towel, and rinse them with clean, room temperature water. You may use an algae pad or new toothbrush as well. Do not use detergent or soap to wash them. The fish will die from the toxicity of soap. If algae overwhelms your decorations, consider changing your feeding or maintenance routines., Place the bucket for catching the old water below the level of the fish tank. If possible, set the bucket on the floor or on a chair. Stability is important as is close proximity to the tank. It is best to buy a new bucket to use only for cleaning your fish tank. Residue from soaps or detergents can harm your fish.
 Remove fifty percent of the water at a time.An appropriate siphon is a small 3/8" hose that is four to five feet long.Slowly lower the complete siphon into the aquarium. Ensure that all the air is out of the tube. Plug one end of the tube with your finger and lift that end from the tank. Keep the other end in the water. Lower the removed end towards the bucket while keeping your finger in place. When you remove your finger, the water should flow into the bucket.Slowly transfer the old water into the bucket.


You can purchase a plastic tank siphon at pet shops. You also can purchase a small hand pump to put on the siphon to assist with the water transfer.Your fish are used to their old water. Removing all of it can be a shock to their organs. When you mix new water with the old water, your fish will be healthier., While you siphon water into the bucket, vacuum the gravel with the water siphon to remove fish waste and leftover food. Aquarium gravel vacuums are rigid, plastic tubes, two inches in diameter that attach to the siphon.Gravel vacuums use the momentum of the water flowing through the siphon to loosen debris and remove solid waste from your tank.It is crucial for a small tank to have good beneficial bacteria. Using gravel helps bacteria grow., Wipe down the outside of the tank. Use a vinegar-based solution or buy an aquarium-safe cleaner. Dry the exterior with a clean towel. Consider using an unbleached organic paper towel.
 After you finish cleaning your tank, return the decorations. Add gravel if necessary. Also, add any new decorations at this time.
 Prior to filling your tank with new water, treat tap water with a water conditioner. Try to find a conditioner that neutralizes chlorine, chloramine, ammonia, and other chemicals.Dechlorinators are essential.Be sure to condition the water in a clean bucket before adding it to the tank., Use a thermometer to verify the temperature of the new water matches the temperature of the old water. Having a consistent temperature for your fish is important for their health.Use your siphon to put the new water into the tank. Place your bucket at a height higher than the tank and slowly introduce the new water. Do not fill the aquarium too high. There needs to be space between the water’s surface and the aquarium cover because your fish rely on oxygen exchange at the water’s surface to breathe., Place them in a cup. Float the cup within the tank before releasing them. This process ensures the fish can adjust to the tank’s water temperature and not go into shock when released. Release your fish into the tank.


An alternative is to place the fish into small plastic airtight bags half filled with old tank water upon removing them from the tank. When you are ready to reintroduce the fish, float the bags in the tank for fifteen to twenty minutes. This will ensure that the water temperature is the same in both the bag and the tank. After this time, open the bags.

