 At 6 weeks you can help your pigeons figure out the trapdoor in your pigeon loft. The trapdoor is designed to allow your pigeons to get into the loft anytime they want, but you’ll be able to set the trapdoor to only let them out when you want.These trapdoors might be a little confusing to your pigeons at first, so you might have to help them go in and out at first.It may be helpful to put together a training schedule so you have something specific to follow everyday. Training requires dedication on your part, so knowing what you have to be ready for each day will help keep the training consistent.The training schedule should allow for training to occur at least once a day, and either the method or distance being worked on should change once a week. For example: everyday during week 1 practice going in and out of the trap door with the pigeon; everyday during week 2 practice returning to the loft from 1 mile away; etc.
Read pigeon club blogs - specifically ones written from your geographical area. Local blogs will have advice on your specific geography and climate.
 Good food, comfortable lodgings and being treated like royalty is what makes your pigeons want to come back.Provide your pigeons with the highest quality food and lodgings you can afford.
 This part of the training can begin when your pigeons are between 6 and 8 weeks old.Start by taking your pigeons 1 mile from home and releasing them. Do this several times a week.Use a cage or a basket to carry your pigeons to the release location.
 Each week go further away from home to release your pigeons, and go in different directions each time.Don’t expand the distance too far, too fast. If your pigeons have any trouble, stop increasing the distance and continue training them at the last distance they were successful.
Some of the longest pigeon races are several hundred miles in a single flight. This is the maximum distance from home that you should practice with your pigeon, but do not go to these distances until your pigeon is able to return from shorter distances, in any direction, consistently.
 Bird loss is unfortunate, but not uncommon. If you experience bird loss, reduce the training distance and frequency for a while.For example, if you were training at the 10 mile distance, reduce back to 5 miles for several weeks.


Pigeon clubs all have lost bird reporting processes that you can take advantage of if you lose a bird. People who find lost birds can report those birds (using their leg bands) on these websites. You can then contact the finder and arrange to have your bird brought home.
Some pigeons might simply get tired on their return journey and need time to rest. While they may normally come back to the loft in one day, it may take them a few days to return if they've stopped for a break.
 In addition to training your pigeons to return to your home loft, you can train them to fly between two loft locations (maybe your home and your cottage, or your home and a friend’s home, etc.). Feed your pigeons at both lofts periodically, to give them incentive to want to return to each loft. If they’re at one loft and are hungry, they’ll fly to the other loft to look for food.