 To use your alone time to its fullest, you need to begin by embracing it. Learn to love the benefits being alone brings and resolve yourself to have a positive attitude about it.


Embrace being able to do, say, think, or act however you want. When you’re by yourself, you don’t have to worry about the thoughts or judgments of others. You can be utterly and unabashedly yourself and never think twice about what someone else might think or say.
Love the independence that comes with having time to yourself. You don’t have to take anyone else’s tastes, preferences, or desires into account when making your decisions. If you want to watch terrible reality television, no one can whine about it or beg you to change the channel. If you want to go for an extra-long walk or jog, no one can complain about how long you were out or hijack your plans.
Savor not having to look good for anyone. If you want to spend all day in your pajamas with messy hair and unbrushed teeth, do it! No one will be the wiser and no one can look at sideways at your unicorn slippers.;
, Being around people usually means enduring at least some degree of awkwardness some of the time.


Being alone, on the other hand, means never having to dodge awkward questions about your dating life or listen to someone tell you all about their cat’s agoraphobia., Having time to yourself gives you the chance to step back from all the frantic activity of daily life and interactions. You have time to actually be with yourself--and appreciate your own company.


To fully enjoy your time alone, decide to let yourself truly be who you are. Embrace your quirks--talk to yourself, talk to your chair, do a weird dance while you brush your teeth, slide rather than walk whenever possible, etc. And then take time to really appreciate what an awesome and unique person you are.Start defining yourself by your own unique qualities rather than by your relationships or other people’s opinions. Being alone gives you the chance to really consider yourself for who you are, apart from other people., Another big part of enjoying your alone time is starting to notice and appreciate small things in your life. Being away from the distractions of others lets you pay attention to small details you might otherwise overlook or forget to notice.Take time to look around you. Notice as many small, fine details as you can. Be aware of the small things that bring you pleasure and then take a moment to really absorb and enjoy that pleasure.
Be observant of yourself. Pay attention to small shifts in your mood, thoughts, feelings, and perceptions. Try to pinpoint what led to that shift and how it affected you physically and emotionally. As you get more tuned in to yourself and what makes you tick, you’ll start to gain insights into yourself you may have never realized before.

