 Go to the doctor or emergency room immediately if you experience sudden chest pain, or any other symptoms of a collapsed lung like difficulty breathing, nasal flaring, chest tightness, and easy fatigue.


If there was any blunt trauma to your chest, a doctor should be seen if shortness of breath and chest pain occurs, or if you cough up any blood.A collapsed lung can be caused by a variety of factors. Most often, it is the result of trauma to the chest or ribcage. It can also be caused by air pressure changes and certain pre-existing medical conditions like asthma, cystic fibrosis, and tuberculosis.Call 911 for immediate medical services if there is any significant chest pain or shortness of breath.
A collapsed lung can deteriorate rapidly, so the sooner you seek medical care the better.You will undergo tests when you get to the ER, a doctor will perform a variety of tests to diagnose a collapsed lung. The doctor will examine your chest, listening with an stethoscope. He or she will also check your blood pressure, which will likely be low as a result of a collapsed lung, and look for symptoms like blueness of the skin.A definitive diagnosis is usually made with an x-ray.;
, Your doctor will decide what treatment is best for you based on the type and severity of a collapsed lung.


Your doctor might recommend observation and bed rest as treatment if the collapsed lung is mild and can heal on its own. This usually takes about one to two weeks of observation, rest, and doctor's appointments.If the lung collapse is severe, a needle and chest tube will be needed to remove the air. A needle, attached to a syringe, is inserted in the chest cavity. The excess air is pulled out by a doctor, much like a syringe is used to draw blood.Then, a tube will be placed into the chest cavity to keep the lung re-inflated for a few days.
If a chest tube and needle treatment fails to work, your doctor might recommend surgery as a treatment option. In most cases, surgery is relatively non-invasive and can be performed via small incisions. A tiny fiber-optic camera will be passed through these incisions, allowing the doctors to see what they're doing as they insert narrow, long-handled surgical tools into the body. The surgeon will look for openings in the lungs that caused the leak and seal them closed. In some cases, a portion of diseased lung tissue will need to be removed.
Treatment time varies and depends on the severity of a collapsed lung, but be prepared for an extended hospital stay. Chest tubes sometimes need to stay in place for a few days before removal. In the case of surgery, most people will need to stay in the hospital for five to seven days after surgery., While you're in hospital care, the healing process will begin while you wait to go home. The nurses and doctors will help you with your care.


In the hospital, you will be asked to do a lot of breathing exercises, as well as sitting up and walking to build strength in your lung.If you went through surgery, you will also receive shots to prevent blood clots and may have to wear special stockings on your feet and legs to prevent clotting.Your doctor will explain to you what to do in terms of at-home care, medications, and returning to work. Listen closely and, if you have any questions, ask. You want to make sure you understand what's best for you and your body to heal fully.
 Depending on the severity of your symptoms, your medical history, and any allergies you might have, your doctor may prescribe pain medications to be taken during the first few weeks after your treatment.


Try to stay ahead of pain. Take meds when you begin to feel pain as it's easier to stop severe pain before it starts than deal with after it has begun.The first 48 to 72 hours will be the worst in terms of pain. Pain and discomfort will diminish but full recovery can take several weeks even after severe symptoms pass. Have patience and use meds as needed., Bed rest is not necessary with a collapsed lung. You should rest while sitting up, and do very light, low-impact activities, such as walking.It will be one to two weeks before you fully recover from a collapsed lung, so make sure you plan to be laid up for this timeframe.
Do not push yourself to resume regular activities too quickly, as this can trigger another collapse. Make sure your breathing is normal and pain has passed before you engage in household chores, high-impact exercise, and other physically strenuous activities., Breathing will be difficult in the aftermath of a collapsed lung, and how you sleep can help make breathing easier.


Sleeping in a recliner, moved to a somewhat upright position, results in less downward pressure on your chest cavity and lungs.
Recliner sleep also makes getting up and lying down more comfortable. Movement can be painful after a collapsed lung, and this is easier on your body.A pillow on the affected side can make the chair more comfortable while sleeping.
 It's important to avoid putting undue pressure on your ribcage after a collapsed lung. People are often tempted to put padding on the area to ease pain, but this must be done correctly to avoid causing harm.


To lessen symptoms, you can try holding a pillow against the chest wall. This eases the pain of each breath.Do not tape your ribs or chest. This can impair respiration and worsen the situation.Wear loose-fitting clothing for the first few days. If you wear a bra, wear a sports bra or a bra larger than your regular size., If you are a smoker, inhaling smoke of any kind during the recovery period can cause stress on your lungs, which you want to avoid during the healing process.


Cease smoking completely until symptoms pass. Talk to your doctor about options such as the nicotine patch or pills to help you cope without cigarettes.
As smoking can increase the risk of another lung collapse, it would be best to consider quitting altogether. You can talk to your doctor about quitting and find support groups in your area., Air pressure changes cause stress on the lungs and make re-collapsed more likely, and therefore should be avoided during recovery.


Avoid flying. If you must travel, go by car, train, or bus. If this is not possible, it might be best to postpone a trip for a later date, when you have the okay from your doctor.
Avoid high altitude areas. Tall buildings, mountains, and hiking should be avoided until recovery is complete.
Refrain from swimming underwater, and scuba diving especially, during your recovery., Reaction time is often slowed after a collapsed lung due to pain and any medications, as well as the effect surgery and other treatments have on the body. Make sure your pain is gone and reaction times are normal before getting behind the wheel. If you are unsure when it is safe to drive again, consult your doctor., There is, in general, no long-term effect on your health once the collapsed lung has healed. However, having a collapsed lung once increases the likelihood of it happening again.


Up to 50% of people have a collapsed lung again, usually occurring within a few months of the first one. Be aware of any symptoms you're having during this time.If you think you're experiencing the symptoms of a collapsed lung again, seek immediate medical intervention.
Breathing might feel strange at first after a collapsed lung. Some discomfort or a pulling sensation in the chest can occur for a few months after treatment. This is normal and is not usually a sign of another collapse.