


You may need to reapply the repellent every few days, especially after the rain.
Many repellents are non-toxic since they are formulated to drive squirrels away rather than kill them.
Most deer repellents will also be effective since squirrels and deers are driven off by many of the same scents.
Look specifically for a repellent with large amounts of "putrescent whole egg solids." This is, essentially, rotten eggs. Squirrels typically hate the smell of rotten eggs.
Be aware that many repellents can have a strong odor, especially immediately after application. The smell tends to dissipate as the spray dries, but in the meantime, you may need to place the pumpkin away from the house.;
, The animosity between squirrel and dog is mutual, and many squirrels will stay away from an area if they smell a dog.


Dog hair is also effective at repelling deer.
Cat hair may have a similar effect on squirrels, since larger cats can pose a threat to squirrels.
It is best to use pet hair rather than pet waste. Cat waste is especially dangerous to use since it is a source of toxoplasmosis, a parasitic infection that can cause serious health concerns for pregnant women and people with immune deficiencies.
 Applying a coat of liquefied hot pepper, hot sauce, or powdered cayenne pepper can give the squirrels in your neighborhood a shock once they take a sniff or nibble.


Blend the hottest peppers you can find with enough water to form a liquid. Add a drop of dish soap and a drop of vegetable oil to help the solution stick and pour it into a spray bottle. Coat the pumpkin every few days with this solution to drive squirrels away.
Rub a coat of commercial hot sauce over all sides of the pumpkin. You may need to reapply the sauce after a few days or after the rain, but the hot oils have a way of penetrating the skin and soaking into the flesh of the pumpkin.
Create a scent barrier around your pumpkin by sprinkling powdered cayenne pepper around it. You can also sprinkle the pepper on top of the pumpkin for added effect.
Always wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water after handling hot peppers. Otherwise, you may irritate your skin or eyes.



The potent smell of vinegar can be over-powering to squirrels since these critters have more sensitive noses than humans.
Vinegar is also effective at repelling ants and other insects.
You can also wipe the surface of the pumpkin down with a vinegar-soaked rag, but it is best to avoid letting large amounts of vinegar sit on the pumpkin's surface. The acidic properties of vinegar can end up damaging your pumpkin when used in large quantities.
 Dab the eucalyptus oil onto the pumpkin's surface with a cotton ball or spray diluted eucalyptus oil onto the pumpkin with a spray bottle.


In a spray bottle, combine ten parts water with one part eucalyptus oil. Add a drop of cooking oil and a drop of liquid dish soap to help the solution stick before spraying it over all sides of the pumpkin.
Note that eucalyptus oil will need to be reapplied every few days.
Peppermint oil can also be effective. Both essential oils have potent odors that might be enough to deter squirrels from approaching.

