 Make a list of hospitals in your area that you are willing to travel to on a regular basis. Volunteering at a hospital is a large commitment. You want to find a hospital that is convenient for you to visit. For example, if you plan to volunteer after school or work, choose a hospital that is close to your job or school. If you plan to volunteer on the weekends, choose a hospital that is close to where you live.


Use resources such as Google Maps, the phone book, and your knowledge of the area.
Don't discount smaller hospitals and clinics.
Search the internet for a phone number for volunteer services, or write down the main phone number for the hospital.;
, Once you have identified hospitals that you are interested in, visit the hospital website to find out about volunteer opportunities. The majority of hospitals have volunteer programs. The website will list contact information for the volunteer office at the hospital. You can call with any questions or concerns you have about volunteering at the hospital.


When you visit the website, look at the different areas within the hospital that accept volunteers.
Make a list of the hospitals that have areas that look interesting to you and are in a convenient location.
 There are many ways to volunteer at a hospital. You can serve patients, families, and hospital visitors.Find an opportunity that matches with your interests. Volunteering should be enjoyable and be beneficial for both you and the hospital.


If there is a special population that you are interested in working with, you should find a hospital that caters to that population.
If you enjoy working with children, try to volunteer at a children's hospital. If you enjoy working with the elderly, try to volunteer at a nursing home.
If you want to interact with patients, you should volunteer in an area that provides direct care to patients.
If you want to help hospital visitors, you may want to volunteer at the information desk or in the gift shop.If you do not want to interact with patients or visitors, you may be able to help with administrative work like filing, or shredding., Volunteer requirements vary among hospitals. The requirements will be different for teens and adult volunteers as well. Hospitals typically have age requirements and expected time commitment (e.g hours per week, six months or one year, etc.). Some hospitals have special summer volunteer programs or internships for students.


Requirements will vary depending on the area that you choose to volunteer in as well. For example, at one hospital, you can start volunteering when you are 15 years old, but you cannot interact with patients until you are 18 years old.If you are under the age of 18, you will need permission from your parents to volunteer at the hospital.
 You will need to fill out a volunteer application at the hospital. Often, an application can be completed online or downloaded from the hospital website. Typically, a member of the volunteer office will contact you to once your application has been received and notify you of the next steps. Make sure you include the specific areas that you would like to volunteer in on your application.


Choose more than one area of interest on your application in case you do not get your first choice.Most hospitals will conduct a background and criminal check as part of your application.
Get your application in as soon as you can. Slots may be filled on a first-come, first-serve basis.
If you are applying to a special summer program, check the application dates. The dates may be different than the deadline for other types of volunteers., Typically, hospitals will require that you have a received your MMR (Measles, Mumps, Rubella) vaccine and a recent Tuberculosis (TB) skin test. If you have already received these vaccinations, you will need documentation of your results. If you have not received these vaccinations, you will need to have them before you can volunteer at a hospital.


Some hospitals also require a influenza (flu) vaccination and Varicella (Chicken Pox) vaccination or immunity.Visit your primary care physician or local health department if you need to get your vaccinations and TB test.
 Many hospitals like to interview potential volunteers. Be prepared to answer some questions when you go in for your interview. Why do you want to volunteer at the hospital? What would like to do as a volunteer? What are your interests? Do you have any special skills? How did you hear about the hospital volunteer program?It may help to think about these questions and write down the answers before your interview.
Do not think of the interview as a formal job interview. The hospital is really trying to find a volunteer placement that is a good fit for you.
Give honest answers and be yourself during the interview.
 You will typically be required to attend some sort of orientation before you begin volunteering. The orientation will cover many topics such as hospital policies and procedures, volunteer requirements and expectations, and the history and mission of the hospital. In addition to a general orientation, you may receive training in your specific volunteer area.


Orientation may be onlineor at the hospital.At some hospitals, you may attend orientation before you complete your application. If this is the case, you will receive information about the application and interview process during orientation.Pay attention and ask questions during orientation. This is also a good time to meet some of the people you may be working with.
You will receive your assignment at orientation as well.
 Although you are not an employee, you should still be professional. Show up to work on time, treat patients and visitors with respect,report any unsafe conditions, and do not use your cell phone while you are volunteering. Your professional conduct contributes to a safe environment for both you and the hospital patients, visitors, and employees.


Also avoid giving your contact information to patients and visiting with them outside of the hospital. Professional boundaries can become blurred when you share your personal information with patients. Crossing this boundary can cause patients to become dependent on you, make you feel burdened or stressed, and cause you to be less objective when helping the patients and families.Unless you are required to touch the patients as part of your job, you should avoid any physical contact. Refraining from physical contact is for the safety of both you and the patient. You do not want to pass germs back and forth between you and the patients.
 Most hospitals require volunteers to wear a uniform.Your uniform will let patients, visitors, and hospital staff know that you are a volunteer. Keep your uniform neat and clean. You are representing the hospital when you are wearing it. Your name badge should always be visible as well.


If you lose your badge, let your supervisor know.
There may be other dress code guidelinesin addition to your uniform such as wearing flat, close-toe shoes.
Be prepared to pay for your own uniform.
 As a volunteer, you must respect the privacy of all the patients at the hospital. Do not share any patient's medical information, name, address, phone number, or any other identifying information with anyone. You are also responsible for knowing and following the other policies and procedures (e.g. emergency procedure, infection control, etc.)If you are ever unsure about something, consult your volunteer handbook, your supervisor, or the volunteer office.
If you want to tell someone a story about some of your work at the hospital, be careful not to include the patient's name or any specifics in your story.
 When you volunteer on a regular basis, you will begin to develop friendships with some of the patients and families. Patients and families will be grateful for all the help that you provide and may try to show their gratitude by giving you a gift. However, volunteers should never accept gifts from patients.If a patient gives you something, try saying "This is very nice of you, but I cannot accept this" or "You are very kind, but no thank you."If a patient insists that you accept something, take the gift and give it to your supervisor. Let your supervisor know that you politely declined the gift, but the patient insisted that you take it.
Although you are not a paid employee, you are still considered a professional. Accepting gifts can compromise the relationship between you and the patients. For example, some patients may expect special treatment or favors from you after you accept a gift.Some hospitals have strict policies around this. You could lose your volunteer position at the hospital.

