 One of the best ways to keep as up to date in the cool world as possible is to keep current with the hippest books, magazines, and online reading. If you expect to act cool, keep tapped into the intellectual hubs of coolness. Find stuff that you like, that will also give you cool cache.



Check out cool books, classics like Kerouac's On the Road, Plath's "The Bell Jar," Marquez's One Hundred Years of Solitude, and more contemporary hip-lit: anything by Tao Lin, Karen Russell, Roberto Bolano, or Haruki Murakami.

Check out cool culture magazines like Vice, Bomb," The Believer, Aesthetica, Oxford American, The Brooklyn Rail, and Interview.


Check out cool culture sites, like The Onion, Aquarium Drunkard, Slate, Narrative, and Brooklyn Vegan.
 Music is the lifeblood of the cool kids. Maybe nothing can more instantly inject you with cool juice than a taste in hip music and a contemporary knowledge of what's cool. You don't want to be the guy at the party with outdated taste, asking everyone if they've ever heard of Radiohead.


Check out cool archival record labels like Numero Group, Tompkins Square, and Light in the Attic, to learn about old obscurities. While the lame kids go gaga over Mumford and Sons, go deep into Laurel Canyon desert folk, Minneapolis soul comps, and weird ambient music from the 80s. Good and obscure equals cool.
Go to local shows and learn about the local scene in your area. If you can get in on the ground level with the next hip band before they get big, you can tell all your friends you knew them back when they were playing in your basement. Cool points +1000.
Collect vinyl records, both old and new. CDs are dead, and MP3s lack the cache of a sweet stack of vinyl. Most new records come with download codes anyway, meaning you can still check out the same record on your iPod. Bonus!

, Don't get too excited about anything, or anybody. Stay cool and aloof, as if you've always got something totally rad happening every night after school, or on the weekends. Just found out you won an all-expenses paid trip to Mexico? Shrug your shoulders: "Sounds cool, I guess." Your boyfriend just broke it off with you in front of all your friends? Laugh it off. He was a loser anyway.


Alternatively, if you're at a party full of "too cool for school" types, who sneer and can't even be bothered to take off their leather jackets, it might be cooler to speak out. Be the one cracking jokes, cutting up, and being loud. Find the mainstream and act in opposition to it, if you want to act cool.
 Some cool things are timeless. Plain white tees, Levis, and Chuck Taylors? Always cool. Motorcycles? Always cool. Bass guitar? Always cool. But you've also got to stay ahead of trends by keeping your ear to the underground and finding the "next big thing," which might mean getting off the "Harlem Shake" train before it gets lame. It's cutthroat, the cool game.


When you see Ninja Turtles novelty tees at K-Mart, the trend has probably crossed over into lame. When you hear a band in a diamond commercial, they're probably not super-hip anymore. Move onto the next thing when it's reached it's pop culture apex. No shame.
 There's nothing more cool than being in a rock band, doing weird performance art, or being an all-around eccentric person. Hang out with such people and the coolness will rub off on you.


Frequent trendy coffee shops to meet bohemian sorts in your area. Carry a hip book with you and dress in your coolest clothes. Hit up art openings, concerts, and poetry readings. You'll attract the other cool sorts.
At your school, see if there's an art, guitar, or foreign language club you could join to hang out with other cool and worldly people. It's a good way to make cool friends. If your school doesn't have a music appreciation society, start one.
 Acting cool means having compelling interests in unexpected fields, topics, and issues. Cool people shake up the norm and do surprising things that make other people want to learn from you and sap off your cool vibes. You can cultivate some quirks that'll make you stand out and get noticed.


Maybe you could carry a cane with a rattlesnake on the handle for no reason. Maybe you develop a love of exotic butterflies, and decorate your room with your collection of specimens. The line between weirdo eccentricities and "cool" is sometimes blurry. Have fun with it and do something you really enjoy that's odd, unique, and cool.
Try thinking of calling cards, cool quirks that'll make you different and cool. Even things as simple as ordering bloody mary at night, or deciding to never see Forrest Gump might qualify as "cool." Be the never-seen-a-single-episode-of-Seinfeld guy? Why not?

, Acting cool means you want to look cool while also looking as if you put no thought whatsoever into your look. Look cool by controlling the chaos of your hair, your clothes, and your make-up.


Jeans and shirts should not be ironed, but not super-wrinkly or dirty. Holes in your jeans are cool, and so are paint-splattered boots and sneakers, as if you just came straight form the studio.
Necklaces, bracelets, and piercings are usually cool, if they make you feel good. Use your judgment. Shark teeth necklaces look cool on Johnny Depp, but might make you look like a dork. Combined with other cool stylings, you can start to build a look for yourself.
Wash your hair the night before school, rather than right before school. Going to bed with slightly-damp hair can give you rockstar body and frizz, giving it a controlled kind of wildness. You can always comb it out if it looks too crazy.
Cool make-up is usually minimalist. Go for a light natural look, highlighting your features and your own natural coloring.
 Classic tends to trump cutting edge when it comes to cool clothes, movies, and music. Classic Ray-Bans are cooler than Oakleys. Old-school Italian art house films from the 70s are cool, while Michael Bay movies are less so. Old-school synthesizers and analog guitar effects might be cooler than digital counterparts. Tape machines cooler than Ableton Live.

