 Tooth pain can sometimes be caused by something as simple as a bit of food wedged between two teeth or tooth and gum. If you can determine the source of your tooth pain, you may be able to alleviate it yourself at home.


In addition to food or debris caught in the teeth or gums, common causes of a sore tooth include: an infection of the tooth, root, or gums; mouth trauma that causes tooth damage; an emerging crack or split in the tooth; teething (in children); or a sinus infection that causes mouth pain.;
, If you determine that food or other debris is the cause of your sore tooth, and you can remove it with care and without causing substantial additional pain, you might save yourself a trip to the dentist (and the subsequent bill).Rinse your mouth vigorously with warm water in an attempt to dislodge the debris.
Use floss to try to dislodge the debris. Dentists prefer this to using a toothpick or similar item, as they are more likely to damage the teeth or gums.
Contact your dentist if the debris cannot be removed and is causing significant pain.
 Particularly if your tooth pain is caused by a crack or chip, you should avoid eating foods that are too hot or cold, foods that can easily stick on or around teeth, and foods that can further damage a tooth.Save the jawbreakers and salt-water taffy for another time, and let your coffee cool down at bit. Sensitivity to cold items, such as a shaved-ice treat, can be particularly painful, especially if you follow a warm food item with a frosty one.
Take note of food types or temperatures that are causing pain, however, so that you can tell your dentist should you need to visit.
 If your tooth pain is caused by tooth decay, injury, or infection, pain medication may alleviate your symptoms.Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is a pain reliever that is commonly used for toothaches.
Ibuprofen (Advil) and naproxen (Aleve) also are pain relievers as well as anti-inflammatory drugs. You may benefit from an anti-inflammatory medicine if you have inflamed and sore gums.
Take the medication as directed. Never exceed the maximum dosage listed on the box during a 24 hour period.
Don’t apply an oral pain reliever like aspirin directly to the sore tooth or gums.
 Sold under brand names including Orajel and Anbesol, these medications can be applied directly to your sore tooth and the surrounding gums.Be careful of an allergy to a local anesthetic. Many people, historically, are allergic to ester-based local anesthesia, like benzocaine. If you think you might be allergic, consult your doctor as soon as possible.
This will provide temporary pain relief, but will not treat the root cause of your toothache.
Apply the gel to the affected area with your finger or a cotton swab.
Use medications with benzocaine sparingly, and never more often than directed on the packaging or by your dentist. Benzocaine can cause a condition called methemoglobinemia, which reduces the amount of oxygen in the blood and can cause serious harm.Signs of methemoglobinemia can include bluish lips, shortness of breath, fatigue, confusion, light-headedness, and rapid pulse. Seek medical attention immediately if such symptoms are observed.
 Some dental professionals believe that the natural anesthetic eugenol present in oil of cloves can be effective at relieving discomfort associated with a toothache.Squeeze or drop a small amount of clove oil onto a cotton ball.
Rub this on your tooth and the surrounding gums.
This will provide only temporary pain relief at best.
 This can be especially helpful if you have a toothache associated with a cracked tooth.Wet a washcloth with ice cold water and press it to your cheek.
Alternatively, you can use a gel ice pack. Wrap it in a cloth.
Apply the compresses for 15 minutes at a time.
 Tooth pain in small children is most often caused by teething, the emergence of teeth that normally begins at four to seven months of age.It is not uncommon for teething to be accompanied by fever, rash, diarrhea, and fussiness. If symptoms are consistent, recurrent, or severe, contact the child’s physician.
Soreness due to teething can often be alleviated by gently rubbing the gums with a clean finger, the back of a chilled spoon, or a moist gauze pad. Chilled teething rings or pacifiers may also be helpful.
Do not use oral antiseptic gels containing benzocaine in children under two without the the consent of the child’s physician. Methemoglobinemia, a shortage of oxygen in the blood that can be caused by benzocaine, can be fatal to small children.

