 Get very familiar with the script for the entire play, not just the lines for your role or the individual scene you use to audition. Read the whole script more than once if you can.


Research elements of the character, setting, or themes that you don’t understand or you’d like to know better. Getting immersed in the world of the play can make all the difference in auditioning well.
Focus on learning the pronunciation and meaning of any words you don’t know in the script, especially in a scene you plan to audition with, or another monologue not from the play.
 Introduce yourself to the director of the play before you even rehearse; it may help you be more memorable when he or she sees you again at the audition and makes a decision on who to cast.


Be friendly and keep your conversation quick and casual. Ask questions about the play in order to show your interest and possibly get more information about the script and setting than you would just from reading it.
 Perform your scene, monologue, or song as you will during the audition and would during the play itself when you’re in front of many people. Rehearse as many times leading up to the audition as you need to feel comfortable performing it.


Try getting different types of audiences to watch your performance, not just your family and close friends. Ask audiences to give you constructive feedback if they can.
Make sure you replicate the conditions of your audition as best as possible while you rehearse. For instance, if you will have a piano player or other accompanist playing during your audition song, make sure you rehearse with someone who can play the piece to accompany you. You might even rehearse in the auditorium or room you’ll actually audition in.
 Get your vocal muscles warm and flexible right before your speak or sing in your addition to avoid a cracking, wavering, or croaking voice.


Slide through a musical scale if you’re preparing to audition with a song, or try a basic vocal warm-up, like trilling your tongue, buzzing your lips, or repeating different consonant or vowel sounds as you hum different notes.Try drinking some warm water with honey or lemon, but in general avoid eating or drinking anything but water right before your audition.