 While you can't deposit cash into a Preferred ATM, you can withdraw funds, check account balances, or move funds between accounts without accruing any ATM fees.Look for ATMs that have an "Allpoint," "MoneyPass," or "PNC Bank" logo. These are USAA Preferred ATMs.
If you find a Preferred ATM attached to a bank branch, you may want to consider opening an account at that bank. You can use that account for cash deposits and also manage your USAA account from the same location.
 Turning your cash into a cashier's check or money order is perhaps the easiest way to deposit cash with USAA. Money orders never cost more than a few dollars, and the funds will be available immediately.Once you get your cashier's check or money order, simply deposit it into your USAA account using your mobile banking app. Because the funds are guaranteed, they will be available in your account immediately.
One limit of this method is that you may be restricted to normal business hours when you want to purchase a check or money order.
 With a prepaid debit card, you may be able to reload it with cash around the clock. Link the card to your USAA account and you can easily transfer money from the card to your account online.Shop around for prepaid debit cards to find the one with the lowest fees that has convenient locations for you to reload the card.
 If you already have a checking account at a brick-and-mortar bank, you can deposit your cash into that account and then transfer the money to your USAA account. This typically isn't the easiest or most efficient way to deposit cash with USAA.While USAA doesn't charge any fees for incoming transfers, the other bank may charge a fee to initiate the transfer. Find out how much the transfer is going to cost you before you open an account, especially if you're going to have frequent cash deposits.
Hold times are another thing to keep in mind. Using this method may mean your funds aren't available in your USAA account for several days.
 If you have a friend or family member who has a checking account with a brick-and-mortar bank, they may be able to work out an arrangement with you. Deposit the cash in their bank account, then have them write you a check for the total.Once you get their check, you can deposit it using the USAA mobile banking app on your phone.
Take note of any hold times on personal checks so you know when your funds will be available in your USAA account.

