 After ten minutes, wait another ten. Take it in small chunks of time to help you get further away from the feeling of wanting to self-harm. Keep yourself busy by doing anything else that is less harmful.Take a hot or cold shower.This can feel very uncomfortable and squelch your need to put your body under strain.
Punch a pillow or stuffed bag.
Watch tv or play a video game. After 10 minutes, you may be distracted enough to forget about hurting yourself and continue what you are doing.
 Find guided meditations online to distract you and center your thoughts, or just sit and pay attention to the breathe going in and out of your body. If you get distracted, don’t judge yourself and bring your attention back to your meditation or breathe., It is best to practice this technique when you aren’t experiencing anxiety so that when you are, it comes more naturally and is more helpful.Start by laying down in a quiet room.
Pick one muscle, like your left hand, and tense it up as much as possible for 5 seconds. You should be making a tight fist that feels uncomfortable and may be tight enough to shake. Be careful though not to cause shooting or intense pain, which may cause serious damage.
Exhale as you relax the muscle quickly. Pay close attention to the difference you feel between a tense muscle and a relaxed one. Remain relaxed for 15 seconds.
Move on to the next muscle group and repeat. Do this for all muscles in your body.
 This game will help snap you out of your anxious state, or at least distract you for a few minutes. It is often played in group forums to help each other when nearing crisis mode.Name 5 things in the room.
List 4 things you can feel: the carpet on your feet, the cushions on the couch, etc.
Name 3 things you can hear: the keyboard clicking, the dryer tumbling clothes, etc.
List 2 things you can smell, or 2 things you like to smell: cut oranges, dryer sheets, lilac bush, etc.
Name 1 good thing about yourself.
 Move yourself to a public place, or a common room in your home. Get around other people so you can’t seclude yourself to cause self-harm.
 Recognize when and why you typically hurt yourself and identify ways to avoid those triggers.If your urge comes every time you talk to a specific person, for example, don’t talk to them anymore. If you can’t completely avoid them, at least avoid speaking in private.
 Fill a box with pictures of loved ones, items you can use for distracting yourself, things that comfort you, etc. Or print out a blank form to keep on you at https://www.lifeline.org.au/Get-Help/Self-Help-Tools/Coping-Kit/Instructions.
 Having pets is known to lessen anxiety in general, and often pets are used in mental health settings and aging communities as emotional service animals. Cuddling with your pet is soothing and will help lessen your anxiety when reaching crisis mode. 