 Follow the same rules that apply to drivers of motor vehicles when crossing any street. Obey any additional signs directed at bicycle riders.


This means that cyclists should follow green, yellow, and red lights as normal at a traffic light-controlled intersection, and observe right-of-way as normal at a stop light-controlled or uncontrolled intersection.
Pay attention to any signs directed at cyclists specifically. “Use Ped Signal” could indicate that you should cross according to the pedestrian lights rather than the vehicle traffic lights. “To request green, wait on ” shows you an area on which to position your bike to initiate a green light and cross the intersection., Keep riding in a bike lane or according to markings on the pavement that indicate where a cyclist should go when crossing the street. In the U.S., you’ll stay in the right lane or the right side of the roadway if there is no bike lane.


If there is no bike lane and the lane is wide enough, stay alongside cars in the traffic lane before crossing. If the lane is narrower, “take the lane” by positioning yourself in the middle of it so that no car can attempt to move next to you.Change lanes when it’s necessary to do so to proceed straight across the street or turn in the direction you wish to go. For instance, though you may be riding in the right lane, if it becomes a right-turn-only lane at an intersection and you need to proceed straight, you will shift over to the left until you are in a lane designated for straight-through traffic., Pay close attention to other vehicle drivers and pedestrians also present in an intersection before you cross. Be aware of your unique position as transportation that is faster than pedestrian but smaller and more vulnerable than motor vehicles.


Be aware that vehicle drivers in the U.S. may not see you on their right side, and can make maneuvers like clipping a corner on a right turn or merging lanes without noticing you, that can endanger you when crossing the street. Position yourself where drivers can see you as best as possible.Never try to weave in and out of lanes or vehicles. Only merge into a new lane when necessary to make a turn or other safety maneuver, and only after using hand signals appropriately.
Never cross a street from a sidewalk on a bike, as it will confuse and disrupt drivers and pedestrians. Dismount a bicycle and cross at a crosswalk only if it is safer or necessary to do so.

