 Sometimes watery eyes are caused by an allergic reaction. Taking an antihistamine, or allergy pill, can help to reduce the eye irritation caused by allergies. Just keep in mind that if your watery eyes are not caused by allergies, then the antihistamine might not do anything to help. Talk to your doctor if you are unsure about whether your watery eyes are the result of allergies.


The most common antihistamine drug is the capsule form of diphenhydramine, which is taken orally. For adults, 25 to 50 milligram of diphenhydramine should be taken every four to six hours. If it causes gastric irritation, you can take it with milk or food.A major side effect of antihistamines is drowsiness. Do not drive or operate heavy machinery while taking antihistamines.
 If you go to see a doctor about your watery eyes, she may prescribe an antibiotic if she suspects that you have an infection. For example, bacterial infections respond well to antibiotics; however, if your watery eye is caused by a virus, the doctor might not prescribe any medication and will ask you to wait for a week to see whether the condition improves or not.


The most common antibiotic prescribed for watery eyes is tobramycin. Tobramycin is an antibacterial eye drop drug specifically made for eye infection. Use as directed by your doctor. Usually this means you apply one drop of tobramycin on the affected eye twice a day for seven days — once in the morning and once in the evening before going to sleep., Some medications can cause watery eyes as a side effect. Check the labels of your prescription medications and ask your doctor if you are not sure. If watery eyes is a lasting side effect of a medication you are taking, talk to your doctor about the possibility of switching to something else. Do not stop taking your medication without consulting your doctor first. Some common types of medicine that may cause watery eyes include:Epinephrine
Chemotherapy drugs
Cholinergic agonists
Some eye drops, such as echothiophate iodide and pilocarpine

, There are a wide variety of medical conditions that can cause watery eyes. If you have not been able to determine the cause of your watery eyes, ask for help from your doctor. Some of the conditions that may be causing your watery eyes include:Blepharitis (inflamed eyelids)
Blocked Tear Duct
Common Cold
Ingrown Eyelashes
Pink Eye

, If you are having frequent problems with watery eyes due to plugged tear ducts, you may need to have an irrigation, intubation, or surgical procedure to clear the blockage. These options would only be required if other methods of clearing the blockage did not work and/or your watery eyes are chronic.Punctal dilation. If tears cannot properly drain through the tear duct openings, punctal dilation may be done. The ophthalmologist will apply local anesthesia on the affected eye. An instrument will be used to widen the opening of the tear duct so that the tears can drain properly through it.Stenting or intubation. In this procedure, the doctor threads a piece of thin tubing through one or both of your tear ducts. The tubing widens the opening of your tear ducts, which makes it easier for tears to drain. The tubes are left in for about three months. This procedure may be performed under local or general anesthesia.Dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR). DCR is a surgical procedure that may be required if a less invasive method does not work. DCR creates a new channel for tears to drain through. The surgeon uses the existing tear sac in your nose to create the channel. DCR requires the patient to be placed under local or general anesthesia.