 Hikari is always confident. She is stubborn, hot-heated and proud. Don't be ashamed to speak your mind.;
, Hikari is the second best student at her school. She always studies. If you are in school and have free periods (or lessons) go to the library and study. It is a quiet place so no one will disturb you.
 Have a kind aura and always help others if they need it. Always be polite to other people.
 Hikari has long black hair with bangs. You can either dye your hair or leave it your natural hair color. In the manga she sometimes has in braids, ponytails or high buns. You can use these hairstyles if you are not allowed to wear your hair down in school.
 Hikari mostly wears her school uniform in the anime and the manga. But when she is not wearing her uniform she wears short (long or short) vest tops with some nice decorations like flowers. She occasionally wears boots. But if you live in hot countries try wearing sandals or girls brogue shoes. In the manga Hikari tends to wear shorts and skirts, with socks, if you live in a colder climate then wear thick socks or tights. You can even get tights or socks which has patterns on them but don't go overboard. For example you can wear patterned socks or tights with a plain tank top with a nice sweater and some denim shorts.
 This expands her knowledge so she can do well in school.
 Hikari has competitions and matches with her rival Kei. If you don't have a rival then have matches with your friends such as Cancer Research runs. Not only is it fun but it is for a good cause.
 The possibilities are endless.
 Try an join the prom or yearbook committee and get involved with organizing fun events for your fellow classmates.
 try to act innocent but beware people may hate you for it. However she is not that clueless and she stands up to people whenever something is wrong.
 Hikari always hangs out with her best friend. So go out to town with your friends to either go shopping or going to cafes.
 Hikari is shown to have awesome fighting tactics to beat whoever is messing with her! You can train yourself that way by going to a weight-lifting center or joining school wrestling clubs!

