 Brown one pound of lean ground beef in the bottom of a large pot on the stovetop. Drain the excess fat and water, then add kidney and pinto beans, chopped white onion, green pepper, garlic and tomato sauce. Stir the ingredients together and season to taste.Include a 6 ounce can of tomato paste if you prefer thicker chili.
Add some heat to your chili with half a cup of diced jalapeño, poblano or ancho chile peppers.;
, If you’re in a pinch, simply pick up a couple cans of premade chili from the supermarket rather than making your own from scratch. This will save you time and money, helping you get dinner served faster and simplifying the cooking and cleaning processes. 2-3 cans should be enough for a standard pot pie.Enhance the flavor of storebought chili with an extra dash of chili powder, cayenne or garlic.
Look for hearty stew-style chilis. Stay away from the thin, watery types of chili used for hot dogs., Bring the chili to a low boil, then reduce the heat and let it continue to heat and thicken. The chili should just begin to bubble slightly around the edges. Stir every few minutes to keep the temperature consistent throughout.The longer you simmer the chili, the more time the individual flavors will have to set up and mingle with one another.The chili should already be hot when it goes into the oven.
 Fill the baking dish about ⅔ of the way full. This will leave you with enough room to layer on the cornbread topping, which will rise as it bakes. Make sure the dish you use is oven safe and large enough to hold the prescribed amounts of both chili and cornbread batter.Another idea is to use a small single-serving dish, such as a miniature baking mug or muffin tin, to make fun individual portions. Just make sure to leave about an inch of space at the top of the dish.
Baking the cornbread topping with the chili underneath will keep it moist and help it cook faster.
 In a large mixing bowl, measure out the cornmeal, flour, salt and baking soda. Shake or stir the ingredients together to blend them.You can also include any additional ingredients at this stage, such as dry herbs and seasonings or diced onions and jalapeños.
If time is an issue, consider picking up a box of instant cornbread mix. Just add milk or water and stir!, Crack two whole eggs into a separate bowl. Add 1¼ cups buttermilk, as well as 2 tablespoons vegetable oil. Beat the wet ingredients vigorously to incorporate them.For richer-tasting cornbread, use melted butter or ghee in place of regular oil.
Using a hand mixer to beat the eggs will help produce an especially light and fluffy topping., Sift the dry ingredients into the eggs, buttermilk and oil gradually, whisking as you go. Continue stirring to break up any big lumps of flour and cornmeal. Once thoroughly blended, the mixture will form a thick batter that will bake up into a fluffy, crumbly cornbread crust.If your batter comes out too thick, add an extra splash of buttermilk. If it’s too thin, shake in another teaspoon or two of cornmeal and flour.
 Layer the cornbread batter on top of the chili in the baking dish you’ve already set aside. Fill the remaining ⅓ of the dish so that the batter is level with rim. Use a spatula to scrape out and smooth the sticky batter.Spread the batter to the corners of the dish to achieve maximum crust coverage.
The cornbread topping will expand as it bakes, so be careful not to overfill the baking dish.
 Once it beeps, the pot pie will be ready to go in.You want to cook the pot pie somewhat slowly to reheat the chili and prevent the topping from burning.
 Place the baking dish on the center rack. Set a kitchen timer and watch the pot pie’s progress as it cooks. When it’s done, the outer crust will take on a crispy, golden brown texture.If you’re preparing pot pies in single-servings or smaller dishes, they may not need the full 20 minutes to finish cooking.Since the chili has already been cooked, the cornbread topping will be the main indicator for determining when the pot pie is ready.
 Remove the pot pie from the oven and let it sit and cool for a few minutes before dishing it out. Once it’s an edible temperature, scoop the chili and cornbread crust into bowls and throw on a sprinkle of shredded cheddar cheese, a handful of sliced jalapeños or a dollop of sour cream. Serve the pot pie with tortilla chips and a juicy lime wedge.Offer other tempting options like shredded lettuce, fresh cilantro, avocado wedges and hot sauce.
Set out a variety of toppings so that everyone can have fun building their own perfect bowl., Whatever you don’t eat can be transferred to a lidded storage container and placed in the refrigerator. You can also simply cover the baking dish with a sheet of aluminum foil before stowing the entire thing away. Chili pot pie makes for great leftovers, as it warms equally well in the oven or microwave and tastes even better once the individual flavors have had more time to set up.Homemade chili will stay fresh for 3-4 days when properly refrigerated.
Enjoy leftover chili pot pie as a quick dinner for one or a hearty midnight snack.

