 Keep some of these in your hand.;
, Encourage your dog to jump up for the treats by making it obvious that you're holding them. Choose a special word to associate as your standard command for the high jumping and say it while holding the treats up high.
 Of course, the treats are the reward but some praise and petting will assist in reinforcing the desired behavior. Say "good dog" or whatever your usual phrase is, using a happy and energetic tone.
 Try again now and then over the next few days. Within a short space of time, the dog should get the idea that it's perfectly normal to jump high for treats.
 Use the command that you've associated with this action to encourage the dog to jump up high. You may still need to hold up your hand. When the dog jumps, reward after the jump by handing the dog the treats from a low position, even squatting.
 Always reward the dog with a treat afterward.
 Once your dog is happy to jump up high by command, make things more complicated if you wish. This Part can be useful if you're planning to show the dog and it needs to jump over items in the show ring.
 Keep the boxes about 5 feet away from each other, going in a straight line.
 Run along that side of the boxes, holding a treat out and using the jump command that the dog has learned. Encourage the dog to jump over one of the boxes in the row to reach you and the treat.


Keep trying. Your dog will make a lot of mistakes before it becomes clear that you'd like the dog to jump over the box to get the treat.
 Once the dog has become used to jumping over the boxes at a low level, increase the height. Place two boxes, one on top of the other. Use the command or whistle and treat holding as before, only this time, encourage the dog to go over two boxes. This will take longer to do (several weeks), as the dog can see the obstacle and will be slow to try it at first. Keep persevering until the dog manages it, and reward the dog well.


You can add more height as the dog learns but always consider how high the dog can jump without the boxes. Use this to gauge whether another level of boxes is likely to be successful.

