 Mermaids are known to be naturally beautiful in their own usual settings whether it may be in and out of the water, sitting on rocks, watching the sunset, or enjoying the nice warm sand on the shore. This is especially true when it comes to their skin which is crucial to achieving this look.


Mermaids have never been seen with bad skin or any other imperfections on them. However, nobody is perfect in reality and we all have something that needs a little extra care or something to cover up. So that being said, take special care of your skin. Know your skin type and find the right products for it (cleanser, toner, moisturizer, eye cream, acne medication, etc..).
Exfoliate the whole body including your face at least 2-3 times a week with a good scrub or an exfoliating scrub brush. Pay close attention to your feet too, because they can get really dry and chapped quickly, so be sure to use a pumice stone regularly to smooth out dry chapped heels and prevent calluses, and moisturize twice a day with a good foot cream. Petroleum Jelly works well too, for those who are on a tight budget.
Never leave the house without a sunscreen. Find one with at least an spf of 15 or higher with UVA/UVB protection. Don t use the same kind on your face, it can clog your pores and cause your skin to break out.
Instead, find a separate one that is specially formulated for your face. If you tan regularly, don t rely on the sun or tanning beds to do the job for you. Baking yourself in the sun causes a lot of damage, skin cancer, and ugly wrinkles. If you feel like you must have a tan, there are plenty of self-tanners on the market.;
, And that's exactly how you should treat your own hair. Long beautiful hair is a must for the fable marine creature. There's no need for making any major changes to the tresses that you have.


However, it is optional but not mandatory. Think length, strength, and manageability. Grow out your hair as long as you can unless you have some damage that needs to be trimmed off. Otherwise, don t hesitate to go to the salon and get it cut because shorter healthy hair is a lot better and more attractive than having hair that is long but fried.
Try not to wash your hair every day because it robs it of the natural oils in the scalp which are essential to keep the hair healthy and give it its natural shine. Instead, try to cut it down to 2-3 times a week.
Use a good moisturizing shampoo and conditioner and rinse with cold water right before you step out of the shower to close the hair cuticle, also making it shiny. Stay away from heat stylers such as blow dryers, flat-irons, and curlers to save your tresses a lot of damage. Instead, save them for special occasions.
Mermaids have many different textures of hair so just work with what you've got and own it. Hot oil treatments also do wonders (2-3 times weekly). Go for a quick trim every two months or so to maintain its health.
Hair color doesn't matter but if you desire a change or to enhance the shade you were born with then go for it. You could go for a vibrant or golden blonde, a fierce brunette, blue black, blue or green streaks, highlights, or an intense red just like Ariel from The Little Mermaid.
 Wear some sea accessories in your hair and have fun experimenting with different looks. For example, you can try a starfish headband or barrette. Or just find a plain one and glue some sea shells on it. Green ribbons imitate the look of seaweed. A scarf in light or sparkly colors can be wrapped around the head. Braids, such as french or fishtail can also be a cute look. And if you want to really take it to the next level and glam it up a bit, a pearl tiara will really make you stand out.
 Like the accessories for your hair, wear jewelry that reminds you of the ocean. Pearls are the ultimate mermaid jewelry whether they are real or fake. After all, they don't call them " diamonds of the ocean ", for nothing.

Be sure to at least have one piece of jewelry with pearls on it. It may be a pair of small stud pearl earrings, a multi chain pearl necklace, a simple yet elegant pearl bracelet, or a pearl headband. If you want you can invest in something with the gemstone Aquamarine on it. Anything with shells or a lot of sequins will work too.
 Mermaid makeup can be achieved in many different ways. You could go from light to totally dramatic effects. You don't need to be a pro makeup artist to do this. All you will need is a clean, toned, and moisturized face to start with along with a liquid foundation for a more dewy look, an assortment of shimmery eyeshadows in light and jeweled tones, a good mascara, a tinted lipbalm or lipgloss.

Aquas, turquoise, and greens make very inspirational shades. However, you can mix and match with different colors as well such as a pearly white, silver, gold, pink, intense violets, or maybe a nice coral. If you want you could use liquid eyeliner in any color to create thin cat eyes or tiny dots on the outer eye corners.
Are you more into lips? Try shades like coral, sandy pink, hot pink, or ruby red. Do you want to go for a more natural approach yet still show a hint of mermaid? A a bit of light but very shimmery eyeshadow on the lids, inner corners, and underneath the lash line should do the trick. Follow with a light touch of natural pink or coral blush and lots of mascara in back and forth strokes on both the top and bottom lashes.
Don't worry about them coming out a bit clumpy because with this look, we are really trying to bring out our eyes as much as possible. Top it all of with lipgloss for an even more wet look. If you're not much of a fan of color and are more on the dark side, you can be a dark mermaid. The possibilities are endless and the choice is yours. But the most important part of this step is to have fun.
 Mermaids are majestic in or out of the water. So, the next time you go out for a swim, wear something that is sexy and flatters your figure.


There are many different cuts and styles to choose from. You should be looking for anything with lots of sequins, ruffles, bright or neon colors. Bikinis are a good to come by but don't be afraid to look for something less revealing if you are not comfortable wearing one.
One pieces (also called monokinis) and swim dresses are also becoming more popular and come in many different types of sexy, beautifully detailed, or cut styles. Wear something that you are comfortable with. You don't ever see a mermaid with an awkward look on her face while hanging around with fellow merfolk. If you really want to get into it, you could also wear a shell bra.
 Wear a lot of colorful clothes unless you are going for the dark mermaid look. Anything sparkly is good too. If you want, you can wear a graphic tee with a mermaid on it.
 Go for a refreshing swim in your community pool, take a long relaxing bath, get a few friends together to join you in the hot tub, go to a waterpark, kick back and relax at the beach, or take a canoe for a ride on the lake, if you are in high school then try out for the swim team. As long as you spend some time in the water. Make it look like that you practically live in water and people will start to wonder why you really are a mermaid.
 You can be shy or outgoing, but Mermaids are supposed to get noticed, and no one can do that if they aren't confident.

