 So long as the super glue isn’t on or inside of your eyes or inside of your mouth, you can safely remove super glue at home. If you have super glue on any of these other regions, see your doctor or visit an emergency room or urgent care as soon as possible.A doctor can most effectively remove super glue from the sensitive eye areas.In most cases, super glue will solidify on contact with saliva. You can rinse out your mouth copiously with water, but it’s advisable to see a doctor as soon as possible.;
, Before you begin any measures to remove super glue with petroleum jelly, rinse off your skin copiously with warm, soapy water.This can help to loosen the super glue and prepare your skin for removal.You can use any mild soap to flush your skin.
Ensure that the water isn’t too hot when rinsing your skin so that you don’t burn it. Use a thermometer to check the water temperatures. Optimal temperatures for water are between 36 and 40 degrees., As you flush off your skin, take off any clothing on or around the affected area. This can help ensure that you don’t get any more super glue on your skin.Rinse skin for at least 15 minutes.Wash any clothing or shoes before you put them on again.Gently dab the affected skin dry so that you don’t irritate it.
 Apply a generous amount of petroleum jelly to the skin stuck with super glue. This can help to further release the product from your skin in an effectively and painless manner.Gently rub the petroleum jelly over the affected area. Do this until the product comes off of your skin.If you don’t have any petroleum jelly, you can use vegetable or mineral/ baby oil or even products such as lip balm that contain petroleum jelly.If you have super glue on your lips and are using petroleum jelly, be sure to not pull your lips apart, instead rolling or peeling your lips apart.Make sure to gently peel super glue from other areas of your skin as well., Once you’ve removed the super glue on your skin, wash and dry the affected area. This can help to remove any debris or residue that has remained on your skin.Use mild soap and warm water to wash just as you did before you used the petroleum jelly., If the super glue is particularly stubborn and won’t come off, simply repeat the washing and petroleum jelly process as necessary. If repeated attempts don’t successfully remove the super glue or your skin becomes irritated or infected, seek medical treatment immediately.