 Sometimes, people tease you to be silly, and don't know that you feel bad about it. Try telling them how you feel and asking them to stop. A friend will stop if you say you don't like it. A bully will not stop.

Say "I feel sad when you _______. Please don't do it anymore."
If they stop it, then that means they were not trying to hurt your feelings, and it's not bullying. But if they don't listen, and they keep doing it, this is bullying.;
, Bullying is when someone treats you badly, and they do it more than once. Other times it is acting out or misbehaving, when they do something bad that they don't usually do. Misbehaving isn't really bullying, but it is still not okay.

For example, if Jordan gets upset once and pulls your hair once, this is not bullying. But it is still bad, and you can still tell an adult and ask them for help.
If Amy started pushing you and calling you names, and does it again and again, this is bullying.
 People who try to put you down or make you feel bad are bullying you. They want to hurt your feelings, and they don't stop when you ask them. This can include...

Calling you names
Making fun of you
Making jokes about you that you don't like
Saying mean things about you to their friends
Threatening to do something mean to you

, It isn't okay for people to hurt you on purpose. And if you ask them to keep their hands to themselves, they need to respect that.

Hitting, kicking, pushing, pinching, hair-pulling, and other similar things
Touching you after you ask them to stop it
Grabbing, touching, or talking about your private parts (the parts covered by a swimsuit)
Making loud sounds to hurt you, flashing lights in your eyes, or other things that hurt your senses
Trying to trigger a medical condition (like poking a broken leg or flashing lights to give you a seizure)

, People should not mess with your things without your permission. It is not okay for them to mess with your locker, backpack, pencils, stuffed animals, or any other thing that is yours. Here are examples of bad things to do without permission...

Moving your things
Breaking your things
Writing or drawing on your things
Hiding objects in your space (like putting a fake spider in your bag because they want to scare you)

, Bullies might try to get you to do something that you don't understand. If nobody else is doing that thing, and if they are laughing or seem excited about it, that might mean that the thing they're asking you to do isn't okay., If someone is bullying you, this is not your fault. It is the fault of the bully, because they chose to be mean. Bullying does not mean something is wrong with you. Lots of good people get bullied sometimes. It is not your fault.

Down Syndrome does not cause bullying. People with Down Syndrome don't deserve to be bullied. Bullies might choose to bully people with Down Syndrome, because they think it is easier. But they are the ones who made the choice to be mean, so it is their fault, not yours.

