 You can make an ancient looking dress very easily using nothing but pins and sheets. These can be tied in a variety of ways to achieve different looks.
 Women can make an easy Renaissance costume (appropriate for Shakespeare plays), by combining a long, full skirt with a white peasant-style blouse. Use a belt or corset (found online or in local adult/alternative stores) to complete the look. Men can wear knee-length pants with leggings and leather shoes. A simple white shirt with a formal vest will compete this costume.
 If you’re in a Marie Antoinette mood, get this look by pairing pale makeup and a white wig with white stockings and heeled shoes (for both genders!). Women should sew extra lace and bows to a full, long dress. Men should wear long coats and formal vests with gathered, knee-length pants. Colors should be pastels for both genders.
 Find a silk kimono or robe and tie it using a wide scarf or make an obi (1’x10’ rectangle). Wear with sandals and hair tied up with flowers. Men should wear short robes in dull colors (dark blue or black) and very loose, flowing pants.
 Men should wear suits with vests and spats. Top hats or bowlers are also appropriate. Women can make a simple Victorian outfit by pairing a long skirt in a thick material with a high collared shirt (preferably with puffy sleeves). Women should also wear hats and spats, if possible.
 This can be done by wearing a black shirt and knee pants for men and a long black dress for women. Pair with hats and make a white collar from paper or fabric.
 A woman’s 1920s dress is very easy to make. Men can simply wear a suit with a vest and leather shoes.
 Women can dress in a mid-century style by wearing limp skirts and padded shoulder dresses or skirt suits for a 30s or 40s look or by wearing a blouse and full skirt for a 50s look. Men can wear suits or military uniform.
 Pair a full skirt with a peasant blouse and apron for a Cinderella look or a flowery dress with wings for a fairy look! Men can follow the above directions for a Renaissance or Rococo outfit.

