 Using small wire cutters, trim an 18-inch (46 cm) length of mono-filament jewelry wire.
 Thread one crimp bead and one 10-mm jump ring onto one end of the wire. Loop the wire end around the jump ring and hold it in place with the crimp bead.


Keep the crimp bead to the inside of the ring.
Loop the wire end around the ring, then feed it into the crimp bead again.
Carefully squeeze the crimp bead shut using needle-nose pliers. You could also use a bead crimper, but in most cases, the pliers should work well enough.
 Feed anywhere from 12 to 24 decorative beads onto the wire. Stop when only 4 inches (10 cm) of free wire remains.


Round 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) diameter beads work well, but you can use nearly any style and size you'd like. You can also add fewer beads that the amount called for in this project if you would prefer a less ornate necklace.
 Thread one crimp bead and another 10-mm jump ring onto the free end of the wire. Loop the wire around the jump ring and feed it into the crimp bead.


As before, close the crimp bead with your pliers to secure the end.
After closing the end, trim away any excess wire using wire cutters.
 Use your wire cutters to cut two identical lengths of chain.


The overall necklace should be roughly 18 to 20 inches (46 to 51 cm), so determine how much chain you'll need based on the length of your beaded portion.
For 14 inches (36 cm) of beaded wire, two 2.5-inch (6.25-cm) lengths of chain should suffice.
 Open the jump ring on one side of the wire using needle-nose pliers. Insert the open ring through the last link of one chain.


Repeat the same process with the other jump ring and the other chain.
Close both jump rings after attaching the chains.
 Insert one 10-mm jump ring through the last link on the open end of one chain. Insert one 4-mm jump ring through the last link on the open end of the opposite chain.


Use needle-nose pliers to open both rings from side-to-side.
Close the 10-mm ring after attaching it, but leave the 4-mm ring open.
 Hook the open 4-mm jump ring through the small hole of the lobster claw clasp, then close the ring with your pliers.
 Your new necklace should be finished and ready to show off.

