 Doctors do not know what causes brain in most cases, but there are certain factors that can increase your risk. Knowing these factors can help you identify your risk and potential symptoms, and get regular checkups.The main risk factors for brain cancer include age, exposure to radiation, a family history of brain tumors, and currently having cancer that could metastasize (spread) to your brain from another area of your body.The brain, like the liver and lungs, has a lot of blood vessels. If a “seed” of cancer travels from elsewhere in the body, the chances of it settling in these areas with many blood vessels is higher. This is why having cancer elsewhere in your body puts you at elevated risk.;
, Any person, from children to the elderly, can develop brain cancer; however, your risk for the disease increases the older you get.Recognizing this and being aware of your body may help you to seek a medical opinion if you notice any symptoms of brain cancer.Some brain tumors and cancer, such as brainstem gliomas and astrocytomas, are almost exclusively present in children., Keep a detailed record of your family’s medical history, including cases of cancer and tumors. If you have a family history of brain tumors or certain genetic syndromes that increase risk for brain cancer, you are at a higher risk of developing cancer of the brain or surrounding areas.Understanding your family medical history of brain cancer can identify potential symptoms and treatment options.


It’s always wise to keep a personal record of your family’s medical history and to have one at your doctor’s office.
Only 5 – 10% of all cancers are hereditary.A family history of Li-Fraumeni syndrome, neurofibromatosis, tuberous sclerosis and Turcot syndrome may make you more susceptible to brain cancer., Different types of radiation can increase your risk of developing brain cancer. Limiting your exposure to radiation may help you prevent developing the disease.Ionizing radiation, which is present in some radiation therapies for cancer or atomic bombs, increases your risk of brain cancer. You may not be able to limit your exposure to ionizing radiation if you are undergoing treatment for another cancer. The likelihood of being exposed through an atomic bomb or nuclear meltdown is low.Ultraviolet radiation, which the sun emits, can also increase your risk for brain cancer. Wearing sunscreen and a head cover and limiting sun exposure may decrease your risk., People are often exposed to more common forms of radiation including electromagnetic fields or radiofrequency radiation.Although some people believe that these types of radiation cause brain cancer, there is no evidence linking them to brain tumors.Studies have not linked radiation from power lines, cell phones, smartphones, or microwaves to brain cancer.Stay abreast of research on radiation exposure, which may help identify your risk factors.
 There is some evidence that nutritional habits during fetal development, childhood and into adulthood may decrease your risk of developing brain cancer. Eating plenty of fruits and vegetables and lowering cholesterol may help you prevent brain cancer.If your mother ate fruits and vegetables during her pregnancy and/or gave them to you as a part of your diet during childhood, you may be at a lower risk of developing brain cancer.Continuing to eat a diet rich in different fruits and vegetables may keep your risk for brain cancer lower.Lowering your cholesterol and limiting how much fatty food you eat may minimize your risk for brain cancer., Aim to exercise most days of the week. Doing cardiovascular exercise can help you stay healthy and may minimize your risk of developing brain cancer.Aim to walk 10,000 steps a day, which translates to walking about 5 miles (or 8 km) per day.Wearing a pedometer can help you make sure you’re taking enough steps per day.
You can do any type of cardio training to maintain your health. Beyond walking, consider running, swimming, rowing, or biking.
 There are many different symptoms of brain cancer that you may have. The signs and symptoms of a brain tumor can vary significantly. They depend on where in your brain the cancer is and the rate at which it is growing. There are several general signs of brain tumors that may alert you to seek medical treatment.Changes in a person's memory, personality, coordination, sensations, motor functions, etc. can be important clues to help locate the tumor. The following are possible signs of brain cancer:New headaches or a change in the pattern of your headaches.
Unexplained nausea or vomiting.
Vision problems, including blurred vision, double vision or loss of peripheral vision.
Gradual loss of sensation or movement in your arm or leg.
Difficulty with balance, speech, or general confusion in everyday matters.
 If you have any symptoms of brain cancer, see your doctor as soon as possible. They will confirm a diagnosis and develop a treatment plan, which is the only way to treat brain cancer.Your doctor will conduct a neurological exam that looks at your vision, hearing, balance, coordination, strength and reflexes. This may give them clues about whether you have a brain tumor and, if so, what kind.Your doctor may order imaging tests such as an MRI, CT scan, PET test to look more closely at your brain. This may help identify tumors or cancer.Your doctor may take a biopsy of your brain tissue for analysis to assess whether you have brain cancer.There may be other reasons for your symptoms, such as stroke, multiple sclerosis, an infection, or more. This is why it is essential you see a doctor for an evaluation.
 If your doctor confirms a diagnosis of brain cancer, they will develop a treatment plan for and with you. The type of treatment depends on what kind of brain cancer you have an how severe it is.Your doctor may perform surgery if the cancer is in a spot accessible to remove the tumor.Your doctor may prescribe radiation therapy to combat a brain tumor or cancer.You may need chemotherapy to treat brain cancer.Your doctor may prescribe targeted drug therapy with medications such as Avastin to kill cancer cells in your brain., If you suspect that you have or present the symptoms of brain cancer, it’s important to see a doctor as soon as possible. It is easier to treat brain cancer the earlier you are diagnosed. Ignoring signs or symptoms or avoiding treatment may make your condition worse or cause you to die.