 Make sure that it's a pair that you wouldn't mind cutting up or fraying, but that still fit you well in the waist and hips.


Consider getting a pair of jeans that are loose-fitting in the thighs. This will make it easier to cuff them.;
, Use a washable fabric marking pen or a piece of chalk, and make a line. You will only be marking one leg. Try to make the mark as straight as possible across your lap. Be sure that the mark falls below the pocket (unless you want the pocket to show.Most inseams are about 3 inches (7.62 centimeters)., Spread the jeans out on a flat surface. If necessary, go over the line again to make it darker, straighter, and more defined.
 Take a ruler and measure 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) below the first line you have made. This will be your cutting line. You will be cutting the jeans a little bit longer than you want them to be so that you can hem or cuff them.
 Using a pair of sharp fabric scissors, cut the leg off along the bottom-most line. Do not cut the second leg yet.
 Flip them so that the leg you just cut is facing you. Make sure that the sides and waist band are aligned. You should be able to see the other leg right behind it. You will be using the raw, cut edge as a guide. This will ensure that your shorts are even.
 Using the raw, cut edge of the first leg as a guide, cut the second leg off. Discard the two cut legs, or put them into your fabric bin and use them for another project., If you wish to make a pair of cut-off jeans, then cut each leg at an angle, so that the outside edge will be shorter than the inseam. You do not need to hem cut-off shorts.
 If you are making hemmed shorts, fold 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of the cut hem inside the jeans and pin it. If you are making cuffed shorts, fold 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of the cut the hem on the outside of the jeans. Repeat for the other leg. The cut hem should be touching the first mark you made. The shorts are now 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) longer than you want them to be.
 Using the cotton setting on your iron, press the hems flat. Flip the shorts over and iron the back side as well.
 Fold each hem or cuff up one more inch. You will be folding past the first mark you made. The mark should be on the bottom edge of your shorts, making them the length you wanted. Once again, if you are hemming the shorts, fold inside the jeans; if you are cuffing the shorts, fold outside the jeans. Once you are finished folding, press the hems or cuffs with an iron. Be sure to iron on both sides to get a nice, crisp edge.
 Before you sew the hem or secure the cuffs, put the shorts on. If the shorts are too long or too short, take them off, unroll the hem or cuffs, and iron them flat. Then, roll the hem or cuffs back again, but not as much as before.
 You can hand sew it or use a sewing machine. When choosing the thread, consider using a color that matches the color of the fabric, or the color of the original thread. Look for something that is heavy-duty, or made specifically for jeans.


If you are using a sewing machine, try to use a needle intended for sewing jeans. If you cannot find one, then use a universal needle in size 90/14.If you do not own a sewing machine and don't know how to hand sew, you can use iron-on hem tape to hold the hem in place. Simply cut a piece of iron-on hem tape that is long enough to go around the hem of your shorts. Stick the hem tape inside the hem and iron it.
If you have cuffed your shorts, you do not need to sew it. You can, however, secure the cuffs on the outside and inside seam with a drop of fabric glue or a few simple stitches.
 For an added feminine touch, you can add lace to your hemmed shorts. Pin the lace to the inside of each leg, so that part of the lace is sticking out from behind the bottom hem. Make sure that the lace goes all the way around each leg. Cut off the extra lace, but leave enough behind so that the two ends overlap by about ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters), Sew it in place using a sewing machine and pull the pins out. If you do not have a sewing machine, you can hand stitch the lace to the shorts instead.
 You can leave your shorts as they are, or you can give them a personal touch by adding embellishments such as rhinestones, studs, ribbon, and lace. This section will give you some ideas.
 You can add a boho-chic touch to your hemmed shorts by adding a lace inset. Cut two triangles out of lace and pin them to the sides of your shorts. The triangles can be as big or as small as you want them to be. The bottom of each triangle should be aligned with the bottom hem of the shorts, and the center of each triangle should be aligned with the side seam. Stitch the lace onto the jeans using a sewing machine. You can also hand stitch the lace down instead. Do not sew the bottom edge of the triangle; leave it open. When you are done sewing, cut out the fabric behind each triangle, leaving a ½ inch (1.27 centimeter) seam.You can use lace fabric or a lace trim. Bridal lace trim works great!
You can also cut triangles out of crocheted doilies.If you are using lace fabric, consider flipping the shorts inside out first. When you are done sewing and cutting, flip the shorts back. The lace inset will be on the inside of your shorts.
The stitching should prevent the lace from fraying, but if you find that the lace keeps on fraying, then you can apply some fray-check or fray-stopper along the edges.
 Cut a piece of lace roughly the same size and shape as the back pocket. It is okay if the lace is a little bit bigger at this point. Pin the lace down to the pocket, and stitch it down along the outer edges of the pocket. Do not stitch the top part of the pocket, or you won't be able to use it. Remove the pins and trim off any excess lace.If you are careful, you can also use fabric glue instead—but keep in mind that the glue might seep through the holes in the lace and get all over your fingers!

, You can add strips of ribbon to the back pocket for extra color and personality. Simply cut a piece of wide, colorful ribbon the same width as the back pocket and glue it down onto the fabric using fabric glue. The upper edge of the ribbon should be aligned with the top of the pocket.
 There are different ways you can attach studs or gemstones to your pocket. Most studs either have to be ironed on, or hammered in. Most gemstones have to be ironed on, or glued on. Simply position the studs or gemstones where you want them to be and hammer, iron, or glue them on according to the manufacturer's instructions.


Gems and studs may look cute on the back pocket, but large, pointy gems and studs may make sitting uncomfortable.
You can place gems and studs anywhere you want, but the most common places are on the back pocket, and along the curved edge of the front pocket.
If you are gluing gemstones on, be sure to use fabric glue or super glue, or they may come off the next time you wash them.
 Draw a shape onto the back pocket. The shape can be anything you want, but simple shapes, such as hearts or stars, work best. Cut the shape out of the pocket, but be careful not to cut the seat of the jeans! You can leave it as it is, or you can add another piece of fabric or lace inside the pocket. This way, you will not only have a pretty inserted design, but nothing will fall out of the pocket. If you are using a second scrap of fabric, be sure to secure it by gluing or hand-stitching it to the inside of the jean pocket., Wrap rubber bands around the shorts. Soak the shorts in a container filled with one part bleach and one part water. You want the shorts completely submerged in the bleach-water solution. If the shorts keep on floating to the top and won't stay submerged, you can weigh them down with a large rock, a heavy glass vase, or something else you won't mind possibly getting ruined. Take the shorts out after about 20 minutes, or until they have been bleached to your liking.


You can create a striped pattern by scrunching the shorts lengthwise into a long rope, and tying the rubber bands at 2 to 3 inch (5.08 to 7.62 centimeter) intervals.
Create small flower or sunburst patterns by pinching a bit of the fabric and tying it off with a rubber band, creating a small 1 to 2 inch (2.54 to 5.08 centimeter) tall stub. You can create just a few stubs, or you can cover the entire surface with them.
Create a random pattern by scrunching the jeans up into a ball and wrapping several rubber bands around it to keep it together.
 You can use store-bought adhesive stencils or you can make your own using freezer paper. Stick the stencil onto a spot on the shorts you want decorated (such as the bottom cuff, a side pocket, or a back pocket). Next, fill the space in the stencil using fabric paint (for a colorful look) or bleach (if you want a distressed look).


If you are using fabric paint, squirt some paint onto a dish. Dip your paint brush or foam brush into the paint, and lightly dab the paint onto the fabric. Apply the paint using thin, even layers.
If you are using bleach, pour one part bleach and one part water into a spray bottle and shake it up. Spray the bleach onto the fabric.
You can create your own custom stencils using freezer paper. Simply sketch your design onto the dull side of a sheet of freezer paper, then cut it out using scissors or a craft knife. Place the stencil shiny-side-down onto the spot you want decorated and run a hot iron over it. This will cause the paper to stick to the fabric. Remove the iron and let the fabric cool before dabbing the paint on, or spraying the bleach. You can reuse this freezer paper stencil one to three more times by pulling it off carefully, repositioning it, and then ironing it again.
You can also use other items as stencils as well, including scraps of lace and crocheted doilies!

, If you have white or light-colored jeans, you can dye them to achieve a different color. Fill a bucket with 3 gallons (11.36 liters) of hot water—you want at least 140°F (60°C). Add 1 cup (280 grams) salt and ½ cup (112.50 milliliters) of liquid dye to the bucket and stir to combine. Soak your shorts in warm water, then add them to the dye bath. Gently stir the shorts in the bucket with a stick for 10 to 30 minutes. Once you get the color you want, take the shorts out and rise them under warm water until the water runs clear. Give them a final rinse with cool water and squeeze the excess water out.If you are using powder dye, dissolve the packet in 1 cup (225 milliliters) of hot water first before adding it to the bucket.
Consider testing the color with a piece of scrap fabric first, before plunking your shorts in. If the color is too dark, add more water. If it is too light, add more dye.
Keep in mind that fabric dyes are translucent and that the original color of the fabric will blend in with the dye. This means that if you use yellow dye on blue shorts, you will get a greenish color.
You can also make tie-dye jeans by wrapping rubber bands around the fabric in random places.

