 Certain essential oils have anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties, which can reduce the swelling of the cyst and lower the risk of infection, though this has not yet been medically proven.You can use essential oils directly on the cyst or mixed with castor oil to dilute the essential oil. If you decide to use castor oil, use three parts essential oil to seven parts castor oil. Tea tree oil, turmeric oil, garlic oil, and frankincense oil can all help to reduce the size of the cyst.
Apply a small amount of the essential oils to the cyst four times a day with a cotton ball or a Q-tip. Cover the cyst with a small bandage once you have applied the oil. If the cyst does not reduce in size within one to two weeks or is still inflamed and painful, contact your doctor.
 Astringent herbs like aloe vera can be used to “pull out” the protein keratin, sebum, and other fluids in the cyst.After applying the aloe vera, rinse the area with warm water. Do this three to four times a day. You can also apply castor oil in the same manner, repeating the application three to four times a day.
 Use a cotton ball or a Q-tip to apply it directly to the cyst, repeating the application three to four times a day., If you are sensitive to apple cider vinegar, you can dilute it with equal parts water. Apply it three to four times a day., Combine ½ teaspoons of dried burdock root with 1 tablespoon honey and apply the mixture directly to the cyst, three to four times a day., Chamomile has been known to promote healing. You can soak a bag of chamomile tea and then apply the warm bag directly to the cyst three to four times a day., Bloodroot is used in Native American medicine to treat skin disorders, including cysts. Mix ⅛ teaspoon bloodroot powder with 2 tablespoons castor oil and apply it to the cyst with a Q-tip.Only use a small amount of bloodroot on skin with no breaks or cuts. Do not swallow any bloodroot or use it around your eyes, mouth, or genital area.
 Use a clean washcloth soaked in warm water on the cyst. Apply the warm compress at least four times a day for 10 minutes at a time.


You can also soak the washcloth in chamomile tea, ½ cup water and ½ cup chamomile tea steeped for 10 minutes, and apply it to the cyst.
Alternatively, you can soak the washcloth in diluted apple cider vinegar, with equal amounts of apple cider vinegar boiled in water, and apply it to the cyst.

