 If a program is frozen, but your computer is still responsive, you can force-quit the program and continue using the computer. There are several ways you can force-quit a frozen program:


Click your desktop or any other open window to switch focus away from the frozen app. Click the Apple menu and select "Force Quit". Highlight the frozen program and click "Force Quit" to close it.
Press ⌘ Command+⌥ Option+Esc to open the Force Quit menu. Select the frozen program and click "Force Quit".
Hold the ⌥ Option key and Ctrl-click the app's icon in the Dock. Select "Force Quit" from the menu.;
, If your system is not responding, or you can't open any of the Force Quit menus, you can force the computer to reboot. There are several ways you can do this, even if you can't move the mouse.Press ⌘ Command+Ctrl+⏏ Eject to force the computer to reboot. The ⏏ Eject key can be found in the upper-right corner of the keyboard. Newer MacBooks may not have an ⏏ Eject key.
If the keyboard command doesn't work, or you don't have an ⏏ Eject key, press and hold the Power button for about five seconds to force the computer to turn off. The Power button is located in the upper-right corner of MacBook keyboards, or on the back side of iMacs and other desktops.
 If the freezing only occurs when running a specific program, it is likely the program that is causing the problem. If the freezing occurs randomly, or when performing everyday tasks on the computer, there is likely a problem with the operating system. If the computer is freezing when trying to use a peripheral, such as a printer or a USB drive, that device may be causing the problem. Getting a general idea of the source will help your troubleshooting efforts.
 If your boot drive is running out of free space, it could be causing system instability. Your boot drive (the drive containing your operating system files) should generally have at least 10 GB of free space. If you have less than this, you may start encountering errors.The quickest way to check your available space is to click the Apple menu and select "About This Mac". Click the "Storage" tab to view your used and available space. If you have less than 10 GB of free space available, delete some files or programs that you don't need anymore.
 The freezing you're experiencing may be a known bug that was fixed with a more recent version of the program or the OS X operating system. Updating your software may fix the problem you're having.


Click the Apple menu and select "Software Update". Download and install any available updates. This tool will find and install updates for your operating system and any apps installed through the Mac App Store.
Update non-App Store apps individually. If you've installed programs from outside of the app store, you'll need to run each program's Update tool or install the latest version from the website.
 Sometimes a problem with a device may cause your computer to freeze. Unplug all of your peripheral devices, including printers, scanners, and external hard drives or thumb drives.


Plug the devices back in one at a time and test each one to see if the freezing happens. This can help you determine which device is causing problems.
If you've found a specific device is causing your computer to freeze, check online to see if others have had the same problem with the device, and if the manufacturer has released any fixes.
 If none of the above steps have helped fix your freezing issue, a Safe Boot may do the trick. This will only load the essential files that OS X needs to run, and will automatically perform a variety of troubleshooting scripts.To start a Safe Boot, restart your Mac and hold the ⇧ Shift key as soon as you hear the startup sound. This will load the Safe Boot mode. If your Mac reboots automatically while in Safe Boot, it is likely working a fixing a problem with the boot drive.
If the computer isn't freezing in Safe Boot mode, reboot your computer as normal to see if the problem was fixed during the Safe Boot.
 If there's a problem with your boot disk, you may be able to repair it using the Disk Utility in Recovery Mode.Reboot your computer and hold ⌘ Command+R during startup.
Select "Recovery HD" from the menu that appears.
Choose the "Disk Utility" option.
Select the drive that you want to check for errors and then click the "Repair" or "First Aid" tab.
Click "Repair Disk" to begin scanning for problems. If problems are found, Disk Utility will attempt to automatically fix them. This may take a while to complete.

