 Dance with someone you feel very comfortable with. If possible, look for a friend that is comfortable with dancing in public. Ask them over to dance or dance at your friend’s house. Your friend (or a roommate or family member) can help reassure you that you are dancing just fine. You can also ask them to suggest some new moves or different methods for you to try. Do this before going completely public with your dancing.You can also ask your friend what they do to feel comfortable about dancing in public.
 A learning environment is a great way to get over shyness while dancing. Other people in class are trying to get better and most likely not very comfortable with their dance moves yet either. Choose any type of dance that appeals to you. It can be jazz, hip hop, salsa, or even ballet. Take a beginner level class if you are new to that form of dance.Look into open classes at dance studios in your area.
 Unless you’re dancing outrageously, it’s not likely your dancing will be noticed in a crowded place where other people are dancing. Go to a dance club on a crowded night. Walk into the crowd and begin to dance. Dancing where people of different ages, looks, and dancing styles will help you become more comfortable in your own dancing. It will also help you see how other people carry themselves and interact with each other while dancing.You will need to find an alternative to a club if you are under legal age.
 Choose a partner or partners to dance with. Focusing on the other person will help you forget that others may or may not be watching. If you’re dancing with one partner, try to focus on their style and mimic it. It is also helpful to dance with a small group of people. Dancing with a small group of people you know will help the dance floor feel like a more comfortable place. If you’re going out, bring a few friends with you.You can ask the friend you practiced dancing with to join you to go out dancing together.
 Dancing in public may feel uncomfortable at first. Don’t give up even if it’s tempting to walk off of the dance floor. Dance through the discomfort until you are dancing for your own enjoyment. Try to move in a way that feels most natural to you, and recall the times when you were dancing alone or with one friend in a private place. If you need to take a break, go off the dance floor and breathe until you regain your composure.Take a break if you need a moment to regroup, but don’t give up completely.

