


If this is your first time turning on your DS, and it is new, you will automatically be sent to the language settings. Otherwise;






Look for the little mini picture of a Nintendo DS.






Touch that with your stylus.






There should be 4 buttons on the screen: a wrench, a clock and a calendar, a person, and a cross with a box in the middle.






Begin with the wrench picture.






3 other options should pop up: an arrow and a rectangle, a globe, and a Game Boy Advance picture. The arrow and the rectangle is the start up. You can pick between Manual and Auto mode. Manual mode is where the main menu appears automatically. Auto mode is where it will automatically go to the game that is in either the DS or the GBA. If both slots are empty, it will go to the main menu. The globe allows you to chose what language you want the main menu to use. And, the Game Boy advance allows you to choose what screen you want your GBA game to appear in GBA game mode. The top screen or the touch screen.;
,


3 options pop up: an alarm clock, a piece of paper with the corner folded with dots on it, and a clock. The piece of paper button lets you put the days date. The clock lets you put the time. Note: The clock is set as military time. 13:00 would be 1:00 pm. 01:00 would be 1 am. The alarm button allows you to set your alarm on your DS. Hit Turn Alarm On to set it, and your DS will go into sleep mode until the time runs out.



You'll see four options: a birthday cake, twelve small boxes, a figure with a speech button on top, and a person on the side with a box with boxes inside pointing at them. The birthday cake allows you to set your birthday. The twelve small boxes allow you to select your favorite color. The figure with a speech button on top allows you to to add a personal message that can be seen if a friend touches your name in PictoChat. The person with a box with small boxes inside pointing at them allows you to choose your own username that will be seen at the top of the main menu and in PictoChat.
 It's recommended to calibrate it anyway when you first get it.

