 Make sure to lift your limbs away from your body slightly. Do this regardless of what angle the photographer shoots from.


Lift your arms away from your body and spread out your legs slightly so they are not touching.
Not only does this give you a slimmer appearance overall, it prevents legs and arms from being squashed against other body parts, causing fat to be more noticeable., For women, a false waist can be a great trick for modeling. If you want to slim down some and add some curves for the camera, try creating a fake waist. To do this, shift your hips out to one side. This enhances your natural curves and makes your waist look more pronounced.Do not shift your hips too far out. This makes it obvious that you're trying to create a waist for yourself. Just shifting your hips slightly to one side is enough to enhance your curves and give you a slimmed down appearance.
 Many people are unsure what to do with their hands in a photograph. You may awkwardly bunch them up without realizing it. Strive to keep your hands loose and relaxed as this has a more natural, inviting feel.


Keep your middle finger slightly lower than your other fingers.Allow all your fingers to curve inward slightly.Avoid showing the back of your hands, if possible. The backs of hands are less delicate than your palms., Many model shoots are done from the waist up. However, if you're taking a full body shot, keep your feet fluid.








You can pose as if you're walking or running. You can also lift one foot up slightly, bending your knee a bit.
You can have a photographer try a few action shots of you jumping or dancing.
 When being photographed, lean forward slightly. Then, hunch your back. While doing this, pull your navel towards your spine. This enhances the appearance of your bust, for women, and is generally a slimming look for people of all genders.
 This is a trick that works well for both men and women. If you do something to emphasize the appearance of your shoulders, this will make your hips look narrower for women. For men, raising the shoulders can enhance existing muscle. Raise your shoulders slightly in pictures. When taking a photo from the side, turn your shoulders towards the camera, increasing their apparent size.As you raise your shoulders, you may want to move them back slightly as well. This can have a slight slimming effect.
 Another way to make your hips look slimmer is to turn your knees inward. Not only is this slimming, turning your knees inward can create the appearance of a thigh gap. Most people do not naturally have a thigh gap, but it is often sought out in modeling.You can also bend one knee forward. This can look cute as a pose and also creates the illusion of a thigh gap.
 Many male models cross their arms in photo shoots. This is a fun and casual pose that can give you a devil-may-care persona. If you're a male model, try incorporating this pose.


Cross your arms, but lift your arms forward slightly as you do so. This will allow you to slim down your arms as you pose.Cross one leg in front of the other when standing. Allow one leg to support more body weight so the photo does not look awkward.