 If you feel inexperienced or like a kid and have been given a leadership role in the family business, you should consider hiring a CEO mentor. CEO mentors can be inserted into leadership positions in a family business. They will lead the company and mentor you while you develop your leadership competency to eventually take over the family business.There are many great business mentors out there who may be willing to help. Reach out to your business network at conferences and on LinkedIn., If you hope to eventually take over the family business, it is best to show your commitment by working for the family business. In other words, you may need to put in some years as an employee if you hope to eventually run the business.It can also be good to get some work experience prior to working for the family business., When your parents or other family member hands down the business to you, embrace the responsibility. Show your enthusiasm for the new position of leadership that has been given to you.For instance, you can show your enthusiasm by taking initiative and showing up early to meetings.
 Instead of trying to run the family business like the old family leader or patriarch, you should learn to use your own unique talents and leadership style. If you try to reproduce the leadership style of your father, mother or other previous owner, you may not get as far as you would by using your own unique abilities.If your father previously ran the business from an autocratic or technical perspective and your talents are more in the area of law or human resources, you should use your own talents rather than trying to reproduce your father’s leadership style., It is important to have someone you can trust and admire. When you are making big decisions about the family business, your mentor’s advice may prove invaluable. You may decide that you need a few mentors, such as a parent, someone outside the family entirely and somebody from school or an old employer. , Join a family business network so that you can learn from successful family business models and share your own insights.For instance, the Family Business Network hosts events, conferences and other professional development opportunities for family businesses. You can become a member by visiting their website., You may benefit from hiring a family business consultant to get specific advice about running your family business. Ask your business network for advice on finding a good consultant.
Search for a family business consultant on LinkedIn.
 If your family has specific rules about running the family, business or the relationship between the two, you need to respect and follow them.For instance, if your family insists on a working outside the family for a certain number of years before joining the family business, it is best to follow those guidelines.If it is traditional to have a family business meeting once per month, you may want to keep this tradition alive.
 If you are a non-family member with a leadership role in a family business or have recently taken over a family business, it is important to establish your boundaries. First, you should stay out of family politics by creating a boundary between management and family-related decisions. If you stick to your boundaries, you will do well.If family members try to get you involved in taking sides in a family dispute, you should refuse to get involved. You can say, "that decision is in the family room" or "I don't want to get involved in that dispute."
If the family retains significant control of the business, you should understand that you will always be at a genetic disadvantage when it comes to moving up the hierarchy.

