 You’re responsible for putting out any campfire that you start, and the process often takes longer than you think it will. To prevent the possibility of leaving any smoldering ashes behind, plan ahead to give yourself enough time to do the job right. Set aside at least 20 minutes to put out the fire, so you can be certain to kill it completely.You should never leave a fire unattended, so you need to put yours out when you go to sleep at night. Make sure to give yourself about a half hour to put out the fire before you plan to go to bed.
 While you may be tempted to throw an entire bucket of water on the flames to put them out quickly, that’s not the best way to extinguish a campfire. Instead, start slowly sprinkling water over the fire, using only as much as you need to put out the fire’s embers.Pouring water on your fire is a bad idea because it will flood the fire pit, making it unusable when you or someone else wants to light a fire later.
 As you sprinkle water over the fire, you want to ensure that it reaches as much of the embers as possible. To accomplish this, use a shovel or stick to stir the ashes and embers as you douse them with water. Make sure to bring up embers from the bottom of the pile so you don’t leave any smouldering underneath.You’ll know that you’re done sprinkling water and stirring the embers when you no longer see steam or hear hissing sounds.
 To be certain that the fire is out, you’ll want to make sure that it's no longer giving off heat. Place your hand, palm-side up, over the ashes. If you don’t feel any heat, the fire is out. If you still feel any heat, the fire isn’t out and you shouldn’t leave. Continue to add water and stir the ashes until you no longer feel any heat.Repeat the hand test as many times as needed to be certain that the fire is cold. You’re better off safe than sorry.
 Once the fire is out and cold, you should remove the ashes from the fire pit or ring so the next camper doesn’t have to deal with getting rid of them. Use your shovel or hand to scoop up the ashes and place them in a plastic bag for disposal.As you walk away from your campsite, start spreading the ashes around on the ground to dispose of them.

