 The most common anti-acne ingredients available over-the-counter are benzoyl peroxide (which controls bacteria) and salicylic acid (which controls skin cell buildup).


Be sure to introduce one product at a time, and start with the lowest strength out there. It may be all you need, but even if it’s not, these products can be very drying.
Even after your skin adjusts, you shouldn’t be piling on product after product. This is irritating, expensive, and ultimately counterproductive.
Use a gentle cleanser on your face instead of soap and be cautious when using an exfoliant. Excessive scrubbing and washing can make acne worse, so be gentle and pat dry — don't scrub.Don’t forego moisturizer. If you have oily, acne-prone skin, you may feel that moisturizer is your enemy, but this is a mistake. If you’re using a lot of drying anti-acne products without moisturizing, your skin will overcompensate by producing more oil, leading to more breakouts.Look for moisturizers specifically made for acne-prone skin.
 Control itching with topical anti-itch medications or antihistamines. Work on repairing your skin barrier with a good moisturizer and hydrocortisone cream.Choose the right moisturizer. Your first instinct might be to go for lotion, but its high water content won’t work for people with eczema. Instead, look products labeled as "ointments" and "creams" that contain products like petroleum jelly or mineral oil and few or no additives.Eucerin cream is often recommended by doctors to help restore your protective skin barrier.
While you’re there, visit the first aid aisle to find hydrocortisone cream and oral antihistamines.
 Several new products on the market promise to fade brown spots and other irregularities, including acne scars. Look for products that contain the following ingredients:Soy
Enzymes
Licorice
Arnica flower extract
Alpha hydroxyl, glycolic, salicylic, and kojic acid
Vitamin C

, Pharmacists recommend that you apply it a few times a day, taking the time to massage it in. Both the cream itself and the rubbing motion can reduce scarring., Some people do not like to use products with ingredients that they do not recognize, but natural remedies are not necessarily any more effective, and they might be just as harsh. Try a variety of approaches to see what works for you.Natural products can be helpful for acne, but make sure they contain ingredients that have been proven effective. These include tea tree oil, alpha hydroxyl acid, zinc, green tea extract, and aloe vera.Try a garlic compress. Steep garlic in warm water, then dip a washcloth in the solution and use it to wash breakout-prone parts of your face.
Take advantage of honey’s antibacterial properties by dabbing it on a pimple at night.
Crush up mint leaves—or use mint oil—to soothe redness and irritation.
Place tomato slices on your face to help to draw out impurities.Consider alternative treatments like creams containing aloe vera or Oregon grape and foods or supplements that include Omega-3s. While none of these has been proven effective, they are safe and might be somewhat helpful.
Vitamin E has long been a popular natural treatment for reducing the appearance of scars, but there is no real evidence to support this claim.