 Learn how many men you have, what their skills are, what weapons and ammo you possess, etc. This information will be invaluable to your battle tactics.
 Look at tactics from previous battles. Go right back to ancient history - some of the tactics developed then are still in use today., This will help you to avoid stupid mistakes. Here's a few battles to get you started - look at who won and what tactics they used, and who lost and why. Sorry that they're all from ancient times.

Battle of Trebia
Battle of Trasimene
Battle of Cannae
Battle of Zama
Battle of Actium
Battle of Granicus
Battle of Issus
Battle of Gaugmela

, Really, I cannot sell this enough. It contains lots of invaluable advice on battle tactics and strategies. The idea "know your enemy like you know yourself" is from The Art of War., Don't overuse them - once you've used them once or twice, your enemies will wise up and learn how to defeat them. Here's a few ideas:

Night attack. Attack with a few men in the middle of the night. It might be pitch black, but if you only take a few men, you're far more likely to hit an opponent - and your opponents are more likely to hit each other than you.
Ambush. Surprise your enemy when they least expect it.
Pincer movement. Send out men to the sides, who then come in and attack the flanks of your enemy. This can be a very effective maneuver, especially if your opponent isn't expecting it. Look at the battle of Cannae: a battle where a Carthaginian army almost completely wiped out a Roman one. Some sources say that they killed over 70,000 roman troops. Despite it taking place in 216BC, it's still studied today as one of the greatest examples of a pincer movement.
Dodge charging enemies. The thing is, when you're charging it's hard to stop. If you just move your troops out of the way, then hit the charging troops as they go past, you can take them out very easily. Alexander the Great used this against the Persians.
Attack from above. Get on top of a hill, and then stay there! Your enemy will have to attack uphill, and you can just snipe them as they struggle towards you. Rain and mud can make them struggle even more.
Famous last stand. The name says it all, really. Use only as a last resort, if you have no other options.
 Tactics are more immediate, strategy is more long term. Tactics would be used to win a battle, but a good strategy can win the war. A good example of strategy is Fabian strategy: instead of attacking your opponent outright, send small parties to harass him. Cut off his food supply and disrupt his communications. Don't give him any big battles that he could use to boost his reputation., if you can take out your enemies without getting near them, good. Snipe them from a hilltop. Fire mortars at their position. Anything you can to take them out without getting close., If you can demoralise the enemy troops, there's always the possibility that they'll surrender without a fight (it has happened before)., The very first time that a tactic is deployed (right after it's creation), it is usually devastating. To their side if it's a good tactic, to yours if it's a bad one. Either way, a brand new tactic can quickly settle the battle.