 The website is available at www.discovercard.com.;
, Click "Register" in the upper-left side of the page. You will need to create an online account. Provide your account number and your card’s expiration date. To identify yourself you will need to submit the last four digits of your Social Security number, and your date of birth. Then create a user ID and password. Set preferences for your online account.
 Return to www.discovercard.com. In the upper left corner will be a section to input your user ID and password. It will also ask you to identify the type of account. Input information and click the button that read’s “Log In.”


If you are concerned about remembering your login information, click “Remember User ID” to store the information in your computer for the future.
 You will then be asked how much you want to pay. Enter at least the minimum required payment.


If you have insufficient funds in your account you will be charged a “return payment fee.” Discover reserves the right to charge the account up to twice if the first charge is rejected for insufficient funds. It will only, however, charge one fee.
 You can schedule a payment for a later date. This is a convenient feature if you want to set up the payment while it is on your mind but need to wait to withdraw the money until you have more funds. You can determine whether the transaction will be push (you send the payment) or pull (Discover withdraws the from your bank account).


For a payment to be considered on time, it needs to be received by 5:00 p.m Eastern Time on the payment posting date.Website unavailability may affect timely payments. You are responsible for payments that are received late because of technical problems with their website.
Paying online is the cheapest way to pay. There are no fees. You also do not need to pay for any incidentals like envelopes, stamps, or checks.
 Visit this page and insert your account information to set up email notifications. You can customize your settings to receive reminders when the bill is due, when your payment is received, or when a large purchase is made. If that is too much work, you can visit this page to set up automatic payments. You can customize how much you want to pay every month.

