 If you’re nervous about waxing off your sideburns yourself, you may want to go to a salon or spa to have a professional waxer handle the treatment. You want to make sure to the salon you choose is clean and uses licensed cosmetologists as waxers.Ask friend and family for recommendations when you’re looking for a waxing salon. It’s the best way to ensure that a salon is professional and reliable.
If you don’t know anyone who gets waxed professionally, look on Yelp to see reviews of salons and spas in your area to help you make your decision.
 This procedure uses heat to kill the hair follicle during the first stage of growth. The resulting hair loss is permanent, but because your hair is not all in this first stage of growth at the same time, it may require multiple laser treatments to get rid of your sideburns. In most cases, it takes between two and eight treatments to permanently remove the hair.This procedure only works on people with contrasting hair and skin colors, which means a relatively light-skinned person with dark hair. The follicle won't absorb the heat from the laser if you have dark skin or fair hair.Make sure to do extensive research before choosing a facility for laser hair removal treatment. A laser can cause permanent damage if used incorrectly, so choose a dermatologist or plastic surgeon to perform the procedure, as they have the most training.If a nurse or aesthetician is performing the procedure, make sure a doctor is on-site, overseeing their work.
Ask how many machines are on the premises. The more options available, the more likely you will get the most efficient treatment., With electrolysis, a tiny probe is used to kill the hair follicle with a current of electricity. The hair is then tweezed and usually does not grow back. As with lasering, the hair must be at a certain stage of growth for this to work, so multiple visits are necessary. In some cases, it may take up to 20 treatments.Electrolysis will work on any hair color or skin color.
It is very important to find an experienced and reputable specialist to perform your electrolysis. Poor work can result in infection, scarring, and discoloration of the skin.
Electrolysis, when performed properly, has proven to be a safe and permanent solution for hair removal.

