 Take your newly purchased copter; open the box carefully. Opening it carefully will allow any fragile parts time to come loose out of its restraints. Take all the contents out, and organize them in groups. You should have one copter, one main box, one USB cord, one flight club invitation and one controller with spare parts.;
, If it is accidentally damaged in any way, you can contact Propel's website and they'll give you a 90 day money back guarantee (with a small fee of shipping and handling).


If your copter broke after 90 days, you can contact Propel's RC hotline to discuss questions or comments about your copter.
If a rotor is torn, or the landing gear is chipped, then you can repair it yourself by using spare pieces.
 Get your helicopter prepped for flight. Most copters are pre-charged at first opening and you can play with them immediately. Remember to put in AAs to your controller to get it up and running. Set your helicopter indoors in a wide open room, atop a flat even surface (e.g. coffee table), and get ready to fly it!

, Take your joystick, and hold it in your hands so it is perfectly balanced on the floor. Use your pointer finger to push the throttle up slowly. As you do, you'll see the copter rise.


If you push it up all the way, the copter should hit the ceiling! (Don't do this, because it could result in a damaged copter).
Balance the throttle so it stays balanced in the air. To turn the copter left, just lean the controller left. To go right, lean right. The same is with forward and backward movements.
You should get a feel of it; just don't go any direction too far or it will probably crash! If the copter is spinning, use the left/right trim on the controller to keep it steady in one direction.
 If you're in a beginner dog-fight, there are a few easy steps to follow to get it right. If you're battling with two or more players, this is the best method to use. When you stat off, fly to an area where you have an advantage (e.g. away from corners). Once an "enemy" is spotted, aim your copter so its nosecone is positioned straight towards the cock-pit of your target. Then, use the 'fire' button on your controller, and the enemy copter will flash red. It takes three hits to crash an opponent, and then they lose the dogfight. Try not to be hit yourself, otherwise you'll might lose!

, To charge your copter, take the USB cord, and plug it from your computer's USB port to the charging USB port on your copter. The charger should glow red if not fully charged; it disappears when fully charged. The charging process can take up to 2 days. The flight limit of your copter is about an hour.
 You enjoy flying your copter? Sometimes, parts may wear and tear. Don't worry! If you go to www.propelrc.com, you can join their free flight club, for ages 12 and up. This club lets you have access to free replacement parts for a year from the date of purchase! So even if you didn't break any parts on your copter, you should join it so you can get free replacement parts.

