;
,, Here you will also find settings that can make it easier to hear audio, increase the contrast between light and dark colors, or add subtitles to supported videos.
, This will enable your device to speak selected text.
 This will enable your device to speak text on the screen.
 If you'd prefer to have your text read back to you in different accents and/or languages. Tap the "Voices" option to choose.


Note: Adding different voices will download files to your phone. Some voice files, such as Alex, can take up a significant amount of space.
 The speaking rate controls how fast the words are read back to you. Move the slider towards the rabbit for quicker speech, or towards the turtle for slower speech.
 You can have your device highlight words as they're read by toggling this option on., Use the vertical bars on each edge of the selection to adjust what words are selected.
 If you can't see the "Speak" button, tap the arrow at the right edge of the pop-up menu to reveal it.
 Beyond reading words, your device can also describe emoji. Simply highlight the emoji you want to be read out loud and tap "Speak".
 You will have more success if keep your fingers spread moderately apart when swiping.


Speak screen can also be enabled by starting Siri and saying "speak the screen".
 You can pause, play, back up, and fast forward, as well as change the rate of speech.


Speak screen will not work when there is no content. For example, starting Speak Screen while on your Home screen will not work, as Speak Screen does not read your app names.
 Press the "<" button to return to your device while continuing to have the screen read aloud.
 When using Safari in iOS 8, you'll see a small button to the left of the address bar that will open the Speak Screen menu. This is more useful than using the swipe method because the swipe method will read all of the hidden HTML tags, possibly making it difficult to understand.
 Unlike Speak Selection, Speak Screen will automatically turn the pages of your book, allowing you to listen to your books being read to you while you work with other apps.