 Open any browser on your desktop, enter surveymonkey.com/survey-closed into the address bar, and press ↵ Enter.;
, After being directed to the home page, click the “Sign Up” button below “Create online surveys for free.” This will direct you to a new page asking for your sign-up details. If you already have an account for Survey Monkey, skip this and log in using the “Sign in” option provided on the top right corner of the tab.


To sign up, create a username and password. Enter the email address that you will use for verification in the “Enter your contact email” field. After entering all the details, click the “Sign Up” option.
 This will lead you to a new page with “The Setup” on the left side and two options: “Build a New Survey from Scratch” and “Start from an Expert template.” If you want to build a new survey from scratch, proceed to Step 4; if you want to start using a template, skip to Step 5.
 Select the first option, and you will be shown two drop-down areas to fill. Give your survey a name in the “Title” field, then choose the category (e.g., Community, Customer Feedback, Demographics, etc.) by clicking on the arrow in the “Category” option. Once you’re done, click “Let’s Go.”


You can now choose choose the format of the survey using the “Builder” menu on the left side of the tab. This menu consists of “Multiple choice,” “Drop down,” “Matrix/Rating scale,” “Matrix of drop-down menu,” “Ranking,” “Net promoter score,” “Single textbox,” “Multiple textbox,” and “Comment box.”

“Multiple choice” answers come in options, such as “A, B, C, and D.”
“Drop down” allows respondents to select from various pre-written answers.
“Matrix/Rating scale” assembles answers in rows and columns according to weightage.
“Ranking” allows respondents to rank answers.
“Textbox” and “Comment box” formats provide boxes for respondents to write their own answers.


Click the specific format you want for your survey, and enter your questions and answer options into the box at the top of the page.
 If you want to use a template to create a survey, select “Start from an Expert template” instead of “Build a New Survey from Scratch.” You can preview a template by clicking “Preview” and choose it by clicking “Use template.” After choosing the template, you will be guided through the process of adding questions and answer options.
 To share the survey on Facebook, click the “Collect Responses” option located at the top, between “Design Survey” and “Analyze results.” Choose “Facebook Collector,” and click “Next.” The screen will display a default message showing, “Can you spare a few moments to take my survey? Please take the survey . Your feedback is important!” Click “Edit this message” to change the default message to something more personal.
 After editing the message, click the “Post to Facebook” option. A new window will appear asking you to log into your Facebook account. Do so, and then click “Share.” This will post the survey to your Facebook account.

