 When learning a certain concept, try to compile a list of steps to review later. Write down key points and important things to avoid. When your teacher writes examples on the board, copy them down as well as how to solve them for future reference.
 While you cannot learn math by watching it being done, you usually need to see it done at least once. Then you need to do it. The key to understanding mathematics is to be an active participant. By being active you engage both sides of the brain. Listen to the problems your teacher gives you and complete them. Raise your hand to explain what you did, or listen carefully to what the other students did and their answers to make sure you got the same.
 Finish all of your homework and do extra questions to help lock in the material. Make it a habit to do your homework well, as if you were taking a test. It's like rehearsal for a test. Refer to your notes and your textbook while doing your homework. Ask your teacher, a friend, tutor, or smart student for assistance if you're having trouble.
 Otherwise you will move on to the next subject without knowing the first one. This is a potential grade downer as for not knowing your material. Always check in with your teacher if you have been checking your answers and suddenly realize you have gotten 5/7 wrong. Do not go to a friend! A teacher is always your best bet for help., After you have done math for a while, you will begin to see patterns and connections that you cannot experience as an observer. By getting involved in the problem, you get to see and feel how problems are solved. The answer to all problems, be it math or otherwise lies within the problem itself. Finally, after you have learned a skill, it is extremely effective to pass it on. When you teach, you verbalize the connections you made while practicing. By teaching you have to understand the problem so that you can correctly explain it and work through it in order to arrive at the correct answer.
 When you have extra time, search for math problems online or run through extra problems in the textbook. Look over notes and textbook pages whenever possible. Make sure you thoroughly understand how to solve a problem and check your answer. If you don't, ask your teacher.


Don't cram for tests. Start studying about a week before, and about 30 minutes to an hour each day. This allows you to do a review the night of the test, rather than relearn concepts you may have forgotten. It will also help you get a good night's rest and feel confident for your test, helping you avoid careless errors.
 You can learn a skill in math by watching a good teacher do and explain one thousand problems or you could learn the same skill by doing one hundred practice problems, but the most effective method is to learn the same skill by teaching only ten problems. So, look for classmates who are having trouble with the lesson. Give them extra problems and show them how to complete them to lock in your own skills.
 Study groups will give you a chance to merge ideas and concepts with a group of peers. You will be able to teach and learn from each other. Math clubs will help you exercise your ability to learn.
 The night before, prepare your calculator, at least two pencils, in case the other one breaks (preferably #2), and an eraser. Look over your notes one final time and go to bed immediately after. Go to bed early and wake up earlier than usual so you can prepare and devour a delicious, healthy breakfast. Take a long drink of water and do some jumping jacks or run in place. Take some dark chocolate. Stay energized throughout the day by carrying a bottle of water with you and sipping from it repeatedly. Before the test, visualize achieving a high score on the test and smiling. Pace yourself and highlight key points in the questions. Go back to questions you don't understand after finishing all the others. Check your answers more than once.
 After all, you worked hard!

, It can help improve your grade and also it's good to help your studies.;
, Don't do it all the night before. Study every little time about 30 minutes to an hour each day. That way the night before you test, you can just do a quick review on what you studied throughout the week. Make sure you get a good night's rest so that you're not too tired when you're taking the test.
 on your way home from school, you can do some of your homework so you won't get overworked when you're at home. When you get home, relax for a maximum of 2 hours, if you get home early. If you get home late, then rest for a maximum of 1 hour, so you won't be up all night and go to sleep late.
 Don't talk to your friend and not pay attention because not only are you not participating and being focused you're losing work that is going to be on the test or homework and it will be hard to understand.

