 If your warts don’t go away with home remedies or you choose to allow your doctor to remove the warts, talk to her about your different treatment options. This can help ensure that you get the most effective, least invasive, and most painless treatment for your warts.
 Your doctor may decide to treat your warts topically with a mixture of cantharidin and salicylic acid. You may see results within a week to a few months.Your doctor will apply the mixture directly to your wart and cover it with a bandage.The treatment will cause a blister to form under the wart, which may peel off the wart.Cantharidin treatment is painless when administered, but often becomes painful after 24 hours., Similar to over the counter cryotherapy, your doctor may opt to freeze off your wart with liquid nitrogen. This can be a painful treatment that requires multiple applications.Your doctor will apply the liquid nitrogen directly to the wart. Like cantharidin, this will cause a blister to form under the wart and help peel it away., Your doctor may choose a chemical peel to treat your wart. She may apply it in the office or give it to you to do at home.In general, your doctor will use a higher concentration salicylic acid to peel away the wart than is commercially available., In this often very painful treatment, your doctor will shave away the surface of the wart and apply a bichloracetic or trichloroacetic acid to the affected area. This type of treatment requires frequent doctor’s visits.You will need to return to your doctor’s office weekly for treatments with this method.Your doctor may ask you to apply salicylic acid to the wart in between visits.Shaving and applying acid can cause burning and be very painful., If your warts are especially acute or persistent, you doctor may treat them with laser therapy. Laser treatments cauterize tiny blood vessels, causing infected tissue to die and the wart to fall off.There is little evidence for the effectiveness of laser therapy.Laser treatments can cause pain and scarring.For this reason, they are often used as a last resort for treatment., If other methods of medical treatment do not heal your warts, your doctor may try immunotherapy. They may inject your warts with antigens or apply creams to the warts.The goal of immunotherapy is to stimulate your immunotherapy to destroy the wart.Immunotherapy can be painful and cause scarring and is used less often than other treatments.