 It is important to have a general picture of the material.


Reading the table of contents, sub contents, headings then eventually the material in each heading.;
, Easier said than done? It's actually easy.


Try to see what you read in your mind if possible using your imagination. Imagine yourself or someone you know being the character in the material or as if you were watching a television show but only in 3 dimensional view.
Look for examples, if you are having a hard time trying to understand the scientific of technical material, an example will be easier to visualize and understand.



Rote memory - contrary to common belief, knowing how to rote memorize in itself is a valuable tool for quick memorization of things or short materials which you need to quickly imprint in your mind.

ex. Fly me to the moon (which is my favorite song)


First step is to read the whole line (imagine this to be the whole song but for sake of shortening the example)
Read the whole line and recite in your mind as well as saying aloud the word moon.
Read the whole line and recite in your mind as well as saying aloud without looking at the paper "to the moon."
So and so forth till you memorize the whole thing.



Mnemonics - memory aid

First word letter memory aid.


ex. fly me to the moon.


To help yourself recall fly me to the moon. convert it to FMTTM. and recite that while reading FMTTM instead of the original material.



Rhyme - I do not have any experience with this one, so I'll pass. It may work for others but it doesn't seem to work for me.
This does not mean it does not work for you. Experiment who knows.



do believe that in order to memorize a certain material, it is best that we do make an outline out of it, or underline the book we read. If you do make an outline, memorize the outline therefore you have a general knowledge of the topic.

number the topics according to the outline. example. animals, birds, equations and language.


supposing this is the outline or the topics at hand. Number them accordingly. 1. animals 2. birds 3. equations 4. language
put a picture representation for 1 - 4 using your own style. My personal style is using anime characters to represent the numbers, of course you can use whatever means memorable to you.

0= Rei - Zero Child
1= Shinji - First Child
2= Asuka - Second Child
3= Trinity - Matrix
4= Death - the sandman
5= L - fifty
6= Playboy bunny - sexy
7= G - ghost in the shell
8= yin and yang - infinity
9= red dragon - 999999999



, Shinji talking to birds. Asuka solving equations and Death the sister of dream learning a new language.
 In effect, you can supplement your rote memorized data to remind you of the things you memorized.



it's simple, if you make your own example, you will remember it more often which is fun, especially when you share this with your friends.
 Studies do show that you retain 95 percent of the data if you try to teach it to someone else.
, There is no best technique and I urge you to try them all and make one for you.

