 If you have a heavy backpack, put the heaviest things at the bottom and have the lightest things at the top. If your school doesn't have lockers, it's okay. It just means you have to carry everything in your backpack. If you don't want to carry everything on your back, get a roller backpack so you have less strain on the things you have to carry.;
, In middle school, there is more homework than in elementary school. Homework should be done first thing when you get home.
 Make sure you know you locker combination! You don't want to be late for class and risk detention!

, Most school buses in real life are not like the ones in movies or on TV, and most buses are not fun. If your school lets you bring an iPod, listen to it on the bus. If you can't bring an iPod, then bring a book to read, or do something else.


It's usually rather difficult to do homework when the bus is bouncing up and down and there are people being annoying. If you do homework on the bus, sit in the front because it's a less bumpy ride.
Find some friends or make some new friends who ride the bus. It will make your trip to school more enjoyable.
 The school's good or bad reputation does not define what the teachers will be like. Every teacher is different, and you should just adjust to the way the class is (e.g. if your science teacher does not like interruption, practice on being quiet in science class).


Not all teachers are "evil" and "out to get you". Usually teachers have better things to do than torture little kids and fail them all. That is usually all myths. Remember, teachers want you to do well! They don't want to sit in a classroom all afternoon after the final bell rings grading some tests with all F's.
 Have fun in class with people you know, but make sure that your teacher does not get annoyed with you. Be quiet when your teacher is talking, and definitely be respectful.


Some teachers are very nice, and some are not so nice. To find out who they are, talk to friends' siblings and look at him/her if you can.
Don't be afraid to ask questions! It shows the teacher that you are paying attention and you're interested in the subject. The teacher also might like you better.
 Along with focusing in class and completing all of your homework, grades should also be one of your areas of focus. Strive to do your best and be happy with the grade you achieve. The study habits you develop now will carry through to high school and college/university.


When taking notes, think about what the teacher considers important, because that stuff will most likely end up on a test.
 Make sure you wash your hands, brush your teeth, wash your face, and take baths or showers regularly.
 Find people who are nice to you and seem like great people. Sometimes, you won't really be friends with anyone in your classes, and all of the people you're friends with are in other classes. That's okay; maybe they will be in your class next year.


Ask your parents if you can let some of your friends sleep over sometimes, or if you can meet them for lunch somewhere.
 There will be way more boys and girls than who was in your elementary school. However, you need to remember that school is the most important thing in your life right now.


If you do find that special boy or girl, make sure he/she doesn't interfere with your schoolwork. Most of the time, middle school relationships don't work out. Save your love life for high school. Middle school is not for dating. You're tweens, but dating isn't really that important. Just have fun!

, You'll probably have more selection now that you are in a bigger school.


Make sure you have your lunch money, as well as money for sodas and snacks.
Plan a spot where you and your friends will sit together. At some schools, there is assigned seating. However, as annoying as it sounds, this is a place to make friends and talk freely.

Sit next to different people. This way, you might be surprised as to what comes up in conversation. You might even meet new people!



, Try to avoid them and not get involved with fights. Learn some techniques for dealing with them.

