 Chris Brown is known to do popping and locking when he dances. These two popular dance styles take a little practice and muscle control to get down.Popping is a bouncy dance style where you isolate your body parts to the beat of the music. When you practice popping, imagine a wave is moving through your body, causing your body parts to move one after another.
Locking is a controlled dance style where you move quickly and then freeze, locking your body in one position. Then, you continue moving at the same speed as before, coming out of the lock. Locking is often done with jerky arm and leg movements, while your hips stay loose to the beat of the music.;
, Krumping is a common style of dance that Chris Brown does often in his dance routines. Krumping involves firm stomping, quick footwork, and large sweeping movements with your arms and legs. You can then integrate krump moves in your dancing to imitate Chris Brown.In krumping there are three types of stomps: the lift stomp, the kick stomp, and the slide stomp. Start by learning the stomps and then add in hand and arm movements, such as arm swings.
In krumping you can also do chest pops and add in hip jerks to create a combination of movements.
 Chris Brown is known for using breakdancing moves in his dancing, such as the toprock, the six step, and the coin drop. Start by learning basic breakdancing moves like the toprock or the indian step. Then, challenge yourself to learn more advanced breakdancing moves like the coin drop or the swipe.


You can watch videos of professional breakdancers online to help you learn these moves. Practicing the moves in an open space while wearing good athletic shoes will make it easier for you to do the moves.
 There are several different online sites, like Youtube, that have Chris Brown music videos available for free. Music videos like “Party” and “Yeah 3x” show Chris Brown dancing throughout the video.


Practice the dance moves alongside the videos. Try to imitate Chris Brown’s movements in the video as you learn the dance moves.
 Learn the footwork to this verse, then add the arm movements.Step your right foot to the side. Twist your knees and toes to the right and then the left on counts 1 and 2. Step your right foot back towards your left foot on count 3. Take another step with your left foot on count 4. Repeat this again on counts 5, 6, 7, and 8.
Do the “Charleston” by stepping your right foot directly in front of your left foot, then your left foot in front of your right foot. Twist your toes and ankles with each step on counts 1 and 2. Repeat this step on counts 3 and 4.
Reverse the Charleston by stepping back with your left foot behind your right foot, and then your right foot behind your left foot. Continue to twist your ankles and toes on counts 5 and 6.
Finish the move by stepping back with your left foot and together with your right foot on counts 7 and 8.
 Chris Brown does a series of dance moves during the music video for the song. Focus on the easier movements he does first before you try more advanced movements, such as flips or jumps.Start with your legs hip width apart. Then, raise your right arm up with your palm face down and jerk it forward. Move your right foot forward and shake it as you lift your arm. This is count 1 and 2. Then, raise your left arm up with the palm face down and jerk it forward. Move your left foot forward and shake it as you lift your arm. This is count 3 and 4.
Bring your feet together and raise both arms in front of you. This is count 5. Then, wave your arms beside you, popping them. This is count 6.
Bend your arms so your right arm is facing upward and your left arm is facing downward. Then, move them up and down, alternating between the two arms. This is count 7 and 8.
 Chris Brown does a lot of different moves in the music video but his movements during the chorus are good for beginner dancers.Start by crossing your right foot in front of your left foot. This is count 1 and 2.
Then, bring your left foot next to your right foot with your feet turned outward. As you do this, bend your legs and cross your right arm over your left arm. Push your arms in front of your torso, wiggling your shoulders. This is count 3 and 4.
Open your arms and clap. As you do this, raise your left foot and stomp it on the ground. This is count 5 and 6.
Turn your body to the left, twisting your ankles and toes to the left side. Shake your shoulders up and down as you do this. This is count 6 and 7.
Finish by lightly hopping to the left side with both feet. Then, hop back to the center. This is count 8.
 To channel the style and vibe of Chris Brown when you dance, dress the part based on his music videos. Wear clothing that reflect his style and tastes so you can feel more like Chris Brown when you dance.


For example, you may put on a suit, tie, and fedora when you dance the moves to “Gimme That” to imitate his style in the music video. Or you may wear a bright pink blazer with no shirt when you do the “Yeah 3x” moves to imitate his signature style.
 Your instructor will teach you several hip hop fundamentals that are necessary to learn to dance like Chris Brown. As your dance classes progress you will learn more specific hip hop dance styles that are used by Chris Brown, such as krumping and breakdancing.


Take a hip hop class at a local dance studio or your local gym.
Ask the instructor to teach you moves specific to Chris Brown music videos.
 Gain more confidence by showing off your Chris Brown dance moves at the next house party or club night you go to. Dance moves you feel comfortable doing in front of others. Performing your Chris Brown dance moves, in a Chris Brown style outfit, can make you really feel like you are Chris Brown on the dancefloor.

