 The two basic varieties of wraps are available in junior (120") and adult sizes (180") to accommodate the size of your hands. Wraps are used to keep your fist tight and secure your movable knuckle-joints while you box. They're not used for cushioning the impact of blows, which is the purpose of the glove.


Traditional cotton wraps feature velcro to secure the wrap to your wrist and a thumb hole to keep the wrap tight as you fight. They're long-lasting, durable, and easy to secure.
The Mexican wrap is similar in design, but features elastic to help grip the hand more easily. These tend to get worn out over time, but offer the benefit of contouring to the shape of your hand.
Consider the quick-wrap alternative. Also called "quick wraps" or "gel wraps" or "glove wraps," these easy-on alternatives are basically just fingerless gloves with some padding that some boxers will use in place of wraps. They're easy to take on and off, though might be more difficult and less customizable to fit your particular hand. The safest method of wrapping is using a more traditional wrap and learning to do it yourself.;
, One end of the wrap has a thumb hole. Put your thumb through the thumb hole, keeping your fingers spread so you don't wrap them too tightly.









It's important to secure the thumb hole on your thumb in the correct orientation. You want to wrap toward the back of your hand, to keep the thumb secure in the hole, not toward the palm of your hand. When you wrap toward your palm and make a fist, the loop will slip off.
 The wrap should rest on the inside of your wrist after you've completed three circles with the wrap. Loop the wrap up across the back of your hand at an angle and bring it back toward the floor.
 Remember to keep your fingers spread slightly apart and don't worry so much about getting it on your knuckles. Wrap it comfortably around the palm of your hand.









It's important to keep your wrist straight as you're wrapping. Keeping it flexed is dangerous and will keep you from being able to make a straight strike when you're boxing., Stop with your hand pointing up and your palm still facing away from you, as if you were telling traffic to stop.
 Loop the wrap diagonally across the back of your hand and run it between your pinkie finger and ring finger, then bring the wrap diagonally across your palm toward you, and wrap it around your wrist and bring it back under your thumb to complete the next pass.









Continue this pattern between your ring and middle finger, between your middle and index finger, and then once around your thumb, always wrapping back around your wrist once between knuckle passes.
 Now that you've wrapped around your thumb once, flip your hand back over so your palm is facing you. Go behind the thumb and across your palm with the wrap. This is an important step to secure your thumb without choking it and keep the wrap secure on your hand while you box.
 At this point, you may be almost out of wrap if you've got very big hands, or you may have a lot left you need to run out. If you need to run out the rest of the wrap, point your palm away from you and do X's around your palm and wrist.
 If you've wrapped properly, your last pass should end with the velcro around your wrist to keep it snugly in place.
 Boxing wrap pressure is important. If you apply boxing wraps too tightly, you may lose circulation in your hands. You want to secure your knuckles so you can throw solid punches, but you also want to feel comfortable.









A properly applied wrap should feel comfortable when your fingers and relaxed and feel snug when you make a fist. Check your wraps after thirty minutes of working out. If your fingers are turning white or you feel that the wrap is uncomfortable, loosen it and wrap again to get them feeling more comfortable.

