 Get lotion with 2% green tea extract to use on breakouts.You can also try washing your face with diluted green tea (cool, not hot). Steep a cup of green tea for about 5 minutes, then set it in the refrigerator for 20 minutes to let it cool. Mix it with 2 cups of water and use it as a face wash.


For small acne-prone areas, place a cooled, moist green tea bag over the affected region for several minutes.
 You can use many natural food products to make nourishing face masks. Try a banana face mask by itself, or mix mashed banana with honey and plain yogurt. Let your natural masks set for 10 to 20 minutes, then rinse them with cool water. Try a mix of 2 cups water with a teaspoon of apple cider vinegar to use as a natural toner. For dry skin, try a 20-minute mayonnaise mask.Test the mask on the skin of your forearm first to check for any negative reactions.
Also consider trying fermented skin care!

, Exfoliating can clear your skin of old, dead cells and help fresh new skin to shine through. Make an exfoliating mask at home using fresh, natural ingredients. Try some of these natural methods, but remember that if using anything makes your skin sensitive or breakout, stop using it right away:


Mix baking soda with water and apply it for 10 minutes before washing it off with cool water.You can also try baking soda and honey! Avoid using baking soda on sensitive skin.
Make an oil and sugar scrub by combining a tablespoon of brown or white sugar with two tablespoons of healthy oil, like coconut oil or olive oil. Massage this onto your face in small circles, then rinse it off with warm water.Try other options like a coffee scrubor oatmeal scrub!, If you have acne scars on your chest or back, you may be able to lighten them and lessen their appearance using lemon juice. Wash and pat the area dry, then apply fresh lemon juice with a cotton ball. Wash this off after about 10 minutes. Do this weekly and you may lighten your scars over time.Lemon juice can make your skin more sensitive to the sun, so be sure to cover up or wear sunscreen.

