 Open a newspaper or go online and scroll through the news on your social media pages. Use an interesting current event as a prompt for your writing. This is a good option if you are struck trying to write creatively and do not know where to start or how to come up with a story idea. Imagine you are a character involved the current event or one of the witnesses of the event. Then, write about it.For example, you may use a recent fire in your town as inspiration for your writing. Or you may use a recent political event as a story idea.
 If you are not sure how to write in the voice of a character in your story, try writing a letter from their point of view. Address the letter to another character in your story or to you, the author. Use the first person “I” to write the letter. This can help you tap into your character’s voice and use it later in your story.You may also try to answer the prompt, “What does this character want?” in the letter. Respond to this prompt in the voice of your main character.
 Another way to get into writing is try writing from an opposing perspective. This prompt can work well for creative writing or academic writing, such as a position paper. Writing from a different perspective can help you explore different points of view and get your creative juices flowing.For example, if you are stuck on how to write a position paper on pro-choice, try writing a few sentences from the perspective of a person who is pro-life. This may help you realize who the opposition is and what their views are. It can then make it easier for you to start writing your paper.
 If you are struggling to get started on an academic paper or essay, pull a quote from a source text and use it as a prompt. Choose a quote that you find inspiring or interesting. Write it down and then write about what you think it means in the context of the text. Reflect on its significance as well as what it might be missing or any parts that you find unclear or confusing. You can then use this content to continue writing your essay or paper.


For example, if you are writing a paper about a literary text, you may pull a quote or a scene from the text and use it as a writing prompt.
 If you are looking for a writing prompt to get your mind going and help you put something down on the page, search online for fun, short prompts. Sites like Writer’s Digest and the Writing Prompts Tumblr are good options for fun prompts.


Select one prompt a day and do a timed freewrite using the prompt. From prompts on writing in the perspective of an animal to writing about a dream, you can find a prompt to inspire you and get you writing.
For example, you may try doing 10 minute freewrites in the morning before work or school to get your ideas going. Or you can do a 10 minute freewrite before you start on an essay or short story to get your creative juices flowing.

