 Some studies suggest that adults and youth have negative perceptions of overweight students.Your perceptions of people with weight challenges might cause you to treat them differently. One way that you can avoid stigmatizing other people because of their weight is to challenge your opinions about the person.


When you catch yourself thinking something negative about a person with weight issues, stop yourself.
Ask yourself what assumptions you are making. For instance, you might think, “I’m assuming that because she’s bigger than me, she’s unhealthy.”
Remind yourself that you can’t make assumptions. You might say to yourself, “Wow! I can’t assume that about him just because of his physical appearance.”

, In some cases, a person’s weight may be beyond their control. It may be the result of a health issue, medication, or genetics. Research suggests, though, that blaming people for their weight is one common form of weight stigma.You can avoid engaging in weight stigma if you don’t blame the person for their weight.


Saying things like, “You can lose weight if you diet” may seem helpful, but can actually make the person feel like their weight is their fault because they are too lazy to diet.
Remind yourself that people may be overweight for a number reasons. For example, some medications and illnesses can impact a person’s weight.
When you think things that may be blaming the person for their weight remind yourself, “I don’t know their story, so I can’t blame them for their size.”

, Once you are monitoring your thoughts about people with weight issues, you will be able to monitor the things you say, as well. Make sure that your comments, opinions, jokes, etc. are sensitive and won’t stigmatize someone because of their weight.


Avoid telling jokes or repeating mean rumors about people that are overweight.
Keep your opinions about others’ weight to yourself. For example, you don’t need to tell your friend that your co-worker is gaining too much weight.
If you do say something insensitive, then apologize immediately. Even if the person doesn’t say anything, they did hear it and it might have hurt their feelings.
 You can avoid stigmatizing people because of their weight by giving more attention to the person’s behavior and actions rather than the way they look.This takes the attention off of their weight and focuses it on the things they do and say.


For instance, instead of describing your teammate as overweight, you could say something like, “He’s a great guard, really enthusiastic, and encouraging."
In work situations you can talk about someone’s work performance rather than talking about their weight. For instance, “She did really well on her last report.”

