 Work with your partner to come up with boundaries that you are both comfortable with. These boundaries may include time, location, and frequency limits for being around your partner’s parents. Understandably, you don’t want to be around people who don’t like you all of the time, and setting up boundaries can prevent major blow outs from occurring. Be kind when enforcing your boundaries, but also let the parents know you won’t be bullied.


For instance, if you and your partner have date night every Sunday, but your partner’s parents insist on you coming over for dinner, let them know you are unavailable that particular day, but could come over another day. Giving in just once may give them the impression that you are flexible with this and they may continue to try to impede upon your personal time., Be the bigger person when it comes to dealing with your partner’s parents and remain cordial. Don’t treat them the way they treat you, as that will only make the situation more difficult. Instead, remain polite and respectful and your maturity may help the relationship to get better.


Staying cordial also pertains to the way you speak to your partner about their parents. Avoid talking bad about them to your partner, even if your partner is voicing negative opinions about them. Your partner likely won’t appreciate you speaking unkindly about them, which can cause issues for your relationship., Once you and your partner start conveying boundaries, it is likely to become tense during family visits. Expect this ahead of time in order to prepare yourself for any awkward moments.


If someone in the family openly insults you, discuss with your partner beforehand whether you will ignore the insult or leave the environment.
If a parent is overly critical, simply try the adage of "killing them with kindness." Be extremely friendly and polite despite their obvious attempts to unsettle or anger you.
If one parent tries to guilt-trip you by throwing your boundaries back in your face, calmly repeat them without wavering. You might say, "That's right, Mrs. Richards, we've decided to start staying in hotels when we come visit from now on.", Your partner’s parents may think that by bashing you, they will convince your partner to leave you. However, if your partner tells their parents that you are staying together no matter what, they may back off. The key is to talk to them in a respectful, yet authoritative way.


For example, your partner could say to the parents, “I know you love me and want what’s best for me. However, I have made decision to be with my partner. I love you both and I think we can live together peacefully as long as everyone shows respect. Do you think you can do this?” If the parents agree to this, it’s important to hold up your end of the agreement.Your partner might also express their feeling that being in a relationship with you is important to them and that they see you as an important part of their future. Your partner’s parents might ease up as a result out of not wanting to be left out of their child’s life.

