 What is the theme of your party to be? Sure, it's cookies but what exactly about cookies? There are lots of fun possibilities here, including:



A cookie exchange party: At this party, all guests are invited to bring 1 to 2 dozen of their favorite cookies to share. These can be homemade, purchased or ordered from a local bakery.

A cookie decorating party: At this party, all the guests get a chance to improve on plain cookies by making them decorative and adding tasty things like sprinkles and edible glitter. You can even involve the guests in baking cookies from scratch and have them choose what shapes to cut the cookies.

A Cookie Monster party: Guests all have to come dressed as a cookie monster and bring a giant cookie with them to share. Or, you could simply have guests turn up to a party at which everything is themed on the Cookie Monster, such as Cookie Monster posters and images, large cookies and a cookie cake. Games could include chasing monsters and finding hidden Cookie Monsters inside things.

Cookies of a particular style or theme: Maybe you like animal crackers and all things animal? Maybe you like chocolate cookies and all things chocolate? Or perhaps you like only cookies from Germany or Sweden? There is nothing to stop you from having just one type of cookie in many variations.

Around-the-world cookies: Ask guests individually to make a cookie that comes from a pre-chosen country. Also ask the guest to be prepared to talk a little about the cookie, where it comes from and what meaning it has in that country. You could either have guests bring these cookies along (suggest a recipe or let them find their own online) or you might bake the cookies at the party itself.

None of the above; just lots of cookies: Tell your guests that when you mean cookies, that's all that there will be to eat, along with drinks. You could find games that feature cookies, or change standard party to games to include cookies, and award cookies as prizes. Cookie costumes are a must.;
, Colorful and bright or classic and formal, it's up to you. However, do give serious consideration to either making cookie shaped invitations or somehow include images of cookies on the invitations that you send out. There's also no harm including a cookie recipe inside, just for fun!


As with all invitations, be sure to include the date, time, place and detailed requirements.
 You could bake all of them, buy them, order them or do a combination of any of these options. If you've asked guests to bring cookies, it's a good idea to include those cookies in your catering estimate.


Variety is the spice of enjoyment at a cookie party.
Find out if there are any dietary restrictions, such as needing some nut-free cookies, some vegan cookies or some gluten-free cookies.
 For example, the cake could be made to look like a cookie, or you could make a cake with a cookie filling.
 Hot cocoa, cold lemonade and cold (unflavored or flavored) milk are perfect drinks to have with cookies. However, you could also make drinks that incorporate cookies, such as an Oreo milkshake or a cookies and cream milkshake.
 Use balloons, streamers, posters, etc. to decorate your party. Bonus points for decorating it with cookie-themed items, if possible. You could also consider leaving packages of cookies around, just as decorations.
 These could include cookies from the party (especially if the guests baked and/or decorated their own cookies), little packages of cookies (homemade or purchased), recipes for cookies, cookie-themed toys and other party trinkets.
, There are lots of ways to go about this, pick and choose from the following suggestions:


Set up an area of a room or under a garden tent outside for decorating. Put a tablecloth over the table (disposable ones are ideal for this) and set out all the decorating requirements on the table. Place chairs around the table, with plenty of space for excited elbow movements.
Choose decorating goodies. The most basic requirement is frosting in pots with spreaders (use a variety of colors for the frosting). Then you'll need edible decorations such as: sprinkles, chocolate chips, edible glitter, candies, nuts (if nobody has nut allergies), cracked toffee pieces, etc. Place these in containers around the table. Make it easy for everyone to grab and share things.
Consider whether you'll also include the kids in making the cookies from scratch. You could make the dough in advance and set up a rolling and cookie cutter station near the oven and have a teenager or adult supervise all baking once the cookies are cut. Put out plenty of different cookie cutter shapes, and have baking sheets already prepared for adding cookies to. The supervisor needs to keep an eye on timing of each batch of cookies, as burnt cookies result in tears.
Allow all creations to be eaten by the makers. Any disputes over who owns what requires sharing or going back and making more!

, Set aside some time for each guest to talk about their cookies and why they made/brought them along.


Allow the guests to pick a few cookies to take home. Supply take-home carry boxes just for this purpose. Be sure to write the child's name clearly on each box once the cookies are chosen, to avoid fights later on.
 Throw some games to keep everyone active.
 Make sure your guests are happy, full and occupied.

