 Certain things are hard to do through an association or visualization technique and so you have to use a different memory technique, called mnemonic devices. There are a variety of different devices that you can use. Some work better for certain types of information than others.Make acronyms for things you're trying to remember. Take the first letter of each word and turn it into an acronym that makes sense to you. For example you might do H.O.M.E.S. for the Great Lakes (Huron, Ontario, Michigan, Erie, Superior).
Mnemonics can be useful for remembering spelling. Make up a little rhyme/nonsense phrase using a word for each letter. For example to remember necessary you might remember 'Never Eat Cake; Eat Salad Sandwiches And Remain Young'.
Make acoustics. This basically is a nonsense phrase that helps you remember the first letter of a sequence of information (this is used a lot for mathematical formulas). For example Please Excuse My Dear Aunt Sally is used to remember the order of operations: Parenthesis, Exponents, Multiply, Divide, Add, Subtract.
You can also make up little poems or rhymes to help you remember important information. For example: "I before e except after c/ or when sounding like a/ in neighbor and weigh" helps you remember where e and i go when they're together.
 There are a couple different types of association, but the importance of all the different association methods is that you associate something you already know with something you're trying to remember and what you already knows helps you recall the second part.


Use a funny or odd image to recall a fact that you need to remember. For example, if you're trying to remember JFK's involvement in the Bay of Pigs invasion, you might visualize the president swimming in the ocean with a bunch of pigs. While it may seem silly, the association of ocean and pigs will lead you back to JFK and you won't forget.
Number association is associating certain numbers with a mental image. This is partly why so many passwords and codes that people come up with have some sort of meaning to them (like birthday, cat's birthday, anniversary date, etc). So if you're trying to remember your library number (say it's 52190661), you could say May 21, 1990 is your brother's birthday (that takes care of 52190). You could then say that your mother is 66 years old and you've only got one of her (which takes care of the 661). When you're trying to recall the number, visualize your brother and a birthday cake and then visualize your mother.
 If you want to fix something in your memory, make sure that you put a lot of effort into visualization of it. You want to focus on the details. For example, if you're trying to remember a novel, focus on imagining the characters and the scenery in great detail and make sure you have a visual aid that recalls each character, some specific characteristic.
 When you need to remember a string of images (or words, as in a shopping list) come up with a silly little story to remember them. The story fixes the images in your mind, so you can recall them later.For example if you need to remember to get a bananas, bread, eggs, milk, and lettuce from the store, you might make up a story where a banana, a slice of bread, and an egg have to rescue a head of lettuce from a lake of milk. It's a super silly story, but it has all the elements of your list linked together and will help you remember them.
 A great way to help remind yourself to do something is to put something in your house somewhere obvious and out of place. For example, you could put a heavy book in front of your front door to help you remember to turn in your take-home final. When you see the out of place item it will jog your memory.

