 Each mount has a limit of weight it can support. For example, with most models your TV must be less than 130 lbs. (59kg).
 It will usually slide off or unscrew. Later, you will use these screw holes to mount the TV., You will attach the TV brackets with different processes depending upon this feature., These are different sized screws and washers, designed to mount to any flat-panel TV. You should also find a hex key that will install the screws., These are usually labeled B and C and have holes that allow you to install the brackets to many different TVs. They will run vertically down the back of the TV over the existing screw holes.

Make sure you install the left and right brackets in identical holes, so the TV will fit squarely into the mount.
 Test the kits out to see what fits into the screw holes. Use the hex key to tighten the screws.

The order of installation goes bracket, washer and then screw.
The M4/M5 kit usually includes 12mm screws.
The M6/M8 kit includes 12, 16 or 22mm screws.
 Place the spacer above the screw hole on the TV, and then attach a washer, the bracket, another washer and a screw. Use the hex key to tighten the screws., They are usually included on models that include an arm assembly. If it does, slide them through the TV brackets horizontally and secure them with 9/16-inch Phillips head screws and a screwdriver., Use an edge-to-edge stud finder for best results. Choose a stud where you want your TV to be mounted securely.

Use wall anchors if you are installing the TV mount into a concrete wall.
Do not install the Rocketfish mount into drywall. It must be supported with a stud.
, Place a level above it and adjust until it is level. Mark the place where you will screw it in with a pencil.,, Place a washer in front of each hole, followed by a lag bolt. Tighten the lag bolt into place with a socket wrench.

Be careful not to over tighten the lag bolts or you risk damaging the stud and the TV.
 Slide it in from top to bottom, and then attach the cap screws with your hex key., Slide the brackets onto the wall plate until you hear an audible click. You may need assistance to lift the TV and find the right placement., The arm must fit under the metal tabs. Secure the arm with bracket screws at the top and bottom., Adjust the angle side to side with an arm assembly model. You will need to use your hex key to adjust some angles on the arm assembly.